07-04-2020||First Edit||Equip, protect doctors, nurses first||The severe shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE) for use by doctors, nurses and frontline workers treating and taking care of COVID-19 patients is not only making them vulnerable to coronavirus infection but also undermining India’s fight against the pandemic. According to Health Ministry officials, around 50 doctors and other hospital staff have tested positive for COVID-19 so far. This number will grow if they are not provided with protective gear such as masks, gloves, goggles and overalls. In hospitals in Bengal, doctors are having to make do with raincoats instead of hazmat suits and workers are wearing plastic bags instead of gloves. The least the central and state governments can do for them is to provide them with protective gear. The shortage of healthcare professionals in India has assumed dire proportions in the present crisis. At a time when every pair of trained hands is valuable, India can ill-afford to lose its doctors and other frontline workers to COVID-19.  In a rather late reaction, the government is looking to import PPE from abroad. Given the worldwide shortage of masks and gloves, this may not meet the demand at home. Efforts are on to ramp up domestic production, but it will be some time before it can be done. In this regard, some questions need to be asked of the central government. Consider this: Soon after India’s first COVID-19 case was reported on January 30, the Ministry of Commerce and Industry issued a notification banning the export of PPE from India. But a few days later, that decision was reversed. In the weeks that followed more PPE items were put on the export list, and even raw materials needed for their production were exported. It has been reported that even testing kits, of which India itself is grossly short, were being exported to China until last week. It was only last week that the government halted export of PPE. Why did the government allow export of PPE and test kits when public health experts have been warning of their shortage in India itself as the country braces for a rise in COVID-19 cases? Why was the early and sensible decision to ban the exports reversed? Who benefited from it? Doctors on the frontline have written letters to the government and taken to social media to draw attention to the shocking state of affairs. Instead of acting resolutely to address the issues raised, the government has silenced them. Doctors in Kashmir have been warned that they could face jail time of up to six months if they complain about PPE shortages. Punishing those who are caring for our health is unconscionable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/equip-protect-doctors-nurses-first-822271.html
07-04-2020||First Edit||Heed these sane voices, stop vilification||Finally, some sane voices in the country seem to have woken up to the vilification of the entire Muslim community after a large chunk of people who participated in the Tablighi Jammat event in Nizamuddin, Delhi, tested positive for COVID-19. Prominent among them is Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, who has issued a stern warning to those communalising the issue. The chief minister, who recently called a meeting of elected representatives and leaders from the minority community, said, “Muslims have extended their full cooperation to us. I am issuing a strict warning that nobody should speak against them. If somebody says the entire Muslim community is responsible for an event that was held somewhere, I will not hesitate to take action against them.” But Yediyurappa should not stop at mere threats and should show that he means business by initiating action against hatemongers within his own party. BJP MP Shobha Karandlaje, for instance, described the Tablighi Jamaat event as ‘corona jihad’. She also put out tweets about some patients allegedly misbehaving with doctors at a Belagavi hospital, which has been found to be fake news. While the organisers of the Tablighi Jammat event need to be brought to book and the alleged perverse behaviour of some of its members in hospitals must be investigated, it is unfair to target the entire community for the acts of a few. In a bid to end this stigmatisation, the Tamil Nadu government has decided not to use the expressions ‘Delhi congregation’ or ‘Tablighi Jammat’ in its daily health bulletin. Gujarat has waged a war against fake and hate messages, arresting over 200 people in just one week for spreading communal animosity. On the other hand, the Union Ministry of Health continues to brandish ‘Tablighi Jammat’ as some kind of a trophy at its daily press briefing, each time taking great pains to explain how COVID-19 cases saw a spurt after the Delhi event, in what appears to be a deliberate and calculated move to paint Muslims in poor light. Like Yediyurappa, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu, too, has given a call to people to stay clear of “untenable generalisations against communities.” One wishes PM Modi, too, chips in with a message to stop the virus of hatred. While some vested interests have started a smear campaign against Yediyurappa on social media for his warning against communal elements, the chief minister, who has been statesman-like in his mature handling of the crisis deserves the support of the citizens. The war will be lost unless we realise that the enemy is COVID-19, and not fellow human beings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/heed-these-sane-voices-stop-vilification-822649.html
07-04-2020||In Perspective||Living it up in lockdown mode||It’s been a strange start to the summer holidays. The kids are home, much earlier than expected. Carefully laid out vacation plans have gone awry and reunions postponed. Summer camps have been cancelled and executives all over the world are adjusting to a new normal, i.e, working from home. There is a sense of unrest, anxiety and even disbelief. Psychologists will say that this anxiety is a result of a perceived loss of control. The first step towards accepting the situation is to acknowledge your feelings. Talk it out -- to a family member or friend. Arm yourself with unbiased information and prepare yourself as best as you can. But, it’s not all gloom and doom. There still are things that are completely under your control. How you spend the day, given the restrictions, is still in your hands. You remember the long commute that you dreaded and cribbed about every day. Remember wishing you had time to pursue your hobbies and spend time with your kids! Now is the time to do that and so much more. Here are some ideas on how you can make the most of this lockdown period: Connect with loved ones - In this period of social distancing, it becomes even more important to connect with those close to us. Call or Skype with family, especially elderly parents who live in a different city and are forced to have limited or no contact with the outside world. Or, how about reliving childhood memories with your school or college friends on Facetime? Spend quality time with your family - Discuss and share household duties with your spouse, including the kids in the decision-making process. Bring out the carrom board and playing cards deck, schedule game nights and plan your next vacation. Reconnect with your children and talk to them about their worries, their dreams and aspirations. Remember, they are looking to you to understand what to make of these not-so-ordinary times. Teach them well.Make health a priority again - In our crazy rush towards project deadlines and stellar reviews, the first thing that suffers is our health. Work on building your immunity with good sleep, nutritious food, and exercise. Adidas Training by Runtastic, Nike Training Club and CureFit are some of the popular apps that offer in-home training schedules. YouTube has hundreds of free exercise videos covering everything from yoga routines for beginners to workouts that help strengthen your core. If none of this appeals to you, simply play your favourite Bollywood tunes and groove along! KonMari your life - Remember that wardrobe overflowing with clothes, the pantry that still has half-finished packets of food from early 2019, and files filled with documents that you have always wanted to organise? Well, there couldn’t be a better time to deep clean your home and simplify your life. Organise your closet and get your finances in order. Plan for the year, research mutual funds and other investment options, and read up on what the experts are saying about the best sectors and companies to invest in in the near future. This is the time to take charge of your financial health. Pick up a new hobby or revisit an old one - It’s the perfect time to go back to the things you loved doing or better yet, to learn something new. Restart your morning riyaz or pick up your old paintbrushes and paint what you see from your bedroom window. Websites such as Coursera, Udemy, and Skillshare offer short-term courses on pretty much everything under the sun. Learn macrame, sign up for an interior design course or hone your doodling skills. Cook your worries away - One of the best ways to beat anxiety and feel good about oneself is to get creative in the kitchen. Experiment with recipes, get the kids involved in cooking and make preparing meals a family affair. Drop off a home-cooked meal for an elderly neighbour or volunteer to cook something for the security and maintenance staff in your community who are working overtime. There is nothing that says ‘We care’ more than a fresh, hot meal cooked with love. Catch up with your favourite TV shows and books - It’s time to catch up on all your favourite movies, Netflix and Hotstar series -- curled up on your sofa with a bowl of peanuts and popcorn. Put your feet up, brew a hot cup of coffee and reacquaint yourself with some literary classics. Read a best-seller or award-winning book on your Kindle or head over to Google Books, Bookish or Smashwords to download books onto your laptop. Enjoy the silence - With little to no traffic and only the chirping of birds to give you company, it’s time to enjoy the stillness. With most of us having rushed lives packed to the brim with commitments and responsibilities, this is a rare chance to pause, introspect and develop a sense of gratitude. It’s time for a perspective shift. Instead of viewing the lockdown as something that has been forced upon, view it as a way to connect with those dear to you, to recharge yourself and keep your family and community safe. History is proof that challenging times bring out the best in us. So, go ahead and get creative. Use this time wisely and you will come out of it healthier, rested and ready to take on the world. Sooner or later, all of this will be behind us and just a distant memory. Because like everything else, this too shall pass. (The author is a freelance writer)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/living-it-up-in-lockdown-mode-822666.html
07-04-2020||Kalaburagi||Two more persons test positive for COVID-19 in Kalaburagi; tally at 7||Two more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kalaburagi on Tuesday taking the tally to seven in the district. A resident of an apartment on Humnabad road of the cty and the daughter-in-law of the infected woman from Shahabad town tested positive for the virus. A 76-year-old man died of COVID-19 here on March 10. The daughter of the diseased, the doctor who treated the elderly man and the doctor's wife contracted the virus. Of them, the doctor and the deceased's daughter have been discharged from the hospital after recovery.  Deputy Commissioner B Sharat said the 28-year-old woman is the primary contact of a person who had been to Delhi from Shahabad. The 57-year-old infected man is the resident of Kalaburagi City. His contact tracing is in progress, he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/two-more-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kalaburagi-tally-at-7-822372.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||St Aloysius College to distribute grocery items to 2000 families||St Aloysius College administration distributed food grains and essential items to families of poor students on Tuesday. Nearly 200 such families were helped to cope with the ongoing lockdown. Rector of St Aloysius Institutions Fr Dionysius Vaz said that many families of Kannada medium students in the St Aloysius High School and Primary School and even families of other poorer students benefited from this move.   The kit of essentials contained 5- kg of rice, 2 -kg sugar, half kg tea powder, 1- kg tur dal, 2-litre edible oil, 2- kg salt and half kg red chilly. Fr Vaz also said that in co-ordination with Mangaluru City Corporation and the Labour Department, the College helped poor families of construction workers from Bihar and UP who were stranded in places like Sooterpete, Jeppu, Kavoor in Mangaluru, Allipade in Bantwal taluk,  and several other areas. “We would like to help at least about 2000 families. In fact, with the support of the benefactors, we can reach out to all those poor people who are struggling with daily needs.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/st-aloysius-college-to-distribute-grocery-items-to-2000-families-822441.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Imposter booked for roaming around unnecessarily||The city police have booked an imposter for roaming around unnecessarily on Monday, despite the lockdown. A person, named Irfan Pasha, a resident of Mysuru was roaming around frequently, on multiple occasions, flaunting multiple identity cards, when the police personnel, including Inspector V Narayanaswamy, intercepted him, as the nationwide lockdown is in force. He fled on his vehicle. In the press release, issued by Mandi Police Station, under Narasimharaja sub-division of the City Police, it is mentioned that Irfan Pasha was seen on multiple occasion on Ashoka Road. “When Inspector Narayanaswamy, accompanied by head constable H S Harish, was intercepting vehicles at St Philomena’s Church, Irfan Pasha came from the City Crime Branch (CCB) office side, on his two-wheeler, around 6.30 pm, claiming to be a human rights activist and also a media person,” the press note states. Irfan Pasha flaunted multiple identity cards — vice president of International Council of Human Rights, vice president of Human Rights India Foundation, vice president of Labour Liberal Nav Nirman Sene, journalist of Indian Human Rights weekly magazine and also journalist of another media organisation News Times. The police said, when he failed to provide appropriate answers to the enquiry, he fled on his two-wheeler. “His vehicle number plate was also tampered with and the numbers were not visible properly. The lockdown is in force to check the spread of COVID-19. Irfan Pasha was roaming around making false claims, even though he was aware of the fact that unnecessary roaming around would aid the spread of the infection. Cases have been filed under Sections 188, 269, 420 and 419 of the Indian Penal Code,” the press note states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/imposter-booked-for-roaming-around-unnecessarily-822474.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||First Covid-19 patient discharged in Mysuru||The first Covid-19 patient in Mysuru, designated as P20 by the State Health department, was discharged from the hospital, following successful treatment for 18 days, on Tuesday. The first case was confirmed in Mysuru on March 21. He is a man in his mid-30s, a resident of the city, who had travelled from Dubai to Bengaluru via Goa. He had been to the KR Hospital as he was feeling ill on March 20 and got himself admitted. A resident of Vivekananda Nagar in the city, he had gone to his native place in Kollegal taluk of Chamarajanagar district. He was isolated and treated at KR Hospital of Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute in the city. He will be in home quarantine for another 14 days, at Kollegal, as per the protocol issued by the Health Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/first-covid-19-patient-discharged-in-mysuru-822477.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||80 connected with Tablighi jamaat under quarantine: DC||The district administration has identified 80 people, who were in someway connected with the participants of Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, Delhi or have attended some religious gatherings. They have been kept under quarantine, said Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi. Addressing media persons, the DC said that only one person from the district had participated in the religious gathering at Nizamuddin, between March 13 and 15. He has already been kept under isolation. His throat swabs have been sent and the results are awaited. While checking the details, we learnt that around three to four groups were in contact with the Tablighi jamaat group. They have travelled to Godhra, Agra and Mumbai before returning. Ten people participated in a programme at Ramapura in Hanur taluk, the DC explained. Besides, 12 clerics from Gujarat had stayed in a mosque at Nagavalli in Chamarajanagar taluk. In addition, 46 people from Galipura in the city have returned from Indonesia and other foreign countries. All these people are in contact with the Tablighi jamaat in one or the other way. There are possibilities of these people participating in religious meets across the country, he said. As the government has issued orders that anyone who is related to Tablighi jamaat should be quarantined, all the 80 people have been kept under quarantine. Their blood and throat swab samples are sent for Mysuru for testing. All these people have no symptoms and there is no need to panic, he assured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/80-connected-with-tablighi-jamaat-under-quarantine-dc-822484.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Video of men tasting grapes goes viral||A video clip of three persons tasting grapefruits in a suspicious manner, near Scholar School in the city has gone viral on the social media. Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda clarified that the trio were eating the fruits and there is no need to panic. The SP said, "The three people in the video were taken into custody. They explained that they were eating the fruits and were not smearing saliva as projected in the video clip. They were subject to health screening at the district hospital and were found healthy. However, they have been quarantined at the district hospital." The fruits too have been sent for testing. There is no need for the public to panic. The police are on the lookout for the person, who recorded the video and circulated it on the social media to create fear among the people. Action would be taken against him, the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/video-of-men-tasting-grapes-goes-viral-822488.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rats get tipsy, damage liquor tetrapacks!||While the whole country is facing dry days due to the lockdown, and some menfolk are not getting liquor since the last two weeks, rats in Kollegal town are getting tipsy, by damaging liquor tetrapacks and consuming it, at a liquor shop here. The wine shop owner who found liquor trickling from the downed shutters, immediately informed the Excise department officials. The officials who opened the seal found more than 70 liquor sachets damaged by the rats. The remaining sachets were safeguarded in a metal box later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rats-get-tipsy-damage-liquor-tetrapacks-822493.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Host under quarantine in Talakad||A person of Megadahalli near here, who was a host to a few Muslim clerics at a farmhouse in the neighbouring Malavalli taluk of Mandya district, is asked to undergo home quarantine. A group of clerics had taken part in a meeting at the farmhouse in a village of Malavalli taluk, recently, and a few of them have been quarantined, suspecting Covid-19 infection. Thus, the person was subject to tests at the Community Health Centre at Megadahalli and later sent to KR Hospital in Mysuru for further tests. Test results showed that he did not have symptoms of COVID-19. However, he has been asked to stay isolated at home and undergo home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/host-under-quarantine-in-talakad-822496.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sacrifices made by medical staff invaluable: MLA Appachu Ranjan||Medical personnel have been working day and night to protect the health of people, by putting their own health at risk. The sacrifices made by them are invaluable, said MLA Appachu Ranjan. He was speaking after felicitating doctors on the occasion of World Health Day observed at district government hospital in Madikeri on Tuesday. "It is important to recognise the achievements of doctors, nurses and other medical staff. Due to the precautionary measures taken by the district administration and the efforts of health department personnel, we have been able to control the spread of COVID-19," he added. MLC Sunil Subramani said that the district administration, police department, medical personnel, civic workers and elected representatives in the district have been working in coordination to combat Covid-19. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Dr K Mohan, Kodagu Institute of Medical Sciences Dean Dr Cariappa, Superintendent Dr Lokesh, Dr Aziz and Dr Manjunath were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sacrifices-made-by-medical-staff-invaluable-mla-appachu-ranjan-822507.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Three fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Mandya||Three cases of coronavirus or COVID-19 are confirmed in Mandya on Tuesday. This is the first confirmed case in Mandya district, so far. As per the communication of the Health department, all three men, are residents of Malavalli town and were in contact with patients P134, P135, P136, P137, and P138, all five Tablighi Jamaat members and residents of Delhi. These five clerics are being treated in the neighbouring Mysuru. Besides, the three persons had participated in a spiritual gathering at the Tablighi Jamaat Mosque at Nizamuddin in Delhi from February 5 to 13. However, the mode of their infection is yet to be ascertained. The patients of Mandya are designated as P171, 32 years, P172, 36 years, and P173, 65 years. All three are under treatment at the hospital of Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences, the designated COVID-19 Hospital. The reports of tests on seven more patients are expected shortly. Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh said, “We had sent throat swabs of seven persons for tests. Two of them have tested negative. The reports of the other two are not clear, thus re-tests have been sought.” Non-cooperation The DC said, “There were no symptoms of flu among those who have been confirmed of the infection. As they had travel history to Delhi, they were tested. As most of those under isolation or quarantine are not showing symptoms, they are not cooperating with the Health department officials and staff for the process as per the guidelines. They argue with doctors and nurses. They are also quarrelling over their diet. The situation is under control with the support of ppolice personnel.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-mandya-822520.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Six patients admitted to isolation wards||Six patients were admitted to isolation wards in the hospitals in the district on Tuesday.  While four people were suffering from symptoms of COVID-19, two were suffering from SARI (Severe acute respiratory infection).  As many as 19 samples were collected and sent for COVID-19 testing to a laboratory in Shivamogga.  Already 11 people are under quarantine for coming in contact with COVID-19 patients,  two are admitted to isolation ward for SARI and six have been admitted for symptoms of COVID-19 in the district.  The results of 64 samples are pending. As many as 149 are under home quarantine.  A total of 2,030 people were screened in the district for COVID-19.  Only three positive cases were reported till Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/six-patients-admitted-to-isolation-wards-822552.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Weatherman predicts heavy rain for two days||Parts of Mysuru city and district, Chamarajanagar and Hassan received a good spell of rain on Monday night, bringing down mercury levels. Heavy rains lashed T Narasipur taluk in Mysuru district and Kothegala gram panchayat limits received 7 cm rainfall. Karya village in Nanjangud taluk received 5 cm rains. Male Mahadeshwara Hills in Chamarajanagar district received good rain on Tuesday evening. The Agriculture Research Station at Naganahalli near here, has predicted rains accompanied by thunderstorms on April 7 and 8. The research centre recorded 12 mm rain on Sunday night and 22.5 mm on Monday midnight. The rains would help the farmers to begin agricultural activities, the scientists said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/weatherman-predicts-heavy-rain-for-two-days-822579.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||'One nation may disappear due to COVID-19'||Kodi Mutt seer Shivananda Shivayogi Rajendra Swami on Tuesday, predicted that there is a possibility of one country completely disappearing from the map, due to the dreaded virus attack. Speaking on the severity of COVID-19, he said that India has not been severely affected due to COVID, as it is sacred land and also due to the prayers and chantings of sadhus. India will not be severely affected by the virus. Unable to control the spread of the disease, many leaders will lose power. COVID-19 will engulf the whole world, he said. Several new laws would be enforced in the country. It is better, if it is implemented after analysing the pros and cons, or else there are chances of the people revolting against it, he warned. Without mentioning the name of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the seer said, he should reconsider his decision of shifting his house to 'Cauvery', as he may face trouble. The seer also predicted heavy monsoon that might affect the farming community. The people should cooperate to the decisions taken by the government, he advised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-nation-may-disappear-due-to-covid-19-822581.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||SP bans mass prayers in Hassan district||Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda announced that people moving out of their houses for mass prayers as part of Shab-e-barat and Good Friday that is being observed on April 8 and 9, is banned in the district. The public should cooperate and conduct their prayers at home, and help in combating the spread of the virus. Criminal action would be taken against those violating the orders, he warned. He said that the movement of vehicles unnecessarily is restricted. Any two-wheeler and car venturing out would be seized.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sp-bans-mass-prayers-in-hassan-district-822583.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||3,000 people under observation in Mysuru for coronavirus||The number of people under observation, in the wake of the spread of coronavirus of COVID-19, crossed 3,000 on Tuesday. As per the communication provided by the Mysuru district administration on Tuesday, up to 3 pm, the total number of persons observed till Tuesday is 3,057. While 1,533 persons have completed 14 days’ isolation, 1,490 persons have been isolated in home for 14 days. The total number of persons isolated in hospital are 34, as one person was discharged on Tuesday. So far, the total number of samples teste are 287 and the samples found negative are 174, while the samples found positive are 35. There are three sample pending. Repeat samples requested are four and results awaited are 70.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3000-people-under-observation-in-mysuru-for-coronavirus-822587.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||7,550 individual works sanctioned under MGNREGS in Chikkamagaluru||Only individual works are being taken up under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) in Chikkamagaluru district. The lockdown has put a break on the community development works. To maintain social distancing in order to avoid the spread of COVID-19, all community development works initiated under MGNREGS have come to a standstill. The individual works on farm pond, well, construction of shed and cowshed are under progress. The Centre has also announced a hike in daily wages for the labourers under MGNREGS to Rs 275. However, the lockdown has come in the way of labourers benefiting from the hiked wages.  There are 28,000 job cards in Chikkamagaluru taluk. As many as 275 individual works have been sanctioned from April 1, which has guaranteed employment to 1,000 people, said Taluk Panchayat officer H D Revanna to DH. Ambale Gram Panchayat PDO Shantha said, "Only four labourers can take up work under individual beneficiary work. All have been directed to maintain social distancing. Five individual works have been sanctioned in the Gram Panchayat jurisdiction." "We have three job cards in our family. Individual work under MGNREGS has been sanctioned. We have taken up work on the cowshed," said H S Geetha, a resident of Hiregowja, in Lakhya hobli. Zilla Panchayat CEO S Poovitha said that 7,550 individual works have been sanctioned under MGNREGS in Chikkamagaluru district since April 2. The process of verifying the pending action plans is in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/7550-individual-works-sanctioned-under-mgnregs-in-chikkamagaluru-822591.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19: Doctors to inspect police personnel||While the COVID-19 pandemic has been creating panic among the public, the police personnel who have been working day and night to observe total lockdown, have been facing the risk of getting infected. Doctors in Madikeri have planned to conduct medical check-up of police personnel at various places in the district. Four separate teams of doctors headed by Sri Rajarajeshwari Hospital managing director Dr B C Navin Kumar conducted the health check-up of police personnel in Madikeri on Monday. The teams will conduct medical check-up at DySP office in Virajpet, Gonikoppa Circle, Virajpet town rural, Gonikoppa and Ponnampet police station on Thursday. On April 11, the check-up of police personnel at Somwarpet Circle office, Somwarpet and Shanivarasanthe police stations will be done and personnel at Kutta Circle and Srimangala police station on April 13. Check-ups will be held at Bhagamandala and other special units on April 14. Dr Navin Kumar, Dr Purushottam, Dr Kumar and Dr Pravin Kumar will be part of the team of doctors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-doctors-to-inspect-police-personnel-822598.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Asha workers assaulted at Kuduchi||Asha workers and an Anganwadi worker who had been collecting information about the health condition of the people in the containment zone at Kuduchi town in Raibag taluk wherein four COVID-19 positive cases have been reported were allegedly assaulted by a mob of more than 15 persons on Tuesday. Cell phones of Asha workers and Anganwadi worker were snatched away and record papers were torn by a mob of miscreants. As reports of Asha workers and Anganwadi worker being assaulted by miscreants spread in the town, their colleagues assembled before Kuduchi police station demanding action against accused responsible for the act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/asha-workers-assaulted-at-kuduchi-822610.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Judges, lawyers come onto streets to review coronavirus lockdown||Three judges of the Pavagada court and advocates stepped out onto the streets to review the lockdown enforced to prevent the spread of COVID-19, in the town on Tuesday.  Senior Civil Judge V Hanumanthappa opined that the police were not enforcing the lockdown comprehensively. "Relaxation has been provided between 6 am and 10 am for people to buy essentials. But here people are moving around in the open unnecessarily even at 11 am and shops are still open. There is a need to spread awareness," he added. He recalled that earlier, a meeting had been convened with police officers and directions were given. "But the police have failed to enforce the lockdown as expected. Two policemen need to be deployed on every main road to prevent people from coming outdoors. Only medical emergency cases should be allowed to pass," he added.  Principal Civil Judge Jagadish Biseroti, Additional Judge Bharat Karagudari, Government Advocate Manjunath, Advocates' Association President Akkalappa, Secretary Ramesh, Treasurer Rajanna, advocate Pandurangappa, Yangna Narayana Sharma and Prabhakara Reddy were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/judges-lawyers-come-onto-streets-to-review-coronavirus-lockdown-822613.html
07-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Resume online trading for grapes, B C Patil tells DC||Agriculture Minister B C Patil on Tuesday instructed the deputy commissioner to start online trading for the benefit of grape growers. Chairing a review meeting of his department with the officials here, the Agriculture minister said, “I have received complaints from the grape growers that they are put to hardships owing to the closure of online trading. The officials should reopen online trading and ensure its continuity.” “Also, the grape growers are facing acute shortage of dipping oil required for making raisin. The district officials should take necessary steps to procure the oil from neighbouring states,” the minister said. He suggested the growers to keep their produce for free at two 2,250 tonne-capacity cold storages in Bagalkot and Vijayapura. Vijayapura is the largest grape-growing district in the state. The fruit is grown on over 11,000 hectares’ The minister urged the farmers not to dump their produce on roads, dump yards or let the crop rot in the farm, citing price crash. “Have patience , the government will come to your rescue,” he said. Vijayapura district has witnessed a bountiful yield of watermelon. But rumours linking the fruit with coronavirus are preventing the people from buying the melons. The minister called upon the people not fall for such rumours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/resume-online-trading-for-grapes-b-c-patil-tells-dc-822662.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Mandya reports three COVID-19 positive cases, all contacts of Tablighi Jamaat attendees||Three positive cases of coronavirus or COVID-19 were reported in Mandya on Tuesday. This is the first instance of confirmed cases in Mandya district, so far. The patients of Mandya are designated as P171, 32 years, P172, 36 years, and P173, 65 years.  All three are under treatment at Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences, the designated COVID-19 Hospital. The reports of tests on seven more patients are expected shortly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mandya-reports-three-covid-19-positive-cases-all-contacts-of-tablighi-jamaat-attendees-822358.html
07-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Crowd at Indira canteens missing after govt decision to charge for food: Siddaramiah||Senior Congress leader K Siddaramaiah on Tuesday alleged that the usual crowd from the Indira Canteens here has been missing ever since the BJP- government in Karnataka decided to make people pay for food. In a video message shared with the media, Siddaramaiah claimed that he visited three Indira canteens in RT Nagar in the city in the afternoon and noticed that the usual crowd was missing from there. "When food was distributed free of cost, people used to throng the canteen but now people are not seen. The reason is people don't have money," Siddaramaiah rued. "Earlier, 700 plates of food were sold a day, but now only around 150," he quoted the canteen staff as saying. The Congress leader recalled that he recently wrote a letter to the state government to provide free food till the situation normalises. The Indira canteens were started by the then Congress government in the state in 2017 with an aim to offer highly subsidised food to the urban poor. After the coronavirus lockdown was imposed, the Yediyurappa-led government served free food at these counters while food parcels were distributed at these places. However, the government changed its policy and decided to collect a nominal amount for the food, which came under criticism from various quarters. The government said the decision was taken in the wake of complaints regarding misuse of the facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/crowd-at-indira-canteens-missing-after-govt-decision-to-charge-for-food-siddaramiah-822550.html
07-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||COVID-19: Screening, CCTV cameras at AP border||CCTV cameras have also been installed at the border to monitor the movement of people and vehicles. The local PSI visited Muddenahalli which is hardly six kilometers from Hindupur across the border in AP.     Police and medical staff are working 24/7 in three shifts. All smaller roads connecting the two states are sealed. The taluk administration has urged people who have come in contact with the COVID-19 infected physiotherapist, to come forward and get themselves tested voluntarily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/covid-19-screening-cctv-cameras-at-ap-border-822437.html
07-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||CITU, CPI(M) demand adequate supply of generic medicines||People with common illnesses like hypertension and diabetes are suffering because of a shortage of generic medications in pharmacies, and the government is doing nothing to ensure adequate supply alleged Centre for Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and Communist Party of India (Marxist). CPM District Secretary N K Subramanya and CITU District President Syed Mujeeb said people with common ailments are not getting medicines due to shortage of supply and also because most pharmacies dispensing common medicines in Tumakuru city and district are shut.  They also alleged that because of the paucity, inexpensive medicines are being sold at 10 times the original price thereby burdening the poorer classes of society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/citu-cpim-demand-adequate-supply-of-generic-medicines-822456.html
07-04-2020||Main Article||'Practical solutions should have been explored before imposing lockdown'||When Emperor Napoleon was once urged by one of his commanders to attack without loss of time, he retorted, “The Army marches on its stomach.” To fight and win wars, men need timely supplies of food and water as much as a supply backup of ammunition and armament, horses and so forth. In short, good planning and logistics support are vital for victory. Now, our country is engaged in a different kind of war, one against a raging virus. The overnight lockdown of the whole country on the night of March 24 was so sudden that people were left shell shocked. Many daily wage earners who had missed PM Narendra Modi’s television broadcast, or had not grasped the implications of this lockdown, and who ventured out the next morning to work or to buy essentials were mercilessly beaten up by the police. The decision to impose a total lockdown was a good one and was necessary. The World Health Organisation recommended it, and the heads of other countries have followed suit. That is the only way to stop the spread of the virus. But if the lockdown is to succeed, the supply chain of essential goods and services had to be kept open and running 24x7, and provisions of free cash made to the poor so that people do not defy the orders in search of livelihood. So, Modi got the first part right -- the need for a lightning-fast response and a firm resolve to fight the war. But for the lockdown to be effective, there was a corollary that his team overlooked -- a well-planned and efficient supply chain and logistics should have been in place well before the lockdown announcement, one facilitated by authorities at every level and extending to the farthest nook and corner of India, keeping in mind that this is a large, chaotic country. Things work in India haphazardly through local, ad hoc ways, enabled by a complex web of millions of service providers who are on daily wages. While the middle class can observe social distancing and ‘home quarantine’, for the millions of daily wage earners who have to buy their provisions or meal daily and can do so only by going to work each day, it is a cruel joke. For such people, it is physically and economically impossible when they are crammed cheek by jowl, seven to eight in a tin shed in densely crowded slums. The total number of resident slum dwellers and economic migrants put together in the large metros and cities is a staggering 110 million. No government can feed them without adequate planning and preparation. It may not even be desirable to lock them down in such extreme conditions. In the absence of facilities for food and shelter, with the spectre of hunger staring at them, they fled from their dwellings seeking every which way to reach their villages and spilled out onto highways and bus stands. The heart-rending images of millions of poor, hungry men and women, carrying what they could, with wailing children in tow, are haunting. While no effort must be spared to stem the spread of the virus, practical solutions that suit India should have been explored and put in place before the imposition of a sudden lockdown. That called for courageous feedback from the advisers to the prime minister, who may have been impatient to enforce the lockdown under counsel from epidemiologists who, in turn, couldn’t have foreseen the fall-out of such a sudden lockdown and the collateral damage it would inflict on the poor. The cure suggested is becoming worse than the disease, as we can all see. Let me recount a story of another war -- the Bangladesh War of 1971, images of which are still vivid in my mind as I took part in it. In April 1971, Sam Manekshaw, the then army chief, was summoned to an emergency cabinet meeting by Indira Gandhi and asked if the military was ready to attack East Pakistan as millions of refugees were pouring in through Assam, destabilising India. Manekshaw resisted. “I’m not prepared. I fight to win. If I attack now, I will lead my men into defeat.” Indira Gandhi was aghast at the affront by the General. Manekshaw went on, “If I attack now, the mountain passes in the North East Frontier are free of snow and China may attack. The rivers in Bangladesh turn into an ocean with the onset of monsoons, making invasion impossible. Out of my 181 tanks, only 11 are battleworthy. I have to move the ordinance and equipment and fuel and food and ammunition and troops and allied support services to the borders. The IAF and Navy will not be ready to support the attack. I need six months. I will be ready to attack in December. Prime Minister, now give me your orders.” When he was summoned to her office again that evening, Manekshaw had carried his resignation paper in his pocket and asked her as he went in, “Do you want my resignation?” Indira Gandhi said, “No, because everything you tell me is true.” The rest is history. When the head of a country calls a cabinet meeting along with the cabinet secretary and other top officials of the government, like the NSA, the head of disaster management, the home secretary, etc., to discuss any momentous decision in the offing, we need people to stand up and speak truth to power. In the present case, they should have advised the prime minister that a meeting with all the chief ministers, followed by meetings with chief secretaries and heads of police in the states were necessary before announcing the lockdown to not only obtain their cooperation but also to get their feedback, which would have helped evolve a well thought out plan on how to implement the lockdown and decide on all aspects of the minimum lifeline of logistics and supply chains. The political leader may have a larger objective, a daring mission and an overarching vision which others may lack, but let us bear in mind that the head of any country cannot be expected to possess all the knowledge or ability himself to anticipate the fall-out of such measures. The right answers and solutions will always emerge as we have no dearth of capable and knowledgeable people in the government and the country. What we lack are courageous leaders and professionals in the bureaucracy, the police and the military who can speak truth to power. (The writer pioneered low-cost airlines in India and is a serial entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/practical-solutions-should-have-been-explored-before-imposing-lockdown-822655.html
07-04-2020||Mysuru||First COVID-19 patient in Mysuru discharged||The first COVID-19 patient in Mysuru, designated as P20, was discharged from the hospital, following successful treatment for 18 days, on Tuesday. The first case was confirmed in Mysuru on March 21. He is a man in his mid-30s, who had traveled from Dubai to Bengaluru via Goa. He had been to the KR Hospital as he was feeling ill on March 20 and got himself admitted. A resident of Vivekananda Nagar in Mysuru, he has gone to his native place in Kollegal taluk of Chamarajanagar district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/first-covid-19-patient-in-mysuru-discharged-822465.html
07-04-2020||National||Hope to see UK PM Boris Johnson in perfect health soon: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday hoped that his British counterpart Boris Johnson, admitted to a hospital for treatment of coronavirus, finds himself in perfect health soon. "Hang in there, Prime Minister @BorisJohnson! Hope to see you out of hospital and in perfect health very soon," the prime minister wrote on Twitter. British Prime Minister Johnson had earlier tweeted that on the advice of his doctor, he went into hospital for some routine tests as he was still experiencing coronavirus symptoms. "I'm in good spirits and keeping in touch with my team, as we work together to fight this virus and keep everyone safe," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hope-to-see-uk-pm-boris-johnson-in-perfect-health-soon-pm-modi-822274.html
07-04-2020||National||Centre was sleeping, ill-prepared to deal with COVID-19 crisis: Sharad Yadav||Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) chief Sharad Yadav on Monday said there has been "total mismanagement and unpreparedness" on the part of the central government while dealing with the coronavirus outbreak. He said while the first case in India was detected on January 30, the government should have immediately started testing people coming from abroad. "Our government was sleeping and busy in welcoming the US President... The entire country has seen to what extent he was felicitated. Had it (centre) started testing people landing from abroad after January 30 and made arrangements for their quarantine this disease would not have spread here," Yadav said in a statement. He said the previous governments used to consult senior leaders from the opposition parties while dealing with a crisis situation but this practice is not being followed by the current regime. Yadav also questioned the setting up of the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) fund to tackle the COVID-19 crisis. "There was already a National Disaster Fund which should have been used for taking donations," he said. "The people are worried about their future and they don't know what will happen to them if the government continues with its current style of functioning," Yadav said. He appealed to the prime minister to take decisions with caution and consult leaders of the opposition parties in the interest of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-was-sleeping-ill-prepared-to-deal-with-covid-19-crisis-sharad-yadav-822275.html
07-04-2020||National||Doctor, 9 paramedical staff test positive for COVID-19 at Delhi State Cancer Institute||A doctor and nine more paramedical staff tested positive for COVID-19 at the Delhi State Cancer Institute on Monday, taking the total number of cases at the government-run hospital to 18, official said. He said that 24 healthcare personnel of the hospital have been asked to be in home quarantine.  "On Monday, a doctor and nine paramedical staff tested positive for coronavirus at the Delhi State Cancer Institute. Total number of COVID-19 cases at the hospital has so far reached 18," the official said. Recently, a doctor and seven healthcare personnel had also tested positive for COVID-19 at the hospital. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the Delhi government has decided to conduct large-scale testing for coronavirus so that infected people are identified and isolated at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctor-9-paramedical-staff-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-delhi-state-cancer-institute-822276.html
07-04-2020||National||Govt mulls curbs post-coronavirus lockdown||India’s graded plan to re-emerge from the 21-day lockdown on April 15 - which has ignited feverish speculation - may include re-starting activities in areas which are not identified as COVID-19 hotspots. However, it will not be business as usual, with the government mulling restrictions on places where people gather in large numbers such as shopping malls, cinema halls and religious shrines. For train travel, passengers may have to cite a reason at the time of booking tickets. The government may also encourage work-from-home for certain sectors such as IT till the outbreak subsides. But in some places, lockdown may be extended. The Union Health Ministry indicated that the disease was in “localised community transmission” stage, with a large number of cases being found in some particular areas, amid indications that some areas, including in Uttar Pradesh, may not see full exit from the lockdown, reported PTI. The meeting of the Union Cabinet, convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, also spent some time discussing how to end the lockdown and utilise the crisis to become self-dependent in the medical sector. A key area of discussion was reopening government offices after the lockdown and speeding up pending reforms to kick-start the economy. The Prime Minister noted that a graded plan to slowly open departments where hotspots are not existing should be made, an official release said. Stating that lockdown measures and social distancing must go hand in hand, the Prime Minister said that it was essential to strategise for the emergent conditions once lockdown ends.  He asked the ministers to prepare a list of 10 major decisions and ten priority areas of focus once lockdown ends, while exhorting them to identify and implement pending reforms in their ministries. A decision on restarting schools and colleges is expected to be taken on April 14, the last day of the lockdown. On resumption of public transport, the discussion is centred on the risks involved in allowing movement of population on such a large-scale, which may allow for transmission of the disease. On rail travel, passengers may be asked to furnish a valid reason for travel, but there could be difficulties on the implementation side.  Go Air and Air Asia had announced resumption of bookings from April 15, but with the option of free reschedules if the restrictions on air travel continue. Air India had stopped accepting bookings till April-end. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said a decision on resumption of flights post lockdown was yet to be taken. “If required, we will have to assess the situation on a case by case basis,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-mulls-curbs-post-coronavirus-lockdown-822279.html
07-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 7, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.  Stay healthy, stay safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-7-2020-edition-822286.html
07-04-2020||National||'Send us PPE kits' - Delhi govt's SOS to Centre||Fifty-nine fresh COVID-19 cases, including 42 linked to Tablighi Jamaat, was reported in Delhi on Saturday, taking the total to 445, amid Delhi government sending an 'SOS' to the Centre for personnel protection equipment (PPE) as it is running out of kits essential for healthcare professionals engaged in treating patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/send-us-ppe-kits-delhi-govts-sos-to-centre-822287.html
07-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 7||While the impact of the novel coronavirus has been the most in China and Italy, India also is within its grasp. After making its presence in Kerala first, the novel coronavirus reached other cities/regions including Bengaluru, Pune, Delhi, Jaipur, Agra, Hyderabad, Jammu and Kashmir among others. We, at Deccan Herald, bring to you the list of total positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the epidemic, according to the Union Ministry of Health and sources (the list will be updated regularly).     The total number of positive cases (including deaths) in India: 5,046 as of April 7. Total deaths in India: 154 Andhra Pradesh: 4 Haryana: 2 Rajasthan: 6 Uttar Pradesh: 3 Telangana: 11 Madhya Pradesh: 18 Karnataka: 4 Delhi: 7 Maharashtra: 52 Punjab: 7 Bihar: 1 Gujarat: 16 West Bengal: 9 Himachal Pradesh: 2 Tamil Nadu: 7 Jammu and Kashmir: 2 Kerala: 3 States/UT with confirmed positive cases: (State-wise details are updated as we receive information) Kerala: 304Punjab: 91Delhi: 525Jammu and Kashmir: 125Ladakh: 13Rajasthan: 328Uttar Pradesh: 341Maharashtra: 1018Karnataka: 175Tamil Nadu: 690Telangana: 364Haryana: 129Andhra Pradesh: 226Himachal Pradesh: 19Gujarat: 175Uttarakhand: 27Odisha: 22West Bengal: 80Chandigarh: 16Chhattisgarh: 19Madhya Pradesh: 268Bihar: 32Puducherry: 6Manipur: 2Mizoram: 1Goa: 7Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 10Jharkhand: 4Assam: 27Arunachal Pradesh: 1Tripura: 1 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 267 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the epidemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-7-822289.html
07-04-2020||National||Pakistan troops shell forward posts along Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||Pakistani troops shelled forward posts along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir for the second consecutive day on Tuesday, officials said. "At about 7:45 am on Tuesday, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing from small arms and shelling mortars along the LoC in Mankote sector of Poonch district," a defense spokesperson said. "The Indian Army is retaliating in a befitting manner," he added. On Monday, the Pakistani Army violated the ceasefire and resorted to small arms firing and mortar shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) in Mankote area and on last Friday they fired in Sunderbani-Nowshera sector injuring six security personnel. There were a total of 646 incidents of ceasefire violations along the Indo-Pakistan International Border (IB) as well as the Line of Control (LoC) between January 1 and February 23 this year, Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik told Parliament in March. Over 3,200 ceasefire violations by Pakistan troops were recorded in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-troops-shell-forward-posts-along-line-of-control-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-822312.html
07-04-2020||National||World Health Day opportunity to express gratitude towards medical staff fighting COVID-19: PM, Vice President||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the World Health Day is an opportunity to reaffirm our gratitude towards all doctors, nurses, medical staff and healthcare workers leading the battle against COVID-19. "Today on #WorldHealthDay, let us not only pray for each other's good health and well-being but also reaffirm our gratitude towards all those doctors, nurses, medical staff and healthcare workers who are bravely leading the battle against the COVID-19 menace," the prime minister tweeted.   He also said on this World Health Day, let us also follow practices such as social distancing which will protect our own lives as well as the lives of others. "May this day also inspire us towards focusing on personal fitness through the year, which would help improve our overall health," he said. The vice president appealed to citizens to respect and appreciate the selfless work of the medical community. "Any misbehaviour or assault on doctors & nurses is unacceptable & most stringent action must be taken against culprits behind such incidents," his office tweeted. The World Health Day is observed every year on this day to highlight a priority area of concern for the World Health Organisation (WHO).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-health-day-opportunity-to-express-gratitude-towards-medical-staff-fighting-covid-19-pm-vice-president-822321.html
07-04-2020||National||Railways asks cement companies to unload goods from freight trains to free up rakes for essentials||The Railways has asked cement firms to offload their goods from freight trains so that they can be used to supply essential commodities to various parts of the country, sources said. With the lockdown in place, the national transporter is using about 50-60 rakes per day to ferry food grains but there is demand for more, the sources said. Around 300 goods trains full of cement bags are lying idle because cement companies are in no hurry to unload them as the construction business has come to a standstill due to the coronavirus outbreak. With the railways having waived off its demurrage and wharfage charges, companies were not losing any money by not offloading their goods, officials said. ¨These rakes with covered wagons are just lying there full of cement. Due to the lack of availability of labour, there is no construction work happening in the country, so cement companies are in no hurry to unload. ¨We have told them that if they do not unload their goods in a couple of days, we will reinstate the charges for keeping our wagons waiting,¨ the official said. Demurrage charges are levied for the detention of any rolling stock after the expiry of free time, if any, allowed for such detention. Wharfage is the charge levied on goods for not removing them from the railway after the expiry of the free time for such removal. The Railways had waived off these charges during the lockdown period. Officials said that given the huge demand for essential commodities across the country and with the movement of goods through roadways virtually negligible, it was essential to free up these trains to ferry essentials like fruits, vegetables, food grains, salt and sugar. Sources said that the Railways is also in touch with state authorities to ensure that their goods trains are offloaded on time. Sources said that the national transporter is facing a similar problem with goods trains carrying steel as there are no labourers to unload them. During the 13-day period between March 23 and April 4, the Railways loaded and carried 1,342 wagons of sugar, 958 wagons of salt and 378 wagons/tanks of edible oil (one wagon contains 58-60 tonne consignment), according to the Railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-asks-cement-companies-to-unload-goods-from-freight-trains-to-free-up-rakes-for-essentials-822330.html
07-04-2020||National||Rains in parts of Mysuru bring respite from heat||Parts of Mysuru city and surrounding areas received heavy rain accompanied by thunder and lightning at around 11.30 pm on Monday. The rain, which lasted for around one hour, brought respite from the sweltering heat. The weather remained overcast on Tuesday morning.  Periyapatna and parts of Mysuru district also experienced good rains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rains-in-parts-of-mysuru-bring-respite-from-heat-822332.html
07-04-2020||National||How to subscribe to DH Telegram notifications||Hello readers! There's a new way to get the latest news from across the globe from Deccan Herald: DH Telegram notifications. We are now on Telegram to help you stay up to date with the biggest news of the day. DH will send you updates including breaking news, fact checks, FAQs, views, our biggest stories and Speak Out every 30 minutes.Here's how you can subscribe to our Telegram notifications: Step 1: Download the Telegram app on your android mobile device from the Google Play Store. Step 3: Tap on Join option. If you are subscribing on a desktop, click "open in web". You can also search for Deccan Herald within the Telegram app — we’re the ones with DH's logo. Once you join our channel you will get subscribed to our Telegram alerts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-to-subscribe-to-dh-telegram-notifications-819234.html
07-04-2020||National||Jammu and Kashmir former CM Mehbooba Mufti shifted to her residence, detention continues||After more than eight months of incarceration, former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir and PDP president, Mehbooba Mufti was on Tuesday shifted from a make-shift jail to her official Gupkar residence in Srinagar. However, her detention under public safety act (PSA) will continue as her Gupkar residence has been declared as a subsidiary jail. “In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b) of Section 2 of the Prisoners Act, 1990, the government hereby declares Fairview, Gupkar Road, Srinagar as "Subsidiary Jail"," an order issued by Principal Secretary to Government, Shaleen Kabra, reads. Mufti along with two other former chief ministers – Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar - was detained on August 5 last year, when the Government of India abrogated the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 and bifurcated the erstwhile State into two Union Territories. On February 6, the Jammu and Kashmir administration slapped the stringent PSA against Mufti and Omar, a day before their detention was supposed to end. While Farooq and Omar were released last month, Mufti continues to remain detained. Minutes after the news about the shifting of Mufti came, Omar in a tweet said she must be released fully. "@MehboobaMufti must be set free. Shifting her home while continuing to keep her detained is a cop out,” Omar tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-and-kashmir-former-cm-mehbooba-mufti-shifted-to-her-residence-detention-continues-822343.html
07-04-2020||National||8 Kyrgyzstan nationals booked in Karnataka for violating visa rules||Eight Kyrgyzstan nationals who have been quarantined in Bidar have been booked for visa rules violations by indulging in Islamic missionary activities in the district, a police official said on Tuesday. "They had come here on a tourist visa but they are reported to be engaged in religious activities here, which they are not supposed to be doing on a tourist visa. So we have registered a case of violation of visa," the Bidar Superintendent of Police Nagesh D L told PTI. According to the FIR, these eight Kyrgyzstan nationals including Tashmatov Tilek and Anaraliev Begaly had come here on March 10 and stayed in mosques in Bidar for a few days. They had taken the help of some people from Odisha to carry out Islamic missionary activities, the FIR further read. The Bidar SP said these foreigners have been quarantined at a rest house near the Ratkalpura mosque. The police would inform the Kyrgyzstan Embassy about their activities, he said adding it would be investigated the where all they had gone and stayed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-kyrgyzstan-nationals-booked-in-karnataka-for-violating-visa-rules-822344.html
07-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Tablighi Jamaat members defecate in front of Narela quarantine centre room in Delhi||A case has been registered against two members of Tablighi Jamaat for allegedly defecating in front of a room at a quarantine centre in Narela, in Delhi, police said on Tuesday. The accused men are residents of Barabanki in Uttar Pradesh and had attended the religious congregation held last month at Nizamuddin, police said. The case was registered on Saturday, after police received information from the sanitation staff at the quarantine centre about the men defecating in front of their rooms, a senior police official said.  The incident took place in front of Room no. 212 on the second floor of the centre.  “A sanitation worker and the House Keeping Supervisor reported the incident. The persons residing in the room are the suspects for the act, they did not follow the instructions of the health department and government to prevent the spread of the virus. The men put the life of others at risk by jeopardising the entire containment measure,” the FIR stated. So far, more than 400 COVID-19 cases and about 15 deaths in the country have been found to be linked to the religious congregation held at the Nizamuddin headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat last month. At least 9,000 people participated in the religious congregation in Nizamuddin last month, after which many of the attendees travelled to various parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-tablighi-jamaat-members-defecate-in-front-of-narela-quarantine-centre-room-in-delhi-822348.html
07-04-2020||National||We are better now but don't know if we'll slide like Europe, US: Ex-NIV chief||India, in the current scenario, may appear okay vis-a-vis COVID-19 infections but if stringent precautions are not continued, it would not take much time to slide like the United States and Europe, says eminent virologist Dr Akhilesh Chandra Mishra. "Maybe the climate, maybe the ethnic factor, we do not know the reason for this but we cannot be off guard," he told DH on Tuesday. Dr Mishra was the director of Pune-based National Institute of Virology in 2009 during the Swine Flu outbreak and is currently director of Interactive Research School for Health Affairs, Bharatiya Vidyapeeth Deemed University, Pune. According to Dr Mishra, who had worked in epidemiology and control planning of vector-borne diseases, influenza and Chandipura viruses, said that crowded areas like the Mumbai-Pune belt pose a major challenge. "We would not like to go the US and Europe way because as of now we are doing pretty well," he said, adding that we should not fulfil the biological need of the virus. "The virus (COVID-19) is new to us. We have never seen it before. So, it would be wrong to say that we are immune to it," he said. When asked about the discussion around "herd immunity", Dr Mishra said: "If we look at India and the number of cases,  it is not. Such immunity is possible when 60 to 70 per cent of the population is affected. Herd immunity is also called community immunity and basically herd or group protection. It is not as far as we are concerned." He went to add that perhaps Wuhan, New York or Italy may develop herd immunity simply because of the large number of cases. Asked about the Swine Flu outbreak, he said: "As a pandemic, it may have claimed 18,000 lives. Here it would be 18,000 in a city." Asked whether the Indian climate is acting as a resistant and hence we are better off than China, the US, Italy and Spain, he said: "Nothing scientific can be said about it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-are-better-now-but-dont-know-if-well-slide-like-europe-us-ex-niv-chief-822350.html
07-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Delhi HC rejects ex-Fortis promoter Shivinder Singh's bail plea||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday rejected the bail plea of ex-Fortis promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh, arrested for alleged misappropriation of funds from Religare Finvest Ltd (RFL). Singh had cited COVID-19 infection risk as a reason for seeking the relief. Justice Mukta Gupta denied him the relief, saying Singh was allegedly involved in offences punishable with more than 7-year sentence and that too in more than one case and "hence does not qualify to be released" as per criteria laid down by a high powered committee. The court also noted that Singh was also allegedly involved in a money laundering case. The high powered committee, headed by Delhi HC judge Justice Hima Kohli, was constituted on orders of the Supreme Court for laying down criteria for release of convicted and under trial prisoners to prevent over-crowding of prisons and ensure social distancing in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-delhi-hc-rejects-ex-fortis-promoter-shivinder-singhs-bail-plea-822361.html
07-04-2020||National||Coronavirus war can't be won by clapping, lighting lamps: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday said the war against coronavirus cannot be won by clapping, clanging of plates or lighting of lamps. People "misconstrued" Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal, an editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said, adding that Modi should clearly spell out what it expected from citizens and those not obeying orders should be punished. Modi last week appealed to people to defeat the coronavirus by switching off lights in their homes for nine minutes at 9 pm on Sunday amid the nationwide lockdown. People across the country enthusiastically responded by lighting candles and diyas, and flashing lights of their mobile phones in balconies and in front of their houses. Modi earlier urged people to observe 'Janta Curfew' on March 22, and come out briefly at their main doors and in balconies to show gratitude to health and other essential service providers, who at the forefront of the battle against coronavirus, with claps, sounds of bells and conches. Taking a dim view of Modi's appeals, the Shiv Sena said, "Claps, thalis and lights...like this we will lose the war. There are many aspects to how people responded to these appeals. Citizens misconstrued the prime minister's appeal...either the PM cannot communicate with citizens or he himself wants such a festive atmosphere." It said Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has been urging people to maintain self-discipline, and communicating with them while ensuring there is no confusion. "In the fight against coronavirus, you need such a commander. We lost the Panipat battle because of rumours and lack of planning. The war against coronavirus should not end up like that and people of the state shouldn't meet the fate of Sadashivrao bhau (Marathaarmy commander in Panipat battle)," the Marathi daily said. It said the prime minister should clearly tell people what is expected from them. "Those who don't obey should be punished. It is not that only Markaz (referring to Tablighi Jamaat's congregation in Delhi last month) breaks rules. Are those blaming the Markaz for the coronavirus spread themselves maintaining discipline and social distancing?" it asked. The Sena cricitised incidents of people coming out on streets with candles, torches and mobile phones and dancing, and said due to bursting of crackers there was a fire incident in Solapur. In Wardha, BJP MLA Dadarao Keche celebrated his birthday (during the lockdown) and more than 200 people gathered for the party, it noted. The Sena also pointed out similar incidents in other parts of the country, including that of a BJP women's wing leader at Balrampur in Uttar Pradesh firing in the air to 'chase away' the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-war-cant-be-won-by-clapping-lighting-lamps-shiv-sena-822371.html
07-04-2020||National||COVID-19: SC says 'not an expert body' on health, management issues of migrant workers||A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and justices S K Kaul and Deepak Gupta, through video conferencing, was hearing the plea filed by two civil rights activists seeking enforcement of fundamental right to life for migrant workers and payment of wages to them as they have been left without work or food following the lockdown. The bench, which had earlier issued notice to the Centre on the PIL, took note of the response of the government that it was monitoring the situation and has set up helpline number for helping the poor workers. "We do not plan to supplant the wisdom of the government with our wisdom. We are not experts in health or management and will ask the government to create a helpline for complaints," the bench said while fixing the PIL for further hearing on April 13.  The bench also said it cannot take a "better policy decision" at this stage and moreover, it also does not want to interfere with the policy decisions for next ten-fifteen days. At the outset, lawyer Prashant Bhushan, appearing for activists Mander and Anjali Bhardwaj, said that more than 4 lakh migrant workers were living in shelter homes and this made mockery of distancing which is necessary to fight COVID-19 pandemic. "If they are kept in shelter homes and then even if one person has Coronavirus they all get it. They should be allowed to go back to their own homes. Families need money for survival because they are dependant on the wages," Bhushan said. He said that more than 40 per cent such workers did not try to migrate and are living in their own homes in the cities and they do not have money to buy food. The bench said that it has been told that such workers are being provided with meals in shelter homes and asked as to why they needed money for buying food. They are not all in shelter homes. They do not just need food in the shelter homes and they needed money to send to their families back home, the lawyer said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre said that the government was "on top of the situation" and it was looking into complaints recieved. The call centre has been set up. The Home Ministry and the Minister have been monitoring the helpline, the law officer said. The bench, during the hearing, said the courts cannot monitor the complaints that the foods in ome shelter homes are not edible The PIL has sought enforcement of fundamental right to life for migrant workers and payment of wages to them as they have been left without work or food following the 21-day nationwide lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic. The plea said that fundamental right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution needs to be enforced for migrant workers who are severely affected by the lockdown ordered by the government on March 24. “The order for which no prior intimation was given, created a panic across the country and led to the instantaneous loss of jobs and wages of millions of migrant workers employed in establishments across India or self-employed as street vendors, rickshaw pullers, domestic house helps, petty job workers, etc. This led to the large scale exodus of these migrant workers to their home towns,” the plea said. The petition, filed through Bhushan, said that the sudden announcement of lockdown led to migrant workers crowding in large numbers of many thousands at bus terminals, railway stations and inter-state borders to find their way home, potentially exposing them to the virus and escalating the risk of its spread. “Due to the lockdown the workers cannot travel to their place of work and many of these establishments are small businesses that have been forced to shut down and hence employers will not be able to pay these wages. Besides majority of these migrant workers are self-employed. "The order ignores the harsh realities that workers have to persistently face in cities that is further compounded when a lockdown order deprives them of their job, daily wages and hence means of survival, thus violating their Article 21 rights,” the plea said. The lockdown has precipitated an unprecedented humanitarian crisis especially among the class of migrant workers and it is the central and state governments that have to take adequate measures in accordance with National and State plans drawn out under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, under the guidance of the advisory committees they are mandated to constitute, to deal with this epidemic, it said. The petition sought direction to the central and state governments to jointly and severally ensure payments of wages/ minimum wages to all the migrant workers within a week, whether employed by other establishments, contractors or self-employed, as they are unable to work and earn wages, during the period of the lockdown. It also sought direction to them to immediately activate National and State Advisory Committees of experts in the field of disaster management and public health. Besides, it sought direction to them for preparing national and state disaster management plans for dealing with the COVID-19 epidemic, taking into account all relevant aspects, mitigation measure, their possible costs and consequences as required under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-sc-says-not-an-expert-body-on-health-management-issues-of-migrant-workers-822383.html
07-04-2020||National||SC extends tenure of TDSAT chairperson, questions Centre over delay in appointment of members||The Supreme Court Tuesday extended by three months the tenure of chairperson of Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) which is scheduled to end on April 20, and questioned the Centre on as to why the members of the tribunal have not been appointed since October 2019. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, hearing the matter via video conferencing, asked the Centre as to how the tribunal would function like this since only the chairperson is there and his tenure would come to an end on April 20. Observing that tribunals are alternatives to judicial system, the apex court asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta about how the TDSAT would function without sitting members. "Only the chairperson is there and his tenure ends on April 20. How can the tribunal function like this," the bench said. Mehta told the bench, also comprising Justices S K Kaul and Deepak Gupta, that he would take instructions from the government on the issue of appointments in TDSAT. The bench, while extending the tenure of TDSAT chairperson by three months, asked the Centre to expedite the appointment process for members of the tribunal. The court has posted the matter for further hearing in the first week of May. The top court was hearing a plea which has raised the issue of vacancies in TDSAT and sougt extension of tenure of the tribunal's chairperson. Former apex court judge Justice Shiva Kirti Singh is the incumbent chairperson of TDSAT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-extends-tenure-of-tdsat-chairperson-questions-centre-over-delay-in-appointment-of-members-822384.html
07-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Imphal Police arrests doctor for escaping from quarantine centre||The doctor, a consultant at the Peace Hospital and Research Institute (PHRI) at Imphal's Porompat area had treated a Tablighi Jamaat returnee, who later tested positive for COVID-19. The state government directed the doctor and the staff of PHRI to go for quarantine at the government quarantine centre here as per protocol, the official said.  On April 5, a team led by the State Nodal Officer (Quarantine) went for physical inspection of the people in the quarantine centre and found that the doctor was missing, a statement issued by Director of Health Services, K Rajo Singh said. As the doctor was missing at the quarantine centre, a complaint was filed at Porompat police station by the authorities against the doctor. The police arrested the doctor from his Kshetrigao residence on Monday evening, officials said, adding that the doctor has been sent back to the quarantine centre again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-imphal-police-arrests-doctor-for-escaping-from-quarantine-centre-822387.html
07-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Indian leaders hesitate to end world's biggest COVID-19 lockdown||India's 21-day lockdown is set to end next week but several state leaders have called for an extension or only a partial lifting of restrictions, saying is the only way to avoid a coronavirus epidemic that will be difficult to tackle. India has so far escaped a big surge in cases after Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked its 1.3 billion people to stay indoors in the world's biggest lockdown last month that authorities have enforced tightly. But shuttering down the $2.9 trillion economy has left millions of people without work and forced those who live on daily wages to flee to their homes in the countryside for food and shelter. The chief minister of the southern state of Telangana which has been hit by a rash of cases tied to a Muslim religious gathering in Delhi said the country could take the hit to the economy and that it was more important to save lives. "I am for the lockdown of the country further more after April 15. Because, we can recover from the economic problem. But, we cannot get back lives," K. Chandrasekhar Rao told reporters. India has 4,421 coronavirus cases and 115 deaths, comparatively less than some countries such as the United States where fatalities from the respiratory disease has topped 10,000. Modi, who has faced criticism for ordering the lockdown with barely four hours' notice is due to make a decision this week about whether to extend it. The leaders of the eastern states of Assam and Chhattigarh said they would like to keep the state borders closed or allow only restricted entry while they dealt with the infections. "As and when the lockdown is withdrawn, we have to regulate those wanting to come to Assam," said Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.   Bangladesh, Nepal expecting surge Across South Asia, home to one fifth of the world's population, there are growing concerns that it won't escape the surge seen in other parts of the world. Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina warned of a big outbreak this month. "We have got some reports, which said there will be a massive hike in cases in Bangladesh. So, we have to be very careful to overcome the crisis," Hasina told government officials. She said the garment industry will also have to remain shut as part of the lockdown till April 14 even though businesses had asked for an exemption for the country's top export earner. So far, the densely packed country of 160 million has had 123 cases including 12 deaths. Nepal Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli said risks to the landlocked country sandwiched between India and China were rising because people were not following quarantine properly. "The coming two weeks will be of additional challenge for us. This is the high risk period for the spread of the coronavirus," he said in an address to the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-indian-leaders-hesitate-to-end-worlds-biggest-covid-19-lockdown-822389.html
07-04-2020||National||From singing to putting their family lives on hold; different facades of Kolkata Police||From putting a hold on their family lives to singing--“we shall overcome” to cheer up the people many new facades of the Kolkata Police have come up during the ongoing lockdown. Swift to crackdown on any violation of the lockdown the Kolkata Police personnel has also shown a humane side. Alongside doctors and health workers they are also at the forefront of the battle to curb the COVID-19 outbreak. According to an official of a police station in north Kolkata, he has isolated himself from the rest of his family. Every day when he returns home from the duty of enforcing the lockdown his five-year-old daughter comes running to him. “But I lock myself in my room for the safety of my family and do not allow her to come near me. I am taking all precautions but one can never be too careful,” the official said. Every day his wife has a hard time consoling their little daughter. Another Kolkata Police official has been living in the police station even before the lockdown started. Since then he has neither entered his flat nor came face to face with his family. Every day he collects his meals from the entrance of his flat and returns to the police station after looking at his daughters from afar. Recently officials of the Gariahat Police Station came up with a pleasant surprise for the local residents. They changed the lyrics of a popular Bengali love song ‘Bela Bose’ by eminent singer Anjan Dutt with awareness-raising messages while keeping the tune unchanged.   From depicting the vein efforts of a dejected lover to convey to his beloved that he has now got a job the lyrics of the song were altered  to tell people that the “brief wait for 21 days” will be of great importance to fight the outbreak, “The response has been overwhelming. We changed the lyrics of the song to raise awareness about the novel coronavirus outbreak,” said Soumya Banerjee, Officer-in-Charge of Gariahat Police Station. A similar attempt was made by officials of the Bowbazar Police Station. They sang “we shall overcome” to lift the spirits of the locals who also sang along with them as a gesture of appreciation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-singing-to-putting-their-family-lives-on-hold-different-facades-of-kolkata-police-822391.html
07-04-2020||National||Next 7 days critical in evolving coronavirus lockdown exit plan, says Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday said the final week of the ongoing lockdown is "critical" for evolving an exit strategy as data regarding the spread of coronavirus will have a bearing on the decision to be taken by the government. He also appealed to the people to abide by whatever decision is ultimately taken by the government and cooperate with the same spirit that has so far been evident "even if it meant to continue with some degree of hardship still beyond April 14". The 21-day nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 and it came into force on March 25. "As today marks the completion of two weeks of nationwide lockdown in force since March 25, I thought it appropriate to reach out to the people and the leadership of the country with my views and concerns amidst current efforts to tide over the crisis caused by the outbreak of coronavirus," Naidu said in a statement. The vice president said between the considerations of the health of the people and stabilization of the economy being debated, "the former shall take precedence over the later." "In my view, while the concerns of economy can wait for another day, that of health can't," he said. Referring to the exit plan being planned by the government, Naidu said, "The next one week of lockdown is very critical for evolving an exit strategy since the data regarding the spread of virus and its rate during the next week will have a bearing on the decision to be taken." Amidst efforts against the virus showing signals of success in arresting its spread , came the Tablighi Jamaat congregation "which had altered the nature of the curve with most of the new infected cases emanating from this meet," he pointed out. "The extent of participation in this congregation and its multiplier effect has upset our expectations," he said. The "avoidable episode" highlighted the consequences of any slip by way of violating the rules of social and physical distancing to contain the spread of virus, he said. "In that sense, this avoidable aberration should only be seen as an eye-opener to all others," the vice president said. The duration of the fight against the virus may be uncertain at the moment but we shall triumph in the end, he said. "Wisdom lies in minimising the costs to the health and wealth of the people across the globe. India has shown the spirit to do so and this need to be sustained till the end," he said.  "Let's live with the hardship a little longer for a better tomorrow,” Naidu said. The death toll due to novel coronavirus rose to 114 and the number of cases in the country climbed to 4,421 on Tuesday, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/next-7-days-critical-in-evolving-coronavirus-lockdown-exit-plan-says-vice-president-m-venkaiah-naidu-822392.html
07-04-2020||National||Indian Railways sets target to make 1000 personal protection equipment per day in 17 workshops||Railways, which has got a nod from the DRDO for making personal protection equipment (PPEs), has now set a target of manufacturing around 1000 of them in its 17 workshops every day. The PPE overall will offer much needed protection to railway doctors and paramedics working on the front line of COVID-19 care at hospitals of Railways. "Facilities are being geared up in Railways to make up to 1000 such protective overall for railway doctors and paramedics every day. Around 17 workshops would be striving to contribute to this exercise," the national transporter said in a statement. Railways is also considering to supply 50 per cent of the innovated PPE garment to other medical professionals of the country. Material for all the overalls is being procured centrally at Jagadhari which is located near many big textile industries in Punjab. It has been decided to source raw material from a Yamunanagar-based vendor approved by the Textiles ministry. "In the days to come, the production facilities can be further ramped up. The development of this overall and innovation by Indian Railways is being welcomed by other Government agencies engaged in the war against COVID-19. "Technical specifications of these PPEs are now ready, and material suppliers are in place. Now the production can start in right earnest. This development is big boost to equip our doctors and paramedics on the front line of this battle against COVID-19," it said. The government estimates that the country’s medical fraternity and other workers will require some 1.5 crore coveralls by June. These suits are incinerated after each use and are the most critical component in the Personal Protective Equipment kit which is in significant shortage in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-sets-target-to-make-1000-personal-protection-equipment-per-day-in-17-workshops-822395.html
07-04-2020||National||Ashok Gehlot demands inquiry by SC judge into Delhi's Tablighi Jamaat event||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday demanded an inquiry by a sitting or retired Supreme Court judge to fix responsibility for the Delhi congregation of Tablighi Jamaat. He said questions should not be raised on the ground of religion because any person from any caste or community can commit a mistake and only those at fault should be punished. "An inquiry by a sitting or retired Supreme Court judge should be conducted in the Nizamuddin episode to make clear who all are responsible. Those who are at fault should be booked and punished. It will also make clear whether there was any mistake on part of the administration," Gehlot told PTI here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashok-gehlot-demands-inquiry-by-sc-judge-into-delhis-tablighi-jamaat-event-822405.html
07-04-2020||National||China hands over Arunachal youth, who 'accidentally' crossed the border, put into quarantine||Chinese forces on Tuesday handed over the youth from Arunachal Pradesh, more than two weeks after he "accidentally" crossed the border in Upper Subansiri district while reportedly plucking herbs.  The 21-year-old Togley Singkam, who was handed over to the Indian army guarding the India-China border in Arunachal Pradesh was immediately put into quarantine in view of the fear of Coronavirus infection.  "When the incident came to light, the Indian army immediately swung into action and approached the Chinese side utilizing the established border management mechanism. Owing to peace and tranquility that is existing in the region and the bonhomie that has developed between both the border guarding forces, Singkam was handed over to the Indian Army on Tuesday. This has provided immense relief to the family members of Singkam and also to the people of the area," said a statement issued by public relations officer (defence), based in Guwahati, Lt. Col. P. Khongsai. Singkam and two of his friends had reportedly crossed the McMahon Line in the Aspila sector on March 19. He was caught by the Chinese forces while his friends managed to flee. The incident came to light after Tagin Cultural Society, a cultural body representing the Tagin tribe moved Arunachal Pradesh Governor B.D. Mishra, who is a retired army officer.  The McMahon Line demarcates the boundary between the Tibet autonomous region of China and Arunachal Pradesh, which Beijing claims as its own. The McMahon Line is not properly demarcated and small cement pillars erected on the Indian side often get covered under jungles.  Khongsai said Singkam will be handed over to his family after 14-days of quarantine and COVID-19 tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-hands-over-arunachal-youth-who-accidentally-crossed-the-border-put-into-quarantine-822407.html
07-04-2020||National||Omar Abdullah demands Mehbooba Mufti be set free||National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah on Tuesday demanded that PDP president Mehbooba Mufti be set free, saying merely shifting her home while keeping her under detention was a cop out. Mehbooba, the former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, who has been detained under the Public Safety Act (PSA), was shifted from a make-shift jail to her 'Fairview' residence on Gupkar road here on Tuesday. In a tweet, Omar said,"@MehboobaMufti must be set free. Shifting her home while continuing to keep her detained is a cop out".  The Jammu and Kashmir People's Conference (JKPC) chief spokesperson Junaid Azim Mattu said the continued detention of Mehbooba, JKPC chairman Sajad Lone -- who is under house arrest -- and other mainstream politicians was "authoritarian". "The continued detention of @JKPC_ Chairman @sajadlone and @jkpdp President @MehboobaMufti and a number of senior mainstream leaders is authoritarian. They've been under detention for more than 8 months now- not allowed access to the media, to their colleagues and their relatives," he said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/omar-abdullah-demands-mehbooba-mufti-be-set-free-822414.html
07-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Govt mulling requests from states, experts to extend lockdown, say sources||A lot of state governments as well as experts are requesting the Central government to extend the nationwide coronavirus lockdown, and the Centre is thinking in this direction, government sources said on Tuesday. However, sources did not indicate if a final decision has been taken on the matter. India is currently under the 21-day lockdown since March 25, with only essential services exempted, to contain the fast-spreading virus, which has claimed more than 75,800 lives and afflicted over 13.5 lakh people across 183 countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-govt-mulling-requests-from-states-experts-to-extend-lockdown-say-sources-822422.html
07-04-2020||National||70% of India’s economy hit by lockdown, 10 crore jobless, says Subhash Chandra Garg||"The 21-day lockdown would hit 70 per cent of India’s economy but has already rendered at least 10 crore workers of the mining, construction, manufacturing and services sectors jobless, who need financial support of at least Rs 2,000 per month for the next three months," a former topmost secretary of the finance ministry, who took voluntary retirement last year, said on Monday. Former Economic Affairs Secretary Subhash Chandra Garg, who has headed the most important revenue department for a long period in the Modi government, said the state government revenues have taken a major hit during the crisis and that their revenue shortfall during the course of a year might go up to Rs 2,00,000 crore. He suggested that the Centre should immediately release the share of central taxes to them in instalments to keep their finances running. “The state governments’ revenues have suffered massively. The Government of India should release the held-up amount of approximately Rs 30,000 crore of GST compensation. It should also release the instalment of Rs 56,000 crores of the states’ share in central taxes on due date April 15.  “The states should be provided additional borrowing limits to cover up the shortfall in their tax revenues for the year 2020-21,” Garg said in his blogpost. The Centre may need to borrow 2-2.5% of GDP or about Rs. 4-5 lakh crore additionally for these expenditures. It seems necessary and advisable that the Centre borrows this directly from the RBI instead of borrowing from the market. FRBM Act should be amended to enable this. “All of the support that businesses, workers and other entities require at the time of crisis might be of the order of Rs 4-5 lakh crore or about 2-2.5% of GDP. It is worth doing it this way,” Garg said. There are lakhs of self-employed and small businesses which do not receive credit from the banks. These are supported by non-banks, micro-finance institutions and informal sector. Most of these businesses borrow against collateral or at very high rates of interest. Their capacity to provide additional collateral or bear very high rate of interest is severely impaired by the economic lockdown. “There are three kinds of borrowers who need credit support. First, the normal customers of banks and non-banks who have credit lines or loans or investment in their bonds. Second, the financiers. The non-banks depend on the banks and mutual funds for raising resources to provide loans. And, the third, the self-employed businesses and small businesses. With their capacity to borrow from traditional sources- non-banks, micro-finance institutions and informal sector- hugely compromised,” he said, adding if banks do not provide them the lifeline of credit, a good number of them will go belly-up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/70-of-india-s-economy-hit-by-lockdown-10-crore-jobless-says-subhash-chandra-garg-822427.html
07-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: SC seeks Centre's response on plea for evacuating Indian students stranded in UK||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought response from the Centre on a plea for immediate evacuation of all Indian students who are stranded in the United Kingdom (UK) amid the lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic. The plea has said that governments of the UK and Germany have approached the Centre to facilitate return of their nationals stranded in India due to lockdown here and, as per media reports, flights would be operated in the near future from Mumbai and New Delhi for this purpose. The petition, filed by Delhi-based advocate Madhurima Mridul, said that the government should be directed to ensure that flights ferrying British nationals from India to the UK be used to evacuate Indian students who are stranded there and are willing to come back. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justice L Nageswara Rao asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to take instructions on the issue and posted the matter for hearing on April 13. Advocate Sunil Fernandes appeared for the petitioner during the hearing which was conducted through video-conferencing. The plea has also sought a direction to the government to ensure that till requisite arrangements are made for evacuation, the students stranded in the UK are provided accommodation, adequate health and medical support, if needed, by the Indian High Commission in London. It said that many of these students are exposed to greater risk of contracting COVID-19 as they are living in packed hostels with shared kitchen and bathroom facilities during the lockdown imposed in the UK, which has so far recorded over 2,300 deaths due to coronavirus. The plea, filed by advocate Astha Sharma, said that the government should ensure that these students are quarantined and provided with all medical and health facilities as prescribed by the World Health Organization. It said that due to travel ban amid coronavirus pandemic, many Indian students, who had earlier booked tickets and reached various airports in the UK, were stranded and unable to take their journey to India. "Surprisingly, India is probably the only country that has imposed an embargo on the return of its own citizens, and where other countries are making all possible efforts to repatriate their citizens stranded in various countries, India with its travel bans has made it impossible for its own citizens to come back home," it said. The plea claimed that countries having more COVID-19 cases like China, Spain, Italy, Iran and the US have not imposed any embargo on the return of their nationals from foreign countries. It said that Indian government could quarantine those who return from abroad and impose reasonable restrictions on their movement but to "pass a blanket order of preventing an Indian citizen from returning back to his homeland is violative of the Constitutional rights" guaranteed under Articles 14 (equality before law) and 21 (protection of life and personal liberty).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-sc-seeks-centres-response-on-plea-for-evacuating-indian-students-stranded-in-uk-822429.html
07-04-2020||National||Lifesaving drugs should be made available to Indians first: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Tuesday that India must help all countries in their fight against coronavirus but lifesaving medicines should be made available to Indians first. "Friendship isn't about retaliation. India must help all nations in their hour of need but lifesaving medicines should be made available to Indians in ample quantities first," he said on Twitter. Friendship isn’t about retaliation. India must help all nations in their hour of need but lifesaving medicines should be made available to Indians in ample quantities first. Gandhi's reaction came after the Ministry of External Affairs said that India would to export anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine to several countries including those in the neighbourhood on a case-by-case basis in sync with its commitment to the international community to fight the coronavirus pandemic. Hydroxychloroquine is an old and inexpensive drug used to treat malaria. Last month, India banned export of hydroxychloroquine in the midst of views that the drug could be used as potential anti-viral agent to protect healthcare workers treating COVID-19 patients from the infection. India has received requests from several other countries including its immediate neighbours Sri Lanka and Nepal for supply of hydroxychloroquine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lifesaving-drugs-should-be-made-available-to-indians-first-rahul-gandhi-822430.html
07-04-2020||National||Kalyan, Dombivali borders sealed to contain spread of COVID-19||Civic authorities have ordered sealing of borders of the Kalyan and Dombivali cities here in Maharashtra with immediate effect to check the spread of coronavirus. In an order issued on Monday, Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Commissioner Dr Vijay Suryavanshi said it was absolutely essential to seal the borders of the two cities. Police personnel have been deployed to ensure strict implementation of the directive. The order will not be applicable to the essential and emergency services, the commissioner said. Till Monday, the Thane region, which includes Kalyan and Dombivali cities, reported 85 coronavirus cases and nine deaths. A total of 175 surveillance teams are pressed into service in the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation area to identify clusters for containment. The number of such teams in Thane and Navi Mumbai is 214 and 178, respectively, an official earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kalyan-dombivali-borders-sealed-to-contain-spread-of-covid-19-822436.html
07-04-2020||National||Maharashtra: Man tests coronavirus positive after return from Indonesia||A Chandrapur resident who recently returned from Indonesia and is quarantined at neighbouring Nagpur in Maharashtra has tested positive for coronavirus, an official said. The man is a member of the Islamic organisation Tablighi Jamaat and since he has not come back to Chandrapur after returning from Indonesia, the district administration is trying to gather more information about him, the official said on Monday. Four couples from the district went to Indonesia in February and flew back to Delhi in the third week of last month. They later took a domestic flight and reached Nagpur where they were kept under quarantine at an MLA hostel, the official said. None of them has since returned to Chandrapur, which is located about 150 km from Nagpur. One of these persons, who is a member of the Tablighi Jamaat, tested positive for coronavirus in Nagpur on Monday, the official said. When contacted, Chandrapur Collector Dr Kunal Khemnar said, "We have sought details of the person as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of coronavirus in the district. After getting all details of his travel history, we will decide the course of action." A religious congregation organised by Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month has emerged as one of the COVID-19 hotspots in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-man-tests-coronavirus-positive-after-return-from-indonesia-822443.html
07-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Smriti Irani holds online workshop for district child protection units||Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani on Tuesday conducted an online workshop for district child protection units wherein discussions were held on coronavirus-related issues and ways to reduce stress during the ongoing lockdown. Mental health experts and Irani interacted with the participants and answered their questions, the Women and Child Development (WCD) Ministry said in a series of tweets in Hindi. "Under the leadership of Hon'ble Minister Smriti Irani, an online orientation workshop was organised for district-based child protection units during which discussions were held on issues related to coronavirus and how stress can be reduced during lockdown and the role of childline," it said. Experts, including child psychiatrist at NIMHANS Shekhar Sesadri, answered questions from ministry and state officials, district child protection units, child welfare committees, juvenile justice board members and supervisors of child care institutions, it added. Irani assured the participants of all possible help and cooperation from the government. "More than 850 people related to child protection services took part in the workshop and many watched it on YouTube," the ministry said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown on March 24 to contain the spread of coronavirus. The lockdown, the world's biggest, came into effect on March 25 midnight. India has reported 4,421 coronavirus cases so far, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-smriti-irani-holds-online-workshop-for-district-child-protection-units-822446.html
07-04-2020||National||36 booked in Madhya Pradesh for failing to inform authorities about participation in Nizamuddin congregation||Cases have been lodged against 36 persons in Chitrakoot range for negligence after they failed to inform authorities about their participation in a congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin, police said. The 36 people have been quarantined. DIG, Chitrakoot range, Deepak Kumar said, "FIR has been lodged against 36 persons in Chitrakoot range and they were put in quarantine. All of them attended a religious congregation in Nizammudin, Delhi and had not informed administration due to which they have been booked for negligence". Of the 36, maximum 32 are from Banda, 2 in Hamirpur and one each in Mahoba and Chitrakoot, he said. So far, more than 400 COVID-19 cases and about 15 deaths in the country have been found to be linked to the religious congregation held at the Nizamuddin headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat last month. At least 9,000 people participated in the religious congregation in Nizamuddin last month, after which many of the attendees travelled to various parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/36-booked-in-madhya-pradesh-for-failing-to-inform-authorities-about-participation-in-nizamuddin-congregation-822447.html
07-04-2020||National||Chhattisgarh cops don coronavirus-themed attire, urge people to stay home||Two policemen in Chhattisgarh's Raigarh district have been moving around streets wearing coronavirus-themed outfits to make people aware about the lethality of the disease and urging them to strictly follow the prescribed guidelines to stay protected. To make people aware about the severity of the viral infection, they laugh like devils and call themselves "corona demon". They have been going around the town wearing red body suits with coronavirus-like spikes on it, and warning those violating the lockdown protocol. The policemen have been repeatedly telling people that if they unnecessarily step out of their houses, they may carry the virus back home along with them. Since the outbreak of coronavirus, police personnel in parts of the country have been coming up with novel ideas to spread information about the deadly viral infection and urging people to follow the lockdown and social distancing properly. "We introduced the idea because innovations bring a significant change in law enforcement. Everyday, we try to incorporate new ideas to create awareness about coronavirus and encourage people to follow the lockdown for the safety of all," Raigarh Superintendent of Police Santosh Singh told PTI. He said the two policemen, who have come up with the innovative coronavirus-themed outfit, have been urging people to maintain social distancing and avoid gatherings. "The police personnel have also been advised to take care of their personal hygiene and social distancing when they return home from field duty," he said. So far, there is no coronavirus case in Raigarh, but 4,986 people are kept under home quarantine as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of the infection. Most of these people have either travelled to foreign countries or other coronavirus affected states in India in the last one month. Of the 10 COVID-19 patients reported so far in Chhattisgarh, nine have been discharged from hospitals after recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-cops-don-coronavirus-themed-attire-urge-people-to-stay-home-822457.html
07-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Plea in SC for uninterrupted food supply in zoos amid lockdown||The Supreme Court Tuesday said it would hear on April 13 a PIL seeking uninterrupted food supply and medical treatment for wildlife in zoos across the country amid coronavirus pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justice L Nageswara Rao asked the petitioner in-person Sangeeta Dogra, to amend her petition including prayer for medical check-up and treatment of animals in zoo. Dogra said Delhi Zoo, under Essential Services Act, has ensured its food supply for the animals during the nationwide lockdown but information is not available for other zoos across the country. She said that Zoos are dependent for foods from outside as there are no slaughterhouses inside the premises and during the ongoing lockdown, the supply is affected as most of the slaughterhouses are closed. She referred to recent incident of New York, where a four-year-old Malayan tiger named Nadia in Bronx Zoo had contracted the Covid-19 virus from a caretaker, who was asymptomatic at the time The petitioner said Hyderabad Zoo had also sent samples of animals for testing of Covid-19 on March 5 and therefore in-house doctors are needed for treatment of the animals. To this, the bench said that as per its information animals don't die of Corona virus. The petitioner contended however that they can get the virus from humans and can transmit it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-plea-in-sc-for-uninterrupted-food-supply-in-zoos-amid-lockdown-822458.html
07-04-2020||National||8 deaths, 354 new patients in 24 hours; tally at 4,421: Health Ministry||Eight COVID-19 patients died and 354 news cases were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of infected people in the country to 4,421, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The death toll due to the novel coronavirus now stands at 117, it said. During a press briefing, Joint Secretary in the ministry Lav Agarwal said, "Total 4,421 people have been infected with the virus." Of them, 326 people have recovered. However, a PTI tally based on figures reported by states directly on Monday night showed at least 138 deaths across the country, while the confirmed cases reached 4,683. Of them, 359 have been cured and discharged. Agarwal said cluster containment strategies and action plans for outbreaks, which are amenable to management, are giving required results in some areas like Agra, Gautam Budh Nagar, Bhilwara, East Delhi and Mumbai. These strategies are also being adopted in other coronavirus-affected districts, he said. According to a study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), one COVID-19 patient can infect 406 people in 30 days if he/she does not follow lockdown or social distancing, Agarwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-deaths-354-new-patients-in-24-hours-tally-at-4421-health-ministry-822464.html
07-04-2020||National||Letter petition to CJI seeks complete ban on activities of Tablighi Jamaat||A letter petition has been sent to Chief Justice of India S A Bobde seeking directions to the Centre and the Delhi government to impose "complete ban" on the activities of Tablighi Jamaat with immediate effect. At least 9,000 people had participated in the religious gathering at Tablighi Jamaat's headquarters in Delhi's Nizamuddin West last month. Out of over 4,000 cases of coronavirus in the country, at least 1,445 have been found to be linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi, the Union health ministry had said on Monday. The letter petition has sought a direction to the Centre and Delhi government to transfer the investigation to the CBI to probe into the alleged conspiracy of spreading coronavirus throughout India in the garb of the congregation. The letter petition by Delhi-based Ajay Gautam has sought a direction to the Delhi government to demolish the building of the organization at Nizamuddin here under the provision of the MCD Act. Gautam had urged the CJI to treat his letter petition as a writ petition. It has also sought a direction to the authorities to take strict action against the officers of police and civil administration, who had failed in strict compliance of the orders by Delhi government which restricted gatherings to maximum of 50 persons, and later to 20. It said several persons from foreign countries, which were affected by coronavirus, had participated in the congregation held from March 12 to March 15 here. On April 6, the Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind had moved the apex court alleging that a section of media is spreading communal hatred over last month's Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi. The Muslim body has sought directions to the Centre to stop dissemination of "fake news" and take strict action against those responsible for it. The plea by Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind and the secretary of its legal cell, through lawyer Ejaz Maqbool, has contended that the unfortunate incident of the Tablighi Jamaat was being used to "demonise" and blame the entire Muslim community. The plea by Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind has said that this "demonisation" of the community has led to serious "threat to life and liberty of Muslims", and has thus led to the violation of their "right to life under Article 21" of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/letter-petition-to-cji-seeks-complete-ban-on-activities-of-tablighi-jamaat-822469.html
07-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: East Coast Railway serves food to more than 23,000 people||The East Coast Railway (ECoR) has provided food to more than 23,000 poor and needy people under its jurisdiction during last 10-days in the wake of nationwide lockdown, an official said. As per the directions of the Ministry of Railways, ECoR has taken steps to provide bulk food with paper plates at different important stations undere its jurisdiction through Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) base kitchen at Khurda Road and Food Court at Visakhapatnam in the wake of COVID-19 crisis, the official said. All the agencies of ECoR including Railway Protection Force (RPF) have also been involved in a big way in the food distribution to the needy people in station areas under ECoR jurisdiction. These apart, different NGOs, ECoRWWO (ECoR Women's Welfare Organisation), Railway employees have also come forward to distribute food, he said. From lemon rice in the south to khichdi-chokha in the east and kadi chawal in the north, IRCTC is serving a variety of meals keeping in mind the local taste buds of the people since the lockdown was announced. Till April 6, IRCTC has distributed 16,400 meals which are being prepared from Khurda Road base kitchen and Visakhapatnam food court. Altogether, IRCTC has prepared and served 16,400 meals from March 30, the ECoR Spokesperson said. Different NGOs like Marwari Yuva Mach, Kumud Pahad Surakhya Samittee, ECoRWWO/Sambalpur Unit have also been involved along with RPF in distribution of 729 meals at Sambalpur, Titilagarh, Balangir stations. While RPF distributed 4,318 meals, NGOs provided 2,287 meals at various stations, he said. Food packets/meals are also being distributed to the needy people at Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Puri, Brahmapur, Paradeep, Khurda Road, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram stations by involving IRCTC and NGOs, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-east-coast-railway-serves-food-to-more-than-23000-people-822471.html
07-04-2020||National||Lockdown not to impact farmers due to govt measures: NITI Aayog member||The government has taken several measures to safeguard farmers from any adverse impact of the ongoing lockdown, and the farm sector is expected to report a growth of little more than 3 per cent in the just-ended financial year 2019-20, Niti Aayog member Ramesh Chand said on Tuesday. In an interview with PTI, Chand said the government has taken measures so that markets work normally during the lockdown period. "The government has responded to the situation. No restriction is put on farmers in going to field and undertaking agriculture operations. So, all those states which are following these guidelines, I do not think there will be any adverse impact on the farmers," he said. The country is under a 21-day lockdown as part of efforts to curb spreading of coronavirus infections. On the first day of the countrywide lockdown, Chand said some reports came that farmers had to throw their perishable produce on the road. "After states issuing order and the district administration allowing movement of machinery transport, etc, I see that after first day, we will not have any adverse impact on agriculture or farmers," the Niti Aayog member said. Replying to a question, Chand said that in the financial year 2019-20, the farm sector growth is likely to be reported at little more than 3 per cent. "I do not think there will be any impact (of lockdown) on this (farm sector) growth. We are expecting that growth rate of agriculture sector will be little more than 3 per cent. I can say if no shock happens, the long-term growth rate of Indian agriculture will be 3 per cent," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-not-to-impact-farmers-due-to-govt-measures-niti-aayog-member-822491.html
07-04-2020||National||Over 22,000 govt relief camps functional in country to help needy citizens, Centre informs SC||Over 22,000 government-run relief camps are functional in 578 districts of the country to provide shelter and food to needy citizens during 21-day nationwide lockdown to curb spread of COVID-19, the Centre informed the Supreme Court on Tuesday. The Centre stated this in its status report in response to the PIL filed by activists Harsh Mander and Anjali Bhardwaj, seeking enforcement of fundamental right to life for migrant workers and payment of wages to them as they have been left without work or food following the lockdown. The report, filed by additional secretary Gyanesh Kumar of Ministry of Home Affairs, gave facts and figures on relief camps, shelter homes and food camps run by several state governments and NGOs and said several lakhs of needy people are getting food and shelter in such centres. Seeking dismissal of the PIL, the Centre said that all stakeholders are working in coordination and taking "pro-active and pre-emptive steps" to deal with the situations. "The Central Government has taken pro-active and pre-emptive steps to first deal with the emergent priority existing then viz. containing the spread of Coronavirus in the country. "As compared to the position in several parts of the world, the proactive, continuously monitored and pre-emptive steps taken by the Central Government and all the State Government have been successful and the spread of virus is at its minimum," the report said. It said that in 578 districts of the country, 22,567 relief camps are run by governments and 3,909 by several NGOs and in them, over one crore needy citizens have taken shelter and are getting food also. The report also said that over 17,000 food camps are operational in the country and people get food there. It also said over 15 lakh people have been given shelter and food by their respective employers during this lockdown. "I state that while it is the responsibility of the Central Government and all State Governments to ensure protection of every section of this society, which the Central Government and all State Governments are discharging scrupulously, the present petition may not be entertained ...," the MHA officer said. It said the PIL was "bereft of any facts and is based on some newspaper reports". The Centre and all state governments are doing their best strategizing all human resources and other resources to come out of this unprecedented global crisis, it said adding that during this "unprecedented crisis", such a plea should not be entertained. The apex court, while deferring the hearing on the PIL to April 13, observed that it was not an "expert" body to deal with health and management issues of migrant workers during the 21-day nationwide lockdown. The bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde took note of the response of the government that it was monitoring the situation and has set up helpline number for helping the poor workers. Earlier, the Centre had told the Supreme Court that it has taken steps to deal with the coronavirus pandemic due to which its spread was so far contained but fake news, causing serious panic, is the "single most unmanageable hindrance" in the management of this challenge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-22000-govt-relief-camps-functional-in-country-to-help-needy-citizens-centre-informs-sc-822497.html
07-04-2020||National||A COVID-19 patient can infect 406 people in 30 days if preventive measures not in place: ICMR study||An ICMR study has found that a COVID-19 patient can infect 406 people in 30 days if preventive measures such as lockdown and social distancing are not implemented, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. With preventive measures in place, the possibility of the infection can be reduced to an average of just two-and-a-half persons per patient in the same period, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Health Lav Agarwal said. Citing the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) study, Agarwal said that the current 'R0' or R naught for the coronavirus infection is somewhere between 1.5 and 4. 'R0' is a mathematical term that indicates how contagious an infectious disease is. It tells the average number of people who will catch a disease from one infected person. "If we take the 'R0' to be 2.5 then one positive person can infect 406 people in 30 days, if the lockdown and social distancing measures are not in place, but if social exposure is reduced by 75 per cent then that one sick person will only be able to infect only 2.5 persons," Agarwal said, highlighting the importance of the ongoing 21-day lockdown and social distancing. He appealed to the people to adopt social distancing and follow the lockdown order, saying this is a very important intervention in terms of management of COVID-19. The death toll due to novel coronavirus rose to 114 and the number of cases in the country climbed to 4,421 on Tuesday, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-covid-19-patient-can-infect-406-people-in-30-days-if-preventive-measures-not-in-place-icmr-study-822499.html
07-04-2020||National||COVID-19: SC notice to Centre to evacuating Indian students stranded in UK||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued a notice to the Centre on a plea for the evacuation of hundreds of students stranded in the United Kingdom, due to the lockdown and travel disruption in both the countries on the emergence of COVID-19 pandemic. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde sought a response from the Union government on a PIL filed by advocate Madhurima Mridul, who is the mother of one such student. The court asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to take instructions and put the matter for consideration on April 13. The petitioner, led by advocates Sunil Fernandes and Astha Sharma, suggested that various flights, ferrying the British nationals from India to the UK may be used to evacuate Indian students stuck over there. She also asked the court to ensure that till the requisite arrangements were made for the evacuation of such students, they would be provided with accommodation, adequate health, and medical support by Indian High Commissioner in London. "Most universities in the United Kingdom, where these students are studying have been shut down. There is no provision for food in the Cafeteria, which means the students are left to fend for themselves during the present crisis," it claimed. The plea contended that the Indian government can quarantine the students on return or put other restrictions in terms of medical protocol but to pass a blanket order preventing them from returning back to homeland was violative of the fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. The petitioner contended India was probably the only country that had imposed an embargo on the return of its own citizens. Countries with a far greater incidence of mortality like China, Spain, Italy, Iran, South Korea and the United States of America too have not imposed any embargo on the return of their nationals from foreign shores.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-sc-notice-to-centre-to-evacuating-indian-students-stranded-in-uk-822503.html
07-04-2020||National||Prevent hoarding and black marketing of goods amid lockdown: Amit Shah directs authorities||Union Home Minister Amit Shah has directed the authorities to take appropriate steps in coordination with state governments to prevent hoarding and black marketing of commodities during the 21-day lockdown in the country to contain the spread of coronavirus, the ministry said on Tuesday. The directives were issued after a detailed review of essential commodities and implementation of the lockdown by Shah, Joint Secretary in the ministry Punya Salila Srivastava said. Addressing a press conference, she said the minister has issued directions to the authorities to take quick and stern action against people indulging in hoarding and black marketing of goods. The official said the government is closely monitoring the movement of pharmaceuticals along with other essential items.  "The status of essential goods and services is by and large satisfactory," Srivastava said.  She said the aircraft flying under the Lifeline Udan of Civil Aviation Ministry has transported 200 tonnes cargo and Railways has loaded 8,897 rakes and 4.57 lakh wagons loaded with essential items till Monday. "State governments are taking proactive steps to control the COVID-19 pandemic. On one hand they are stopping public movement and on the other hand they are also increasing screening of contacts," she said. Giving details of the measures taken by the government to successfully implement the lockdown, she said next week a lot of festivals are coming up and many community leaders have appealed to people to help the government in strictly implementing the lockdown during the festive season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prevent-hoarding-and-black-marketing-of-goods-amid-lockdown-amit-shah-directs-authorities-822505.html
07-04-2020||National||Assocham urges govt to allow trade and industry to resume work||In a comprehensive plan for the gradual lifting of the lockdown, industry body Assocham has suggested that the key sectors of trade and industry, including retail, essential manufacturing, large construction and infrastructure projects should be allowed to resume operations, with strict adherence to social distancing norms. This would help mitigate the business and job loss that Indian industries are facing amid the COVID-19 outbreak.  “Based on wide consultations with various stakeholders, including large and small businesses across different sectors, we found that there is wide support for the measures being taken by the Centre and states for containing the global pandemic. Those engaged in the manufacture, transport, and last-mile delivery have been making great efforts to meet the daily essential needs of the citizens. “However, with the shut-down of a large part of the economy and businesses coming to a standstill, the losses are rising and the jobs are increasingly at risk. As the containment efforts are on war-footing, India has been able to contain the spread so far and we must prepare to reboot the economy," said Assocham Secretary General Deepak Sood, releasing a report on 'Business Continuity Measures'. The report suggests that migrant labour available within states should be encouraged to pick up work based on their skill-set, to meet the sudden peak in demand when businesses re-open post the lockdown.  “As industry reopens, hotspots of infection should continue to be in lockdown till the infection is mitigated. Rapid testing can help identify the number of cases and the associated risk factor of opening the localities. We risk losing the gains we have achieved in the past few weeks.” said Sood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assocham-urges-govt-to-allow-trade-and-industry-to-resume-work-822516.html
07-04-2020||National||COVID-19: PM Modi, Swedish counterpart Lofven discuss possibility of collaboration between scientists||The two leaders also discussed over telephone the novel coronavirus pandemic and the steps being taken in their respective countries for controlling its health and economic impacts. "Both leaders agreed on the potential for collaboration and data sharing between Indian and Swedish researchers and scientists, which would also contribute to the global efforts against COVID-19," an official statement said here. The two leaders promised to provide necessary facilitation and assistance for each other's citizens, who may be stranded due to ongoing travel restrictions. They also agreed that their officials would remain in touch to optimise availability of medical supplies for fighting COVID-19, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pm-modi-swedish-counterpart-lofven-discuss-possibility-of-collaboration-between-scientists-822519.html
07-04-2020||National||India covertly helps Bangladesh arrest fugitive killer of 'Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujib||A joint covert operation by the intelligence agencies of India and Bangladesh led to the arrest of one of the fugitives wanted for the 1975 assassination of “Bangabandhu” Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in the capital of the neighbouring country early on Tuesday. Abdul Mazed, a former captain of Bangladesh Army, was arrested from Mirpur in Dhaka by the police of the neighbouring country. He is among the six fugitives, who were convicted for the assassination of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the “Father of the Nation” of Bangladesh, and most of his family in Dhaka on August 15, 1975, but remained at large. Five other convicts had been sentenced to death by the Supreme Court of Bangladesh and had been executed on January 28, 2010 – almost 35 years after they had assassinated the country’s first President. Mazed was believed to be hiding in India to escape justice in Bangladesh. Neither Bangladesh nor India so far officially acknowledged that the collaboration between the intelligence agencies of the two neighbouring nations had led to his arrest. Sources in New Delhi, however, told the DH that the intelligence agencies of India and Bangladesh had worked together in ensuring his return to and subsequently his arrest in the capital of his country. Such covert cooperation between the security agencies of India and Bangladesh is not new. Soon after Bangabandhu’s daughter Sheikh Hasina had returned to the office of the Prime Minister in Dhaka in January 2009, similar joint operations by the agencies of the two neighbouring countries had resulted in the arrest of several leaders of insurgent outfits in the north-eastern states of India from their hide-outs in Bangladesh. The coordination between the agencies of the two nations had made the elusive insurgent leaders turn up near Bangladesh-India border and they all had been arrested by the security personnel of India. The governments in New Delhi and Dhaka never confirmed or deny the trans-border cooperation between their security agencies. Hasina’s government in Dhaka has since long been asking New Delhi to find Mazed and hand him over to the agencies in Bangladesh. The issue was on the agenda of her meetings with her successive counterparts in New Delhi – Manmohan Singh and Narendra Modi. Singh had assured Bangladesh Prime Minister of all possible assistance to find out not only Mazed, but also the other four other fugitives, who had participated in the assassination of her father and the neighbouring country’s first President. So did Modi.   The news portals of Bangladesh quoted the country’s Home Minister Asaduzzaman Khan saying in Dhaka that the much-wanted fugitive might have had returned to his country due to the Covid-19 pandemic and had been subsequently arrested by police from the national capital. “Mazed said he arrived in the country on March 15 or 16 from Kolkata. He claimed that he was hiding there for about 23 years,” the Daily Star newspaper of Bangladesh quoted Assistant Public Prosecutor, Hemayet Uddin Khan, saying in Dhaka. Khan had talked to Mazed before the former Bangladesh Army officer had been produced in a court which sent him to jail. The Awami League Government in Dhaka has projected the arrest of one of the absconding killers of Sheikh Mujib as the “best gift” for the people of Bangladesh. It came at a time when the nation is celebrating the birth centenary of the iconic leader of the 1971 liberation war of Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-covertly-helps-bangladesh-arrest-fugitive-killer-of-bangabandhu-sheikh-mujib-822524.html
07-04-2020||National||CRPF man killed in Kashmir militant attack||One paramilitary personnel was killed when militants attacked the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) party in Bijbehara town of south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Tuesday evening. Sources said that militants first lobbed a grenade towards a CRPF party, which didn’t explode. However, they said, minutes later, the militants fired upon the CRPF men injuring one paramilitary personnel. The injured jawan was rushed to a nearby hospital, however, he died on the way, reports said. The slain was identified as Shivlal Netam. A police official while confirming the incident said soon after the attack, police and security forces rushed to the spot. He said a search operation was launched to nab the attackers. Amid coronavirus pandemic, the militancy incidents in Kashmir Valley have seen a rise with six security personnel, nine militants and three civilians have been killed since last one week. The latest incident comes just two days after five army personnel, including a junior commissioned officer from Special Forces squad, were killed in a “hand to hand and close quarter battle” with infiltrating militants in snowbound woods of Keran sector along the Line of Control in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district. Five militants were also killed in the gun battle that raged in the woods of Kupwara on Wednesday and culminated on Sunday morning. Prior to that four militants affiliated with Hizb-ul-Mujahideen outfit were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on April 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-man-killed-in-kashmir-militant-attack-822528.html
07-04-2020||National||India's small businesses struggle to pay wages amid coronavirus lockdown||Hundreds of thousands of cash-starved Indian small businesses have either deferred or cut their workers' wages this month, say industrialists and union leaders, amid a 21-day nationwide lockdown to stem the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. All India Manufacturers Organisation (AIMO)- an industry body representing some 100,000 small manufacturers - said more than two-thirds of its members faced problems in paying salaries on Tuesday, the usual day for paying monthly wages. "We have no funds to pay wages," said K.E. Raghunathan, former national president of AIMO, who runs a solar parts' manufacturing unit in the Southern Indian city of Chennai. "Our first priority is to pay electricity bills, rent, bank loans and social security contributions of employees," he said, adding that they faced delays in payments from clients, including the government. Federal and state governments and state-owned companies owe more than $66 billion to small businesses, the government told parliament last month. India's nationwide lockdown, set to end April 14, has left millions of migrant workers stranded without any other source of income. And officials have warned that some states may extend the lockdowns as coronavirus cases rise. India has so far recorded more than 4,200 coronavirus cases a death toll of 114 people. UNEMPLOYMENT RISING Beyond delayed payments, Indian exports have also been hit by the pandemic, and companies have faced over 50% cancellations in orders, said Ajay Sahai, director general of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO), nearly half of whose members are small businesses. Among the worst hit are lifestyle products such as carpets, handicrafts and apparel, he said. Small businesses account for nearly one-quarter of India's $2.9 trillion economy and employ more than 500 million workers, according to government estimates. Amarjeet Kaur, national general secretary of All India Trade Union Congress, estimates that more than 5 million workers have suffered a partial or full loss of wages. India's unemployment rate rose to 10.4% this week from 7.2% in early February, according to estimates by Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, a Mumbai-based private think-tank. Even workers who were able to access some government relief this week faced delays at banks. On Tuesday, outside a Punjab National Bank branch in Agra, more than 100 people, mainly women, were queuing for a 500 rupee ($6.60) subsidy granted by the government during the lockdown. "I need this to feed my children," said Gyan Devi, a labourer. "Something is better than nothing."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-small-businesses-struggle-to-pay-wages-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-822531.html
07-04-2020||National||J&K reports third COVID-19 death; Positive cases tally jumps to 125||One COVID-19 patient died in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday taking the total toll to three. The Union Territory (UT) continued to witness a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases with 15 more patients testing positive on Tuesday taking the tally to 125. One patient admitted with the serious acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) at SMHS hospital in Srinagar died on Tuesday and doctors said he had tested positive for COVID-19. With this, the total number of coronavirus deaths has risen to three in J&K. Earlier, a Tablighi Jamaat preacher and a villager from Tangmarg area of north Kashmir’s had died after being infected by the dreaded virus. J&K government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal, tweeted: ““#COVID19 #JammuAndKashmir Status Update 125 cases in all now; 118 active cases; 24 in Jammu Division, 94 in Kashmir. 6 new cases in Jammu division today, 9 in Kashmir. Aggressive contact tracing; red zones to continue (sic).” As the COVID-19 positive cases kept on soaring, authorities sealed several areas across Kashmir with all entries and exit points blocked. The sealing of the areas comes in the wake of their declaration as containment zones after several cases of COVID-19 affected persons were reported therefrom. District Magistrate Srinagar, Shahid Choudhary, who issued an order in this regard said the sealing of the areas is aimed at preventing the spread of the coronavirus infection out of these areas having reported several positive cases. He said it is also aimed at enabling smooth conduct of the survey in the areas being declared containment zones as ordered by the government. It is notable that the proposed survey is aimed at determining whether the infection has spread in the area and whether there is a need for isolating any of their residents. The DM said a plan has been formulated for ensuring smooth supplies of essential commodities and services in all areas which have been sealed or might be in future. Meanwhile, the lockdown across Kashmir continued for the 19th day on Tuesday with authorities acting tough against the violators of government orders issued to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Police and paramilitary personnel were deployed on roads and they had erected concertina wire to block the roads to prevent movement of people and vehicles. Police have booked hundreds of people and seized hundreds of vehicles in the last two weeks for defying prohibitory orders in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-reports-third-covid-19-death-positive-cases-tally-jumps-to-125-822541.html
07-04-2020||National||India will soon cure COVID-19 patients with Ayurvedic treatment, says Shripad Naik||Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik has expressed confidence that COVID-19 can be treated with Ayurveda, adding that in the absence of scientific validation the ancient Indian medicinal stream has only been used as a preventive measure during the current crisis. He also reasserted his controversial claim that Prince Charles was cured of COVID-19 with Ayurvedic treatment and added that the heir to the British crown is denying it because Ayurveda is not accepted in the West. Naik had earlier said that a Bengaluru-based practitioner had treated Charles. Prince Charles has denied it because he might be having some problems in admitting it. His country does not recognize Ayurveda, Naik said in an interview to PTI. It was obvious for him to refuse. I am hundred and one percent sure that he got cured because of Ayurveda, the minister said. He did not say if there was a specific Ayurvedic medicine that purportedly cured Prince Charles or if he benefitted from a holistic Ayurvedic approach. Naik said that once scientific validation of some formulas in Ayurveda is done, the country would be ready to treat COVID-19 patients with it. When other systems like allopathy have failed, we have a solution to treat COVID-19 through Ayurveda, he said. The minister also alleged that a lobby was hindering the usage of Ayurveda as an effective medicine to treat novel coronavirus in the country. He said his ministry has been following up with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as Ayurveda has a solution for coronavirus, which is not offered by other streams. We have been asked for scientific validation for the Ayurvedic formula. But we must understand that scientific validation of Ayurveda has been done thousands of years back. It is a stream of medicine that has been passed on from one generation to other. He did not say how the validation would have been done thousands of years ago for a disease that is known to have come into existence only last year. There is no known cure for COVID-19, which is caused by a novel coronavirus known as SARS-CoV2 that was first observed in Chinas Wuhan province in late 2019. Scientists and pharma companies all over the world are working fervently to create the first vaccine or first cure for the disease. The Central government will have to notify the Ayurvedas formula to treat coronavirus. We have put up our claim before the PM after which he has acted and a task force has been formed, he said. Naik said that coronavirus attacks the immune system. If you boost the immunity system, then the virus cannot attack you. It also affects your respiratory system. We have a solution to improve respiratory system." Strictly speaking, the coronavirus SARS-CoV2 does not attack the immune system but attacks the respiratory system, leading to the disease. However, most of the damage in COVID- 19 disease is caused by the immune system, which unleashes a massive defence to stop the virus from spreading. In the process, millions of immune system cells attack the virus and infected lung tissues but end up wreaking havoc on the entire lung. This leads to shortness of breath, dry cough and other complications, leading to in some cases death. The minister added that there is 60 to 70 per cent control on spread of coronavirus in India due to home remedies prescribed in Ayurveda, Siddha, and Unani. "Lakhs of people are currently taking advantage of it, he said. But he provided no details of where the people are benefitting from the Ayurveda cure or if any hospitals are running regulated programmes in this regard. India is the only example where this virus has been controlled. We have already issued advisory to the people on does and donts, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-soon-cure-covid-19-patients-with-ayurvedic-treatment-says-shripad-naik-822543.html
07-04-2020||National||COVID-19 crisis: Centre asks SC to discourage self serving pleas||The Centre on Tuesday asked the Supreme Court not to encourage "self-serving petitions" filed on the basis of newspaper reports, when "pro-active and pre-emptive steps" were being taken to come out of the unprecedented global crisis due to Covid-19 pandemic. Responding to a PIL by activists Harsh Mander and Anjali Bharadwaj, the Union government, in an affidavit, said the petitioners, in "complete and blissful ignorance of a huge exercise going on by the central as well as the state Governments in cooperation with each other, resorted to merely giving vague assertions and piecemeal suggestions without any factual foundation". The petitioners led by advocate Prashant Bhushan sought a direction for payment of wages to the migrant workers across the country. The Centre, for its part, submitted as many as 22,567 relief camps have been set by state governments, housing 631119 workers. As many as 405908 workers were kept at 3909 relief camps set up by the NGOs. It also pointed out 5415458 workers were given food by the government, 3011051 by NGOs and 1505107 by their employers. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said we can't have better wisdom than the government in these matters. "We can't take better decisions than the government at this stage," the bench said and posted the matter for further hearing on April 13. In its written response, the Centre maintained that the central and all state governments were doing their best strategising all human resources and other resources. "When the country is facing such unprecedented crisis, filing of such petitions and attempting to sit in appeal over all actions taken by the respective governments by few individual needs to be discouraged as it diverts energy and attention of the statutory functionaries which ought to have been utilised to its optimum in discharging their duties on ground," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-centre-asks-sc-to-discourage-self-serving-pleas-822553.html
07-04-2020||National||CBSE to introduce three new subjects for class 11 from 2020-21 session||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will introduce Design Thinking, Physical Activity Trainer and Artificial Intelligence as new subjects for class 11 from 2020-21 academic session, officials said on Tuesday. To make the new generation more creative, innovative and physically fit, and to keep pace with the global developments and requirements at workplace, the board is introducing the three new subjects, said Biswajit Saha, Director Training and Skill Education, CBSE. "While thinking is a skill that all humans possess, the 21st century's requirement is of critical thinking and problem-solving. Design Thinking is a systematic process of thinking that opens up the horizons of creativity and enables even the most conditioned thinkers to bring about new and innovative solutions to the problems at hand," he said. According to Saha, the course on Physical Activity Trainer will not only help in developing skills of a trainer but also a life skill. "Artificial Intelligence is also a simulation by machines of the unlimited thinking capacity of humans. Physical Activity is a must if the body and mind are to be kept healthy. "With this view in mind, the course on Physical Activity Trainer has been prepared. It will not only help in developing the skill of a trainer, but will also become a life skill as it will imbibe the idea of keeping fit for life," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-to-introduce-three-new-subjects-for-class-11-from-2020-21-session-822570.html
07-04-2020||National||Oppn reminds Modi of 'India First' amid Trump's retaliation threat||Opposition leaders on Tuesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to follow ‘India First’ policy amid US President Donald Trump’s retaliation threat if India clamped down on exports of hydroxychloroquine, a key drug in the fight against COVID-19. “Friendship isn’t about retaliation. India must help all nations in their hour of need but lifesaving medicines should be made available to Indians in ample quantity first,” former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said. “We will help all our friends, however, the first right on India’s resources as also life-saving medicines to fight Corona remains of the 130 crore Indians,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters. Trinamool leader Mahua Moitra slammed the prime minister for not responding to Trump’s threat for retaliation. “56 inches used to bully Opposition at home. Use it to stand up to those who bully India. We and we alone decide when and how much to sell – please make this clear Modiji. We’re with you on this,” Moitra tweeted. “Huge amount of money was spent on Trump’s visit to India and he repays us with a threat of retaliation,” senior Congress leader Rasheed Alvi said urging the ‘desh bhakt’ prime minister to respond appropriately. “Government's capitulation to Trump's brazen blackmail undermines the vital concerns in our battle against the COVID-19 pandemic.,” the CPI(M) Politbureau said in a statement. It also demanded that the decision to supply hydroxychloroquine be “rescinded in the supreme interest of our people’s health and safety.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oppn-reminds-modi-of-india-first-amid-trumps-retaliation-threat-822576.html
07-04-2020||National||Experts say lockdown leading to subtle behavioural changes in stray dogs||Akansha Yadav -- founder of Pawtricks, a canine training and consulting firm - said there was not a behavioral change in all the dogs, but it was possible in specific categories. "Because people are not on the streets anymore and there is scarcity of food, dogs may start competing with one another for food," Yadav said. The animal behaviourist said it was a difficult time for dogs, which are used to human attention, especially those in markets where people pet them and give them food on the go. India is currently under a 21-day lockdown since March 25, with only essential services exempted, to contain the novel coronavirus pandemic, which has claimed over 75,800 lives globally and afflicted over 13.5-lakh people across 183 countries. Animal rights campaigner Sangeeta Dogra said stray dogs in her locality had left the area due to the lockdown. "They are clueless and confused as to why there are no humans on the roads," she said. However, Adnan Khan, who runs a dog training school in Chhatarpur, said stray dogs were scavengers and not predators, adding that they might kill a cat, but they would not eat it. "Hostility towards humans builds up when there are too many people around not letting them scavenge. It leads to frustration among dogs," he said. Stray dogs are much happier in areas where there is less human intervention, like villages and countryside, Khan said. "Right now, there are no cars, there are no people to shoo them away, to beat them up," Khan said. "So, they are lot more comfortable and happier. It is more of celebratory period for them, as humans have always been a bad intervention."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-say-lockdown-leading-to-subtle-behavioural-changes-in-stray-dogs-822577.html
07-04-2020||National||Delhi cops move 33 pregnant women to hospitals in 24 hours during lockdown||Since the lockdown began on April 25, PCR staffers of the Delhi Police have admitted 211 women in labour pain at various hospitals, they said. "In the last 24 hours, PCR staffers have shifted as many as 33 women in labour pain, including a Finland national living in South Delhi, to various hospitals," Deputy Commissioner of Police (PCR) Sharat Kumar Sinha said around 4 pm on Tuesday. Responding to the call about a foreign national facing pregnancy-related medical complications, a PCR team reached the spot within three minutes and rushed her to Sita Ram Hospital in the Qutub Institutional Area, he said.  Giving district-wise breakup of the distress calls, the officer said eight calls were received from South, six from Southeast, three each from Dwarka and Shahdara, two each from Outer, Outer-North, North, East and Rohini, and one each from Central, West and South-West, the DCP said. Of the total 33 calls, five were received at odd hours between 11 PM and 5 AM, he added. PTI AMP SMN SMN||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-cops-move-33-pregnant-women-to-hospitals-in-24-hours-during-lockdown-822582.html
07-04-2020||National||Govt classifies health facilities into 3 categories for COVID-19 patient care||To ensure optimal utilisation of resources to provide care to novel coronavirus patients, the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday proposed classification of health facilities into three categories COVID Care Centre, Dedicated COVID Health Centre and Dedicated COVID Hospital. These COVID-19 dedicated facilities will have separate earmarked areas for suspected cases and confirmed cases, and ensure the available hospital bed capacity is used only for moderate to severe cases of the infection, it said in a document. The ministry said that under no circumstances should suspected and confirmed cases be allowed to mix. “Series of measures have been taken by both the central and state governments to break the chain of transmission. One among these is to isolate all suspect and confirmed cases of COVID-19,” it said. "However, as the number of cases increases, it would be important to appropriately prepare health systems and use the existing resources judicially," the ministry said. The document stated that available data in India suggests that nearly 70 per cent of cases affected with the infection either exhibit mild or very mild symptoms. Such cases may not require admission to COVID-19 blocks or dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, it said. COVID Care Centres will offer care only for cases that have been clinically assigned as mild or very mild or as suspect cases, according to the document. These centres can be makeshift facilities and can be set up in hostels, hotels, schools, stadiums, lodges, among other places, both public and private. If the need be, existing quarantine facilities can also be converted into COVID Care Centres, the standard operating procedures (SOPs) in the document stated. Functional hospitals like community health centres (CHCs), which can handle regular non-COVID cases should be designated as COVID Care Centres as a last resort. This is important as essential non-COVID medical services like those for pregnant women and newborns are to be maintained, it said. Every Dedicated COVID Care Centre must also have a dedicated basic life support ambulance (BLSA) equipped with sufficient oxygen support round-the-clock for ensuring safe transport of a case to dedicated higher facilities if the symptoms progress from mild to moderate or severe, the SOPs said. The human resource to man these care centres can be drawn from AYUSH doctors. The Ministry of AYUSH has also carried out training sessions. Their work can be guided by an allopathic doctor, the SOPs stated. The Dedicated COVID Health Centre (DCHC) are hospitals that will offer care for all cases that have been clinically assigned as moderate and these should either be a full hospital or a separate block in a hospital with preferably separate entry and exit zones, it said. Private hospitals can also be designated as COVID Dedicated Health Centres. These centres must necessarily be mapped to one or more Dedicated COVID Hospitals and every DCHC must also have a dedicated basic life support ambulance equipped with sufficient oxygen support for ensuring safe transport of a case to a dedicated COVID Hospital if the symptoms progress from moderate to severe, the SOP said. The third category --- Dedicated COVID Hospitals will offer comprehensive care primarily for those who have been clinically assigned as severe and these should either be a full hospital or a separate block in a hospital, it said.   These hospitals will have fully equipped intensive care units, ventilators and beds with oxygen support. The Dedicated COVID Hospitals would also be referral centers for DCHCs and COVID Care Centers. All these facilities will follow strict infection prevention and control practices, the ministry said in the SOPs. States and union territories have been asked to identify hospitals with dedicated and separate space and set up fever clinics, which can be set up in CHCs, in rural areas, it said. In urban areas, the civil or general hospitals, urban CHCs and municipal Hospitals can be designated as fever Clinics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-classifies-health-facilities-into-3-categories-for-covid-19-patient-care-822599.html
07-04-2020||National||Health ministry announces insurance cover for medical workers fighting COVID-19||Under the scheme, 22.12 lakh public health care providers and community health workers will get an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh. “The insurance cover will also include private hospital staff, retired staff, volunteers, contract workers, daily wagers and even outsourced staff hired by the central and state governments and autonomous healthcare institutions,” the ministry said. The insurance will provide a "comprehensive personal accident cover of Rs 50 lakh to a total of around 22.12 lakh public healthcare providers, including community health workers, who may have to be in direct contact and care of patients suffering from coronavirus infection and at the risk of being impacted by this". “The duration of the policy is 90 days, starting from March 30. There is no age limit for this scheme and individual enrolment is not required,” it said. The ministry added that individuals are required to pay any premium to be eligible under the scheme. “The entire amount of premium for this scheme is being borne by the Ministry of Health. It will be funded through the NDRF budget operated by the health ministry for this purpose,” it said. “In case of loss of life due to COVID-19, documents required to claim benefits include a claim form duly filled and signed by the nominee/claimant, identity proof of deceased and of the claimant, proof of relationship between the deceased and the claimant, laboratory report certifying having tested positive for COVID-19, death summary by the hospital where death occurred (in case death occurred in hospital) and death certificate,” the ministry said. “For community health care workers, the certificate should be from Medical Officer of Primary Health Centre (PHC) that ASHA/ASHA facilitator was drafted for work related to COVID-19,” it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-announces-insurance-cover-for-medical-workers-fighting-covid-19-822612.html
07-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Ordnance Factory Board comes up with isolation tents||The Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) on Tuesday said it has come up with a two-bedded tent having necessary medical facilities, that can be set up in any place. It said the isolation tents could be a cost-effective way to increase isolation and quarantine facilities when the country is scrambling to expand such infrastructure to contain the spread of coronavirus. "We can make it available to any agency or any state government on demand," OFB Chairman Hari Mohan said. The isolation tents were developed within four or five days of research, he said. The two-bedded tents with medical equipment can be used for screening, isolation and quarantine, its spokesman Uddipon Mukherjee said. These tents with a floor area of 9.55 square metre are made up of waterproof fabric, mild steel and aluminium alloy, he said. The tents can be set up in any place and terrain and help in creating additional facilities, other than those in conventional hospitals, within a short period of time. The city-headquartered OFB has also been making sanitiser, masks and disposal bed linen sheet at its various facilities across the country, including those at explosives and armaments factories. OFB chairman Mohan said that the main job of ordnance factories is to provide arms and ammunition to the country's soldiers. "But the country is going through a different crisis now; medical professionals, including doctors, nurses, paramedics, apart from police personnel are fighting it and they are the soldiers now," he said. Mohan said the OFB has chipped in to support these soldiers in any possible way it can and for the last fortnight, its factories are manufacturing masks, sanitiser and bodysuits. The Indian Ordnance Factories organisation a family of 41 ordnance factories under the aegis of its corporate headquarters Ordnance Factory Board, Kolkata has over 200 years of experience in defence production. Indian Ordnance Factories is the oldest and largest industrial setup which functions under the Department of Defence Production of the Ministry of Defence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ordnance-factory-board-comes-up-with-isolation-tents-822614.html
07-04-2020||National||Ashok Gehlot flaunts Bhilwara Model to contain COVID-19 spread||Addressing the media through video conferencing, Gehlot recounted how the healthcare workers fanned out across Bhilwara district, checking for COVID-19 cases in each and every household after the outbreak of the virus was reported in the textile city. “We sealed the borders the day we got to know about the case of the doctor being positive with the virus in Bhilwara and it is becoming a learning ground after the commendable efforts,” the chief minister said Gehlot said the state authorities carried out aggressive surveillance and nearly five crore out of the 7.5 crore population of the state were screened and imposed curfew at 34 places to ensure containment of the disease. “Ruthless containment is the key to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” the chief minister said pitching the Bhilwara model for replication in other COVID-19 hotspots across the country. Spelling out the proactive approach of the government, he said a two km area around a COVID-19 positive case is sealed to carry out checks for spread of the infection – a move that has reaped dividends for the state. Gehlot said the state swung into action on March 18 by imposing prohibitory orders through out the state and reached out to community leaders to ensure social distancing norms were followed across temples, mosques and gurdwaras. He said to ensure that pensioners, daily wagers do not feel the pinch during the lockdown, the state government has ensured advance payouts and also helped the underprivileged by supplying enough foodgrains and pulses. Gehlot called for a cautious approach in lifting the lockdown, since a relaxation in the restrictions could undo whatever good has been achieved in arresting the spread of the virus. “The lockdown has caused a lot of trouble to the people. Industries are shut. The economic impact of this is unfathomable. But it is important to save lives,” Gehlot said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashok-gehlot-flaunts-bhilwara-model-to-contain-covid-19-spread-822616.html
07-04-2020||National||Health concerns will precede over economic concerns in COVID-19 war: VP||Emphasising that the third week of lockdown is crucial for decision-making on lockdown exit, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said health concerns shall precede over that of economy for post lockdown roadmap. He also said that people should continue to cooperate with the leadership’s decision even if hardship continues. “The duration of the fight against the virus may be uncertain at the moment but we shall triumph in the end,” Naidu said. He expressed glee over the leadership including the Prime Minister and Chief Ministers having started consultations on the exit from the present lock down. “The next week will be critical for deciding on the exit from the present nation-wide restrictions in force from March 25. The data regarding the extent and rate of spread of virus infection will have a bearing on exit strategy,” he said. Referring to the consultations between the Prime Minister and Chief Ministers on the exit strategy, Naidu urged the people to cooperate with the same spirit that has so far been demonstrated even if hardship were to continue after April 14. He expected that governments will ensure smooth functioning of supply chains and adequate relief and support for the vulnerable sections. Recalling the overwhelming response of the people to the Janta Curfew on March 22, the nationwide lockdown since March 25 and lighting of candles on April 5, the Vice President stressed that it is an indication of the virtue of spirituality that forms the core of Indian ethos. Alluding to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in the national capital and its fall out when the efforts for flattening the Corona virus curve were bearing fruits, Naidu said that it was an avoidable aberration and an eye opener to others. “Amidst our collective efforts against the virus showing signals of success in arresting the spread of coronavirus, came the Tablighi Jamaat congregation which had altered the nature of the curve with most of the new infected cases emanating from this meet. The extent of participation in this congregation and it’s multiplier effect has upset our expectations. This avoidable episode highlighted the consequences of any slip by way of violating the rules of social and physical distancing to contain the spread of virus. In that sense, this avoidable aberration should only be seen as an eye opener to all others,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-concerns-will-precede-over-economic-concerns-in-covid-19-war-vp-822622.html
07-04-2020||National||Diabetics need not overly worry about coronavirus: Survivor||A 51-year-old coronavirus patient with a history of diabetes and hypertension, who has been discharged from a hospital here after recovery, on Tuesday said he was in a positive frame of mind during his treatment and that diabetics should not be worried as long as their sugar levels are under control. Gopi Krishna Agarwal said that though he is diabetic, his sugar levels are under control. "Diabetics should not fear as they can be cured of the COVID-19 disease," he said, adding that since his sugar level is not very high, it was not much of a problem for him. Medical experts have been saying that if diabetes is kept under control, a coronavirus patient with diabetes can be treated as any other non-diabetic COVID-19 patient. "Two days after I was admitted, I was informed that I was coronavirus positive," he told PTI over phone from his residence. The Salt Lake resident, who spent eight days at the hospital, said he was administered the drug for malaria there and was released on Monday after he tested negative for the coronavirus. "The doctors were good and they have successfully done their job," he said while he spoke about the medical procedures adopted to treat him at the hospital. A businessman by profession, Agarwal was admitted to AMRI Hospital in Salt Lake, on March 29 with fever, cough, along with comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and hypothyroid, a hospital source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/diabetics-need-not-overly-worry-about-coronavirus-survivor-822624.html
07-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Govt asks Tiktok, Facebook to remove rogue content, keep details of uploaders for probe||Social media companies have also been asked to save details of uploaders of such malicious content which can be shared with law enforcement agencies when required. "MeitY has said that a large number of fake/false and misinformation based audio and video clips are being circulated on social media platforms especially TikTok, Helo and Facebook. It said that such false and misinformation based messages have the potential for creating panic and other online harms," according to a source aware of the development. The ministry in separate communications asked social media companies to remove the content as it weakens the government effort to fight against coronavirus and the Supreme Court has also taken serious note of such content while hearing a matter on the subject on March 31, 2020. "The ministry has said that the rogue messages effectively weaken the all-out effort being made by the India government for containing the spread of coronavirus," the source said. The communication from MeitY follows after a report submitted by open-source intelligence and fact-checking IT firm Voyager Infosec stated that several videos are being posted on social media platforms like Tiktok, Youtube and Twitter to influence Muslims in India against following safe practices to contain coronavirus infection. The firm found that videos have been shot at both foreign locations and in India and are being primarily posted on Chinese mobile video app Tiktok with fake information about coronavirus and religious instigations against health advisories. These videos are further shared on other platforms like Whatsapp, Twitter and Facebook," the report said. The report submitted to India Cyber Crime Coordination Centre claims to have analysed over 30,000 videos within a period of five days. It further said that most of these videos have been created with professional video editing softwares, and originally uploaded accounts are being deleted after circulating them on other social media platforms. "MeitY has asked social media platforms to work closely with each other so that messages, including audio and video messages, are identified and removed as soon as possible. It has asked social media companies to submit daily reports on measures taken by them," the source said.   The ministry has asked social media companies to ensure that the rogue messages do not go viral and at the same time also save information of all those people who create or upload such messages. The details of content uploaders can be shared with the law enforcement agencies as and when required, it added. When contacted, Tiktok spokesperson said, "We are actively working with the government to support them in their efforts to fight misinformation and proactively also working to elevate credible information related to COVID-19 on our platform." Email query sent to Facebook elicited no immediate reply. Earlier, industry body IAMAI, whose members include Google, Facebook, Tiktok etc, said any request to remove content needs to come via proper legal notice. PTI PRS MKJ||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-govt-asks-tiktok-facebook-to-remove-rogue-content-keep-details-of-uploaders-for-probe-822638.html
07-04-2020||National||COVID-19 spread isn't exponential in India, next three days crucial: Medical researchers||"You have to wait for three more days before you can say India is low. The real test will be the slums of Dharavi. Will Dharavi explode or not? If Dharavi doesn't explode, we can say that the hygiene hypothesis (If a place is dirty, people living there automatically develop immunity) is working" Samir K Brahmachari, former director-general of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research told DH. The three-week-long lockdown is scheduled to end on April 14. At the moment, there's no clarity whether it would be extended. "The trend in India follows a relatively flat curve and it doesn't in any way resemble that of the European countries or the USA," added N Devadasan, former director of the Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru. The reasons, the researchers hypothesised, could vary from warmer climate and inherent immunity among the Indians to the initial screening system to pick up international travellers with symptoms and put their friends and families under surveillance to curb the virus's spread. However, there's little scientific evidence from the ground as it is early days for India's medical research community to explore all the aspects of the disease dynamics. For instance, the Indian Council of Medical Research currently restricts the serology testing to diagnose even though a section of the researchers says that such tests should be also used for studying the baseline prevalence of the infection. At a time when the central government discusses the possibility of extending the lockdown, the researchers admit that the pan-Indian closure has helped slow down the virus' march into the community. "The current lockdown is effective though it was diluted with the mass movement of migrant workers to their home states. The government should have anticipated this and taken measures to either prevent or manage it. There were some minor leakages, but in general, it may have achieved its objective of cutting down transmission," said Devdasan, Technical Adviser, Health Systems Transformation Platform.  "Social distancing is definitely working, otherwise the numbers would have increased by around 2,000 per day," said Brahmachari. A study (not peer-reviewed) by two scholars at Shiv Nadar University also establishes the efficacy of the lockdown. "In an optimistic scenario in which 80−90% of population contributes to social distancing the projected number of symptomatic cases can decline by nearly 85% at day 20 from the beginning of the lockdown (3,500 against 30,790) and deaths (105 against 619) as well. Thus, intervention (20-day lockdown) may help in slowing transmission and flattening the COVID-19 curve," said Samit Bhattacharyya and Naga Suresh Veerapu from Shiv Nadar University in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-spread-isnt-exponential-in-india-next-three-days-crucial-medical-researchers-822656.html
07-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Festive season prompts Centre to step up vigil||The Centre has reached out to community leaders, who in turn have been convincing people to follow the lockdown guidelines and assist the government in the fight against COVID-19. “A recent ICMR study shows that if one COVID-19 patient does not follow lockdown orders or practice social distancing, then the patient can infect 406 people in 30 days,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry, told reporters. But, if lockdown instructions are followed then that infected person can pass on the infection to only 2.5 persons over a month, he said underlining the importance of social distancing. Aggarwal said that a total of 326 infected people have recovered so far while the total number of positive cases climbed to 4,421 on Tuesday with 354 new cases and 8 deaths in the past 24 hours. The cluster containment strategy and outbreak management plan is giving positive results in places like Noida, Bhilwara, Agra, Pathanamthitta and areas of East Delhi, which were marked as the hotspots, he said. The health ministry official added that technology is being used successfully in smart cities like Pune, Surat, Bengaluru and Tumakuru for surveillance, tracking, management of home quarantine, predictive analysis using heat map and training of healthcare personnel. On the upcoming festival season, Punya Salila Srivastava, Joint Secretary in the Union Home Ministry said community leaders had come forward and were convincing the people to assist the government in the strict implementation of the lockdown. Festivals such as Ram Navami, Mahavir Jayanti, Palm Sunday saw muted celebrations across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-festive-season-prompts-centre-to-step-up-vigil-822659.html
07-04-2020||National Politics||COVID-19: Tablighi Jamaat members opposed even by muslim community, says RSS Joint General Secretary Manmohan Vaidya||"Figures tell the truth," said RSS Joint General Secretary Manmohan Vaidya on Monday referring to the number of COVID-19 cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi. He said the Tablighi Jamaat members have been "exposed" and even people belonging to the muslim community are "opposing" them. The health ministry had on Sunday said the rate of doubling of COVID-19 cases in India was 4.1 days, but if the cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event would not have happened, it would have been 7.4 days. Citing the RSS' decision to call off the annual meeting of its highest decision-making body -- Partinidhi Sabha -- Vaidya said that Tablighi Jamaat could have also called off their congregation. Lauding the decision taken by the country's leadership to tackle the coronavirus outbreak, he said India handled the COVID-19 situation comparatively better than developed nations. "To tackle COVID-19 outbreak, India's leadership took some decisive steps which got public support," he said. The RSS leader said that workers of his organisation helped 25.5 lakh people during the lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of the virus, fed the poor and daily wagers and started a helpline. About the economic impact of the 21-day lockdown, said the first priority should be to tackle the novel coronavirus and then the focus should shift towards the economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-tablighi-jamaat-members-opposed-even-by-muslim-community-says-rss-joint-general-secretary-manmohan-vaidya-822341.html
07-04-2020||National Politics||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi writes to PM, suggests measures to save money to fight COVID-19||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggesting five measures to conserve money for the fight against COVID-19, including a complete ban on media advertisements by government and PSUs for two years and suspending the Central Vista beautification project. The suggestions came after Modi reached out to several opposition leaders, including Gandhi, on Monday. In her letter to the prime minister, Gandhi also called for ordering proportionate reduction of 30 per cent in expenditure budget (other than salaries, pensions and central sector schemes) for the government of India. All foreign visits of the president, prime minister, Union ministers, chief ministers, state ministers and bureaucrats must be put on hold, she said. The Congress chief called for transferring all money under the 'PM Cares' fund to the 'Prime Ministers National Relief Fund' to ensure efficiency, transparency and accountability. Asserting that the need of the hour is austerity measures to divert funds to the fight against COVID-19, she said, "Impose a complete ban on media advertisements - television, print and online - by the Government and PSU's for a period of two years." Gandhi also called upon the PM to suspend the Rs 20,000 crore Central Vista beautification and construction project forthwith. “I am certain that Parliament can function comfortably within existing historical buildings,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-chief-sonia-gandhi-writes-to-pm-suggests-measures-to-save-money-to-fight-covid-19-822360.html
07-04-2020||National Politics||Symbolism cannot substitute urgent concrete measures: Yechury to President||Emphasising that "symbolism cannot substitute urgent concrete measures" to crises arising out of COVID-19, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury has asked President Ram Nath Kovind to ensure that steps are taken to carry out aggressive testing, announce a one-time loan waiver for farmers, interest-free deferment of EMIs and allocation of more money to states. In a letter to the President, Yechury said the 21-day lockdown from March 25 has been "forced without any prior preparation" and the result has been a "degree of chaos and anarchy", which defeats the very objective of containing community transmission of this pandemic. "The country and people have gone through two ‘symbolic’ events so far. Disturbingly, yesterday’s (Sunday) symbolic event was observed by many as a celebration by bursting crackers, as the country is in the midst of this grim battle against the pandemic. I’m sure you would agree that such symbolism cannot substitute urgent concrete measures that need to be undertaken by the government," he said in the letter sent on Monday. Yechury also raised "serious concerns" about the attempts being made to blame Muslim community as a whole for the spread of COVID-19 but said Tablighi Jamaat acted "very irresponsibly" by organising a gathering in Delhi in mid-march. However, he emphasised, this cannot be the "excuse to target" the community and unless stopped, this will disrupt the people’s united struggle against COVID-19. Calling for extensive testing, he said as opposed to 7,659 per million testings in South Korea, the figures for India is an "abysmal low" of 32 and is being "universally commented" for conducting one of the lowest numbers of testing. "This is extremely dangerous for the future. The country needs to test as extensively as possible, identify the clusters where the virus is being transmitted, isolate them and enforce lockdown in those areas and not countrywide," he said. Yechury said Modi did not take the state governments into confidence before announcing the countrywide lockdown, leaving many "completely unprepared" but now the Centre is asking states to take responsibility for the migrant workers’ crisis, which is "very unfair". He urged the President to ensure that the Centre "generously" financially support, as the recent transfers from the National Disaster Risk Management Fund were "meagre and inadequate". He warned that agrarian distress is bound to intensify and urged the government to immediately announce a one-time waiver of loans of farmers. "This is perfectly possible given that so far loans worth Rs. 7.78 lakh crore taken by our super-rich corporates have been waived by this government. Surely, such empathies can also be extended to our 'annadatas' (food providers)," Yechury said. With several complaining that they have got partial salary or no salary at all, he said many firms are laying off workers and many states have seen initiating salary cuts and demanded that the government take steps to compensate employers, like "many countries" have done, some to the tune of 80% per cent of their wage bill. The government should also take steps towards deferment of EMI payments for at least three months, which must be interest-free. With early 7.5 crores tonnes of foodgrains lying in Food Corporation of India godowns, he said, "rather than this stock becoming rotten or feeding rodents, it should be immediately lifted and dispatched to the states for distribution among people who have lost their earnings." Amid reports of healthcare professionals facing a shortage of critical equipment like ventilators and Personal Protection Kits (PPE), Yechury also said there is a need for "aggressive augmentation" of these equipments. "There is a likelihood of shortage of hospital space for isolation wards which, at least now, should be augmented urgently. There is an acute shortage of ventilators, which must be acquired promptly," he said. On PM-CARES, he said it was set up despite having the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund and there were "disturbing reports of coercive collections, automatic deduction of a day’s salary from government employees and professionals, including health workers, without their concurrence". Urging to merge PM-CARES with PMNRF, he said bulk of this fund should be transferred to the respective states to ensure effective implementation of measures to fight COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/symbolism-cannot-substitute-urgent-concrete-measures-yechury-to-president-822390.html
07-04-2020||National Politics||Tablighi incident should not be excuse to target Muslim community: Yechury to President||In a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury has appealed to him that care should be taken to ensure that the Tablighi Jamaat congregation incident is not made into an excuse to target the Muslim community. In the letter, Yechury also urged Kovind to see to it that a significant part of the funds collected under PM Cares are transferred to the state governments. "Attempts are being made to blame a particular community for the spread of the virus. The organisers of Tablighi were very irresponsible. This, however, cannot be the excuse to target the Muslim community as a whole. Unless stopped, this will disrupt the people's United struggle against Covid pandemic," he said. He also sought the President's intervention to merge this newly created fund with the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF). "Further, as the delivery of health is primarily the responsibility of state governments, bulk of this fund should be transferred to the respective states to ensure effective implementation of measures to fight COVID 19," he said. Raising the issue of shortage of medical kits, Yechury said aggressive augmentation of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) must be undertaken immediately. "It is being universally commented that the testing rate in India is one of, if not, the lowest in the world. As opposed to 7,659 per million in South Korea, in India the figures is an abysmal low of 32. This is extremely dangerous for the future. The country needs to test as extensively as possible, identify the clusters where the virus is being transmitted, isolate them and enforce lockdown in those areas and not countrywide," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tablighi-incident-should-not-be-excuse-to-target-muslim-community-yechury-to-president-822409.html
07-04-2020||National Politics||COVID-19: After salary, perks of MPs also cut by 30%||As per rules every MP gets a Constituency allowance 70 thousand per month. Now will they get Rs 49 thousand from April this year for one full year. Similarly an MP gets Rs 40 thousand in the head of salary for staff and Rs 20 thousand to meet stationary expenses per month. While the staff salary head has been left untouched, a 30 per cent cut has been effected in their stationary expenses. They will now get Rs 14 thousand per month instead of Rs 20 thousand a month. The Union government had on Monday approved a 30 per cent cut in the salaries of President, Prime Minister, Vice President, Governors and all MPs to shore up funds to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak.  Political parties across the spectrum backed the government on the decision for the salary cut of MPs.  The Cabinet had done this through an Ordinance amending the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament Act, 1954, reducing the salary of the MPs by 30% from April 1, 2020.   Meanwhile President Ram Nath Kovind approved the Ordinance amending the Salary, Allowances and Pension of MP Act, 1954 reducing allowances and pension by 30% with effect from April 1st April, 2020 for a year. There will, however, be no change in the pension of the MPs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-after-salary-perks-of-mps-also-cut-by-30-822615.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Train coaches into isolation wards in Jammu||The Northern Railways on Monday converted several train coaches into isolation wards to assist the Jammu administration in the fight against COVID-19. At the Jammu railway station, several rail coaches were converted into isolation wards with all type of facilities, officials said. The coaches have been modified for the purpose, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-train-coaches-into-isolation-wards-in-jammu-822296.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Four more die in Indore; Madya Pradesh toll goes up to 18||Four more persons succumbed to the dreaded coronavirus in the city, taking the toll to 18 in Madhya Pradesh on Monday, a health official said. Three men and a woman have died in the last five days in different hospitals in Indore and their test reports received on Monday revealed they were infected with COVID-19, an official of government-MGM medical college said. Indore alone now accounts for 13 deaths. These patients were already suffering from asthma, diabetes, high BP and other ailments before getting infected with COVID-19, he said. A health bulletin said so far 256 persons in the state have tested positive for COVID-19 and 151 of them are from Indore. Of the 18 COVID-19 deaths, 13 have been reported from Indore, followed by two from Ujjain and one each from Khargone, Chhindwara and Bhopal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-four-more-die-in-indore-madya-pradesh-toll-goes-up-to-18-822300.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Four more test positive in Himachal Pradesh, total cases rise to 19||Four Tablighi Jamaat members who attended a religious congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin have tested positive for coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh, a senior health official said. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases in the state rose to 19. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) R D Dhiman said 83 samples were collected in the state on Monday and the report of 81 was out, of which four tested positive, two samples will be tested again and the rest came out negative. All the four who tested positive were from Tissa area of Chamba district and had attended the Jamaat event in the national capital, he said. Eleven COVID-19 patients were being treated in the state and all of them had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. Two of the total cases have recovered, two died and four patients voluntarily shifted to a private hospital outside Himachal Pradesh, a health department official said. Of the two deaths reported in the hill state, one was a 70-year-old woman, a Delhi resident, who was staying at a factory's guest house in Baddi since March 15. She died in PGIMER Chandigarh on April 2. Her four relatives who were later tested COVID-19 positive were shifted to a private hospital outside Himachal Pradesh according to their wish.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-four-more-test-positive-in-himachal-pradesh-total-cases-rise-to-19-822318.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: 'Phone booth' sample collection centre introduced in Jharkhand||In a bid to ensure safety of health workers, the West Singhbhum administration in Jharkhand has introduced an innovative portable unit for collecting samples from suspected coronavirus-infected persons, an official said. The unit looks like a public telephone booth and will reduce manpower needed for collecting samples for coronavirus tests, he said. "The phone booth COVID-19 sample collection centre is a unique, low-cost and portable unit. It ensures safety of health workers while collecting sample from a suspected patient," the official said. The sample collection kiosk can be mounted on a vehicle and transported to any location, he said. The model can also be useful for collecting samples in COVID-19 hotspots and border checkpoints, the official said, adding that each model costs about Rs 15,000-20,000. The structure of the centre is "just like a phone booth" consisting of a small cubicle along with personal protective equipment such as gloves for a health worker and kit for collecting samples. Explaining how the centre will function, the official said a person standing in a queue will be asked to come close to the kiosk and follow the instruction given through a public address system for collection of his or her swab sample. A health worker equipped with personal protective gears stands inside the kisok and collects the sample and then, follows the sanitisation process before taking next sample. "It requires less health staff for sample collection and strictly follows the principle of social distancing," a statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-phone-booth-sample-collection-centre-introduced-in-jharkhand-822320.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind moves SC against demonising of Muslims in Tablighi Jamaat incident||In a PIL, the organisation of Muslim scholars questioned the use of terms like  'Corona Jihad' 'Corona Terrorism' 'Corona Bombs' and 'Islamic Insurrection' to demonise the entire Muslim community. Over thousands of members, including foreigners, participated in Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin in Delhi in March. Hundreds of them were subsequently found to be infected with the Coronavirus.  After the incident, several news reports were shown with "communal headlines and bigoted statements" by presenting the information in a "twisted and incendiary manner". The petitioner alleged that certain sections of media have excerbated tension in society by showing "virulent and vitriolic statements" inciting hatred against the entire Muslim community.   It also contended that social media was also replete with similar misinformation and fake news aimed at giving the incident a communal tone and proliferating conspiracy theories about Tablighi Jamaat deliberately spreading Coronavirus across the country. The petition filed by advocate Ejaz Maqbool asked the court to issue directions to the Centre to identify and take strict action against the section of media for communalising Nizamuddin Markaz issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jamiat-ulama-i-hind-moves-sc-against-demonising-of-muslims-in-tablighi-jamaat-incident-822323.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||24 more cases of coronavirus in Rajasthan; total number of cases in state rises to 325||Rajasthan recorded 24 more cases of coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the total number of virus cases in the state to 325, an official said. The virus has so far claimed six lives in the state. However, officials maintain that deaths occurred due to co-morbidity -- more than one illness or disease occurring in one person at the same time. "24 new cases have come up today, including in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Banswara and Churu districts. All have contact and travel history," Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said. While there were nine cases in Jodhpur, Jaisalmer saw 7 cases. Banswara recorded 4 cases, Jaipur (3) and Churu (1). He said the total number of coronavirus positive cases in the state has risen to 325. Entire state is under lockdown from March 22 and massive survey and screening is underway to trace the contagion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/24-more-cases-of-coronavirus-in-rajasthan-total-number-of-cases-in-state-rises-to-325-822333.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh Police create app to keep an eye on home quarantined patients||In a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus, police in Chhattisgarh Janjgir-Champa district have created a mobile application to keep a tab on those violating the home quarantine order, an official said. Nearly 6,200 people, most of them with history of travel to foreign nations or other affected states in India, are kept under home quarantine in Janjgir-Champa district. "With a large number of people in home quarantine, it is not possible to keep each one under surveillance on a regular basis. So, we decided to use the digital mechanism to tackle the issue," Janjgir-Champa Superintendent of Police Parul Mathur told PTI on Tuesday. The police, with the help of Noida-based startup Mobcoder, developed the app 'Rakhsa Sarv', which enables them to track the quarantined people through Google Map. Details of the home-quarantined people are being fed in the app's dashboard, Mathur said. Police teams have started installing the application in the phones of those kept under home quarantine and so far, over 50 per cent of such people have been covered, she said. "The quarantined person will have to upload a selfie in the app every hour which will specify his/her location. If the person steps out of the house (along with mobile) and reach the prescribed limit of 200 metres, the app will send an alert to the local police station," she said. If the home-quarantined people turn off the phone or location or internet connection, in that case also the app sends an alert to the police station, she said. This allows the police keep a tab of those who break the quarantine protocol and take action accordingly. "We respect the privacy of home quarantined residents and they will automatically be removed from the tracking system once their quarantine period ends. All the data is encrypted. We just want to ensure safety of the community, the official said. Inspector General, Bilaspur Range, Dipanshu Kabra said they want to use the technology more and more for community and self-policing. "This is a great initiative and will be replicated in other parts of the Bilaspur Range," Kabra said. Apart from Janjgir-Champa, other districts in the range are Bilaspur, Mungeli, Korba and Raigarh. Besides keeping tab through the app, regular patrolling in areas of home quarantined people will also be done by police because if these people leave the phone at home and move out, there is no way to trace them through the app, another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-police-create-app-to-keep-an-eye-on-home-quarantined-patients-822338.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Doctors in Jammu and Kashmir skip meals to save personnel protection equipment kits||To overcome the shortage of personnel protection equipment (PPE), doctors at territory care at SKIMS hospital in Srinagar skip lunch breaks and work non-stop for eight hours in a single protective gear. “Though hospital administration has made extra-suits available for breaks, we prefer not to wear them. There is a possibility of a tsunami of coronavirus cases in the coming days and we know there will be a huge shortage of PPE.  By saving some this time, we are preparing for the future fight with the deadly disease,” a doctor at the hospital told DH. He said not only most of the medical staff skip lunch break, but eat less an hour before leaving for the hospital to avoid washroom breaks as well. “Going to bathrooms means a change of suit and we cannot afford that. We have to train ourselves for this challenge,” he said. A lady doctor at the hospital said that anxiety was pervasive among the whole staff at the SKIMS. “The doctors are also human beings. When we read about the death of healthcare workers in Italy, Spain and the UK, fear starts making a way into our consciousness. We think about our spouse and children at home,” she said. “The challenges are not restricted to the hospital. The real battle begins after I reach home. I self-isolate myself and avoid contact with my family. I kind of keep myself in home quarantine,” the doctor said, adding taking the infection home is the last thing a doctor would want. The doctors at the hospital, however, expressed helplessness when it comes to dealing with the shortage of the gloves. “We feel helpless. Technically, we have to change our gloves after every patient but we are unable to do so due to shortage,” they said. Use of single gloves for multiple patients, the doctors said, puts normal patients at risk of contracting the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-doctors-in-jammu-and-kashmir-skip-meals-to-save-personnel-protection-equipment-kits-822339.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||12 new coronavirus cases in Bhopal; Madhya Pradesh tally rises to 268||Twelve more coronavirus cases have been found in Bhopal, taking the number of such cases in Madhya Pradesh to 268, a health official said on Tuesday. Among the new patients, seven are police personnel and their family members, and five are health department employees, Bhopal's Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr Sudhir Kumar Deharia said. With this, the total number of coronavirus cases in the state capital has gone up to 74. Two persons from Bhopal have so far been discharged after recovery, he said. Out of the total 268 coronavirus cases in the state, maximum 151 have been reported from Indore. So far, 18 people have died, including 13 from Indore, two from Ujjain and one each from Khargone, Chhindwara and Bhopal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-new-coronavirus-cases-in-bhopal-madhya-pradesh-tally-rises-to-268-822352.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Deaf, mute woman raped in J-K's Ramban, accused arrested||A 23-year-old deaf and mute woman was allegedly raped and impregnated by an elderly man in a remote village in Ramban district of Jammu and Kashmir, following which he was arrested, police said on Tuesday. According to a police official, the case came to light when the woman's father lodged a complaint accusing the elderly man of raping his daughter. Medical examination of the girl was conducted and she was found four-month pregnant, the official said, adding the accused has been arrested and further probe was on. Preliminary investigation reveal that the girl was raped by the accused on several occasions in the past after threatening her with his licensed gun, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/deaf-mute-woman-raped-in-j-ks-ramban-accused-arrested-822380.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: UP Shia Waqf Board shuts graveyards ahead of Shab-e-Barat||The Uttar Pradesh Shia Central Waqf Board has decided to close down all ‘Kabristan’ (graveyards) on the forthcoming occasion of Shab-e-Barat in view of the lockdown imposed due to coronavirus outbreak in the country. Shab-e-Barat is marked by Muslims congregating in mosques and visiting graves. "In view of the lockdown, the board had earlier closed down its mosques for ‘namaaz’. We have directed all the concerned to ensure that Kabristan should not be open for common people on Shab-e-Barant on April 9," Board chairman Syed Wasim Rizvi said. He said employees residing inside the Kabristan premises have been asked to clean graves and light a lamp at every grave on the day. Rizvi also urged the people to remain at home and pray for their loved ones. Shab-e-Barat, in Islamic faith, means the Night of Forgiveness or the Day of Atonement. It is considered to be an occasion when the Almighty forgives sinners if they pray. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on March 24 imposed a 21-day nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-up-shia-waqf-board-shuts-graveyards-ahead-of-shab-e-barat-822394.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: 42 arrested in UP for attacking police team for enforcing lockdown||An FIR was registered against 150 people for allegedly attacking a police team trying to enforce lockdown in Izatnagar area here, police said on Tuesday. Forty-two people were arrested in this connection, out of which three women were released on bail. "An FIR was registered against 150 persons on Monday night under relevant sections of IPC for attacking policemen and trying to set ablaze police outpost," Superintendent of Police, City, Ravindra Kumar said. Among the accused, 42 were arrested, while three were released on bail, he said. The incident took place in Karampur Chaudhary area in Izzatnagar when two policemen had gone to enforce the lockdown and were attacked. "When IPS officer Abhishek Varma reached the area with police force to enforce the lockdown, they were attacked, forcing the security personnel to resort to lathicharge," Kumar said. Varma, who is posted as Circle Officer-3 in Bareilly, sustained injuries during the incident, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-42-arrested-in-up-for-attacking-police-team-for-enforcing-lockdown-822399.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Lawyer donates 15,000 N95 masks to AIIMS amid COVID-19 crisis||To help health workers fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi has donated 15,000 N95 masks to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here. He had earlier donated Rs 1 crore to the Prime Minister’s Citizens Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situation (PM-CARES) Fund to aid the fight against the novel coronavirus that has claimed 114 lives and infected 4,421 people across the country. “I have ordered supply of 15,000 N95 masks to AIIMS for 25 lakh for protective use by doctors and the support staff today. Supply would be made in four to five days to AIIMS,” Dwivedi said on Tuesday. The step has been taken in consultation with AIIMS. “It is a small help to the white warriors who are struggling for us despite danger to their lives. Let us move beyond clapping and lighting (lamps), which was good. This way we can become compatriot warriors in arms. Help hospitals near you,” Dwivedi said. Dwivedi had earlier said the problems being faced by poor people and migrant workers are grave and people should come forward to help them by donating to the prime minister's fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lawyer-donates-15000-n95-masks-to-aiims-amid-covid-19-crisis-822410.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||3 more Tablighi members test COVID-19 positive in UP's Shamli, total number in double-digits now||Three more Tablighi Jamaat members have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Shamli, taking the total number of COVID-19 patients in the district to 11, officials said on Tuesday. All three whose test results returned positive Monday evening are from Tripura, they said, adding they had gone to Shamli on March 17 after attending the Jamaat’s Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz. District Magistrate Jasjit Kaur said the three have been admitted to the COVID-19 hospital at Jhinjhana, which now houses all 11 Jamaat members who have tested positive in Shamli. On Monday, five Jamaat members – they were also from Tripura – were moved to the hospital after testing positive. Before that, three members – two from Bangladesh and one from Assam – were admitted there.  The administration has begun sanitisation and other preventing exercises in the areas where the 11 stayed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-more-tablighi-members-test-covid-19-positive-in-ups-shamli-total-number-in-double-digits-now-822412.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announces 5-point action plan to contain coronavirus in Delhi||Delhi government on Tuesday unveiled a '5-T' mantra to fight COVID-19 where it will go for aggressive testing, tracing people who got in touch with positive patients, track the movement of those in quarantine and ramping up medical facilities to treat 30,000 patients at a time. The plans also include taking over 12,000 hotel rooms and setting10,000 beds in religious institutions in case of a surge in patients and intensive tracing of those kept in quarantine using cellular triangulation. The five 'Ts' -- testing, tracing, treatment, teamwork and tracking and monitoring -- will ensure that no stone is left unturned to protect people of the national capital, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said. "We have to be three steps ahead of COVID-19, or else we will not be able to contain it. All the nations who have managed to be a step ahead of coronavirus have managed to control it," he said. Drawing inspiration from South Korea where large-scale testing and containment measures helped in checking the spread of the virus, he said Delhi will be going to "aggressively test to identify, treat, trace, quarantine and seal (areas)". With more testing kits arriving in the capital in the coming days, the Delhi government plans to conduct around one lakh random rapid tests from Friday in localities where more cases are reported to identify and self quarantine those who came in contact with positive cases.  Already, tests for another 50,000 have been ordered. After positive cases and hotspots are identified, authorities will follow it with a "tracing" exercise where people who came in contact with the patients are identified through cell phone triangulation, a process to identify the localities where the patient travelled during this period. Those persons who came in contact with a positive case would be asked to be in home quarantine, and they will be on a 24X7 surveillance to ensure that they do not step out.  Already, Delhi Police is tracking over phones of 27,702 people in home quarantine. The authorities are also providing the phone numbers of around 2,000 members of Tablighi Jamaat, whose gathering in mid-March has resulted in a surge in numbers of COVID-19 cases, to track whether they had gone out of the campus. "Such localities where Tablighi Jamaat members went will be sealed. On the basis of tracing, we will put people in home quarantine, seal the area and monitor the movement of those in quarantine," Kejriwal said. On treatment, he said the government already earmarked 2,950 beds in government hospitals and private hospitals and a plan is already in hand to deal with a situation where Delhi has 30,000 active patients at a time. As per the plan for 30,000 patients, government and private hospitals will provide for 8,000 beds while a strategy has been drawn to take over 12,000 hotel rooms besides setting up 10,000 beds in banquet halls and facilities run by religious institutions. "Those with liver, heart and respiratory ailments, diabetes and cancer and those above 50 years will be sent to hospitals and others in hotel rooms and banquet halls. All medical facilities will be available in these hotels and religious institutions. The take over of these facilities will be done in a phased manner if the situation arises," Kejriwal said. Plans are also drawn up for facilities like ventilators, Intensive Care Unit beds and oxygen kits in case of a surge in case of patients. As per the strategy drawn, Delhi would need 400 ventilators and 1,200 oxygen kits if the number raises to 30,000. Kejriwal, who took up the responsibility of "tracking and monitoring" the preparedness, also emphasised on team work, saying it would be foolish to think that one can defeat Covid-19 alone. "All governments and agencies should work together. There should be coordination between states also," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chief-minister-arvind-kejriwal-announces-5-point-action-plan-to-contain-coronavirus-in-delhi-822415.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Kashmiris under detention since Aug 5 last year deserve to be released: Iltija Mufti||People detained since last year in Kashmir deserve to be released as their "incarceration" even in times of a global pandemic "undermines our democratic credentials", PDP president Mehbooba Mufti's daughter Iltija Mufti said on Tuesday. Iltija's remarks came on a day her mother, who was detained under the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA), is being shifted to her official residence that has been converted into a subsidiary jail where she would continue to be in detention. "All Kashmiris illegally detained since 5th August deserve freedom.Their continued incarceration even in times of a global pandemic undermines our democratic credentials. Nevertheless, I'd like to thank everyone for their support and good wishes," Iltija wrote on her mother's Twitter handle. She has been tweeting from Mehbooba's handle ever since the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister was put under detention in August last year. Mehbooba was detained on August 5 last year when the Centre abrogated the special status of the erstwhile state and divided it into union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. Initially, she was taken into preventive custody. Later on February 6 this year, she was slapped with the PSA along with another former chief minister Omar Abdullah, who was released recently. While expressing gratitude to the media, Iltija requested that the family be given privacy as it waited for Mehbooba to come home. “My gratitude to the media in Kashmir for their concern & well wishes. May I please humbly request that you give the family privacy as we wait for her to come home today. Please remember this isn't a release & the house has been declared as a subsidiary jail,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiris-under-detention-since-aug-5-last-year-deserve-to-be-released-iltija-mufti-822416.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||17 arrested in Kashmir for defying coronavirus lockdown orders||Strict restrictions on the movement of people in Kashmir to contain the spread of coronavirus remained in force for the 20th consecutive day on Tuesday, even as police arrested 17 persons for defying the lockdown orders here, officials said. Acting tough against violators of prohibitory orders, police on Monday arrested the 17 persons. Police arrested three persons, including a shopkeeper, and seized a vehicle for violating the prohibitory orders in the jurisdiction of police stations Nishat and Harwan. In the jurisdiction of police stations RM Bagh and Nowgam, police arrested nine persons and also seized eight vehicles for violating the government prohibitory orders, they added. Similarly, the officials said, in the jurisdiction of police station Khanyar, police arrested five persons for violating the restrictions. Cases under relevant sections of the law have been registered against all of them and further investigation has been initiated, they said. Several persons have been arrested across the valley since the lockdown began as police has warned of strict action against those violating the restrictions imposed by the Government in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Tight curbs are in place across the valley in view of the surge in the number of positive cases in Kashmir. The security forces have sealed off the main roads in the valley and erected barriers at several places to check the unwanted movement of the people and to enforce the lockdown, the officials said. Markets across the valley were shut and public transport was off the roads with only pharmacies and groceries allowed to open, they added. Educational institutions across Kashmir have been closed, while all public places including gymnasiums, parks, clubs and restaurants have been shut down more than a week before the nationwide lock down announced by the Prime Minister. While the Prime Minister announced the country-wide lockdown on the evening of March 24, the union territory administration here had on March 22 announced a lockdown across Jammu and Kashmir till 31 March as part of its efforts to curb the spread of the coronavirus. The administration said essential services including healthcare personnel have been exempted from the restrictions. Restrictions were first imposed in many parts of the valley on March 19 to contain the spread of the virus infection. The measures were taken after a 67-year-old woman from Khanyar area of the city, who had returned on 16 March from Saudi Arabia after performing Umrah, tested positive for COVID-19 infection. The authorities have started an aggressive contact tracing campaign across the union territory to contain the spread of the infection. The total number of positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir has gone up to 106. While two patients have died, four have recovered while another seven have tested negative after undergoing treatment. These patients will undergo another test before they will be discharged from hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-arrested-in-kashmir-for-defying-coronavirus-lockdown-orders-822450.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Muslims help perform last rites of Hindu neighbour in Madhya Pradesh||Members of the Muslim community helped in performing the last rites of their Hindu neighbour in Madhya Pradesh's Indore city as relatives of the deceased could not reach the place due to the nationwide lockdown. Senior Congress leader and former state chief minister Kamal Nath lauded the gesture of the Muslim community members, saying they have set an example in society. Draupadi Bai, 65, a poor woman who was suffering from paralysis and living with her elder son, died at her residence in South Toda area of Indore on Monday. Due to the lockdown, the deceased's relatives could not reach the place for her funeral and no vehicle was available to carry the body to the cremation ground. When some Muslim community members residing in the neighbourhood came to know about it, they came forward to help the grief-stricken family. Wearing masks as a precaution against coronavirus, they helped in making arrangements for the deceased's last rites and carried the body on their shoulders to the cremation ground located about 2.5 km away from the area, state Congress spokesman Narendra Saluja said. A picture of the Muslim men carrying the Hindu woman's body on their shoulders went viral on social media and their gesture was widely appreciated by netizens. The Muslim men later said they considered it their duty as the woman used to shower lot of affection on them during their childhood. Lauding them, Kamal Nath in a tweet said, "It is really praiseworthy that Muslim community persons along with the old woman's two sons carried the body on their shoulders for her last rites. This has set an example in society." "It reflects our Ganga-Jamumi culture and such scenes enhance mutual love and brotherhood," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-muslims-help-perform-last-rites-of-hindu-neighbour-in-madhya-pradesh-822451.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Teenage boy, girl found hanging from tree in UP; police say suicide||A teenage boy and a girl were found hanging from a tree here and it is suspected that they took the step as their families didn't approve of their relationship and they couldn't flee home due to the lockdown, police said on Tuesday. The boy's family members, however, alleged that he was killed and then the body was hanged. The 18-year-old boy and the 17-year-old girl were missing since Sunday night and they were found hanging from a neem tree in Malawian area here on Monday, ASP Rajesh Kumar said. "As their relationship was not approved of by their families, it appears that they wanted to flee but couldn't get any vehicle due to lockdown. Due to this, they might have taken the extreme step," he said. The bodies were handed over to their family members after post-mortem, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teenage-boy-girl-found-hanging-from-tree-in-up-police-say-suicide-822468.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Saffron leader, who said 'Jamaatis' should be shot, arrested||All India Hindu Mahasabha national secretary Pooja Shakun Pandey, who had called for shooting the members of Tableegh-e-Jamaat (TJ) for what she alleged 'spreading' the coronavirus in the country, was on Tuesday arrested. According to the police sources here, Pooja and her husband Ashok Pandey were arrested from their residence in Aligarh town, about 400 kilometres from here, on charges of promoting communal hatred. Pooja, who had been embroiled in controversies earlier also, had written a letter to prime minister Narendra Modi demanding that the TJ members be 'shot', as they had 'spread' the coronavirus in the country. A case was registered against her and her husband in this regard earlier. Pooja had earlier hit the headlines after she had fired bullets at an effigy of Mahatma Gandhi on the latter's death anniversary last year. She had also got the act video recorded and later posted it on the social networking sites. The saffron leader was later arrested. Many other saffron and BJP leaders had made controversial remarks after the recent religious event attended by hundreds of TJ members at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. BJP MLA from Ghaziabad Nand Kishore Gujjar has demanded that TJ chief Maulana Mohammed Saad be hanged. A shooter Vartika Singh has announced a cash reward of Rs. 51 thousand for whosoever helped in the arrest of Saad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/saffron-leader-who-said-jamaatis-should-be-shot-arrested-822478.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Shivraj Singh Chouhan hints at extending COVID-19 lockdown in Madhya Pradesh||The ongoing lockdown, which is in place in view of coronavirus outbreak, might be extended in Madhya Pradesh if needed, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said here on Tuesday. The three-week national lockdown, which came into force on March 24 midnight following the announcement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, entered its fourteenth day on Tuesday. "We will take a decision after analysing the circumstances. Lives of people are more important. We can tolerate lockdown. We can resurrect the economy later on but can't be able to bring back lives of people," Chouhan said in a video statement. Chouhan specifically referred to the situation in Bhopal and Indore, which is worst-affected by the coronavirus outbreak. Out of the total 268 coronavirus cases in the state so far, maximum 151 have been reported from Indore alone while the state capital accounted for 74 cases, including 12 new additions on Tuesday. "In view of the circumstances in Bhopal and Indore, we should be very careful. Given that if the need arises, we will extend it (lockdown) further as the lives of the people are most important for us. We will decide after analysing the circumstances," the chief minister said. A total of 18 persons have died of COVID-19 in Madhya Pradesh so far. Of them, 13 were from Indore, 2 in Ujjain and one each in Khargone, Chhindwara and Bhopal. PM Modi on Monday cautioned people to be ready for a "long fight" against COVID-19 and told his ministers to make plans for slowly exiting the ongoing lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shivraj-singh-chouhan-hints-at-extending-covid-19-lockdown-in-madhya-pradesh-822480.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||People of Jharkhand village say they are going hungry due to lockdown, CM Hemant Soren steps in||People at a village in Jharkhand's Godda district said that they are going hungry due to the nationwide lockdown and are not getting supplies as they do not have ration cards, prompting Chief Minister Hemant Soren to step in and direct local authorities to take action. The incident happened in the Dumarya panchayat area where a large number of people from the Santhali community live. The locals complained that people are going hungry in the area due to the lockdown and they don't even have salt. Further, they are not getting supplies as they don't possess ration cards. As soon as Soren got to know of it, he asked Godda deputy commissioner Kiran Passi to ensure ration and food to the people and also file an action taken report, according to an official statement. He said that more than five lakh people are getting meals in the state through the Mukhya Mantri Didi Kitchens and the police departments kitchens. Our aim is that no person in Jharkhand remains hungry, Soren said. The chief minister also took strong exception to a ration dealer's alleged taunts to a woman who went to his shop in Latehar district. It is alleged that the dealer drove the woman away, saying, You people went outside to work and brought the disease. Go away, ration will not be given. Soren asked the Latehar district administration to look into the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-of-jharkhand-village-say-they-are-going-hungry-due-to-lockdown-cm-hemant-soren-steps-in-822481.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 positive person travelled by bus from Pathankot to Himachal's Chamba||A 40-year-old Tablighi Jamaat member, who tested positive for coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, had travelled in two buses starting from Punjab's Pathankot to reach Palyur village in Chamba district, a senior police official said on Tuesday. "He is a resident of Gangath in Nurpur tehsil of Kangra district. He travelled in two buses between Pathankot and Palyur village on March 17 while returning from Delhi after participating in Nizamuddin congregation," Chamba Superintendent of Police Monica Bhutunguru said. Earlier, a senior police official in Shimla said that the man also boarded a train to reach Pathankot from Delhi while returning to Himachal after attending the congregation. The coach number of the train is being ascertained, he added.  The Jamaat member boarded a Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus at Pathankot at 10.40 am on March 17 to reach Chamba, the police said. Subsequently, he boarded a private bus of Shiva Bus Services at Chamba at 4.40 pm on the same day to go to Palyur village, they added. The Chamba police has requested all the passengers who travelled in those two buses that they should get themselves examined at their nearest health centres without panicking. They may also contact at toll free helpline number 104 or police control room at 01899-225899 for any help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-positive-person-travelled-by-bus-from-pathankot-to-himachals-chamba-822485.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Minor kills four-year-old in Uttar Pradesh while imitating PUBG||In a shocking incident, a minor allegedly killed a four-year-old girl while imitating PUBG in Uttar Pradesh's Agra district, about 350 kilometres from Lucknow. According to the police sources in Lucknow on Tuesday, the minor boy was playing the game on the mobile of his father, a resident of Achnera area in the district. A four-year-old child, the daughter of the minor's landlord, was also there. Sources said that the minor tried to lift the child by her neck imitating the game. The child's neck broke and she died on the spot. The father of the minor hid the body of the child in a stack of hay outside his house in an apparent bid to hide the crime and shield his son. The body of the girl was recovered on Saturday after a search was launched by the family members. During the investigation, the cops recovered the slippers of the child from the house of the minor's father. He was arrested on Monday and during the interrogation narrated the entire incident. The two were taken into custody. While the father was sent to jail, the minor was sent to a juvenile home, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-kills-four-year-old-in-uttar-pradesh-while-imitating-pubg-822504.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: SC refuses to pass any blanket order for release of prisoners above 50 years||The Supreme Court Tuesday refused to pass any blanket order directing the Centre and states to consider granting parole or interim bail to prisoners above 50 years of age as also to those suffering from diabetes, high blood pressure, respiratory problem and other life threatening diseases in view of coronavirus pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices L Nageswara Rao said it doesn't know what the government thinks about the issue but in the court’s view it should be case by case. “We will not pass any blanket order. You make an individual representation before the government about your case,” the bench said. The top court said it was allowing the petitioner in-person advocate Amit Sahni to withdraw the petition with liberty to advise the individual prisoners, who are suffering from any diseases to make a representation to the authorities for their release. “We see no justification in passing a general order.” the bench said. Sahni said in the plea that as per World Health Organization (WHO), older persons and those suffering from pre-existing medical conditions like high blood pressure, diabetes, heart and lung diseases can be seriously affected by the virus, also called Covid-19. The plea said the apex court has already taken cognisance on its own about overcrowding in jails following the virus outbreak but the issue of vulnerability of certain category of persons including those above 50 years was not brought to its notice earlier. On March 23, the top court had directed all the states and Union Territories to constitute high-level committees to consider releasing on parole or interim bail prisoners and undertrials for offences entailing up to seven-year jail term to decongest prisons in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. Sahni, in his plea, has said that persons over 50 years of age are "at more risk" if affected with coronavirus. "Persons with diabetes, respiratory problems, renal disease and other life threatening illness are also prone to COVID-19 and impact of the same can be severe in such persons," the plea said. It said since the issue was not brought up before the apex court earlier, no directions were passed regarding jail inmates above 50 years of age and those having medical conditions and the authorities were not considering them for release on parole or interim bail. On March 16, the top court had taken suo motu (on its own) cognisance of overcrowding of prisons across the country and said it is difficult for jail inmates to maintain social distancing to prevent the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-sc-refuses-to-pass-any-blanket-order-for-release-of-prisoners-above-50-years-822506.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus effect: Jailed Lalu Prasad Yadav may get relief||Ever since Jharkhand has seen a rise in coronavirus cases in the last one week, the State Government headed by Hemant Soren is mulling over a proposal to allow parole to incarcerated Lalu Prasad, who is serving a jail sentence in Ranchi. Incidentally, Lalu is undergoing treatment at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), the premier hospital in Ranchi, where other coronavirus patients from Jharkhand have been kept in the isolation ward. Jharkhand has so far reported four positive coronavirus cases. In view of increasing COVID-19 threat, there has been, of late, growing clamour by Lalu’s supporters that an ailing and ageing RJD chief be given parole. The demand has been specifically made in the wake of the apex court's directive that convicted persons could be given parole in view of a possible threat from COVID-19. Lalu’s wife and former Chief Minister of Bihar, Rabri Devi, has urged the Hemant Soren government in Jharkhand to allow parole to Lalu in view of the Supreme Court ruling last month. “We are considering the proposal and have sought a legal opinion, besides speaking to jail and hospital authorities,” said a senior government functionary.  The former Chief Minister of undivided Bihar, Lalu has been serving a jail sentence after he was convicted in the fodder scam in December 2017. However, the 72-year-old RJD chief is suffering from multiple ailments including hypertension, chronic kidney disease and hypertrophy of prostate. “Earlier, he was operated upon for aortic valve replacement, closure of the patent foramen ovale (hole in heart) and autoplasty. Later, a surgery related to fistulectomy was also done,” a source in RIMS told Deccan Herald.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-effect-jailed-lalu-prasad-yadav-may-get-relief-822509.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Some Uttar Pradesh cops shave heads to keep coronavirus away||The experts may be suggesting washing of hands and use of masks among others to prevent the coronavirus infection but at a police station in Uttar Pradesh, the cops came out with an additional method to keep the virus away. All the 75 cops, including the SHO, deployed at Fatehpur Sikri police station in Uttar Pradesh's Agra district, about 350 kms from here, got their heads shaved to what they said ''stave off'' the coronavirus. ''We often touch our hair....and when we go home, we wash our hands but seldom do we wash our hair so there is always a danger that the virus may stick...therefore we decided to get our heads shaved,'' said one of the cops. He said that they were now certain that they would not be infected with the virus. Senior officials here have now sought an explanation from the SHO about the mass shaving of heads. Barely a couple of days back, a senior BJP leader had fired a flurry of shots in the air to 'scare' the coronavirus. She felt that the virus would simply run away on hearing the shots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/some-uttar-pradesh-cops-shave-heads-to-keep-coronavirus-away-822510.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Hindu Mahasabha office-bearer, husband arrested in Aligarh for ‘inflammatory’ statement||Hindu Mahasabha General Secretary Puja Shakun Pandey and her husband Ashok Pandey were arrested from their home on Tuesday, a day after they were booked for allegedly making an inflammatory statement against a particular community, police said. Superintendent of Police (city) Abhishek Kumar said a case was filed against them on Monday at the Gandhi Park Police Station for the remark made at a press conference on April 4 in the context of the coronavirus pandemic and the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz. Puja was booked on Monday for the comments targeting the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz event in Delhi, police said, adding her husband was also booked later in the day. The FIR against Puja was registered on the basis of a complaint filed by former Samajwadi Party MLA from Aligarh City Haji Zameer Ullah Khan, the police had said on Monday. She was charged with promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race etc (IPC section 153 A) and with making statements creating or promoting emnity hatred or ill-will among classes (505-2), police said. In the complaint given to Senior Superintendent of Police Muniraj G, the former lawmaker had demanded stringent action against Pandey for her statement against all Jamaatis in connection with the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi in March. Khan had accused Puja of trying to disturb the communal peace in the city. Police had said on Monday that Puja in her statement made some highly inflammatory comments against a particular community in connection with the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz at Nizamuddin. Several coronavirus cases have been traced to the Markaz, according to health officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hindu-mahasabha-office-bearer-husband-arrested-in-aligarh-for-inflammatory-statement-822514.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||MPHRC notice to chief secy over report of corona positive officers ‘delaying’ hospitalisation||The Madhya Pradesh Human Rights Commission (MPHRC) has sought the state's chief secretary’s response over reports that some COVID-19 positive IAS officers and health department staffers delayed their hospitalization by up to two days, according to an official letter. In the letter written on Tuesday to Chief Secretary Iqbal Singh Bains, the Commission said it took cognisance of the matter on the basis of a news report and facts provided by Congress MP Vivek Tankha through his tweets. The chief secretary has been asked to file his response to the Commission by 5 PM Thursday. The news report claimed that senior IAS officer Pallavi Jain Govil, the Principal Secretary (Health), and other staff of the health department got themselves admitted to hospital after a lot of bureaucratic and administrative interventions, and two days after they were tested positive for the deadly coronavirus. Tankha told PTI, "I requested the commission on the strength of my tweets and news reports that a serious situation has arisen in Madhya Pradesh where because of callousness of the health department, the lives of people within the and outside the department are in danger.” There is exponential spread of coronavirus in the health department because of wanton disregard of government guidelines which must necessarily be followed by all, he said, adding that it "shows administration in poor light". The chief secretary has been asked by the Commission to give response on points including as to when the officers mentioned in the news reports were tested positive and as to why they were not kept in an isolation ward of the hospital. The Commission has also asked for details of the officers responsible for not following the government guidelines on ensuring immediate admission of coronavirus positive bureaucrats to hospital. "It shows a callous attitude by senior IAS officer Govil, who is incharge of the health department and other staff under her. Why did she not get herself admitted to hospital after her test reports confirmed coronavirus?," asked Ajay Dubey, a social activist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mphrc-notice-to-chief-secy-over-report-of-corona-positive-officers-delaying-hospitalisation-822522.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 patient dies in Kashmir, 15 fresh cases in J&K||A 54-year-old man died of coronavirus in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, taking the death toll to three, officials said. The number of cases in the Union Territory now stands at 125 and 15 of them were reported on Tuesday. The deceased, a resident of Bandipora district, was undergoing treatment at a hospital here when he tested positive for the infection, they said. All the three deaths have taken place in Kashmir Valley. A 65-year-old man from Srinagar was the first fatality in Kashmir on March 26 followed by another man of same age from Tangmarg in Baramulla district who died on March 29. Of the 15 cases reported on Tuesday, nine are from Kashmir division and six from Jammu division, they said. Aggressive contact tracing of the new cases has been started while some new areas have been declared red zones in Srinagar.  Four people have been cured and discharged so far. More than 32,000 people have been put under surveillance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-patient-dies-in-kashmir-15-fresh-cases-in-jk-822537.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: FIR against COVID-19 patient who hid travel history||A case has been registered here against a coronavirus-infected man who allegedly did not disclose that he had returned from Dubai and went on to organize a post-funeral ceremony after his mother's death. Around 1,500 persons attended the customary feast organized by the accused on March 20, according to the police. His careless behavior probably led to at least 11 other persons including his wife catching infection, a health official said on Tuesday. The man, who worked as a waiter in Dubai, returned here on March 17 following his mother's death but did not tell the district authorities about his travel history amid the coronavirus outbreak, said a police official. On March 20 he organized the customary 13th day post- funeral rituals and a feast for the community, said inspector Vinay Yadav of Civil Lines police station. The accused violated the orders of district authorities that those who had returned from abroad must isolate themselves at home, said inspector Yadav. Arond 1,500 persons attended the feast organized by the accused, he said. Chief Medical and Health Officer of the district R C Bandil said that on March 27 the man and his wife turned up at the government hospital with COVID-19 symptoms, and tested positive for the disease. On April 3, ten persons who had attended the feast were also found to have contracted the infection. As of Monday, over 30,000 persons were quarantined at home in the district, Bandil said. Most of the persons who attended the feast hav been traced, he added. A First Information Report was registered against him on Monday night under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), inspector Yadav said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-fir-against-covid-19-patient-who-hid-travel-history-822539.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||IRCTC suspends bookings for the three trains run by it till April 30||Railway subsidiary IRCTC which runs three private trains in the country has decided to suspend their services till April 30, officials said on Tuesday. The bookings for the three trains -- the Kashi Mahakal Express on the Varanasi-Indore route, the Lucknow-New Delhi Tejas and the Ahmedabad-Mumbai Tejas -- were earlier stopped only between March 25 and April 14 during the nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus crisis, and booking of tickets for travel after the lockdown period was allowed. Officials said the decision to not run the trains till April 30 was taken keeping in mind that the cases of coronavirus in the country were increasing by the day. All passengers who have booked tickets during that period will get full refunds, an India Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/irctc-suspends-bookings-for-the-three-trains-run-by-it-till-april-30-822554.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Maharashtra coronavirus cases cross 1000-mark, death toll touches 64||The number of COVID-19 positive cases continued to shoot northwards in Maharashtra with progressive infections crossing the 1,000-mark and deaths touching 64. With the compounding of cases it does not appear that the lockdown would be lifted in Maharashtra, at least, the Mumbai-Pune belt, that has emerged as hub of the deadly viral infection in India. According to figures available form the Maharashtra government's Public Health department and BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation, total infections stands at 1,018. In India's financial capital of Mumbai, the total number of cases stood at 652 and deaths 40. With 12 more deaths in Mumbai metropolitan region and elsewhere in Maharashtra, the total casualties are now 64. So far, 70 persons have been treated discharged. The 12 deaths include 6 in Mumbai, 3 in Pune, one each in Mumbai suburbs, Satara and Nagpur.  Till date, 34,695 people are in home quarantine and 4,008 in institutional quarantine. In a major move, the health authorities have sealed off at least two major residential localities in ‘mass quarantine’ in Pune city in view of the high incidence of COVID-19 positive cases from those areas. They include the localities between Kondwa, Maharshinagar to RTO in Junya Peth. The state government has decided to extend the flagship ‘Shiv Bhojan Thali’ scheme right down to taluka levels for the next three months. The meals will be available for Rs.5 at extended service hours from 11 am-3 pm, which will prove beneficial to thousands of stranded migrants all over the state, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said after the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/maharashtra-coronavirus-cases-cross-1000-mark-death-toll-touches-64-822565.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Foreign docs fighting COVID-19 at AIIMS want salaries, institute says they are sponsored by their countries||A group of 70 foreign doctors at Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences working to combat COVID-19 alongside their Indian colleagues say they have been reduced to borrowing money because they have not been paid their salaries. While AIIMS authorities maintain the doctors -- from Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and Bangladesh -- are sponsored by their respective countries, the junior and senior resident medicos say banks back home are not operating because of the lockdown everywhere. A senior AIIMS administrative official said the institute is under no obligation to pay the doctors. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 5, the AIIMS’ Residents Doctors Association said amendments should be made in the rules so the foreign doctors are paid their salaries. The foreign doctors, irrespective of their nationality, are “working tirelessly and under similar stress”, the letter said. The AIIMS Resident Doctors Association, the umbrella body representing all resident doctors at the premier institution, also urged Modi to provide special financial benefits to the foreign doctors for their “selfless efforts” in treating people amid the coronavirus outbreak. “There is urgent need to solve the payment issue of foreign doctors. They are serving our country in this hour of crisis. The concerned authorities must give them their dues," Adarsh Singh, president of the RDA, told PTI. The foreign doctors said they are relying on money borrowed from their colleagues as banks are not operating in their respective countries due to the lockdown. “We have been tirelessly working in critical conditions day and night like our Indian colleagues yet we are not receiving payments. We are unable to even ask for money from home due to the lockdown and hence have to borrow money from our Indian friends here,” Sagar Poudel, a doctor from Nepal with the community medicine department of AIIMS, told PTI. He said the authorities should at least release their stipends as they have been serving Indian patients under tremendous pressure despite their financial crises. The foreign resident doctors said their Indian counterparts at AIIMS earn between Rs 80,000 to Rs 1 lakh per month depending on the year they are in. But they don’t get a single rupee from the hospital. They also rue the fact that Modi’s announcement of Rs 50 lakh insurance per person for frontline health workers who are treating coronavirus patents does not cover them as they are foreigners. Ansarul Haq, another foreign doctor from Nepal at AIIMS, alleged the hospital is making a mockery of the system as it is defying the Delhi High Court order. "While others who are rendering the same service as us are getting paid, we are being ignored. Don't we have families to feed? Are we not humans?" he asked PTI. Every year, doctors from SAARC countries come to India to pursue medical courses followed by a residency in three institutes – AIIMS, Delhi, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, and the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education & Research (JIPMER), Pondicherry. In 2013, the Delhi High Court directed AIIMS to start paying its foreign doctors on par with Indian doctors. The prime minister and the Ministry of External Affairs in 2018 also directed the institute to make necessary amendments and release the due salary of the foreign doctors. While PGIMER and JIPMER have been paying their foreign doctors, AIIMS has not because it places the doctors from abroad in the same category as sponsored students from India, an official explained. The Health Ministry also allows foreign resident doctors to draw stipends on par with their Indian counterparts, but prohibits sponsored students from doing so. However, the AIIMS administration has not initiated the procedure yet. According to an AIIMS official, all sponsored students, including those from the Army, Navy, Air Force and state governments, are being paid by the sponsoring authority. “They do not compete on open seats but on reserved seats with hardly any competition and are aware when they apply that their government is supposed to pay them. They can also appear in open competition as others, qualify and get paid,” he told PTI. Another senior administrative officer, who did not wish to be named, said the matter was “technical” in nature and would be sorted in “due course of time”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/foreign-docs-fighting-covid-19-at-aiims-want-salaries-institute-says-they-are-sponsored-by-their-countries-822569.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Haryana's coronavirus tally climbs by 33 to 129||The total of 129 includes 17 patients who were discharged after they recovered and two deaths. There are 110 active cases in the state, it said. Of the 33 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, 23 are from Nuh district, seven from Faridabad, two from Gurugram and one from Jind, the health department said in its evening bulletin. Ten foreign nationals -- six from Sri Lanka, and one each from Nepal, Thailand, Indonesia and South Africa -- and 50 people from other states of India are among the 129 cases reported in Haryana, it stated. State Health Minister Anil Vij maintained that the spike in the number of COVID-19 cases is due to many Tablighi Jamaat members testing positive for the disease. Vij, who also holds the home portfolio, said 1,526 Tablighi Jamaat members, including 107 foreigners, have been tracked down in the state so far. "Tablighi Jamaat members constitute a sizeable chunk of the total active cases in the state," he said. So far samples of nearly 900 Jamaat members out of 1,526 have been collected and all will be tested. A majority of those who entered the state before the lockdown have been traced to Nuh district, he added. Vij again warned all Tablighi Jamaat members who may still be hiding in the state to report to the concerned district administration by 5 pm on Wednesday, failing which strict action will be taken against them as per law. "I have already asked that samples of all Tablighi Jamaat members be sent for testing. Once we have all the reports in the next two-three days, we should be able to assess the situation. When we know the exact number of positive cases among them, then we will find out who all they came in contact with and where they stayed so that we can act accordingly," he said. "I am absolutely confident that we will be able to manage things," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryanas-coronavirus-tally-climbs-by-33-to-129-822585.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Wearing masks at public places made mandatory in Chandigarh||“We have made it mandatory for people in Chandigarh to wear masks or cloth on their face from Wednesday,” the Union Territory of Chandigarh Adviser Manoj Parida said here. He said anybody flouting the order will be warned by the police. However, the decision regarding levying penalty on violators is yet to be taken, Parida said. He said Chandigarh will be the first Union Territory (UT) which has made wearing masks mandatory. The UT of Chandigarh has reported 18 coronavirus cases so far and of them, seven have been cured, Parida said. Besides, the administration has also decided that the payment of water and electricity charges and payment of house rent, including for rehabilitation colonies, will be deferred, he said. Chandigarh administrator V P Singh Badnore on Tuesday held a meeting to view the situation here. Parida informed Badnore that the number of positive cases had come down in Chandigarh to 11 because of curfew measures and observation of social distancing by residents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-wearing-masks-at-public-places-made-mandatory-in-chandigarh-822589.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||UP man claims to have found COVID-19 cure; arrested||Chitbaragaon police station SHO Hari Ram Maurya said Rakesh Kumar Singh, a resident of Teekaa Deori village, was claiming before villagers that he had made a medicine to cure COVID-19 and he can treat anyone. Police said a case has been registered against him under relevant sections of the IPC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-man-claims-to-have-found-covid-19-cure-arrested-822593.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||NCW forms task force to help elderly during lockdown||A task force has been constituted by the NCW to help the elderly or those in need of support during the ongoing lockdown imposed in view of the coronavirus outbreak. The National Commission for Women (NCW), on Twitter, shared an email address mailto:helpatncw@gmail.com"helpatncw@gmail.com which can be used for assistance in case of medical emergency or doctor visit, medicine and groceries purchase. India is currently under the biggest lockdown with around 1.3 billion people asked to stay home in view of the coronavirus outbreak, which has claimed over 100 lives and infected more than 4000 people in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncw-forms-task-force-to-help-elderly-during-lockdown-822609.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Over 3,000 people detained in Delhi for violating lockdown orders||Over 180 cases were registered and 3,633 people detained in Delhi on Tuesday for violating lockdown orders, police said. The central government had imposed the 21-day nationwide lockdown from March 24 midnight to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. According to data shared by police, 183 cases were registered under section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code till 5pm. Police said a total of 3,633 people have been detained under section 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers) and 450 vehicles have been impounded under section 66 of the Delhi Police Act. A total of 797 movement passes have been issued, they said. Police said since the lockdown was imposed, a total of 58,963 people have been detained for violating orders under section 65 of the Delhi Police Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-over-3000-people-detained-in-delhi-for-violating-lockdown-orders-822618.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Amritsar family refuses to claim COVID-19 victim's body; admin performs last rites||In yet another case in the state, a family in Amritsar refused to claim the body of a coronavirus victim, forcing the district administration to perform his last rites, officials said on Tuesday. Similarly, a family in Ludhiana on Monday had refused to accept and cremate the body of a 69-year-old COVID-19 positive woman. The administration there had too perform her last rites. According to an official release, the 69-year-old Amritsar man, a retired superintending engineer at the civic body there, had died at an private hospital on Monday. His family did not respond to the administration when it asked them to claim the body, it said. Thereafter, officials approached the family, but they did not come forward for the last rites.   The official release said the daughter of the deceased is pursuing an MBBS course and none of his family members reached the cremation ground where he was consigned to flames. Initially, the man had tested negative for COVID-19 at the Government Medical College in Amritsar. But when his condition did not improve, he was shifted to a private hospital, where he tested positive for the disease. Civil Surgeon Amritsar Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said, “A few days ago, he tested negative for the infection at the GMC lab. Then he went to a private hospital which declared him positive in their preliminary report. Thereafter, we took his samples again for confirmation and found him positive for COVID-19." In another such incident in Amritsar, residents of Verka village did not allow the cremation of Padma Shri recipient and former Golden temple Hazuri Raagi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa. The villagers had refused to allow the cremation of the Gurbani exponent fearing the spread of the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amritsar-family-refuses-to-claim-covid-19-victims-body-admin-performs-last-rites-822621.html
07-04-2020||North and Central||Two more die in Delhi, contact history of 40 yet to be traced||Fifty-one fresh cases were reported, taking the total to 576, of which the contact history of 12 people were not known. On Monday, the health authorities had said they were yet to ascertain how 28 people had contracted the virus infection, taking the total number of such people now to 40. Of the fresh cases, only four were linked to Tablighi Jamaat, whose mid-March gathering was the cause for a large number of cases across the country, taking the total number of cases in the capital to 331. Statistics also showed that a total of 203 patients had either returned from abroad or their contacts. According to official statistics, a total of 546 patients are still in hospital while 20 have been discharged and one migrated out. Today's figure was more than double of what was reported on Monday when it reported 22 cases. The figures will be a concern for health authorities as the number of patients has doubled while it has been on a declining trend in the past couple of days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-more-die-in-delhi-contact-history-of-40-yet-to-be-traced-822647.html
07-04-2020||Opinion||Why healthcare workers should be our last line of defence against COVID-19, not first||Everyone must have understood by now how the deadly novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) originated, spread in Wuhan and then to the rest of the world. Apart from the economic impact and the humanitarian crisis unleashed by this pandemic, the other important problem that it has given rise to is the risk it poses to frontline health workers, now often described as ‘corona warriors’.   The lay person gets the disease through fomite transmission, (where a patient touches the surface and another person comes in contact with it) or through droplet spread, where the viral load is comparatively less.  However, when a treating health care worker (HCW) gets the disease, he or she stands to get it directly from a COVID-19 patient. Here the initial viral load is so high that the severity of the disease and fatality rates are much higher than those among the general population. There are many reasons why a HCW could get infected – lack of adequate Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), treating undetected, asymptomatic people who may have reported for an unrelated illness and the use of equipment that is way beyond its usage limit among others.  Let us look at the number of cases in other countries (where the numbers are quite reliable) as far as HCWs go. The latest figures show that healthcare workers make up about 9 per cent of Italy’s COVID-19 cases. In Spain, reports peg between 12-14 per cent of infected cases as those of HCWs. They might not make up a huge chunk of the general population, but the number of cases and the fatalities among HCWs paints a grim picture. Here is why common people need to think of HCWs not as the first line of defense, but as the last one. If any HCW gets exposed to the virus they need to be quarantined till they test negative for the disease (fourteen days). In case they are infected, in any case, they will be out of circulation for the period of time it takes for treatment. That means till they return the workforce in health units stands depleted. For instance an anesthetist, intensivist and ICU staff are basically irreplaceable, as these are the people who can take a sick person out of his or her deathbed. Even if there are ICUs and ventilators and patients on them, there will be no one to handle them. It is like an army, which can afford to lose an aircraft but not a pilot.  Moreover, every time a HCW gets affected, the workload on the already tired staff mounts. On top of all this, in India we also have a special problem – handling of  unruly attenders i.e. those who accompany patients. India cannot afford to let this happen especially now when we need every hand on the deck to tackle the health emergency facing us all.   A HCW is always ready to work again after the quarantine/ illness gets over. But if an infected HCW continues to work they may be the reason for the spread of the infection to other people, including their loved ones. If they happen to infect an elderly person in the family, the virus can wreak havoc in that family, both in terms of emotion and health.  What needs to be done is to get more and more of personal protection kits to healthcare professionals – doctors, nurses, lab technicians, housekeeping staff and those who take care of biomedical waste. This is key because there should be no fear of infection among them while working.  Let's not take this pandemic lightly. Here is what is incumbent on each citizen: Follow practices such as social distancing, hand hygiene, staying at home; don’t hide travel history; and report to the nearest facility where a sick person can be handled in case of symptoms. By practicing all this, common people automatically become frontline warriors, helping everyone in winning the war against coronavirus.   (Dr Manjunath Sharma is a Bengaluru-based paediatrician) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-healthcare-workers-should-be-our-last-line-of-defence-against-covid-19-not-first-822521.html
07-04-2020||Opinion||Health can be a way out of the middle-income trap||By Andy Mukherjee Even before the coronavirus, India was at a crossroads. At roughly $2,000 a year, per capita income in 2018 was half of what the country needed to become an upper-middle-income economy. Catching up with advanced nations posed a more daunting challenge. Should India strive to break free of the middle-income trap by becoming a factory to the world, taking over from China? Or would it be better off prioritizing the domestic economy, expanding its rather narrow base of mass consumption? The answer in the post-pandemic world may support the second strategy, with health infrastructure as its centerpiece. JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist Jahangir Aziz stirred up a debate late last year when — taking his cue perhaps from the U.S-China trade tensions — he said that the “game is over” for emerging markets that were “addicted to globalization.” India, he argued, refuses to accept that it’s just another developing economy that grew on the back of globalization.  The coronavirus outbreak has only deepened India’s vulnerability. Trade in goods has slowed the world over. Movement of people has halted. Even the dollar, the lingua franca of global commerce, is finding it hard to go where it’s needed. India’s edge in software services will be blunted if swathes of Western industrial capacity get rescued by taxpayers, who will demand that firms stop outsourcing and create jobs at home. Indian startups will struggle to raise money from global private equity firms, which are busy angling for a public bailout of their portfolio companies, as my colleague Shuli Ren has noted. Then there’s geopolitics. The mistrust between Washington and Beijing has gone up several notches because of the blame game around the pandemic. To the extent the East Asian model of export-led growth requires a wealthy core economy buying cheap widgets from a periphery it hopes to be able to control, it has run its course. There won’t be a next China.  So how should New Delhi navigate this scared new world? In dealing with the virus and its aftermath, the Indian government is bound to shed fiscal restraints, and rely on the central bank to fund its spending.  Once it’s on the gravy train of deficit monetization, neither India nor the rest of the world will want to get off. This won’t matter as long as India can demonstrate that public spending is boosting productive capacity. One way to do that, as a senior financial services executive put to me, was to make public health the engine of a state-funded investment drive.  A highly contagious outbreak can overwhelm even the most sophisticated of medical systems, but as Fitch Solutions says, with 8.5 hospital beds and 8 physicians per 10,000 people, India’s healthcare industry is particularly at risk. By comparison, Japan and South Korea have 120 to 130 beds for 10,000 people. That explains the severity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 21-day shutdown, which has caused enormous hardship for the urban poor and migrant workers.   Modi’s “Make in India” slogan rings hollow when doctors have to don raincoats and helmets in the absence of protective equipment. To say that even the U.S. is short of gear and tests only proves that the flawed American healthcare model need not be followed. The World Bank has fast-tracked a $1 billion loan for India to speed up coronavirus detection and treatment. But the bulk of the future investment in new hospitals and emergency rooms must come from the state. Expensive private medical education paid for with hefty student loans must give way to scaled-up subsidized training. Just reversing the 1:2 ratio of government versus out-of-pocket health spending will unleash purchasing power. Two decades ago, when India was shaking off the vestiges of its socialist past, 31% of medicine in inpatient treatments was available for free in public hospitals. Now, when market forces rule, the share of free drugs is down to less than 9%. Imagine the anxiety it breeds among the poor who are one mishap away from destitution.  It’s unclear whether the current crisis will prompt the U.S. to drop its deep resistance to a single-payer health system. India, which has no qualms about being a welfare state, could emulate the Korean or Taiwanese model in which a single national insurer, funded by budgetary support as well as taxes on workers and employers, pays service providers and drug companies. Even Korea took 12 years to achieve 100% coverage. A much larger country like India will need stepped-up public investment to take its fledgling universal healthcare program to all.   As for the rest of the economy, emphasizing domestic demand doesn’t mean import substitution. Nor does it imply unwarranted export pessimism. A long hiatus in globalization won’t preclude opportunities for India to boost its share of world exports. With a health-centered investment agenda, India can supply doctors, nurses, paramedics, technicians and other medical professionals to the world. It can also supply valuable data and analytics. Even with the country busy fighting the coronavirus, planners need to start thinking of tomorrow’s battles. In India’s case, one of its biggest weaknesses could also be its growth plan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/health-can-be-a-way-out-of-the-middle-income-trap-822654.html
07-04-2020||Panorama||Looking beyond the lockdown: Re-orient economic policy towards the poor||India is in an unprecedented coronavirus emergency lockdown. It is facile to be wise after the event and criticise the decision, and finger-pointing at this juncture can do no good. However, it is necessary to discuss the issues, anticipated or not, which have arisen from the lockdown and which may arise later  The immediate issues at the forefront are, how to alleviate the suffering of hundreds of millions of poor who are undoubted victims of the lockdown, and how to augment the pathetic hospital-bed-equipment-medical system situation. The unprecedented humanitarian crisis may well cause the number of deaths to surpass that due to COVID-19 itself. That is in the darkening future, even as poor people increasingly argue that hunger is a sure slayer while COVID-19 is nowhere as certain, discomfiting the “caring” government.  The lockdown is a body blow to the already slowed-down economy, with damage to the economy yet to be assessed. Dark clouds loom large on the economic horizon, foreboding worse in coming weeks and months. A failed economy inevitably portends social and economic chaos, which must be avoided at all costs. The difficulty is to estimate when the presently failing economy may sink below the point of resuscitation, unless adequate and timely measures are taken to revive it, and what those measures could be. It is clear, perhaps even undisputable, that the trajectory of the economy, especially since the 1991 New Economic Policy, has been in contravention of the Directive Principles of State Policy, particularly of Art.38(1) & (2), Art.39(b) & (c), and Art.48A. Specifically, Art.38 says: “The State shall strive to promote the welfare of the people by securing ... a social order in which justice, social, economic and political, shall inform all the institutions of national life” [and] “to minimise inequalities in income ...” Art.39 says: “The State shall direct its policy [so that] ownership and control of ... resources are distributed to subserve the common good” [and] “the operation of the economic system does not result in concentration of wealth & means of production to the common detriment”. Art.48A says: “The State shall endeavour to protect and improve the environment and to safeguard the forests and wildlife of the country”. Successive governments have heeded the voice of the wealthiest and most influential sections of society in preference to the voices coming from the lowest layers of the socio-economic heap. Resultantly, over the years, the Executive and the Legislative have institutionalised injustice, attenuated liberties, enhanced inequality, and in recent years destroyed fraternity, all of which the Judiciary has only partially mitigated in its more independent and fearless moments. The pillars of the Constitution have failed the people. The economic paradigm of “progress” and “development” continues to be ‘industrialisation at any cost’ in blindly chasing the holy grail of economic growth. It has pushed the majority of people to the economic margins, accentuated economic inequality in an already unequal socio-economic polity, and also destroyed the environment on which the economy itself is founded. Greed-driven violation of the Constitution has occurred precisely because, according to Art.37, the Directive Principles are not justiciable, making successive governments effectively unaccountable to the public. Have I digressed? I think not. If the preambular principles of justice, liberty, equality and fraternity had not been blatantly abandoned by successive governments over the decades, today’s society would have been more equitable. It would have made the current social-distancing lockdown quite bearable, as it is today for the top 5% of India. But that was not to be. The lockdown-triggered mass exodus from cities and the ensuing humanitarian crisis is evidence. At this juncture, the government has no alternative other than seeking to relieve the humanitarian crisis by cash handouts and feeding the poor. The better-endowed sections of society are coming forward in support, led by Azim Premji Foundation, Tata Trust and other corporates with huge donations, and RBI has cut the Repo rate, putting more money into circulation. Notwithstanding, if the lockdown is extended or re-imposed after a break, the time is not far when money runs out and government is forced to print more currency to boost money supply. However, production of every kind (especially food) not matching up with money growth due to near-total disruption of supply chains within and between different sectors of the economy, may well lead to uncontrollable inflation, fatal to the economy. One suggestion is that all government servants and all government pensioners, as also all elected representatives and members of the judiciary who are above a certain still-to-be-determined income level should accept a still-to-be-determined cut in salary/pension for a still-to-be-determined period, so as to release money to handle the emergency. This has been partly done, with a 30% cut in salary for one year for the PM, President and MPs. Further, corporations (not MSME) need to be directed to do likewise. All projects budgeted or in the pipeline which do not address poverty (e.g., the Central Vista re-development in Delhi, statues, etc.), should be shelved to release money. Tax incentives and exemptions of at least Rs 18 lakh crore given from 2014-15 to 2018-19 as “Revenue foregone” benefitted corporates, and like amounts of public money were spent to rescue NPA-diseased banks, even private banks, when about 4,000 large borrowers account for 90% of NPAs. If corporates had been taxed and NPAs recovered, the correspondingly increased budget for health, education and welfare would have been in satisfaction of Art.38 & Art.39. This policy should be reversed. The justification for such measures would lie in the logic that these sections have benefited from economic policies which have caused the poverty, and which now necessitate cash handouts and feeding the poor who are driven to destitution by the lockdown. Resuscitation of the economy may only be possible by adopting change in direction of economic policy so as to be people-oriented, in keeping with the Directive Principles. Only then will there be meaning to the oath on the Constitution that public officials take on assuming office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/looking-beyond-the-lockdown-re-orient-economic-policy-towards-the-poor-822273.html
07-04-2020||Panorama||Break the pyramid of communal tension before it turns into another riot||The battle against the COVID-19 pandemic deserves our undivided attention. This is a time to focus our attention and energies on that one common goal. The communal colour being given to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin must be avoided at all costs, particularly at this time. Delhi has just emerged from communal riots. We cannot afford to feed into what I call the pyramid of communal tension and descend into what can be another round of violence. Indeed, all rioting is preceded by the building up of the pyramid. The trigger can be small, but the build-up is not so. A typical inquiry into communal violence starts with questions like how the riots began and which community made the first move. In India, where the two communities generally involved are the Hindus and the Muslims, both blame each other for initiating the riots and justify their respective responses to protect their respective communities. Many years ago, while on a fellowship, I learnt an interesting fact about Indian society. Two cities can react differently to the same situation. A small incident can lead to major rioting in one city while the other city does not react to a bigger incident. This difference may sound strange but is not inexplicable; there are objective reasons behind the difference. These objective reasons are responsible for either inciting violence or for maintaining peace. In my studies, I discovered that communal tension builds up in the form of a pyramid. And it must not be presumed that one incident of violence immediately descends into communal riots. The reality is that one group is preparing itself for violence over a period of time and violence explodes at one point in that journey. In my study of 10 communal riots in India, I found that riots did not start with the first incident of violence. Long before the riot began, rumours, police carelessness, hate speeches by politicians lead to a build-up of a pyramid of tension. The apex of the pyramid is the tipping point. At the tipping point, any action involving two competing communities can lead to communal violence on a large scale. If the pyramid of communal tension is absent, often even a major incident does not lead to a communal flare up. If the pyramid of hatred has been built and kept burning, even a small incident can lead to large-scale violence and rioting. Justice DP Madan, who probed the 1970 riots in Bhiwandi, Jalgaon and Mahad, rightfully said that if one were to look superficially, one would wonder how trivial issues led to arson, looting and killings. However, it does not require any great scholarship to realise that trivial incidents never trigger riots; there are underlying tensions that explode when a tipping point is reached. One can see the same behind the recent riots in Delhi. The capital city was, in a way, preparing itself for riots for the past few months. I would have been surprised if riots did not occur. The general air has been of deterioration of the Hindu-Muslim relationship and the creation of the pyramid of tension which could reach its apex point any moment. The incendiary speech by the BJP’s Kapil Mishra was merely a flashpoint. This was preceded by a series of important actions on issues like triple talaq, Article 370, the Supreme Court judgement on Babri Masjid, the complex issues around the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam, the Citizenship Amendment Act and the threat to implement NRC across the country. The government had bitten off more than it could chew. Whether or not these are in the national interest can be debated, but in the social media these were being depicted as the victory of one community over the other. The fraying thread of communal harmony finally snapped on February 23-24. The flashpoint was the threat given by Kapil Mishra to demonstrators staging a sit-in at the Jaffrabad metro station. For more than two months before this, there was a sit-in by women at Shaheen Bagh, which blocked pedestrian traffic on the Delhi-Noida corridor. Why did Kapil Mishra’s party or the police not evict the Shaheen Bagh protesters? Was it because Shaheen Bagh was needed to polarise voters before the Delhi Assembly polls? The Shaheen Bagh agitation will go down in history as a constructive and peaceful protest on a national issue. But it is also true that the prolonging of the protest led to communal tension. The way it became a symbol of resistance in the entire country, the delay in the Supreme Court taking a decision on the sit-in and the lack of an exit strategy on the part of the protesters prolonged the agitation. It was then natural for it to be imitated in other places. Women tried to replicate Shaheen Bagh in Jaffrabad and eventually the pyramid reached its apex from where a small incident could have major repercussions. Although Kapil Mishra gave the protesters three days to vacate the Jaffarabad sit-in, he forgot that having once made an incendiary speech, the violent situation would not remain in his control. Hence, it is no wonder that immediately after he left, his supporters organised a sit-in to support the CAA. Soon, there were clashes between the pro- and anti-CAA protesters. The recent Delhi riots were no doubt spontaneous, but the pyramid of tension for it had been constructed and the tipping point came on February 23 when a single stone hurled from either side was enough to start a riot. If communal violence is to be prevented, we must not allow the pyramid of communal tension to build up. (The writer is a former Director General of Police, Uttar Pradesh) (The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/break-the-pyramid-of-communal-tension-before-it-turns-into-another-riot-822671.html
07-04-2020||Right in the Middle||Grandparents and grandchildren||When I am in a slightly naughty mood and some parents are present, I let out a little known statement-- grandparents and grandchildren have common enemies and they are parents. Before this is fully absorbed, many parents start fuming --what are you saying? Are we the enemies of our own children? You can’t drive a car without a driving license. You can’t be a hotel chef if you haven’t done the right course. But you can be a parent without any training. Our parents brought us up and we learnt from them what right and what is wrong behaviour. Our parents didn’t know much about parenting and we continue to perpetuate that behaviour. My experience is that grandparents and grandchildren make the best of friends. Once, I was pouring a small drink, my son announced that I was a drunkard. To get my twelve-year-old grandson to back me up, I asked him if what his father had said was true. His response “of course”. Remember the time that you stood on one leg to prove that you were not drunk. And then he explained that dad was only pulling your leg and you took him seriously. Another example. I am a messy eater and I drop a bit of food while I am eating. My granddaughter will drop her food and say, “see what you have done”. However, if someone came to visit us, her behaviour would be prim and proper. The children are sensitive enough to discriminate between appropriate and inappropriate behaviour.  Did my parents teach me the technique of parenting? No way. I read an article on the subject and the net learning was to bring up the children with unconditional love until they are five or six years old. And then until they are about sixteen or seventeen, nurture with structure. That means laying down the rules of the game, get their nod, and shake hands. And if there is a breach of protocol, have a chat and most likely they will own up to their mistake. And the next stage of their lives, stop being a parent and become a friend.  This may be time for reflection for most of us.  Educator Charles Swindoll had this to say. “Each day, we make deposits on the minds of our children. Let those deposits be friendly”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/grandparents-and-grandchildren-822669.html
07-04-2020||Second Edit||Prepare, inform nation of what comes next||The nation heeded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to light candles and diyas from all homes on Sunday evening as a sign of our resolve to fight the coronavirus, which is sweeping across states. The Prime Minister has also warned that the coming fight is going to be long and hard. This needs reiteration because rituals and ceremonies have a way of creating a false sense of confidence among the people and making them complacent. The Prime Minister has taken the people through such symbolic actions more than once. Two weeks ago, he told the people to clap hands and clang vessels to support the health workers fighting the virus. Then he called for the spectacle of lights to be created across the country. Symbols, especially traditional symbols which have deep roots in the collective mind, can inspire and energise people. But they need to be supported by actions, and there is the need to go beyond them now. The countrywide scene lighted up by the diyas does not give much comfort and is cause for serious concern. The number of infected persons is fast rising and there are more hotspots emerging across the country. The lockdown is not being followed well in many places. Some people still have not understood how important the lockdown is, and there are frequent violations in many places even by persons who are considered to be knowledgeable. Another mistake is that many people think the lockdown is the remedy for the disease caused by the virus, while it only delays the circulation of the virus in the community. Governments and administrations also have the responsibility to ensure that people do not have a reason to violate the lockdown, by providing for the delivery of essential supplies and services to them. The responsibility also extends to taking care of the needs of the poor, the daily wage earners and the migrant workers whom the government did not take into consideration when it decided on the lockdown suddenly.  The lockdown also gives governments the time to enhance the infrastructure and facilities which are needed to cope with the increase in the number of patients in the coming days and weeks. More test kits, ventilators, personal protection gear, hospital space and medical personnel are required in the coming weeks and arrangements have to be made to produce them or buy them. Governments will also have to be transparent about their plans and arrangements, and decisions that affect the people should not come as a surprise, as when the lockdown decision was announced. Keeping people informed, and doing so well in time, is vitally important, especially when the struggle is for the long haul.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/prepare-inform-nation-of-what-comes-next-822270.html
07-04-2020||Second Edit||Did govt buckle under Trump’s threat?||India’s decision to partially lift the ban on export of hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol formulations is worrying for several reasons. For one, the decision seems to have come not after a careful consideration of India’s interests and the health and well-being of its own people but under duress from the United States. Washington has been pressing India to ship hydroxychloroquine to the US. Although there is little evidence that hydroxychloroquine, an anti-malarial drug, is effective in curing COVID-19, US President Donald Trump has described it as a ‘game-changer’ in fighting the coronavirus. With COVID-19 cases in the US soaring towards half a million, Trump is keen to get India, the world’s leading manufacturer of hydroxychloroquine, to supply the drug. On Sunday, he reportedly discussed this issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The following day, the US President ratcheted up pressure on India, warning of “retaliation” if India did not do his bidding. Whether or not the Modi government buckled under this threat, the timing of its decision to unfreeze the exports, coming as it did within hours of the warning, makes it seem that it did. Only a few days ago, India imposed a ban on export of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) and medicines that are necessary for its own fight against the coronavirus pandemic. Why then the sudden volte-face? At the time it imposed the ban, the government did say that that it would revise this decision if necessary, after taking stock of the coronavirus situation at home and domestic requirements for drugs. In the days since, the number of COVID-19 cases in India has soared, underscoring rising local requirements for medicines. Clearly, an assessment of domestic needs did not factor in the government’s decision to partially lift the ban on export of drugs. Providing other countries with medicines and other supplies when they are faced with a crisis is important and necessary, and the US is at present the worst-hit among the countries fighting the coronavirus, especially as its doctors and frontline workers are among the worst affected. In these times, India must aid the US in whatever ways it can, including by supplying hydroxychloroquine, which is expected to be of help to frontline health workers and those who are severely affected by coronavirus. However, the big question is whether India’s export of hydroxychloroquine will benefit the American people. It may not as it is widely feared that US pharma companies will sell these tablets at exorbitant rates to make windfall profits. India should make its supply of hydroxychloroquine conditional on these medicines being made accessible to all Americans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/did-govt-buckle-under-trump-s-threat-822650.html
07-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Kerala-based business group announces salary hike for employees amid COVID-19 lockdown||Initially, 25 percent salary hike will be implemented in the jewellery sector. Other sectors will be covered in a step by step manner, Boby Chemmanur, who has a presence in jewellery, finance, resorts tours and travels business among others, said in a release here. We are very proud of our 5 lakh strong workforce working as active partners in the growth and development in our various verticals viz; Chemmanur International Jewellers, Chemmanur Credits & Investments Ltd, Boby Chemanur (No 1) Chits Pvt Ltd, Boby Chemmanur Nidhi Ltd, Boby Bazaar, Oxygen Resorts, Boby Tours and Travels, Phygicart and a segment of the workforce will derive the benefits of the salary hike initially, he said.  Out of 5 lakh strong workforce associated with various Boby Chemmanur institutions, many of them work on a commission basis, he said. "As many as 70,000 women are partners in microfinance business. It is a joint-venture. They will also get the benefits accordingly," he told PTI. Rajan Menon, Head-Human Resources, Boby Chemmanur International Group, said this salary revision was in recognition of their extraordinary commitment, continuity- of-service efforts and to financially support the employees and their family. The company said it has extended the facility to work from home to most of the workforce. They have been advised to strictly adhere to all the precautionary measures and instructions given by the government and the Health Department, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-kerala-based-business-group-announces-salary-hike-for-employees-amid-covid-19-lockdown-822317.html
07-04-2020||South||Pandemic Podcast: What's happening in god's own country, Kerala||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast gives you a bird’s-eye view of the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, we take a closer look at Karnataka's southern neighbour Kerala from where India's first case of coronavirus was reported. DH’s Arjun Raghunath speaks about the improving condition there and what's happening in Kasaragod, a hotspot in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pandemic-podcast-whats-happening-in-gods-own-country-kerala-822347.html
07-04-2020||South||One more COVID-19 death reported in Andhra Pradesh, toll goes up to 4 in state||A 45-year old person died of coronavirus in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh, taking the toll to four even as one more case of Covid-19 was reported overnight. The total number of coronavirus cases in the state has now touched 304 while the active cases remained at 294, according to the bulletin issued by the Medical and Health Department on Tuesday. The 45-year old person in Kurnool did not have any travel history but was admitted to the government hospital with symptoms of COVID-19 on April 1. He was said to be suffering from Type-2 diabetes and died on April 3, according to the state nodal officer Arja Srikanth. The person, who died tested positive for coronavirus, the official said. In all, six patients have recovered from the disease and been discharged from hospitals. The fresh coronavirus case was reported from Guntur district, which now has 33 cases. The latest case was also related to the Tablighi Jamaat. With 74 cases, Kurnool topped the chart in the state followed by SPS Nellore with 42. The two north coastal districts of Srikakulam and Vizianagaram remained unaffected by the pandemic so far, with zero cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-more-covid-19-death-reported-in-andhra-pradesh-toll-goes-up-to-4-in-state-822349.html
07-04-2020||South||Alcoholics take desperate measures in TN, some seek professional help||Closure of TASMAC shops that sell liquor in Tamil Nadu have so far claimed at least six lives with habitual drinkers resorting to desperate measures to get their daily dose. From aftershave lotion to varnish, alcoholics have laid their hands on everything that came their way as an alternative to liquor and mixed them with cold drinks. Six people – three from Pudukkottai and as many from Chengalpattu – died in the past week by consuming aftershave lotion and varnish as they were unable to find liquor anywhere due to the nationwide lockdown. Tamil Nadu is one of the states with the highest alcohol consumption and the government-owned TASMAC has monopoly in liquor distribution and sales. Though the government has publicised helpline numbers district-wise for those with alcohol withdrawal symptoms to contact and get psychological help, the efforts aren’t enough to help alcoholics who seem to get desperate every passing day. Private de-addiction centres like Mindzone and Tamil Nadu Association of Clinical Psychologists (TNACP) have also offered free psychological support for alcoholics and those suffering from depression in times of COVID-19. Measures not enough Dr V Sunil Kumar, a clinical psychologist and founder of Mindzone, a private de-addiction centre here, feels the government should have taken the aftereffects into consideration before closing liquor shops. “Having said that, I should also say there are no major guidelines on how to deal with this pandemic. The government shuts the liquor shops keeping in mind the social distance factor because no one really knows the full impact of COVID-19. But the major problem is the lack of awareness that alcoholism is also a disease and that it can be cured like any other illness. It is due to lack of realisation that people resort to desperate measures,” he told DH. Not just the government helpline, but private deaddiction centres have also reported a spike in the number of habitual drinkers seeking help to overcome the situation. They also receive a “good number” of calls from people who are unable to handle loneliness and boredom due to confinement. “We have taken into consideration the issues faced by alcoholics and placed counsellors at all district control rooms. The District Mental Health Programme has arranged for these counsellors who offer necessary help to those who call them. It is not just alcoholics who call, but also people who are worried about what would happen,” K Senthil Raj, Mission Director, National Health Mission, Tamil Nadu, told DH. Why alcoholics turn desperate? Explaining further, Dr Sunil Kumar said regular consumption of alcohol brings in a permanent change in one’s brain and it is the brain that asks for alcohol and not the mind. “People develop bodily changes like tremors, change in sleep pattern and this is when they get desperate and look for alternatives. Alcohol is closely linked with crime, domestic violence, mental illness and other medical complications,” he added. “People should be made aware that medical treatment is available for alcoholism and there is no stigma attached to it,” says KNS Varadan, founder of Freedom Care, a de-addiction centre in Chennai. “People don’t understand it is a disease and they fear getting treated due to social stigma and self-stigmatisation. The government should create more awareness about alcoholism and bring people to deaddiction centres,” Varadan said. He also feels the lockdown period where liquor shops are closed is the “right time” for the governments to reduce the number of outlets and timings, though Varadan says he is not in favour of prohibition. “Measures, like reducing the number of shops, restricting the timings to just about five hours a day and focussing on long-term rehabilitation centres would go a long way in addressing the problem,” he said. Increase in the number of calls Besides those with alcohol withdrawal symptoms, people, especially women and youngsters, have been dialing numbers publicised by the government and TNACP seeking professional help to overcome coronavirus-related fear. “There is an increase in the number of calls we get. Apart from habitual drinkers, we get calls from youngsters who feel stressed about COVID-19. Since the disease is new, people are worried about its aftereffects. People are clueless as to deal with the disease and they seek professional help,” Dr Sunil Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/alcoholics-take-desperate-measures-in-tn-some-seek-professional-help-822355.html
07-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu's youngest COVID-19 patient, 10-month-old baby, his mother recover||Tamil Nadu’s youngest Covid-19 patient, a 10-month-old baby boy, and her doctor-mother were discharged from a government hospital in Coimbatore on Monday evening after recovery. Recover of the baby and his mother of Coronavirus was seen as a challenge for the doctors due to the tender age of the former. The discharge of the baby boy-mother duo within 14 days of their admission to the hospital will light up hopes of recovery from Covid-19 amid the gloom. The mother, a 29-year-old doctor with the Southern Railways, the baby, his grandmother, and their housemaid tested positive for Covid-19 on March 29. The doctor contracted the virus from a 63-year-old man, a contact of the two Thai nationals who are being treated for Covid-19 infection after she treated him at the Railway Hospital in Erode in the third week of March. All four and a 25-year-old woman student from Coimbatore left the ESIC Hospital on Monday after recovery. This takes the number of people discharged from hospitals in Tamil Nadu after recovery from Covid-19 to 13. “The mother herself is a doctor and the monitoring mechanism was very tight when it came to the baby because of the tender age. We took special care to monitor every movement of the baby and check his symptoms constantly. We are happy we could cure the baby and his mother in a short time,” Dr. A Nirmala, Dean of the ESIC Hospital, told DH. Covid-19 patients are discharged after they test negative in two consecutive tests but are advised to quarantine themselves at home for another 14 days. Children develop immunity power only as they grow in age and treating a baby as young as 10-month-old for Covid-19 was quite challenging.    Talking about the treatment, the dean said the doctors took special care in providing nutrition supplements to the baby and his mother as diet plays an important role in recovery. Also, the baby was given antibiotic treatment since hydroxychloroquine, which is considered helpful in treating Covid-19 patients, cannot be given to toddlers. “We also concentrated on nutrition supplement to the baby, besides the treatment. The supplement was necessary given the age of the baby and we are glad they recovered,” Dr Nirmala added. Though discharged from hospital, the 29-year-old mother and her 10-month-old son will be home quarantined for 14 days as per the standard protocol to be followed by all Covid-19 patients. The young doctor is the first medical professional in Tamil Nadu to have contracted Covid-19 while on duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-youngest-covid-19-patient-10-month-old-baby-his-mother-recover-822356.html
07-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Kerala CM hails services of nurses, midwives||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday hailed the services of nurses and said the world comes to know about the state through their work. He also expressed the state's gratitude to nurses and midwives for their sacrifices and contribution and said Kerala was proud of them.  On the occasion of the World Health Day, Vijayan tweeted: "Kerala is one of the world's largest contributors to the talent pool of nurses. The world comes to know our State through their work. On #WorldHealthDay the State expresses its profound gratitude to nurses & midwives for their sacrifices & contributions. We are proud of you."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-kerala-cm-hails-services-of-nurses-midwives-822359.html
07-04-2020||South||Kerala HC allows plea to travel for buying cat food||Bringing relief to some cats and its master, the Kerala High Court has allowed permission for the master to travel to buy food for his cats. Kochi native N Prakash approached the court after the police denied him permission to travel to a pet hospital several kilometres away from his house to buy seven kilogram Meo-Persian biscuits for his three cats. Since he is vegetarian, he could not cook non-vegetarian food at home and hence the cats were used to this biscuit, the petitioner maintained. Kerala Additional Advocate General Ranjith Thampan stated that animal feed and fodder were listed as essential items during the lockdown period and hence self-declaration of the owner was enough for him to get permission to travel. The court also referred to the legal obligations of people to see welfare of animals. In lighter vein, the bench comprising justice AK Jayasankaran Nambiar and justice Shaji P Chaly said in the judgment that while the court was happy to have come to the aid of the felines in this case, the court was also certain that its directions will help avert a “CATastrophe” in the petitioner’s home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-allows-plea-to-travel-for-buying-cat-food-822385.html
07-04-2020||South||'CATastrophe' averted: A court in Kerala rules on virus lockdown||A court in India's Kerala state said Tuesday it wanted to avoid "a CATastrophe" by allowing a man to break a coronavirus lockdown to buy food for his furry felines. The pun was included in a ruling by Kerala's High Court on a petition brought by N. Prakash, a Kochi-based owner of three cats, who said he was denied a pass by police to leave his home. Prakash told the court he was a vegetarian and the cats, as carnivores, couldn't do without a special brand of biscuits. The lockdown was imposed from March 25 for 21 days, with residents permitted to leave their homes only for essential services such as buying groceries and medicine. Citing India's animal protection laws and the government's inclusion of animal feed as essential items permitted under the lockdown, the judges ruled in favour of Prakash and said he should be allowed to buy the biscuits.  "We have been called upon to respond to the desperate purrs of three felines," Justices A.K. Jayasankaran Nambiar wrote in his judgement. "We might observe, in a lighter vein, that while we are happy to have come to the aid of the felines in this case, we are also certain that our directions will help avert a 'CATastrophe' in the petitioner's home."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/catastrophe-averted-a-court-in-kerala-rules-on-virus-lockdown-822400.html
07-04-2020||South||Karnataka and Kerala have agreed to movement of patients, Centre tells SC||The Centre, on Tuesday, told the Supreme Court that an issue arising out of blockade of the national highway between Kerala and Karnataka stood resolved with both the states agreeing to movement of patients for medical treatment at the inter-state border at Talapadi. "The two states have agreed to a protocol for facilitating free movement of patients," Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted before a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde. He said a joint video conferencing was held with the concerned authorities of both the states. With this, the bench, also comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Deepak Gupta, closed the matter arising out of a petition filed by Karnataka and others questioning validity of the Kerala HC's interim order of April 1 to remove the blockade. The Karnataka government had passed the order on March 31 under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, banning all movement of people and goods, including patients in order to prevent any further transmission of COVID-19. Kasargod has emerged as the hotspot with over 100 COVID-19 patients, triggering the Karnataka government to take such a decision to close the border linking the district in Kerala to Mangaluru. It had feared "disastrous consequences" and result in "serious outbreak" of COVID-19. Kerala, on the other hand, claimed the move had resulted into death of several persons, besides affecting supply of essential goods, resulting into "humanitarian crisis".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-and-kerala-have-agreed-to-movement-of-patients-centre-tells-sc-822419.html
07-04-2020||South||Constable tests positive for COVID-19 in Hyderabad, 17 cops in quarantine||A head constable of the city police has tested positive of coronavirus, officials said on Tuesday. The 56-year-old constable attached to Saifabad police station is undergoing treatment at a state-run hospital here, they said. "The constable was admitted to the hospital on late Saturday evening and on Monday evening his test report confirmed he was infected with COVID-19," they said. The policeman's family members were also under quarantine at the hospital. Samples of the constable's primary and secondary contacts were collected, they said adding samples of as many as 17 police personnel in the Saifabad police station were collected and they were asked to be under self-quarantine. It was still being ascertained on how the constable was infected with the deadly virus, they said. Meanwhile, city Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar on Tuesday requested citizens to maintain social distancing. Kumar, who visited several interior areas in the city, observed that social distancing was being maintained in 95 per cent of the areas. Stressing the need for maintaining social distancing, the senior police official warned of arresting those who do not follow the guidelines and added police have already seized vehicles of those roaming without any purpose on roads. "Everyone should follow self-discipline and one should not venture out on roads unnecessarily and if they are coming out due to some necessity then maintain social distancing. It is necessary," Kumar told reporters. The police chief again warned those spreading fake news and rumours on social media platforms of stern action by registration of cases and arrests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/constable-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-hyderabad-17-cops-in-quarantine-822460.html
07-04-2020||South||Zoos in Telangana asked to be high alert after tiger tests positive for COVID-19 in US||The Forest department in Telangana has asked zoos and deer parks in the state to be on "highest alert" while issuing a set of directives to its officers after a tiger in a New York zoo tested positive for coronavirus. State Principal Chief Conservator of Forests R Sobha in a communication on Monday to officials, said the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) informed about the confirmation of COVID-19 in a tiger housed in a zoo in New York, USA. She advised that the zoos/deer parks in the state remain on "highest alert" and watch animals on 24x7 basis using CCTV for any abnormal behaviour/symptoms. "Zoos/deer parks in the state are, therefore advised to remain on highest alert, watch animals on 24x7 basis using CCTVs for any abnormal behaviour/symptoms, keepers/handles not to be allowed in the vicinity without safety gear preferably PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) isolate & quarantine sick animals and have least contact while providing food to animals," the communication said. She directed that mammals like carnivores, especially cat, feral and primates should be carefully monitored and forthrightly samples of suspect cases be sent to the designated animal health institutes, including National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NHSAD), Bhopal and National Research Centre on Equines (NRCE), Hisar, Haryana. All zoo/deer park personnel should strictly adhere to safety and disinfection protocol issued by the government time to time on COVID-19, it said. No sick animal keeper should be allowed near the zoo/deer park animals, it said. All animal keepers shall self-sanitize before feeding animals or cleaning the enclosures/night houses, it said. The animals enclosures/night houses shall be thoroughly sanitized, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/zoos-in-telangana-asked-to-be-high-alert-after-tiger-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-us-822462.html
07-04-2020||South||69 fresh COVID-19 cases, one more death in Tamil Nadu||As many as 19 Covid-19 patients have been discharged from various hospitals in Tamil Nadu after recovery, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday, even as the state reported 69 fresh patients infected with Coronavirus. The day also saw the death of a 64-year-old woman who was admitted to a hospital, taking the toll to seven. As of Tuesday, the total number of cases in the state stood at 690, including 19 discharged and seven dead. Also, three doctors – two of them who are understood to have attended the Delhi conference and one who was working at airport – have contracted Covid-19 so far. A total of 1,630 persons from the Delhi cluster, which the health bulletin from the government mentions as “single source event”, have so far been subjected to Covid-19 tests. While 636 have tested positive, swab samples of 961 people have rendered negative, Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh said 33 samples are under process. She also said the government was devising a plan to reduce the number of deaths in Tamil Nadu and is training lab technicians to handle rapid test kits. On extension of lockdown, she said: "It has to be done in a coordinated and comprehensive manner. The state govt will decide what needs to be done." The state has so far tested 5,305 samples and have placed 1,864 persons in isolations wards in hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/69-fresh-covid-19-cases-one-more-death-in-tamil-nadu-822527.html
07-04-2020||South||Road block issue with Karnataka sorted out: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that roadblock issue between Kasargod and Mangaluru has been sorted out with Karnataka government issuing necessary directives to allow patients from Kasargod. A protocol for allowing patients were being issued by Karnataka, which included a medical certificate from a doctor that the patient had no COVID-19 infection and he required treatment in a specific hospital in Mangaluru as the treatment facility was not available in Kasargod and the patient could not be taken up to neighbouring Kannur district in Kerala, he said. Even as the Chief Minister said on Monday that Karnataka agreed to allow patients from Kasargod to Mangaluru hospitals, on Tuesday also some patients were reportedly stopped by Karnataka authorities on the Talapady check-post citing unavailability of any directives in that regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/road-block-issue-with-karnataka-sorted-out-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-822529.html
07-04-2020||South||17 foreign nationals booked for spreading COVID-19||As many as 17 foreigners – 11 Indonesians and six Thai nationals – have been booked by the Tamil Nadu Police for violating their tourist visa norms and “spreading” Covid-19 during their illegal stay in the state. While the Indonesians have booked in Salem, a case against Thai nationals was registered in Erode. These preachers, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi in the second week of March, came to various parts of Tamil Nadu and had stayed in different places. 10 Malaysian nationals, who had also attended the conference and stayed in Tenkasi district of the state, were prevented from leaving the country on Sunday before they were to board a flight to Kuala Lumpur from Chennai. Out of 17 who have been booked under various sections of IPC, The Visa Manual 2019, The Foreigner’s Act 1946 and Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939, eight have tested positive for Covid-19 and are quarantined. While five Indonesians who are Covid positive are under isolation at the Salem Government Medical College Hospital, the remaining three Thai nationals are under treatment at IRT Perundurai Medical College in Erode district. Police in Erode said the case was registered on a complaint filed by Tahsildar (Revenue) Parimaladevi on Monday alleging that the Thai nationals had come to Tamil Nadu by hiding their health history despite knowing that they had the potential to spread Covid-19 infection to other people. In her complaint, the Tahsildar also said the Thai nationals had even visited homes of several people in Erode thereby putting at risk several lives. Police said the Thai nationals have not been arrested, but still quarantined at the IRT Hospital. A similar complaint was filed by Salem Town Village Administrative Officer (VAO) Sekar in which he accused the 11 Indonesian nationals of violating their visa conditions. He also complained that seven others, including the travel guide of the Indonesians from Chennai, had flouted all rules by taking these preachers around the city flouting social distance guidelines.    The foreign nationals were booked under sections 269 (spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 278 (making atmosphere noxious to health) of the IPC, Section 1-25 and 19.8 of The Visa Manual 2019, section 13(1),(2) and 14 of The Foreigner’s Act 1946 and 134, 135 of the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/17-foreign-nationals-booked-for-spreading-covid-19-822535.html
07-04-2020||South||Nine more infected of COVID-19 in Kerala, 12 cured||Nine more persons were tested Covid-19 positive in Kerala on Tuesday, while 12 more were cured and thereby bringing down the number of infected persons now to 263. Among the fresh cases, four were persons who came from abroad, two came down from Nizamuddin and three got infected through local contact.  Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan urged that anyone who had returned from Nizamuddin should voluntarily approach health workers. So far over ten persons who returned from Nizamuddin.  Four of the fresh cases on Tuesday were reported from Kasargod, while one person got cured, taking the total number of Covid infected in the district to 131 apart from 19 persons hailing from the district under treatment in nearby Kannur and Kozhikode districts. The total number of persons infected by Covid in Kerala so far is 336.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nine-more-infected-of-covid-19-in-kerala-12-cured-822540.html
07-04-2020||South||COVID-19: Southern Railways to operate daily services of cargo trains||The Southern Railways on Tuesday announced that it would operate daily services of cargo trains connecting destinations to ensure that essential commodities reached on time. Earlier, it operated the parcel cargo express operated as weekly service between Chennai Central and New Delhi. It has been made as a daily service now, an official said. The train would comprise five high capacity parcel vans and one luggage cum brake van. Similarly, 12 services of Chennai Egmore and Nagercoil Parcel Express and 12 services of Chennai-Coimbatore Parcel Cargo Express Specials would also be operated everyday. "This is mainly to ensure that the essential services reach the cities (on time)..", an official said. The trains would be operated from April 9 to 14, the Southern Railway said. In a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus, Tamil Nadu government which had initially announced the shutdown till March 31 extended it till April 14 in line with the national lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-southern-railways-to-operate-daily-services-of-cargo-trains-822561.html
07-04-2020||South||Despite new coronavirus cases, Kerala has a sigh of relief||Even as fresh COVID-19 cases are still being reported in Kerala, the state is heaving a sigh of relief over the low death rate, increasing recovery rate and the declining rate of new cases. While the death rate in India is close to three percent, in Kerala it is only 0.6 percent as only two of the 327 found infected so far died. With 59 persons so far ben recovered, the recovery rate of COVID-19 in Kerala is also 18 per cent while the national average was only around 6.6 per cent. Recovery of a couple aged around 90 was a feather in the cap for Kerala Health sector as the worldwide recovery chances of aged persons were found to be very bleak. While Kerala witnessed a steep increase of 20 to 30 cases daily till last week, over the last few days the rate of fresh cases is around 10 only. Out of the 327 COVID-19 cases reported in Kerala till Monday, around 230 cases were on persons who returned from aboard, especially Gulf countries, and those who attended the Nizamuddin congregation. Only around 100 cases were found to be infected due to local contacts and all of them were family members, close relatives and friends of those who came from abroad with the infection. Health department sources said that with the lockdown coming into force and the 14 days incubation period of coronavirus over, the chances of fresh cases on those who came from abroad are very feeble. The only chance for fresh cases now could be through local contacts. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Kerala Health Minister K K Shylaja already expressed hopes that Kerala seems to be out of a panic situation with no signs of a community spread so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/despite-new-coronavirus-cases-kerala-has-a-sigh-of-relief-822574.html
07-04-2020||South||COVID-19: 10 Indonesians, 5 Indian booked in Telangana's Karimnagar for breaking rules||The Telangana police have booked the 10 Indonesian religious preachers and the group’s five Indian facilitators, including three Karimnagar locals, for violation of visa rules, cheating and disobedience of official orders aiding in COVID-19 spread in the state. According to the FIR, a copy with DH, the 10 Indonesians arrived in India on tourist visas on March 9 and attended the 'Markaz' at Nizamuddin. They then arrived in Karimnagar on 14 March travelling in the AP Sampark Kranti Express from New Delhi. As of Tuesday night, Telangana has reported 404 COVID-19 cases, 18 of them from Karimnagar including the Indonesians. The FIR was registered on Sunday, under IPC sections 420, 269, 270, 188 and Foreigners Act 1946, Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, Disaster Management Act 2005, based on the complaint of Indrasena Reddy, special branch inspector, Karimnagar police. All 10 Indonesians, detected in the Telangana town on March 16, had tested positive and have now recovered, after undergoing treatment at the Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad. Five Karimnagar locals, including the two who moved closely with the group arranging their transport, accommodation etc., were also found with positive symptoms, police said.    The Indonesian cases jolted the official machinery which swung into action with lockdown, sanitization, and testing of thousands of people in Karimnagar town particularly the area around the Ahmediya Masjid where the group stayed for two days. In the FIR, Tabligh Jamaat is stated as a religious organization that contradicted the Visa rules and violated the worldwide advisories to contain Coronavirus spread. According to the complaint, A1 to A10 Indonesians who came to India on tourist visas violated the Foreigners Act and neglecting central, state government’s Coronavirus rules and disease severity, have spread it in various places of Karimnagar town with the support of A-11 to A-15 and others. “We have registered the case and taken up investigation,” Vijaya Kumar, inspector, Karimnagar I town told DH, refusing to reveal any further.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-10-indonesians-5-indian-booked-in-telanganas-karimnagar-for-breaking-rules-822596.html
07-04-2020||State||Udupi's Vyasaraya Shettigar receives Shanta Prasad Award for Excellence in Weaving for 2020||The Crafts Council of India (CCI) has selected Udupi saree artisan Vyasaraya  Shettigar for the national - level 'Shanta Prasad Award for Excellence in Weaving'  for the year 2020.The award ceremony, which was supposed to be held on April 18, has been postponed. Vyasaraya Shettigar, aged 79 years, is one among only nine Udupi Saree weavers who can weave fine 80 count saree with Butta. Shettigar started weaving at the early age of 15. He is one of the talented weavers who has taught the majority of weavers to fine-tune their skill of weaving. He is affectionately called 'Master' by the weaving community. Shetigar presently weaves for Padupanambur Weavers Co-Op Society. His skills in weaving have brought him many accolades like state awards for weavers in 2006-07 and 2015-16. He was also awarded “Kayaka  Prashsati“ by Charaka Women's Co-Operative, Heggodu in 2019, said a release from Karkala- based Kadike Trust that has been striving to pull the weaving industry from the brink. Weavers who had left the occupation are being brought back with the promise of a higher pay and improving marketing strategy to increase the demand for the sarees by the Trust.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/udupis-vyasaraya-shettigar-receives-shanta-prasad-award-for-excellence-in-weaving-for-2020-822362.html
07-04-2020||State||12 new positive COVID-19 cases reported in Karnataka, tally rises to 175, 25 discharged so far||Twelve new positive coronavirus cases have been confirmed in Karnataka, taking the total number of affected in the state to 175, the Health department said on Tuesday. Of the 175 positive cases, 25 have been discharged, it said. "Twelve new positive cases have been reported from last evening to this noon...Till date 175 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed. This includes 4 deaths and 25 discharges," the department said in its mid-day situation update. Among the 12 new cases, four (one from Bagalkote, two from Bengaluru city and one from Bengaluru Rural) had attended Tablighi-Jamaat congregation at Delhi from March 13-18; while three from Mandya are contacts of patients with history of attending the Jamaat congregation. Others include a 41-year old woman from Bagalkote, who is neighbour of of a 75-year old man who died on April 3; 80- year old woman from Gadag with history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI); 68-year old male from Bengaluru with travel history to Dubai; and a woman (contact of a patient) and a man (with history of SARI) from Kalaburagi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/12-new-positive-covid-19-cases-reported-in-karnataka-tally-rises-to-175-25-discharged-so-far-822364.html
07-04-2020||State||Mass marriage postponed||The proposed mass marriage ‘Saptapadi,’ in the temples coming under the Religious Endowment Department, on April 26, has been postponed, said Minister for Muzrai, Port and Fisheries Kota Srinivas Poojary. The government had decided to conduct mass marriage in more than 100 ‘A’ graded temples in Karnataka and had received over 4500 applications for the same. Around 2000 applications with due documents were received for mass marriage from those who wished to tie the nuptial knot. The Department had made all preparations for conducting the mass marriage. The Minister said that in the meeting held with Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, it was decided to club the proposed mass marriage on April 26 with the second phase of the mass marriage to be held on May 24. “The date will be confirmed after assessing the COVID-19 situation in the state,” said the Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mass-marriage-postponed-822404.html
07-04-2020||State||Education Dept suspends CEE for class 7 in Karnataka||The Department of Public Instruction, on Tuesday, announced that it has suspended the Common Evaluation Examination (CEE) system for class 7. In an official statement issued on Tuesday, the Department said: "The CEE for class 7 has been suspended and the question papers prepared and supplied to schools to conduct CEE should be kept securely. Further, instructions about usage of OMR sheets will be issued at a later date." The Department had decided to conduct CEE instead of holding public examination as announced by the education minister earlier. However, following stiff resistance from various stakeholders, the Department had withdrawn the decision and announced that it would only conduct CEE. But now, the CEE has also been suspended in the wake of the nationwide lockdown due to the COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/education-dept-suspends-cee-for-class-7-in-karnataka-822444.html
07-04-2020||State||Four held for murder in Pavagada||Tirumani police have arrested four suspects accused in the murder of a person who had been to the ration shop to buy food grains in BK Halli in the taluk on Tuesday.  Police said that the four arrested are Obanna (26), Maruti (25), Naveen (26) and Satish (27). All four belong to Vadrevu village. The arrested had allegedly killed Gangadhar (40) of the same village with lethal weapons on Monday. They were hiding in a farm in Tirumani.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/four-held-for-murder-in-pavagada-822555.html
07-04-2020||State||Two women treated by COVID-19 infected physiotherapist in isolation||Two women who had come into primary contact with the COVID-19 positive physiotherapist of Hindupur in Andhra Pradesh, have been admitted to the isolation ward of the Pavagada government hospital on Monday night. One of the two women, aged 50 years, had been treated by the physiotherapist on March 16. On March-21, another lady from the same Dommathamari village in Pavagada taluk was treated by the same physiotherapist. Both women are being monitored in the isolation ward now. They were shifted in an ambulance as per the instructions of the tahsildar and taluk health officer. As of now, neither of them has shown symptoms of COVID-19, the authorities stressed.  As a precaution, a medical team has gone to the village to gather details of people who came into primary contact with these two women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-women-treated-by-covid-19-infected-physiotherapist-in-isolation-822559.html
07-04-2020||State||Devadasi women struggle to make ends meet||Rekha (name changed) lives in a village 10 km from Koppal town, the only place where ration or vegetables are available. In the absence of public transport, her family is unable to get the two months’ ration supply assured by the government, living off of leftover supplies. “Our village Hiresindogi,is around 10 km from Koppal. With no public transport, autos ask Rs 100 to ferry us to the town, which is unaffordable. Hence, we could not get ration. Forget other vegetables, we do not even have onions. We are plucking greens from nearby farms. We have no soap, oil or basic supplies,” Rekha said. Belonging to the Devadasi community, Rekha’s family and several like hers, face added challenges during the coronavirus-driven lockdown: Many of them are women-only families with no personal vehicles. They are unable to make it to the fair price shops at the prescribed hours. They are daily wagers whose livelihoods have been snatched by the pandemic, leaving the already marginalised community struggling. The government had also announced village-level supply of vegetables. But both accessibility and affordability, have remained a problem: Firstly, the ration and vegetables are not reaching all villages; Second, not all villages have a fair price shop, curtailing accessibility; third, even where vegetables were sold, majority of them can’t afford it, members of the community told DH. Another case in point is Dharanamma, daughter of a Devadasi, in Asagodu, Davanagere. “There are eight of us in our family and all are daily wagers. In the absence of employment, we’re dependent solely on my mother’s pension, which is Rs 1,500 per month. They are yet to distribute ration here. Vegetables are supplied,but we can’t afford it,”she said. Access to healthcare is another issue faced by them. In Raghunathahalli, Yalburga taluk, a 50-year-old woman from the community has been diagnosed with blood cancer. “The family is unable to take her to Bagalkot for treatment. Both ambulances and cabs are asking nothing less than Rs 3,000-5,000. The family is unable to even replenish her medicines,” narrated Sowbhagya S D, Koppal district coordinator of Dalitha Manava Hakkugala Vedike.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/devadasi-women-struggle-to-make-ends-meet-822644.html
07-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Need another few days before taking final call on lifting lockdown: Karnataka govt||"We need to see for another few days before taking final call," Medical Education Minister Sudhakar K, who is in-charge of all matters related to COVID-19, told 'PTI' when asked if the State is in favour of the rollback after the 21- day period ends on April 14. The Minister opined that the decision on its withdrawal should be based on the COVID-19 pandemic situation at the time in terms of number of cases and response to the outbreak. When the lockdown is lifted, it has to be in a staggered and phased manner, and not at one go, Sudhakar stressed. "Where there are red alerts and zones, those zones, in my opinion, should continue to be in a lockdown situation at least for two weeks...till this month-end, I will request them (the Centre) to do this," he said. The Telananga Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday appealed to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the 21-day national lockdown imposed to contain COVID-19 outbreak beyond April 14, saying it was essential to save lives. Sudhakar said the Karnataka government is facing financial challenges because of drastic fall in revenues due to the lockdown, adding, it would take "tough decisions" to cut expenditure.    The Finance Department is in the process of evaluating the State's fiscal position. "Finance department is gathering information...what is the need now, what should be the overall expenditure, how much we can save; financial support for unorganised and organised sector, along with stimulus to other sectors, we have to see where we stand financially," the Minister said. "Based on that, we have to take certain steps for sure because after all the government runs on the exchequer money. Once the exchequer is stopped because of lockdown, we are not getting GST, no motor vehicle tax. No tax money is coming. Government also has to run right? he said. He said commitment and obligations with regard to paying interest on loans taken at the national and international level would have to be met. "So, there are some financial constraints, and financial challenges before the government. The Government will take tough decisions only after studying the entire finance (position of the State)." The Telangana government last week announced pay cut for government employees. The Union Cabinet on Monday approved a 30 per cent cut in salaries of all Members of Parliament and a two-year suspension of the MP Local Area Development (MPLAD) scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/need-another-few-days-before-taking-final-call-on-lifting-lockdown-karnataka-govt-822340.html
07-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Governor donates to PM Cares Fund||Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Vala has donated 30 per cent of his emoluments to PM Cares Fund for the fight against COVID-19.  "Vajubhai Vala, Governor of Karnataka, has donated 30 per cent of his emoluments to PM Cares Fund through internet banking on Tuesday and will continue to donate 30 per cent of his emoluments for a year in view of COVID-19 pandemic," a press note from Raj Bhavan said. The Union Cabinet on Monday approved an ordinance to reduce the salaries, allowances and pensions of Members of Parliament (MPs) by 30 per cent for one year and the amount would be utilised in the fight against coronavirus. The President, Vice-President and Governors of states have also voluntarily decided to take a pay cut as a social responsibility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-governor-donates-to-pm-cares-fund-822379.html
07-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress' Karnataka unit opposes any proposal to cut govt employees' salary amid COVID-19 lockdown||With Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa indicating that government employees may have to face salary cuts in coming month given the the state's precarious financial condition following the lockdown due to coronavirus, Karnataka Congress on Tuesday, vehemently opposed any such move. In an interview to a private Kannada news channel on Monday, Yediyurappa had reportedly said, after analysing the situation the government will have to take a call regarding payment of salary to employees next month. "The Chief Minister said this month salary will be given, but there is need to think about it in the given situation. I appeal to the Chief Minister, whether it is government employees or employees of any non governmental organisations- no attempt should be made to cut their salaries," the Karnataka Congress chief D K Shivakumar said. Speaking to reporters here, he said, "we have told them not to work, no government so far has reached a wretched state- that it cannot pay its employees." The Government should stop developmental works of PWD, irrigation, social welfare or any other department, which they have not been able to start so far, Shivakumar said, adding that "ensuring livelihood of the people should be priority... they (employees) will have commitments to run family, pay rent, EMIs, repayment of loan." He also urged the government that for no reason, salary of any government employee, whether it is police or from health department, should not be stopped or cut. According to sources, the Karnataka government has been examining about pay cut to employees, given the current state of the finances, after neighbouring Telangana made an announcement in this regard. The Telangana government last week announced pay cut for government employees. There are over five lakh government employees in Karnataka, and theirsalariesconstitutes major share of the state's revenue receipts. Shivakumar alleged the government'smeasure to tackle the COVID-19 effectively and lockdown related relief announced is "only on paper". Stating that relief had not reached people, he noted that Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)Kitsfor doctors and health workers who are on the frontline in the fight against COVID-19, have not reached them properly. He also alleged there was infighting within the government between health and medical education Minister amid the crisis, and that's the reason the Education minister has been given the responsibility. Amid reports of lack of co-ordination between Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar and Health and Family Welfare Minister BSriramulu, Chief Minister Yediyurappa had recently tasked Education Minister Suresh Kumar to brief the media regarding COVID-19 related daily bulletins. Lauding Yediyurappa for warning those who blaming the minority community for the spread of coronavirus on social media, Shivakumar requested the CM to issue a circular warning strict action, including arrest of those who are trying to disturb peace in the name of religion and by instigating social boycott of a particular community. Hitting out at Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K S Eshwarappa, Shivakumar said, he should be sleeping, we should get him traced. "The department plays a major role from providing drinking water, digging borewells, when summer is on...it has a key role in implementing MNREGA and provide employment to people by taking up local or community work...CM please ask your RDPR Ministers and district in-charge Ministers to work," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-karnataka-unit-opposes-any-proposal-to-cut-govt-employees-salary-amid-covid-19-lockdown-822523.html
07-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Those not getting treatment after returning from Tablighi convention must be shot dead: Karnataka MLA||Chief minister’s political secretary and MLA M P Renukacharya stirred a controversy by saying that those who are not going to hospitals for treatment after returning from a religious convention in Delhi organised by Tablighi Jamaat, must be shot dead. Speaking to media persons, here on Tuesday, he said, spreading COVID-19 is also like terrorism, and all those who are spreading the virus are traitors. Those who returned from Delhi after taking part in the religious convention must go to the hospital directly for treatment. But, some of them are not doing it. It won't be unfair even if such people are shot dead, he added. He nevertheless stated that he is not targeting the entire Muslim community, but referring to those who denied treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/those-not-getting-treatment-after-returning-from-tablighi-convention-must-be-shot-dead-karnataka-mla-822566.html
07-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kill those spreading virus: Renukacharya||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s political secretary M P Renukacharya said on Tuesday that there is nothing wrong if Tabligh returnees who refused to get themselves checked are shot dead. “Those who returned from Tabligh Jamaat in Delhi should have gone directly to hospital for Covid testing. Spreading virus too is like terrorism,” he said. He claimed he was maintaining social distancing even as there were a number of people with him, while delivering food kits to the needy. The former minister said he was conducting awareness among the people on social distancing. Renukacharya said he had advised his son, who is abroad, to stay there till the situation is normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kill-those-spreading-virus-renukacharya-822637.html
07-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Exclusive | Coronavirus lockdown may not end on April 14, says CM B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is cautious-yet-optimistic on the COVID-19 challenge the state faces. He tells DH’s Akram Mohammed and Bharath Joshi what the way forward looks like. Excerpts:  Is the COVID-19 situation stabilising or worsening?  I’m not in a position to find solace in the fact that Karnataka is in the 10th position nationally. All experts say that by April-end and May first week, this (number of cases) will increase. People are not responding appropriately (to the lockdown) and it's inevitable to take stricter action. What is Karnataka's exit strategy? Out of 30 districts, the virus is there in 19 districts. In the coming days, by making sure there's no trouble in these 19 districts, we can allow transportation and business within the other districts, if the PM agrees. In the other districts, we’ll have to be stricter. I've given the police full authority. So far, 28,000 vehicles have been seized (15,000 in Bengaluru alone), 1,670 people are arrested. FIRs have been registered against 1,091 people and Rs 40 lakh penalty has been collected. We're trying all this. I want to constitute district-level task forces. That might help bring things under control. Does the government have any idea on how many from the state attended the Tablighi Jamaat convention?  There's still confusion on the numbers. I've already reached out to the Muslim community and appealed that those who attended the convention should come forward voluntarily to be quarantined in the interest of their own health. They’ve also agreed to not go to mosques for prayers. On April 9, they have a programme of visiting cemeteries (Shab-e-Barat), which they’ve agreed to cancel. We need everybody's cooperation. I won't allow a single community to be targeted. What's the amount of funds required to tackle this pandemic? We've not calculated that. We've already placed orders for equipment and supplies worth Rs 250 crore to Rs 300 crore. Over 50,000 PPE kits are available and we’ve ordered for more. We have 2.39 lakh N-95 masks, 6.93 lakh triple-layer masks, we have ordered for one lakh rapid test kits. A total of 65 factories are making 50,000 litres of sanitizers daily of which 25,000 litres are being supplied to the public. We have ICU beds with ventilators in the districts and there are designated hospitals. We're trying to deal with this beyond our strength. It was apparent that Health Minister B Sriramulu and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar lacked coordination.  It's not true. The work Sudhakar is doing, I didn't expect he, being a doctor, would give so much time in studying this... Hats off. Sriramulu is touring the entire state and Sudhakar is focussing on Bengaluru. I've asked all Cabinet ministers to work in districts where they are in charge. In a day or two, I'll appoint in-charge ministers for five more districts.  What happens now to the 2020-21 Budget promises?  There's no guarantee that the lockdown will end on April 14. We can sit and plan only when normalcy returns. We announced several proposals in the Budget and we'll prioritize what we can implement. For now, because there’s a lockdown and people aren’t moving, it’s a good opportunity to take up road works. So I’ve asked the BBMP commissioner to look at works that are mechanized, that don’t require too many labourers.  It’s unprecedented for a government to consider cutting employees' salaries.  If there's no revenue, from where will you give (salary)? We aren't getting any revenues at all. Excise, motor vehicles taxes, commercial taxes. There are no collections. Everything has stopped. Still, we’re giving Rs 2,000 to 18 lakh labourers each, two months of rations and advance pensions. We're thinking of cutting 30% salary of our MLAs, MLCs and ministers so that we can use it for tackling COVID-19.  Is your frankness stemming from a sense of anger or frustration towards the Centre?  Not at all. It's what it is. Being the finance minister, I can't hide things. Karnataka will lose Rs 11,215 crore under the 15th Finance Commission this fiscal. We've asked for it. The Centre knows everything. In the coming days, once the situation becomes normal, the Centre will do what is necessary.  Have you got an assurance? Well, we've talked. We don't want to discuss that now. We're only thinking of what we can do at the moment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-exclusive-coronavirus-lockdown-may-not-end-on-april-14-says-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-822639.html
07-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Foreigners Act invoked against 19 Indonesia, Kyrgyzistan Tablighi Jamaat members for violating visa norms||The Bengaluru police have registered FIRs against 19 Indonesia and Kyrgyzstan nationals, associated with Tablighi Jamaat, for violating visa norms. Suryaprasad S, police-sub-inspector attached to Jagajeevanram Nagar police station, had registered suo motu FIRs, under the Foreigners Act,against the Indonesian and Kyrgyzstan nationals who had come to the city on March 9. They travelled across the city on Tablighi work till March 16 and stayed at the Subhania Masjid at Farooqia Nagar in Padarayanapura, he said. Following the Centre's direction, the BBMP officials tracked these 19 foreign nationals and put them under quarantine at Haj Bhavan in Saraipalya. Krishna Kumar, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Kengeri sub-division, said, "On March 30, they were taken to C V Raman Hospital at Indiranagar for medical examination. At present they are under quarantine at Haj Bhavan. The investigation revealed that these delegations had come to India on tourist visas but indulged in religious activities, such as promoting the religion, and this amounts to a violation of visa norms. A senior police officer said the police had submitted a report to the court seeking directions to deport them to their countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/foreigners-act-invoked-against-19-indonesia-kyrgyzistan-tablighi-jamaat-members-for-violating-visa-norms-822640.html
07-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Don't cut salary, D K Shivakumar tells Karnataka govt||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Tuesday strongly opposed any move to cut salaries of government employees as hinted by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa.  “My appeal to the CM is, be it government or non-government employees, salaries shouldn’t be cut. We are the ones who’ve told them not to come to work,” Shivakumar told a news conference.  The former minister suggested that the government can stop projects of the public works, irrigation and social welfare departments among others. “No government has reached such bankruptcy that it can’t pay the salaries. The employees may be sitting at home, they have families to look after, rents to pay, loans to repay,” he said.  Shivakumar also alleged that doctors and health workers fighting the Covid-19 did not have enough Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits. “The government’s measures to tackle the Covid-19 and other relief moves remain only on paper,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dont-cut-salary-d-k-shivakumar-tells-karnataka-govt-822641.html
07-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre mulling high-level probe into conspiracy angle: DyCM Laxman Savadi||A sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases after the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin, Delhi, has given rise to several conspiracy theories. In a bid to put an end to the speculations, the Union government is seriously contemplating a high-level probe into the sharp spike in cases, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters after taking stock of facilities at the a relief camp in the town, Savaid said, “Many people, who’d come in contact with the Nizamuddin returnees, have contracted the virus. It is difficult to fathom the problem as several Jamaat members have refused to undergo screening/testing. State governments are facing a Herculean task in tracing the members who attended the congregation in March third week and their contacts,” the DyCM said. When asked about Shobha Karandlaje’s Corona Jihad remark, Savadi played it safe saying “It was Shobha Karandlaje’s personal comments, the state government has nothing to do with it.” On the reported differences between ministers B Sriramulu and K Sudhakar, Savadi said, “There is no difference of opinion between the ministers and that they are working in tandem in fight against COVID-19.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-mulling-high-level-probe-into-conspiracy-angle-dycm-laxman-savadi-822643.html
07-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||4 more Tablighi Jamaat attendees test coronavirus-positive, Karnataka tally reaches 175||Four more Jamaat attendees tested positive on Tuesday, increasing Karnataka's COVID-19 tally to 175. Out of the 12 new cases reported, two are patients with severe acute respiratory infection. The neighbour of the fourth COVID-19 casualty in Karnataka also tested positive. Three cases from Mandya also tested positive. All three are contacts of Jamaat attendees though they themselves did not attend the congregation. "Five more were discharged in Karnataka on Tuesday taking the total discharged in the state to 25. Twelve districts in Karnataka have remained COVID-19-free. All international passengers in Karnataka, some 19,948, have been sent home. They completed 14-day quarantine period at various facilities in the state. They will continue to report to the government on their health status for the next 14 days from home," said Minister Suresh Kumar, COVID-19 spokesperson. "Dedicated COVID-19 hospitals are up from nine to 17. The total bed strength now is 4,030," Kumar said. "The state now has 12 testing facilities, up from ten. Sakra Hospital and KIMS Hubbali were added today," he said. Later in the day, Vydehi hospital was also approved by ICMR to conduct testing. Karnataka CM COVID-19 relief fund now has Rs.115.26 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/4-more-tablighi-jamaat-attendees-test-coronavirus-positive-karnataka-tally-reaches-175-822646.html
07-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Education dept mulls YouTube channel for children amid lockdown||The department of primary and secondary education is planning to launch a YouTube channel, to keep children engaged during the vacation, especially the present lockdown. The idea is to address the boredom of children. The public are invited to upload creative and child-friendly content on the channel. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar has requested the public to contribute the content. In his appeal to the public, he said, “Teachers, software professionals, start-up heads and others can contribute content to the YouTube channel. The channel aims to give the best possible content to students, to ignite their creative passion.” He has also sought funding to launch the channel. “This is a crucial time as physical activity has been stopped for our children and they are forced to engage in gadgets. We have come up with an initiative to catch the children through those gadgets,” he said.This YouTube channel will have 4-5 programmes containing 10-15 minutes of content each, for one hour each in the morning and evening. NGOs, teachers, software professionals and anybody who is creative can prepare video content and contribute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/education-dept-mulls-youtube-channel-for-children-amid-lockdown-822648.html
07-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||After MPLADS suspension, MPs reconsider development plans||The Centre’s decision to suspend funds for Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) for the next two financial years is likely to slow down development works planned by the Lok Sabha members in their respective constituencies. While MPs from the ruling BJP believed they could channelise other funds to make up for the deficit, those from the Opposition said they had no option but to put projects on hold for now. Under the scheme, Rs 5 crore is allocated per annum for local area development. BJP’s Gulbarga MP Umesh Jadhav told DH that that various funds such as that of the Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB), District Mineral Fund and CSR funds among others, would help them sail through the crisis. “We need to prioritise our initiatives. Construction of wedding halls and the like, can wait. We will ensure that basic necessities are met. Further, we are confident that the chief minister will prioritise the development of the Kalyana Karnataka region. We are also hopeful that six months or a year from now, the government will reconsider this decision,” Jadhav said. The MPs from Opposition parties do not have the same advantage, said D K Suresh, the Congress MP representing Bangalore Rural. “This decision to suspend the MPLADS funds will be especially problematic to Opposition parties. The ruling party MPs will take help of the ministers and the government machinery in general. Opposition leaders don’t have this advantage. We are seeing discrimination, of late,” Suresh alleged. He added that the government could easily channelise more money by suspending publicity initiatives. “They spend thousands of crores on publicity for various departments. They should rethink priorities,” he said. He had taken up the works for construction of crematoriums in eight assembly segments which would be temporarily stopped, he added. Janata Dal (Secular) Rajya Sabha MP Kupendra Reddy held a similar view. He had promised to develop infrastructure at Bengaluru’s Carmelaram Railway Station, which he would not be able to start now, he said. “I had also taken up works for infrastructure development in 29 villages in Hassan district. Some of it is yet to be completed. There were other projects lined up such as building toilets for women staff in government schools, drinking water accessibility and construction of roads in Dalit colonies, all of which will be suspended for now,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-mplads-suspension-mps-reconsider-development-plans-822652.html
07-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rain lashes parts of north, south Karnataka districts||Heavy rain lashed Belthangady taluk in Dakshina Kannada district and parts of Udupi district on Tuesday providing much-needed relief to the people from the sultry heat. Belthangady, Guruvayanakere, Madantyaru, Venoor, Naravi and surrounding areas received rain coupled with lightning and thunder.  Rain also lashed Karkala, Kundapura, Kollur, Siddapura, Gangolli, Hemmady, Uppunda, Shiroor, Hebri and surrounding areas in Udupi district. Parts of Malnad --- Koppa, Balehonnur and NR Pura taluks in the neighbouring Chikkamagaluru district --- received good rainfall coupled with lightning and thunder. The rain has brought a smile on the face of coffee growers as it will help in the blossoming of the flowers in coffee plants. In Kodagu district, heavy rain lashed Madikeri, Hudikeri, Ponnampet, Srimangala, Siddapura, Galiubeedu, Bapoklu, Talacauvery and Bhagamandala. Parts of Mysuru city and district, Chamarajanagar, and Hassan received a good spell of rain on Monday night, bringing down the mercury levels. Heavy rain lashed T Narasipur taluk in Mysuru district and the Kothegala Gram panchayat limits received 7 cm rainfall. Karya village in Nanjangud taluk received 5 cm rainfall. Male Mahadeshwara Hills in Chamarajanagar district received good rain in the evening.  Meanwhile, the Agriculture Research Station at Naganahalli has predicted thunderstorms, on April 7 and 8 in the region. The research centre recorded 12 mm rain on Sunday night and 22.5 mm on Monday midnight.  Moderate to heavy rain, accompanied by strong wind and lightning, lashed some parts of Shivamogga district, including Ripponpet, Sorab, Bhadravathi, Thirthahalli, Sagarand Shikariput.  Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada district received heavy rain from 4 to 7 pm. The town had also received the rain for about half-an-hour in the morning. Hosapete town and the surrounding villages also received the rain. At some places, the rain brought down the branches of the trees. The rain has cooled the mercury level at Hosur, Nagenahalli, Basavadurga, Kamalapur, Hampi and other villages in Hosapete taluk.  Rain also lashed several places in Ballari district, including the Ballari city. Rain, accompanied by hailstones, brought cheers to the people at Kottur.  Meanwhile, rain and hailstones have destroyed the standing paddy crop in hundreds of acres of land at Maraladinni, Katagal, Uskihal, Belladamaradi and other villages in Maski taluk of Raichur. The farmers are waiting to harvest the crop.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rain-lashes-parts-of-north-south-karnataka-districts-822660.html
07-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||NGO fills stomachs of those with their back to the wall||Their mornings were spent in front of a closed health clinic surrounded by trash of all kinds. The nights were spent on a bedsheet spread under the flyover in Surathkal. This had become a routine for the couple, Santosh and Bhavani, who had been stranded in Surathkal for the past 10 days due to the lockdown. The couple from Belagavi were working at a restaurant at Kadiyali in Udupi. Santosh was working as a watchman and Bhavani used to wash dishes. They were paid Rs 18,000 and provided accommodation in the restaurant. After the lockdown was announced, the restaurant was closed. The couple who had nowhere to go travelled to Dharmasthala in the hope of finding free food and accommodation, but to no avail. The couple decided to return to Udupi by seeking free rides in vehicles passing by. The couple’s luck ran out and were stranded in Surathkal, 20 km from Mangaluru. That was when local residents gave them a helping hand. They offered clothes to the couple and helped Bhavani access the Sulabh Shouchalaya toilet. They are given free breakfast at Apathbandhava Seva Samaja’s makeshift canteen near Suratkal police station for those left to fend for themselves during the lockdown. Umesh Devadiga of Apathbandhava says a dozen volunteers also deliver breakfast to homes of those who are bedridden. More than 80 to 100 people are provided food by the NGO. Devadiga, who works as an autorickshaw driver, started distributing free breakfast and evening snacks from the day the lockdown was implemented. “Our initiative has been gaining strength with volunteers, organisations lending support by cooking food or by donating money,” he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ngo-fills-stomachs-of-those-with-their-back-to-the-wall-822661.html
07-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||K’taka, Kerala to allow movement of patients, Centre tells SC||The Centre on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that the issue arising out of blockade of national highway between Kerala and Karnataka stood resolved with both the states agreeing to movement of patients for medical treatment at the inter-state border at Talapady. “The two states have agreed to a protocol for facilitating the freemovement of patients,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted before a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde. He said a joint video conferencing was held with the authorities concerned of both the states. With this, the bench, also comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Deepak Gupta closed the matter arising out of a petition filed by Karnataka and others questioning validity of the Kerala HC’s interim order of April 1 to remove the blockade. The Karnataka government had passed the order on March 31 under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, banning all movement of people and goods, including patients in order to prevent any further transmission of Covid-19. Kasargod has emerged as the hotspot with over 100 Covid-19 patients, triggering the Karnataka government to take such a decision to close the border linking the district in Kerala to Mangaluru. It had feared “disastrous consequences” causing “serious outbreak” of Covid-19. Kerala, on the other hand, claimed the move had resulted in death of several persons, besides affecting supply of essential goods, leading to “humanitarian crisis.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/k-taka-kerala-to-allow-movement-of-patients-centre-tells-sc-822665.html
07-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Worli worst-affected area in Mumbai||From chawls to sky-scrapers to a cosmopolitan mix, Worli, in a way represent what is often described as the spirit of Mumbai.  The Worli Sea Face adores the statue of Common Man, the creation of legendary cartoonist R K Laxman, and in front of it is the Bandra-Worli Sea Link that signifies the hustle-bustle of India's financial capital. The richest of rich and poorest of poor stay here. The spectrum here is wide, right from vada-pao to continental dishes to a neighbourhood barbar's shop to world-class saloons. Today,  the G/South Ward, that covers large parts of Worli, Lower Parel, Tardeo,  Prabhadevi has emerged as the hotspot of COVID-19 crisis in Mumbai. In fact, the Worli Koliwada, the fishermen's colony was the first place on Mumbai where the containment exercise was carried out by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The Worli seat is represented by Tourism, Environment and Protocol Minister Aaditya Thackeray, the son of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. According to records of the BMC, there are 68 COVID-19 positive cases. More than 150 persons have been quarantined. "We have contained large areas of this ward as a precautionary measure," Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said. More than 50,000 people have been screened - and contact-tracing is being done. The Worli Koliwada itself has more than a dozen positive cases, who are undergoing treatment in hospitals. It is one of the earliest fishing villages in Mumbai, and been host to the original settlers of Mumbai - Kolis, Agris and Bhandaris for hundreds of years, according to historical records. One of the major reasons of spread could be a 65-year-old woman who ran a lunch stall near Elphinstone Road. Some people from her building too had turned positive. "We will win the fight if we stay at home," says Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar, who is a Corporator form G/South Ward.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-worli-worst-affected-area-in-mumbai-822315.html
07-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Gujarat govt ropes in private firms to manufacture PPE, N95 masks||The Gujarat government has roped in state-based private companies to manufacture personal protective equipment and N95 masks required by health staff who are at the forefront of the battle against coronavirus. A private company from the state has already manufactured low cost ventilators and will be supplying them soon to government-run hospitals, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said a few days back. The state government feels it will be better prepared to fight the disease if local manufacturers provide such vital equipment, chief minister's secretary Ashwani Kumar said on Monday. "Chief Minister Rupani has called upon industries of the state for local production of items essential to tackle the viral infection," Kumar said. As part of the initiative, the Rajkot-based Jyoti CNC has started production of ventilators after getting necessary approvals, he said. "Twoother companies -Arvind Mills in Ahmedabad and Sure Safety in Vadodara - will soon start production of personal protective equipment (PPE)," he said. The state government got technology transferred from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur for N95 masks, he said, adding that Ahmedabad-based Cellulose Products will manufacture 25,000 such masks per day. Both the PPE and N95 masks are very useful in protecting the medical staff who are on the frontline of the fight against coronavirus, the official said. Rupani recently announced that private company Jyoti CNC has developed low cost ventilators and it will provide 1,000 such machines to the state-run hospitals soon. "When we have talent and the industry which can produce equipment required to fight the coronavirus, we should encourage local production," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-gujarat-govt-ropes-in-private-firms-to-manufacture-ppe-n95-masks-822327.html
07-04-2020||West||Two new COVID-19 cases in Mumbai's Dharavi; Slum area tally 7||Two more persons have tested positive for coronavirus in Dharavi, taking the total number of such cases in the slum area here to seven, a civic official said on Tuesday. The two men, aged 80 and 49 years, hail from Dr Baliga Nagar locality of Dharavi and are close contacts of a 30- year-old woman who earlier tested positive for coronavirus, the official said. Earlier, four others from Dharavi had also tested positive for the disease. One of them, a 56-year-old man died while undergoing treatment at a hospital on April 1. Four Dharavi localities - Dr Baliga Nagar, Vaibhav apartment, Mukund Nagar and Madina Nagar - have been demarcated as containment zones and civic officials have been regularly spraying disinfectants in those areas. Dharavi is one of the biggest slums in Asia. A whopping 15 lakh people live in small shanties in Dharavi, making it one of the most congested areas of the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-new-covid-19-cases-in-mumbais-dharavi-slum-area-tally-7-822334.html
07-04-2020||West||50 Tablighi event attendees from Maha unreachable: Maharashtra Home Minister||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said 50 of the 1,400 people who returned to the state attending the religious congregation of Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi have been incommunicado, and warned of stern action against them if they do not approach the government. He urged those people to voluntarily come forward and get in touch with the state government authorities. The state government will quarantine them and take care of them if they approach the authorities, he said. Deshmukh said the congregation organised by Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in New Delhi last month was attended by nearly 4,000 people.  Several of these attendees later tested positive for coronavirus, while some of them have died of the disease. The congregation was attended by 1,400 people from Maharashtra. The state government has till now traced and quarantined 1,350 of them, Deshmukh said. "And the remaining 50 who have returned have kept their mobiles (phones) switched off. Hence, we urge them to voluntarily approach the government," he told a news channel. The government will quarantine and take care of these people to ensure the coronavirus does not spread in other parts of the state, the NCP leader said. "For this, they should surrender before our police and cooperate with the state government. We will trace them and take strict action against them if they do not surrender before us, he warned. Deshmukh also praised the Maharashtra Police for denying permission to a Nizamuddin-like congregation in the Vasai area of Palghar district last month, saying it contained possible spread of the disease. He further warned that attacks on policemen, doctors and nurses -- who are at the forefront of containing the spread of the coronavirus -- will not be tolerated. Deshmukh said police will deal with such individuals in their style if such assaults continued. "At least 52 cases of policemen and doctors being attacked took place in Maharashtra. We have arrested 172 people in connection with these incidents, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/50-tablighi-event-attendees-from-maha-unreachable-maharashtra-home-minister-822366.html
07-04-2020||West||19 new coronavirus cases in Gujarat; state tally goes up to 165||The number of coronavirus cases in Gujarat jumped to 165 on Tuesday, with 19 more people testing positive for the viral infection in the state, an official said. Out of 19 new cases, 13 have been reported from Ahmedabad, three from Patan, and one each from Bhavnagar, Anand and Sabarkantha, Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi said. Anand and Sabarkantha districts reported their first cases on Tuesday. With this, coronavirus cases have now been reported from 17 districts out of the total 33 in the state. Ahmedabad has reportedthe maximum cases at 77, followed by Surat- 19, Bhavnagar-14, Gandhinagar-13, Vadodara- 12, Rajkot-10, Patan-five, Porbandar-three, Kutch, Mehsana, and Gir Somnath- two each, and Chhota Udepur, Anand, Sabarkantha, Jamnagar, and Morbi- one each. Out of 130 active patients, four are on ventilator support and in critical condition, while the condition of remaining 126 is stable, the official said. Twelve people have so far died, while 23 have been discharged after recovery, she said. All the 19 new cases are locally transmitted, taking the total number of such cases to 100, she said. While 33 patients have foreign travel history, 32 others have inter-state travel history. As many as 3,040 tests have been conducted at laboratories in Gujarat so far. Of these, 298 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours and the results of 40 are pending. Total 11,286 patients are placed under quarantine, out of whom 10,133 are in home quarantine, 935 in government facilities, and 218 in private facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/19-new-coronavirus-cases-in-gujarat-state-tally-goes-up-to-165-822368.html
07-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: 3,000 people take coronavirus self-assessment test in Thane||Over 3,000 people from Thane city in Maharashtra have taken an app-based self-assessment test for coronavirus, the Thane Municipal Corporation said on Tuesday. The civic body circulated the self-test tool available on its DIGI Thane app through WhatsApp, asking citizens to assess their condition, the TMC's public relations officer Sandeep Malavi said. TMC commissioner Vijay Singhal circulated the tool to over 30,000 people on different WhatsApp groups, of which 3,000 have already taken the test and the results were available with the civic body, he said. Meanwhile, infrastructure works in Thane district, which are scheduled to be completed before monsoons, will continue, collector Rajesh Narvekar said. Workers, who are working on these projects, will have to carry their ID cards and a copy of the government's order while commuting to the sites, he said in an order. Work on national highways, state highways, rural roads, roads that come under the Pradhan Mantri Sadak Yojana, Mahavitaran and Mahatransco and power-related projects, water supply works, sewerage works need to be completed before monsoon, he said. He also pointed out that two major highways pass through the district and taking into consideration the present health crisis, they need to be completed on priority. In towns including Mumbra and Bhiwandi, the police have decided to use drones to identify people who violate the lockdown and take action against them, he added. In a related development, commissioner of the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation Dr Vijay Suryavanshi on Monday passed an order to seal borders of the towns in wake of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases there. The police will man the entrances to Kalyan and Dombivili towns, and will only allow essential service providers to enter and exit the limits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-3000-people-take-coronavirus-self-assessment-test-in-thane-822374.html
07-04-2020||West||COVID19: Ahmedabad Municipality launches aggressive testing exercise, inspired from South Korea||With COVID-19 cases increasing at an alarming pace, the civic body in Ahmedabad, which is among the ten hotspots of lethal coronavirus in the country, on Tuesday kicked off an “aggressive testing and surveillance” exercise to check clusters where maximum cases are being detected, a move that is said to have been “inspired” from South Korea's model of tackling the virus. Officials said that the model is primarily based on “aggressive” testing and for that purpose Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Tuesday officially rolled out seven "coronavirus mobile testing vans" for seven zones. Each van has two separate teams for carrying out “surveillance” and “sample collection” of suspected cases by visiting door-to-door. With 77 positive cases, Ahmedabad city is the worst hit in the state that has reported 165 cases. On Tuesday, the state recorded 19 new cases out of which Ahmedabad alone had 13. The city has also witnessed the death of 5 COVID19 patients so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid19-ahmedabad-municipality-launches-aggressive-testing-exercise-inspired-from-south-korea-822557.html
07-04-2020||West||Paytm partners KVN Foundation to provide 75,000 meals to migrant workers per day||Paytm on Tuesday said it has partnered KVN Foundation to serve 75,000 meals per day to migrant workers and daily wage earners across Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai and Noida during the lockdown to prevent spread of coronavirus pandemic. "The livelihood of daily wage earners has been affected during this lockdown. We wanted to help them and ensure that their children and families do not go hungry. "Our partnership with the KVN Foundation is a step in this direction. We will continue to work towards providing relief to the ones who cannot fend for themselves," Paytm Vice President Siddharth Pandey said in a release here. KVN Foundation, launched the 'Feed My City' initiative in Bengaluru on March 27, initially serving 500 meals per day to people who have lost their source of income due to the lockdown in the country. They aim to serve 30 lakh meals over the next few weeks, the release added. "During this crisis, the daily wage worker, migrant worker and those without any safety nets, steady income, insurance or savings have been the worst affected, without any hope or relief. "In countless little ways, all these people add value to our lives on a daily basis. We can't have a full meal knowing fully well that millions of these people are starving to death. We have now made it possible to contribute easily to this cause, to the city of your choice,” the KVN Foundation added. Paytm is also aiming to contribute Rs 500 crore to PM CARES Fund, and has already collected over Rs 80 crore within the first week. It is also distributing personal hygiene products such as hand wash and sanitizers to people who do not have the means to buy it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/paytm-partners-kvn-foundation-to-provide-75000-meals-to-migrant-workers-per-day-822558.html
07-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Maharashtra cabinet meet held through video conferencing||The Maharashtra cabinet conducted a meeting for the first time through video conferencing on Tuesday in view of the coronavirus outbreak, with ministers and bureaucrats taking part wearing masks. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, Food and Civil Supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal, Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and Water Resources minister Jayant Patil participated in the meeting from Varsha, the CM's official residence in the metropolis' Malabar Hill area. Bahujan Welfare minister Vijay Wadettiwar joined from Chandrapur, minister of state for home (rural) Shambhuraje Desai from Satara, minister of state for cooperation minister Balasaheb Patil along with his deputy Vishwajit Kadam took part from Pune, PWD minister Ashok Chavan from Nanded, Energy minister Nitin Raut from Nagpur, and WCD minister Yashomati Thakur joined from Amravati. Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant participated from Ratnagiri collector's office, while Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Home Minister Anil Deshmukh were present in Mantralaya. In the meeting, it was decided to provide Shiv bhojan meals at Rs 5 for the next three months, and extending it to the taluka level, as well as providing foodgrains to orange ration cardholders till June at concessional rates. It was also decided to amend the Maharashtra Charity Management Act to avail financial assistance from charitable trusts to fight the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-maharashtra-cabinet-meet-held-through-video-conferencing-822580.html
07-04-2020||West||Gujarat COVID-19 toll rises to 16 as 14-month-old dies, state tally at 175||A14-month-old boy, the youngest COVID-19 patient in Gujarat, passed away in Jamnagar hospital late on Tuesday night after battling for life for three days. The condition of the boy, son of a labourer, was critical since Saturday when he was admitted. With this, the state reported four deaths in a single day, the highest since the infection was first detected on March 19, taking the death toll to 16. Jamanagar collector Ravi Shankar while confirming the news told DH, "The boy died of multiple organ failure." He said that the source of infection in the boy is still not known as previous tests conducted on his parents were found to be negative. He said that results of more tests of the parents are awaited. Officials said that the boy's father is 24 years old, who works as a labourer, while mother, 21, is a housewife, who live in a chawl in Dared village that has nearly 90 households. They are originally from Uttar Pradesh. The district administration has been checking all the possible contacts to find out the source of infection. "The virus could have been infected through the parents but since they are young and healthy, they results so far haven't been able to detected it," said a senior officer. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, state detected 29 fresh positive cases, also the highest in a day, that spiked the total figure to 175. Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi said in her evening briefing, "Although we need to extremely careful, our situation is better than may countries and states in India. We need to stay home and work on our immunity." She said that two persons, in Patan and Surat died today and four patients are critical. Minutes after her briefing, Surat reported another casualty. Surat municipal commissioner Bancha Nidhi Pani confirmed that two persons aged 52 and 65 died in the city. They had diabetes, hypertension and depression. The patient in Patan also had diabetes, Ravi told reporters. With this, Surat that has recorded four deaths that has 22 positive cases. Meanwhile, state recorded 29 fresh positive cases out of which maximum 19 were found in Ahmedabad. While, the rest of the cases were detected in Surat and Rajkot, all of these have been declared hotspots of the infection by the government. What is alarming in the report is first cases detected in districts such Sabarkantha and Anand. Till Tuesday, the spread of the virus reached 17 districts, of 33 in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-toll-rises-to-16-as-14-month-old-dies-state-tally-at-175-822590.html
07-04-2020||West||Maharashtra coronavirus-lockdown: 113 cyber offences registered||These include people who wanted to give the situation a communal colour and create law and order problems, they said, adding that social media platforms were being monitored constantly during the lockdown. "Of the 113 offences, Beed tops with 15, followed by Pune Rural with 11 and Mumbai at third with nine cases. Satara and Jalgaon districts have seven offences each, Nashik Rural has six and Nashik City, Thane City and Nanded have four cases each," an official said. In Beed and Shivaji Nagar in Latur, some people shared messages linking the outbreak to a particular community, and cases have been registered in this connection. Maharashtra Cyber warned WhatsApp group administrators and members to not post or forward unverified, unauthentic information related to the virus outbreak, and warned that failure to adhere to these directives could lead to cases against all participants in a group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-coronavirus-lockdown-113-cyber-offences-registered-822635.html
