08-04-2020||Comment||Migrant workers' exodus: A self-inflicted wound||When Emperor Napoleon was once urged by one of his commanders to attack without loss of time, he retorted, “The Army marches on its stomach.” To fight and win wars, men need timely supplies of food and water as much as a supply backup of ammunition and armament, horses and so forth. In short, good planning and logistics support are vital for victory. Now, our country is engaged in a different kind of war, one against a raging virus. The overnight lockdown of the whole country on the night of March 24 was so sudden that people were left shell shocked. Many daily wage earners who had missed PM Narendra Modi’s television broadcast, or had not grasped the implications of this lockdown, and who ventured out the next morning to work or to buy essentials were mercilessly beaten up by the police. The decision to impose a total lockdown was a good one and was necessary. The World Health Organisation recommended it, and the heads of other countries have followed suit. That is the only way to stop the spread of the virus. But if the lockdown is to succeed, the supply chain of essential goods and services had to be kept open and running 24x7, and provisions of free cash made to the poor so that people do not defy the orders in search of livelihood. So, Modi got the first part right -- the need for a lightning response and a firm resolve to fight the war. But for the lockdown to be effective, there was a corollary that his team overlooked -- a well-planned and efficient supply chain and logistics should have been in place well before the lockdown announcement, one facilitated by authorities at every level and extending to the farthest nook and corner of India, keeping in mind that this is a large, chaotic country. Things work in India haphazardly through local, ad hoc ways, enabled by a complex web of millions of service providers who are on daily wages. While the middle class can observe social distancing and ‘home quarantine’, for the millions of daily wage earners who have to buy their provisions or meal daily and can do so only by going to work each day, it is a cruel joke. For such people, it is physically and economically impossible when they are crammed cheek by jowl, seven to eight in a tin shed in densely crowded slums. The total number of resident slum dwellers and economic migrants put together in the large metros and cities is a staggering 110 million. No government can feed them without adequate planning and preparation. It may not even be desirable to lock them down in such extreme conditions. In the absence of facilities for food and shelter, with the spectre of hunger staring at them, they fled from their dwellings seeking every which way to reach their villages and spilled out onto highways and bus stands. The heart-rending images of millions of poor, hungry men and women, carrying what they could, with wailing children in tow, are haunting. While no effort must be spared to stem the spread of the virus, practical solutions that suit India should have been explored and put in place before the imposition of a sudden lockdown. That called for courageous feedback from the advisers to the prime minister, who may have been impatient to enforce the lockdown under counsel from epidemiologists who, in turn, couldn’t have foreseen the fall-out of such a sudden lockdown and the collateral damage it would inflict on the poor. The cure suggested is becoming worse than the disease, as we can all see. Let me recount a story of another war -- the Bangladesh War of 1971, images of which are still vivid in my mind as I took part in it. In April 1971, Sam Manekshaw, the then army chief, was summoned to an emergency cabinet meeting by Indira Gandhi and asked if the military was ready to attack East Pakistan as millions of refugees were pouring in through Assam, destabilising India. Manekshaw resisted. “I’m not prepared. I fight to win. If I attack now, I will lead my men into defeat.” Indira Gandhi was aghast at the affront by the General. Manekshaw went on, “If I attack now, the mountain passes in the North East Frontier are free of snow and China may attack. The rivers in Bangladesh turn into an ocean with the onset of monsoons, making invasion impossible. Out of my 181 tanks, only 11 are battleworthy. I have to move the ordinance and equipment and fuel and food and ammunition and troops and allied support services to the borders. The IAF and Navy will not be ready to support the attack. I need six months. I will be ready to attack in December. Prime Minister, now give me your orders.” When he was summoned to her office again that evening, Manekshaw had carried his resignation paper in his pocket and asked her as he went in, “Do you want my resignation?” Indira Gandhi said, “No, because everything you tell me is true.” The rest is history. When the head of a country calls a cabinet meeting along with the cabinet secretary and other top officials of the government, like the NSA, the head of disaster management, the home secretary, etc., to discuss any momentous decision in the offing, we need people to stand up and speak truth to power. In the present case, they should have advised the prime minister that a meeting with all the chief ministers, followed by meetings with chief secretaries and heads of police in the states were necessary before announcing the lockdown to not only obtain their cooperation but also to get their feedback, which would have helped evolve a well thought out plan on how to implement the lockdown and decide on all aspects of the minimum lifeline of logistics and supply chains. The political leader may have a larger objective, a daring mission and an overarching vision which others may lack, but let us bear in mind that the head of any country cannot be expected to possess all the knowledge or ability himself to anticipate the fall-out of such measures. The right answers and solutions will always emerge as we have no dearth of capable and knowledgeable people in the government and the country. What we lack are courageous leaders and professionals in the bureaucracy, the police and the military who can speak truth to power. (The writer pioneered low-cost airlines in India and is a serial entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/migrant-workers-exodus-a-self-inflicted-wound-822709.html
08-04-2020||First Edit||Census postponed: Inevitable, and welcome||There was no option for the government but to postpone the 2021 census and related operations, and when it made the announcement last week, it did not come as a surprise. Census 2021 was scheduled to be carried out in two phases. House listing and housing census work, including the updating of the National Population Register (NPR), was to begin in April and conclude in September. The actual population enumeration was to be done from February 9 to 28 next year. The schedule has become unworkable because of the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown. The lockdown may continue in some form or the other, and even after it is lifted it will take many weeks or months for normalcy to be restored. Holding an exercise like the census, which involves personal contact between many thousands of enumerators and millions of people, may not be possible in the near future. The census and the NPR exercises had become controversial with the central government and a number of state governments taking different positions on them. This was a reflection of the differences between the BJP and many opposition parties on the aim and content of the NPR process. The census as such was not contentious, but the NPR was seen as a process to collect information about people which would later be used to deny them citizenship rights. The passage of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act last year, which took a discriminatory view of the right to citizenship, and the proposal to create a National Register of Citizens (NRC), which was not entirely denied by the government, exacerbated those fears. There were protests against the CAA in many parts of the country and the launch of the NPR exercise in such a situation would not have been right. A number of states, such as West Bengal, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, which are ruled by opposition parties, have opposed the NPR. The governments of Bihar and Tamil Nadu, which are friendly to the BJP, have also expressed reservations about some questions that appear intrusive and unnecessary in the present format of the NPR. Home Minister Amit Shah’s assurance in Parliament last month that providing such information is not mandatory and that nobody’s citizenship would be considered doubtful in the absence of such information has not allayed apprehensions. So, the start of the NPR and census operations now would have poured into the fires lit by the anti-CAA protests. There will be enough time to ponder over those issues and reach an agreement over them after the nation gets through the crisis created by the pandemic and wins the battle against it. Unity is the need of the hour now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/census-postponed-inevitable-and-welcome-823096.html
08-04-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Laboratory in Hubballi starts testing throat swabs for COVID-19||The laboratory, located at the microbiology department of the KIMS, received four samples until Wednesday afternoon. This laboratory will receive samples from Dharwad, Haveri, Gadag and Uttara Kannada districts, and also from Belagavi district till a laboratory is set up there. "We have testing machines at the multi-disciplinary research unit (MRU), and the ICMR has given the approval to use them for COVID-19 test. Thirty to 40 samples can be tested per day, and we have demanded one more testing machine so that more than 100 samples can be tested each day," said KIMS Director Ramalingappa Antaratani. Meanwhile, Large & Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar and Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan also inspected the laboratory. As three microbiologists are working at the laboratory at present, Shettar stated that steps would be taken to depute two microbiologists from Karnatak University in Dharwad.  Until now, samples were sent to Shivamogga and it used to take two-three days to get the result. The laboratory in Hubballi would give results within 24 hours. The ICMR is expected to approve COVID-19 testing laboratory in Belagavi in a day or two, Shettar added. Swab collection box Young Indians (YI) and Ladies Circle India have donated a swab collection box to the KIMS, for the convenient and safe collection of throat swabs. MLC S V Sankanur will donate another box to District Hospital in Dharwad. "The air-tight box has covers for hands of doctor inside the box, and its cost is Rs 18,000," said YI Hubballi chapter chairman Dr Shrinivas Joshi. There is a demand for eight more tunnels in the district, he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/laboratory-in-hubballi-starts-testing-throat-swabs-for-covid-19-822824.html
08-04-2020||Kalaburagi||Karnataka govt to take steps to increase prices of tur, says Agriculture minister BC Patil||Agriculture Minister B C Patil said on Wednesday that an attempt will be made to strengthen Tur Development Board to help tur growers of the region.  An appeal will be made to increase the price based on crop period and the expense. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar will hold a video conference today evening and the problems of the agriculture sector of the state will be discussed in it, said Patil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/karnataka-govt-to-take-steps-to-increase-prices-of-tur-says-agriculture-minister-bc-patil-822773.html
08-04-2020||Kalaburagi||65-year-old dies of COVID-19 in Kalaburagi; Karnataka's toll rises to 5||Kalaburagi reported its second COVID-19 death on Wednesday amid fears by private doctors that the novel coronavirus spread could have reached the third stage in the city as the deceased had neither a travel history nor had he attended the religious congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin.  The fifth fatality in the state, a 65-year-old fruit seller, died on Tuesday night. The doctors based their fears on the fact that a 57-year-old man and his 72-year-old mother who tested positive also had no history of travel or any direct contacts.  The district administration should begin community screening. The lockdown should be enforced effectively or else the situation is likely to go out of control, they said. The deceased was a resident of Santraswadi in Mijaguri on Dargah Road and was admitted to a private hospital on KBN Dargah Road on April 4 with severe acute respiratory infection.When his condition worsened, he was admitted to ESIC Hospital on Tuesday night after the doctor suspected him of contracting COVID-19.  Meanwhile, the number of positive cases in the district rose to nine. However, Dr P S Shankar, a senior doctor, said the patient must have contracted the virus through direct contact. “Patients will never reveal their travel history. There is no fear that the virus spread has reached the third stage,” he opined.  Meanwhile, an FIR was filed against the private hospital for not informing the district administration though the patient had COVID-19 symptoms. The hospital has been sealed and the doctor and the staff nurses who attended to the deceased have been quarantined. About 20 primary contacts have been traced so for.  As soon as the news of the death spread, the police asked all shops in the city to shut. Police commissioner N Satish KUmar ordered strict enforcement of the lockdown. Deputy commissioner B Sharat warned doctors of stringent action if they refuse to treat suspected or positive COVID-19 cases. In a letter to Mahadevappa Rampure Medical College (MRMC) dean, the deputy commissioner said some staffers were shrugging responsibility and were misleading doctors. The district’s recorded the country’s first death when a 76-year-old man who returned from Saudi Arabia died of on March 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/65-year-old-dies-of-covid-19-in-kalaburagi-karnatakas-toll-rises-to-5-822785.html
08-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19: Mandya's Nagamangala declared containment zone||After Malavalli, Nagamangala taluk has also been declared as the containment zone, as the Delhi-based clerics, who had visited the town, tested positive for COVID-19. Assistant Commissioner Shylaja announced that the Hanif Mohalla area has been identified as containment zone. The clerics had stayed in the town from March 13 to 23. Hanif Mohalla, where the clerics visited, and Ward 12, 14, 15, 16 have been identified containment zone. The residents living around the 5-kilometre area will be subjected to medical screening. No vehicular movement is allowed in the three-kilometre area, except emergencies. Taluk administration will provide essential commodities like vegetables and fruits at their doorsteps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-mandyas-nagamangala-declared-containment-zone-822786.html
08-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||One more tests COVID-19 positive in Karnataka's Mandya||Like the earlier three victims, he is a member of the seven-member group, who had participated in a spiritual gathering at the Tablighi Jamaat Mosque at Nizamuddin in Delhi from February 5 to 13. However, the mode of their infection is yet to be ascertained. The earlier patients of Mandya are designated as P171, 32 years, P172, 36 years, and P173, 65 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-more-tests-covid-19-positive-in-karnatakas-mandya-822789.html
08-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Without buyers, vegetable farmers left in the lurch||Owing to the COVID-19 lockdown and the closing of vegetable and fruit markets in Gubbi taluk, in Tumakuru district, farmers are left in the lurch. Without customers to buy their produce, they are in a fix about what to do with their harvest. Many of them have left their yield untouched in the fields.  Bananas, bitter gourd, greens, snake gourd, papaya, cabbage and other such vegetables and fruits grown by farmers are without buyers.  However, Rajappa, Senior Assistant Director of Horticulture said that the department had made arrangements such that farmers do not suffer losses. "Only banana growers are feeling the heat of the lack of demand. We have notified senior officers of this problem," he added.  Farmers who are unable to sell their produce may contact 0813122659 (office), 9964185162 (Manju),  8105339178 (Raghunath), 9449667450 (Honnegowda), Rajappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/without-buyers-vegetable-farmers-left-in-the-lurch-822869.html
08-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Another COVID-19 positive case in Mandya||One more COVID positive case has been confirmed in Mandya on Wednesday. With this, the number of coronavirus infection in Mandya district has gone up to four. It has to be recalled that the first three cases were confirmed on Tuesday, April 7, 2020. According to the communication of the State Health Department, the person is identified as P179, a 35-year-old man, who is isolated in the hospital of Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences, the designated COVID-19 Hospital. He is also a resident of Malavalli like the other three victims and was in contact with patients P134, P135, P136, P137, and P138, all five Tablighi Jamaat members and residents of Delhi. These five clerics are being treated in the neighbouring Mysuru. Like the earlier three victims, he is a member of the seven-member group, who had participated in a spiritual gathering at the Tablighi Jamaat Mosque at Nizamuddin in Delhi from February 5 to 13. However, the mode of their infection is yet to be ascertained. The earlier patients of Mandya are designated as P171, 32 years, P172, 36 years, and P173, 65 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/another-covid-19-positive-case-in-mandya-822879.html
08-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19 lockdown: Tumkur varsity takes to online teaching||Since the COVID-19 lockdown, Tumkur University professors have adopted online teaching techniques to teach their students and ensure that there is no break in tutoring, said university Vice-Chancellor Prof Y S Siddegowda.  Using Zoom App, YouTube, Google Drive, and WhatsApp, professors of the 25 post-graduate departments of the university, have uploaded 1,584 hours of lectures to be taught online to students wherever they are, whenever they like.  In many cases, live teaching sessions are being held by professors wherein students login at a specific time and teachers login from home and lecture them. Besides this, the university had made over 50 videos of lectures on various topics and uploaded it on YouTube.   Several audio lectures have also been recorded and shared on WhatsApp groups. Students have the freedom to listen to these audio lectures whenever they want and make notes. They can replay, rewind and listen to it any way they want.  "We have received a lot of enthusiastic feedback from students after launching online teaching methods. We will be adding more online learning features in phases," remarked Prof Siddegowda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-lockdown-tumkur-varsity-takes-to-online-teaching-822906.html
08-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19: MyMUL donates Rs 25L||Mysuru District Cooperative Milk Producers Societies Union Limited (MyMUL) has donated Rs 25 lakh to Chief Minister’s Relief fund to combat COVID-19. MyMUL president M Siddegowda, director S C Ashok and Managing Director D Ashok donated the funds through Cooperative Minister S T Somashekar. Siddegowda handed over the cheque to the minister in Bengaluru on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-mymul-donates-rs-25l-822924.html
08-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Wild elephant camps on Charmadi Ghat road||A lone wild elephant is camping on the seventh curve of Charmadi Ghat road. On Tuesday night, the elephant had reached the eighth curve of the Ghat road and had uprooted a ‘Baine’ tree beside the road when an ambulance, driven by Mohammed Arif, was on its way to Kottigehara from Mangaluru. The forest officials from Belthangady had visited the spot on Wednesday and tried to chase away the elephant by bursting crackers, but to no avail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/wild-elephant-camps-on-charmadi-ghat-road-822925.html
08-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Police dept given special powers, says Ashoka||District In-charge and Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that the Police department has been given special powers to maintain law and order in the wake of coronavirus spread in the district. Speaking to reporters, after visiting the Eidgah maidan and holding a meeting with police officials, the minister said, "The district has recorded four Covid-19 positive cases so far, creating panic among the people. Hence, the police have been given special powers to arrest anyone who violates the lockdown guidelines and does not cooperate with the government." Seven people of Malavalli had participated in a religious congregation in Nizamuddin, and four among them have been tested positive. The reports of the others are awaited. Thirty people, who were in contact with them are under quarantine, he said. To a query on shortage of ventilators, Ashoka said, "Only two persons in Karnataka are under ventilator treatment so far. Hence, there is no shortage of ventilators as of now. However, the government is purchasing more ventilators, as a precautionary measure."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-dept-given-special-powers-says-ashoka-822948.html
08-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Private doctors should cooperate with govt'||Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu said, "Free milk would be distributed to all tribal community people, living on the fringes of the forests, in Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Uttara Kannada and other districts." "The tribals are worst affected due to the lockdown. I have directed the district administration and MLAs of the respective districts to ensure that they get free milk, that is being provided to poor people across the state. Other essential commodities will also be provided. I have held discussion with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in this regard," he said. To a query on the closure of some private clinics, Sriramulu said, "They have putforth a few demands before the government. They have explained about the lack of medical equipment to treat patients. They are doctors and should join hands with the government at the time of medical crisis. The closure of private clinics has overburdened government hospitals. In case they do not cooperate, it would become inevitable to take action as per law. They may be imposed a penalty and their licenses may have to be cancelled." Commenting on one more death reported from Kalaburagi on Wednesday, the minister said, "The patient was being treated at a private hospital. He was in contact with the first Covid-19 victim, as per sources."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/private-doctors-should-cooperate-with-govt-822958.html
08-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Jubilant shut until COVID-19 eradicated'||Health Minister B Sriramulu on Wednesday said that Jubilant Generics in Nanjangud, which is related to 24 COVID-19 positive cases, will remain closed until COVID-19 is completely eradicated. Speaking to reporters here, he said, "Out of 35 cases, 24 are reported from Nanjangud. The authorities are investigating the source of COVID-19." According to the minister, a few person from Australia and Japan had visited the company. The authorities have inspected a container transported from China. However, the exact source will be ascertained following investigation, Sriramulu said. Sriramulu said, "The authorities have served a notice to the owner of the company and suitable action will be initiated, if the company has violated any law or guidelines." The minister said that he will tour across the state to instil confidence among the officials, volunteers and others who are fighting COVID-19. The people need not panic, as the state government has taken all measures to combat COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jubilant-shut-until-covid-19-eradicated-822962.html
08-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||150 tons of tomatoes being procured from farmers: J C Madhuswamy||Law and District in-Charge Minister J C Madhuswamy said that nearly 150 tons of tomatoes were being directly from farmers at the Vasantha Narsapura Food Park on alternate days and delivered to the doorsteps of villagers in the district who cannot come out to buy them, given the COVID-19 lockdown. He spoke after launching the mobile fruit and vegetable van service wherein farmers' produce is sold in villages at discounted prices. He mentioned that a deputy director of Horticulture and nodal officers for each taluk had been appointed to ensure that this system runs smoothly and they may be contacted for further details.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/150-tons-of-tomatoes-being-procured-from-farmers-j-c-madhuswamy-822966.html
08-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Offer prayers indoors on April 9 and 10: DC||Deputy Commissioner R Girish appealed to Muslim and Christian religious heads to ensure that their respective community people observe Shab-e-barat and Good Friday in their homes. The festivals are celebrated on April 9 and 10 respectively. In a meeting of Hindu, Muslim and Christian religious heads, he said, "Aas there is a ban on mass prayers of any religion and gatherings are prohibited, in the wake of COVID-19 scare, the people should cooperate and observe the festivals indoors." It is mandatory for the people to follow the lockdown guidelines. The Wakf Board too has issued directions in this regard. The religious heads should create awareness among their community people, he said. Those who have participated in the Tablighi jamaat in Nizamuddin, or connected with them in some way, should voluntarily report to the health officials for medical checkup. The isolation wards in the district hospital is hygienic with good treatment. There is no need for panic, he assured. SP R Srinivas Gowda said, "Stern action would be taken against those misusing the social media to create panic. The people should conduct prayers indoors on April 9 and 10." The religious heads assured of total cooperation to the district administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/offer-prayers-indoors-on-april-9-and-10-dc-822978.html
08-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Tahsildar prevents factory workers from crossing over to AP||Madhugiri Tahsildar G Vishwanath has banned the movement of people and vehicles to neighbouring Hindupur from the taluk. As many as 286 garment factory workers from Kodigenahalli hobli were prevented from crossing the border to Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday.   He also said that those garment factory workers who have ration cards will be given food grains in their home villages itself.  Pavagada taluk The swab samples of two women who were treated by the Hindupur (Andhra Pradesh) physiotherapist who tested positive for COVID-19, tested negative for the virus. The two women were admitted to the isolation ward on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tahsildar-prevents-factory-workers-from-crossing-over-to-ap-822996.html
08-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Tourism hit hard in Mysuru due to lockdown||The tourism and hospitality industry is hit hard in Mysuru due to the lockdown, in the wake of coronavirus or COVID-19. The tourism-dependent economy of Mysuru and its surroundings is crippled due to the ongoing crisis President of Mysuru Hotel Owners Association C Narayana Gowda said that Mysuru is one of the most preferred destination for tourists in India. “In Mysuru city alone, there are over 400 hotels, with a total of over 9,500 rooms, equipped to accommodate around 35,000 people. There are 25 star hotels with over 700 rooms in Mysuru. Tourism and hospitality is the main industry of Mysuru and surrounding areas as there are not many manufacturing and service industries around,” he said. “The economy of Mysuru is either directly or indirectly related to tourism and hospitality. Even employment generation is dependent either directly or indirectly on tourism and hospitality. The sector employs over 25,000 persons. Besides, March, April, May and June being summer, is the major tourism season. Thus, Mysuru region is suffering a loss of over Rs 50 crore per day due to the lockdown,” he said. According to Confederation of Indian Industry estimates, coronavirus would result in an overall loss of Rs 5 lakh crore and job cuts up to 4 to 5 crore people across India. Narayana Gowda said, "Once the pandemic is eradicated and the lockdown is lifted, it may take at least two years for the tourism and hospitality sector to stabilise and show growth." Deputy Director for Tourism H Janardhan said that compared to other tourist destinations, Mysuru has a potential to pickup faster, once the lockdown is lifted and once life returns to normalcy. “The advantage for Mysuru is that, it was a preferred tourist destination even before Independence. Mysuru is seen as a synonym for tourism,” he said. Stating that the financial loss due to the lockdown cannot be estimated now, he said, however, it is a big blow to the entire economy of Mysuru and its surroundings, as most of the activities like public transport to sales of handicrafts are related to tourism, here. He said, "Once the other sectors start to stabilise and grow, the tourism and hospitality sector will get a boost. Tourism is also vital for de-stressing. Thus, there is hope.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tourism-hit-hard-in-mysuru-due-to-lockdown-823010.html
08-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||82-yr-old man dies; cholera suspected||A 82-year-old man died of diarrhoea at Siddegowdanahundi in the taluk on Wednesday. But, the Health department officials claimed that he died of asthma problems. Incidences of vomiting and diarrhoea have been reported in the village since Saturday. More than 30 people have complained of vomiting and diarrhoea, raising suspicions of cholera attack. The villagers claimed that contaminated drinking water reason for the cholera like symptoms, claiming the lives of two women. But, the authorities concerned have not taken any steps either to provide clean drinking water or clean the water tanks, they complained. Dr Jagadish of the Primary Health Centre said, "Nine people complained of diarrhoea on Saturday and five people on Sunday. Hence, a temporary hospital has been opened and treatment provided. No new cases were reported from Monday."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/82-yr-old-man-dies-cholera-suspected-823011.html
08-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Assistant sought from DCC bank for coffee growers ||Coffee Growers Association President M B Devaiah said that the association will make proper arrangements for the storage of coffee if the District Central Cooperative Bank provides a loan of Rs 1 crore. Addressing reporters in Madikeri on Wednesday, he said that following the lockdown, coffee growers in the district are not able to sell the coffee they have cultivated. He further said that the raw coffee has not been supplied to the coffee processing unit in Hunsur, in the required quantity. "Therefore, coffee warehouses have been given to coffee growers on rental basis, to store coffee. Still, there is a shortage of warehouses. A request has been made to provide APMC godowns in Madikeri and Gonikoppa for the growers to store coffee, free of cost. Also, there is a requirement of an interest free loan of Rs 1 crore, through the DCC bank. The chief minister should come to the rescue of coffee growers," he said and added that transport facility should be provided from Hunsur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/assistant-sought-from-dcc-bank-for-coffee-growers-823020.html
08-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Clear roads leading to Hassan: Kodlipet villagers||Villagers of Kodlipet have requested Hassan district administration to clear the roads, blocked by people, leading to the district.  Three roads that connect Kodagu district with Hassan have been blocked by the villagers of the latter district by placing huge wooden logs. This has caused a lot of inconveniences to the people of Kodagu, who travel to Hassan to purchase essential commodities, residents said.  Two years ago, a bridge was built across River Hemavathi to establish a link between Koldipet of Kodagu and Kaganuru of Hassan. But the villagers from Hassan have blocked the movement of vehicles on the bridge by placing the logs. Similarly, huge stones and logs have been placed on the bridge which lies between Janardanahalli, Neerugunda and Bartur road.  The Yasaluru-Changadahalli-Bisle- Kukke Subrahmanya road, which connects Kukke Subrahmanya through Kyate village of Kodlipet, has also been blocked by dumping soil, the Kodlipet villagers alleged.  Farmers in Kodlipet region own farms in Hassan district as well and they use these roads to reach their farmland. Also, the essential items such as vegetables are transported to Kodlipet through the same roads.  The patients from Kodlipet are shifted to the hospitals in Hassan district. But, as all the three roads have been blocked the people of the village are severely affected.  Now, in order to reach Hassan, they have to travel additional 25 km to 30 km. The villagers in the region have requested the officials to facilitate movement of vehicles on the blocked roads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/clear-roads-leading-to-hassan-kodlipet-villagers-823035.html
08-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||DC promises online market facilities for mango sales ||Deputy Commissioner C Satyabhama on Wednesday assured that the district administration would introduce online market facilities to help mango growers in the district. “Considering lock down and subsequent restrictions, the district administration will introduce online market facilities to help mango growers,” she said. Satyabhama chaired a meeting of mango growers, Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) members, agriculture and horticulture department officials and merchants at DC office here. She said, ”The mangoes will be harvested by April end in the district and the district administration will soon announce the facilities.” She said that mangoes trees had been grown in 48,000 hectares in the district. Kolar district was likely to produce about 2.50 tonnes of mangoes this year. The officials should make immediate preparations to avoid possible blocks to export the fruits. “There are factories in Chittoor district in Andhra Pradesh and Krishnagiri district in Tamil Nadu to produce mango pulp. Talks will be held with the administrations of the two districts to send the mangoes. Facilities would be made to transport the fruits through Horticultural Producers' Cooperative Marketing and Processing Society (Hopcoms) ,” the DC said. She said that the Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) had assured the district administration to procure the mangoes for sales. The KMF had Nandini milk parlours. Discussions had been held with the chief secretary to sell the fruits through these parlours and Hopcoms outlets. Steps would be taken to directly sell the fruits at 720 apartments in Bengaluru. Arrangements would be made to ensure sale of mangoes from Kolar in markets in Shivamogga, Tumakuru and Belagavi districts. “Fruits should not be sent through areas that are affected by COVID-19. Farmers’ health is most important than business,” she said. The DC said that the district administration would issue passes to growers and goods vehicle drivers to transport the fruits. Permission would be granted to sell the mangoes at government land adjacent to APMC market in Srinivaspur. WhatsApp group would be created to solve farmers’ woes. “Price of mangoes had dipped last year due to Nipah virus scare last year. The prices are likely to fall this year due to COVID-19 scare. The district administration should submit a proposal to the State government seeking support price,” demanded Kolar District Mango Growers’ Association President Chinnappa Reddy. Srinivaspur APMC president Rajendra Prasad said that about 10,000 labourers were needed for various works related to mango sales. However, labourers were not available locally. Permission should be granted to bring labourers from Tamil Nadu. Kolar APMC president D L Nagaraj, Horticulture Department deputy director M Gayatri, Agriculture Department joint director Shivakumar, Holagere Mango Development Centre deputy director H T Balakrishna were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/dc-promises-online-market-facilities-for-mango-sales-822939.html
08-04-2020||Mysuru||1,715 under quarantine in Mysuru||As many as 1,715 persons are under home quarantine for COVID-19 and 34 of them are isolated in the district hospital, as on Wednesday. As per the communication released by Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, a total of 3,305 persons are observed till date. Out of them, 1,556 have successfully completed 14 days of home quarantine. The authorities have tested a total of 287 samples. Out of 35 who tested positive, one has recovered. As many as 224 have tested negative, three samples are pending and the result of 20 samples are awaited. The DC has appealed to the people, who have returned from COVID-19 affected countries or who have been in personal contact with such person to remain in home isolation for 14 days. He has also urged to maintain personal hygiene, frequent hand wash with soap and water or hand sanitiser and has suggested to avoid social gatherings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/1715-under-quarantine-in-mysuru-822873.html
08-04-2020||Mysuru||MyMUL gives Rs 25 lakh to CM relief fund||The Mysuru District Cooperative Milk Producers Societies Union Limited (MyMUL) has donated Rs 25 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Relief fund to combat COVID-19. MyMUL President M Siddegowda, Director SC Ashok and Managing Director D Ashok donated funds through Karnataka's Minister for Cooperation Somashekar. Siddegowda handed over the cheque to the Minister in Bengaluru on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mymul-gives-rs-25-lakh-to-cm-relief-fund-822895.html
08-04-2020||Mysuru||UoM urges profs to go tech-savy for teaching||The city-based, century-old, University of Mysore has appealed to its professors to adopt technology. The university has urged them to make use of available gadgets and applications to engage in academic activities and to continue the curricular process. Few individual teaching faculty members are making use of internet, computers, mobile phones and applications to keep their students connected and engaged in academic pursuits. In a letter to the faculty members — professors, associate professors and also assistant professors — Registrar R Shivappa has said: “Hope you are all safe at home. Amidst the difficult times we are witnessing, due to COVID-19 national lockdown, academic activities of the University of Mysore have been interrupted. It is learnt that some individual faculty members and students are engaging themselves in teaching and learning, by utilising available technology like ‘Zoom App' (www. zoom.us.in)”. “Vice Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar has appreciated these efforts of the individual faculty members. He has suggested to all other faculty members to utilise the same technology for the benefit of teaching-learning amongst teachers and students. Those who are in possession of smartphones and who have formed WhatsApp groups (department-wise or class-wise) can conduct online teaching-learning classes or activities using Zoom app. The VC has also suggested to work from home and stay safe. The progress in this regard would be highly appreciated and acknowledged by the University of Mysore,” the letter states. The registrar has also attached a file on the manual on the usage of Zoom application In a similar move, on the recommendations of the University Grants Commission, Karnataka State Dr Gangubai Hangal Music and Performing Arts University (KSGH Music and Performing Arts University), headquartered in the city, has also started classes online, on platforms like Zoom app, WhatsApp, Facebook and YouTube, in the interest of the students, according to incharge Vice Chancellor Nagesh V Betkote. He said, as per the instructions of the Higher Education Council, under State Higher Education Ministry, all remaining syllabus would be completed by first week of May. The in-charge VC held a meeting with the teaching faculty members in this regard, recently, and provided necessary guidance. A decision was taken to hold all internal exams online, to avoid delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/uom-urges-profs-to-go-tech-savy-for-teaching-822928.html
08-04-2020||National||States bat for extension of coronavirus lockdown||The ongoing 21-day lockdown, which is scheduled to come to an end on April 14, may continue in large parts of the country after several states pitched for an extension of the curbs, flagging the dangers of lifting them in one go. The most emphatic statement on maintaining the restrictions came from Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who on Tuesday said that economic revival can wait but the pandemic had to be curbed at all costs. Telangana CM K Chandrashekhar Rao batted for an extension of restrictions by one to two weeks on Monday. The Centre’s decision on extending the lockdown could also be spurred by views expressed by multiple experts, who have warned that ending the lockdown immediately may waste the gains made so far in containing the outbreak. Sources in the government said several states want the lockdown restrictions to remain in force for more time. Many of them want hotels and bars to remain shut and no resumption of schools and colleges till June. Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health, highlighted an ICMR study on the impact of lockdown measures. Aggarwal said the study showed that if one COVID-19 patient didn’t follow lockdown orders or practise social distancing, the patient could infect 406 people in 30 days. But if he  followed the rules, a COVID-19 patient could infect 2.5 persons in 30 days. Vice President Venkaiah Naidu said the third week of the lockdown is crucial for decision making and asked people to “abide by what ever decision follows and cooperate with the same spirit that has so far been demonstrated”. Several states, including BJP-ruled ones, favour extending the lockdown. Apart from Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh led by Yogi Adityanath also made it clear the lockdown would continue, as long as new cases of COVID-19 were reported in the state. In NDA-ruled Bihar, the state is likely to continue with a partial lockdown after April 14, even though there have been no fresh positive cases in Bihar in the last 48 hours. Gujarat may also extend the lockdown, since COVID-19 cases are increasing in some of the major cities such as Ahmedabad, Surat, Bhavnagar and Vadodara. In Congress-ruled Rajasthan, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who swears by ruthless containment to arrest the spread of COVID-19, wants a phased lifting of the lockdown. Maharashtra, one of the worst-hit states, is unlikely to call off the lockdown. And whenever the curbs will be withdrawn, it would be in phases owing to a surge in cases in Mumbai and Pune. Among other southern states, Tamil Nadu, which has 621 cases, feels that “relaxing the lockdown would take away the progress made in containing the disease in the past fortnight”. Kerala is continuing the lockdown in seven districts identified as COVID-19 hotspots for the time being, while the government is considering phased relaxations of lockdown in the remaining seven districts. In Northeast, Assam is planning to issue temporary passes to its residents, willing to return home by trains or flights but is against resumption of inter-state transport. Meghalaya will resume inter-district movement of private vehicles and essential commodities.  In West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said there was no reason to think that such an issue will be over in a day and hence “this may continue for some more time.” Restrictions on public movement and mass gathering may continue there. (With inputs from Satish Jha, Sumir Karmakar, Bharath Joshi, Arjun Raghunath, Prasad Nichenametla, Soumya Das, Zulfikar Majid, Mrityunjay Bose, Abhay Kumar and Sanjay Pandey)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-bat-for-extension-of-coronavirus-lockdown-822688.html
08-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: After salary, perks of MPs also cut by 30%||After deciding for a 30 percent salary cut of MPs to shore up funds to tackle the COVID-19 menace, the Government on Tuesday effected a similar cut in their constituency allowance and stationery expenses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-after-salary-perks-of-mps-also-cut-by-30-822697.html
08-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 8, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.  Stay healthy, stay safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-8-2020-edition-822696.html
08-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 8||While novel coronavirus has impacted China, Italy, the US and Spain the most, India too is seeing COVID-19 infect its economy. After making its presence in Kerala first, the novel coronavirus spread to other cities/regions, including Bengaluru, Pune, Delhi, Jaipur, Agra, Hyderabad, Jammu and Kashmir. Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). The total number of positive cases (including deaths) in India: 5,820 as of April 8. Total deaths in India: 179 Andhra Pradesh: 4 Haryana: 3 Rajasthan: 6 Uttar Pradesh: 4 Telangana: 11 Madhya Pradesh: 18 Karnataka: 5 Delhi: 9 Maharashtra: 72 Punjab: 7 Bihar: 1 Gujarat: 16 West Bengal: 9 Himachal Pradesh: 2 Tamil Nadu: 7 Jammu and Kashmir: 2 Kerala: 3 Coronavirus in India: States/UTs with confirmed positive cases (Details are updated as we receive information) Kerala: 345Punjab: 106Delhi: 669Jammu and Kashmir: 158Ladakh: 14Rajasthan: 383Uttar Pradesh: 361Maharashtra: 1135Karnataka: 181Tamil Nadu: 738Telangana: 364Haryana: 147Andhra Pradesh: 329Himachal Pradesh: 28Gujarat: 186Uttarakhand: 33Odisha: 42West Bengal: 99Chandigarh: 18Chhattisgarh: 19Madhya Pradesh: 385Bihar: 38Puducherry: 6Manipur: 2Mizoram: 1Goa: 7Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 11Jharkhand: 4Assam: 27Arunachal Pradesh: 1Tripura: 1 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 402      While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the epidemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-8-822699.html
08-04-2020||National||Two Tablighi Jamaat members booked for murder bid in Haridwar||Two members of the Tablighi Jamaat were booked for attempt to murder in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar on Tuesday after they allegedly avoided getting themselves tested for coronavirus. DGP (Law and Order) Ashok Kumar said the two Jamaat members from Haridwar’s Roorkee had recently returned from Rajasthan’s Alwar. They deliberately hid from the administration to avoid the tests, he added. "Their friend had tested positive for COVID-19. Still, they deliberately hid from the administration to avoid being tested despite repeated appeals and warnings, thus endangering their own lives and those around them,” the officer said. The DGP said they traced them with the help of electronic surveillance and booked them under Section 307 of the IPC. Kumar said so far 180 people associated with Jamaat have come forward for medical examination in Uttarakhand. Earlier, the authorities had asked the Jamaat members to get themselves tested by April 6 or face stern action. Kumar said so far police have booked 44 people for spreading rumour about COVID-19 on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-tablighi-jamaat-members-booked-for-murder-bid-in-haridwar-822714.html
08-04-2020||National||Prime Minister Modi greets people on Hanuman Jayanti||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday greeted people on Hanuman Jayanti, saying the life of "pawanputra" is a symbol of devotion and strength which inspires us to face every crisis and overcome it. "Heartfelt greetings on the auspicious occasion of Hanuman Jayanti," he tweeted. The life of "Pawanputra" is a symbol of devotion, strength, dedication and discipline, inspires us to face every crisis and overcome it, he said. हनुमान जयंती के पावन अवसर पर देशवासियों को हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं। भक्ति, शक्ति, समर्पण और अनुशासन के प्रतीक पवनपुत्र का जीवन हमें हर संकट का सामना करने और उससे पार पाने की प्रेरणा देता है।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prime-minister-modi-greets-people-on-hanuman-jayanti-822744.html
08-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Aligarh chief mufti asks Muslims not to visit graveyards, mosques on Shab-e Barat||The chief mufti of Aligarh has asked Muslims not to visit graveyards and mosques on the occasion of Shab-e-Barat in view of the country-wide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. In a video shared on social media, Mufti Khalid Hamid said that visiting the graves of departed loved ones is a traditional practice among followers of Islam. However, in view of the pandemic, this practice of offering prayers in mosques for the departed souls  "should not be followed in the present circumstances". The mufti said, "Everybody has to perform these rituals at home and under no circumstances should anyone carry the erroneous impression that such rituals are mandated to be carried out only in graveyards and mosques". Shab-e-Barat, also known as the night of forgiveness, will be observed on April 8-9 this year. Members of the Muslim community visit graveyards and offer prayers in memory of their loved ones. The chief mufti has also strictly warned against the practice of bursting firecrackers on the occasion. "There is no need to celebrate the occasion by putting up decorative lights as this a tradition which has crept in among followers of Islam recently," he said.  The Uttar Pradesh Shia Central Waqf Board had on Tuesday decided to close down all graveyards in view of the lockdown. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on March 24 imposed a 21-day nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-aligarh-chief-mufti-asks-muslims-not-to-visit-graveyards-mosques-on-shab-e-barat-822750.html
08-04-2020||National||'Sakhi Mandals' using medicinal plants in making hand sanitisers||A 'Sakhi Mandal' (Self-Help Group) in Jharkhand's Khunti district is using medicinal plants along with other ingredients to prepare hand sanitizer in their fight against COVID-19 pandemic, a government official said. Lemon grass or basil oil is also being added to the hand sanitizer by the 'Sakhi Mandal' as it is a medicinal plant and increase the effectiveness of the sanitizer, the official said. A total of 225 litres of hand sanitizer have been manufactured in Khunti by the 'Sakhi Mandal' and the quantity would be increased to 1,000 litres in the next two days, he said. The hand sanitizers have been packaged in 100 ml, 250 ml and 500 ml bottles. "The amount of alcohol in the sanitizer manufactured in Khunti is 72 per cent, glycerine is 13 per cent, distilled water is 13 per cent and basil or lemongrass is 2 per cent, he said, about the mixture of the sanitizer. In all, eight women are engaged in the preparation of the hand sanitizer in their fight against COVID-19 with the help of Khunti district administration and Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion Society at Anigada Rural Service Centre at Panikada village of Khunti district. "There is a plan to set up roadside stalls at various places between 8 am and 11 am by the Didis of the Sakhi Mandal to make the hand sanitizer accessible to the common people," he said. Meanwhile, an official release said Rs 10 crore was donated by Tata Company and one crore by Adani Group to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund to fight the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sakhi-mandals-using-medicinal-plants-in-making-hand-sanitisers-822752.html
08-04-2020||National||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal Kejriwal to hold meeting with MPs on coronavirus||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will hold a meeting with all Delhi MPs on the issue of coronavirus via video conference on Wednesday. The chief minister will discuss the measures with the Members of Parliament (MPs) to deal with COVID-19 in the national capital, an official said. "The CM will meet Delhi MPs at 12 noon on the issue of coronavirus," he said. The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital on Tuesday rose to 576, with 51 fresh cases and two deaths being reported in a day, according to the Delhi Health Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-kejriwal-to-hold-meeting-with-mps-on-coronavirus-822755.html
08-04-2020||National||I'd love to win a Test series in India: Steve Smith||Star Australian batsman Steve Smith believes India is one of the toughest places to play Test cricket and winning a five-day format series in the country is a major career goal for him. "I would love to win a Test series in India," Smith told New Zealand leg-spinner, Ish Sodhi, during a podcast organised by inaugural IPL champions Rajasthan Royals. "I think as an Australian cricketer we talk about like Ashes is always big, World Cup is big but I think now India is no.1 team in the world and it is a very difficult place to play Test cricket, so I would love to win a series there," he said. Talking about his other targets, Smith, who is currently the world's number one Test batsman, said: "Other then that I would not like to set too many goals, but take things day by day, series by series, just try to improve. "It has been a pretty long year with the World Cup and Ashes, a few away one day tours. So this rest is not the worst thing but hopefully, it is for a few weeks. I am pretty keen to get back to playing." Smith also heaped praise on India's spin all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja, describing him as a difficult bowler to face in the subcontinent. "Jadeja in the sub-continent... why he is so good because, he hits that good length and one ball skids on and one spins, and it just all looks the same out of the hand. I think consistency in length is key and then having at least one variation," he said.  b"So, I think for a leg-spinner, having a good googly, or a slider is crucial and for fingers spinners, being able to change the pace without changing the arms speed too much. I reckon there a few around the world who do that, Jadeja is one of them. He is very difficult to play." Smith took over the captaincy from Ajinkya Rahane mid-season in the last edition of the IPL and he is keen to lead the Rajasthan Royals from the beginning if the cash-rich event, which has been suspended till April 15 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, is held later in the year. "Plenty going on in the world at present, but hopefully we can get an IPL at some stage," said Smith, who has so far amassed 7227 runs in 73 Tests and 4162 runs in ODIs. "The two seasons that I captained the Royals were both half seasons, Shane Watson gave me the captaincy in 2015 and then last year out of the blue, I took over at the back end of the season. Looking at having a crack at it full time and the Royals have a pretty good squad," he said. Smith started his career as a spinner before emerging as one of the best batsmen in the world. Talking about his career, the 30-year-old said: "I was more of a batsman than a bowler. I played my first two Test matches as a specialist spinner which was strange. They were looking for a spinner after the Shane Warne era and I was one of the 12-13 spinners that got a go. "I got dropped after that and for me it was about finding a way to get into the Australian team and at that point in time, I let my bowling slip and focussed only on my batting. But I bowl every now and then." With the coronavirus outbreak putting countries in lockdown mode across the globe, Smith too has been in isolation and he says he is trying to kill the boredom by playing tennis and spending time with family. "It is not that strict yet here, so I have been able to go for a run, play tennis," he said. "Getting a little bit bored at times. I have a home gym, getting fair work there at the moment and obviously Netflix and chill, that is what is happening around the world at the moment."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/id-love-to-win-a-test-series-in-india-steve-smith-822763.html
08-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: India panel recommends partial lifting of lockdown||A panel of Indian government ministers advised Prime Minister Narendra Modi to partially lift the lockdown imposed on March 25 to control the spread of the coronavirus outbreak, people with knowledge of the matter said. Areas with large clusters of COVID-19 cases will remain closed, the people said, asking not to be identified as the discussions are private. The panel, headed by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, recommended cities can open markets on alternate days after the three week period ends. States can allow harvesting of crops across the country, they added. Modi’s administration faces the tough choice of lifting the lockdown to sustain livelihood of millions who have little to eat or keep the restrictions in place to check the spread of the pandemic. The unemployment rate in the nation may have climbed to more than 20% because of the restrictions, according to a survey by the Center for Monitoring Indian Economy Pvt. Trains and local mass rapid transportation services will remain suspended, while gatherings at religious centers won’t be allowed, the people said. The prime minister will take the final decision on lifting restrictions, they said. Educational institutions will remain closed while big grain markets may be allowed to begin limited operations, the people said. The government has been in detailed talks with independent health experts and state governments on when and how the country should exit its massive close down. Some states like Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Chhatisgarh, and Uttar Pradesh have said they favor an extension beyond April 14. Modi on Wednesday will also be consulting with leaders of other political parties via video conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-panel-recommends-partial-lifting-of-lockdown-822772.html
08-04-2020||National||Five die of coronavirus in Pune; district toll rises to 13||Five people died of coronavirus in Pune in the last 12 hours, taking the COVID-19 toll in the Maharashtra district to 13, officials said on Wednesday. Three of the deaths were reported from Sassoon General Hospital, and one each from Naidu Hospital and Nobel Hospital, a health official from the Pune Municipal Corporation said. All these patients had some co-morbid health conditions, he said. Details of one of the deaths were available so far. A 44-year-old man, who was on ventilator support and suffering from uncontrolled diabetes, died at the civic-run Naidu Hospital early Wednesday morning, Pune Municipal Commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said. He was admitted to the hospital on April 4. On Tuesday night, he became breathless and was put on ventilator support. He died on Wednesday after renal failure, Gaikwad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-die-of-coronavirus-in-pune-district-toll-rises-to-13-822787.html
08-04-2020||National||Medical staff at Mumbai hospital protest over PPE quality||Medical staff including nurses and paramedical employees at a municipal hospital staff in Mumbai staged a protest on Wednesday against the 'poor quality' of personal protection equipment (PPE) given to them. Employees of the KB Bhabha Municipal General Hospital in suburban Bandra gathered outside the hospital and staged a protest after a woman undergoing treatment there died due to COVID-19 infection, an employee said. The hospital staffers are demanding that they be quarantined as there is a serious risk of the spread of COVID-19 in the facility. Two private hospitals in Mumbai have been sealed after some medical staff members there tested coronavirus positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/medical-staff-at-mumbai-hospital-protest-over-ppe-quality-822788.html
08-04-2020||National||Govt plans 'larger force' to replace frontline workers engaged in COVID-19 management||Asserting that India faces a significantly higher threat from COVID-19, the central government has decided to create a "larger force" to replace frontline workers engaged in various works to tackle the pandemic and its exponential increase. It has decided to provide them with necessary training through online mode. "...As all are aware, India faces a significantly higher threat from COVID-19 pandemic. It will be pertinent to take note of the fact that India's first line of workers is already engaged in COVID relief and doing a commendable job. "However, a large force will be needed to replace the first line and to tackle the exponential or geometric increase in positive COVID-19 cases in the subsequent stages of the pandemic," according to a Personnel Ministry order. Accordingly, to take care of the training needs of the frontline workers, the launch of the integrated government online training (iGOT) platform has been fast-forwarded, and a version of iGOT fitted to these needs has been launched, it said. "The platform will provide the training modules on flexitime and on site basis so that the COVID response can be delivered at scale for the workforce needed to tackle the pandemic," said the order.   The courses on iGOT, it said, have been launched for doctors, nurses, paramedics, hygiene workers, technicians, auxiliary nursing midwives (ANMs), state government officers and civil defence officials, among others. The online training modules are also available for various police organisations, National Cadet Corps (NCC), Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS), National Service Scheme (NSS), Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS), Bharat Scouts and Guides (BSG) and other volunteers at this stage, said the order, issued to all central government departments and state governments. They have been asked to encourage more and more members of the organisations concerned to onboard the iGOT platform and undergo online training so that the pandemic may be handled efficiently, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-plans-larger-force-to-replace-frontline-workers-engaged-in-covid-19-management-822791.html
08-04-2020||National||Bombay HC permits man to travel to Assam for father's last rites||The Bombay High Court has permitted a Pune resident to travel by road to Assam to attend the final rites of his father amid the nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. Justice A K Menon on Tuesday heard a petition filed by one Binny Dholani, seeking permission to travel from Maharashtra's Pune city to Lanka town in Assam to attend the last rites of his father, who died of a heart attack on April 5. In his plea, Dholani said he was willing to travel by a cargo flight or any flight available, or in any other manner that he may be permitted to travel. Since movements are restricted across the country due to the lockdown, Dholani sought a direction to the authorities concerned to permit him to take a flight or to make necessary arrangements to enable him to reach Assam. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh told the court that it is not just the case of the petitioner, but there are several others who have died, some after contracting the coronavirus, but in no case people are being permitted to travel by air. Singh, however, added that the Union government would permit the petitioner to travel by road if he desires. Necessary instructions will be given to the Pune collectorate and appropriate steps will be taken thereafter to facilitate the petitioner's road travel," he told the court. Justice Menon accepted Singh's statement and directed the petitioner to apply to the authorities concerned for permission to travel by road. "Once the petitioner decides to seek permission, he is also directed to convey the road route he intends to take to reach his destination, so that the authorities would be aware of the various exit and entry points through which he would pass borders of various states to reach Lanka in Assam, the court said in its order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-hc-permits-man-to-travel-to-assam-for-fathers-last-rites-822793.html
08-04-2020||National||Check black marketing, detain traders involved in malpractices: MHA to states||Amid reports of loss of production due to reduction in labour supply among other things, the Centre has asked states to take "urgent steps" to ensure availability of essential goods by invoking provisions of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 and consider detaining traders indulging in malpractices like black marketing. Attracting attention to the possibility of "inventory building/ hoarding and black marketing, profiteering and speculative trading and the resulting price rise" of essential goods, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said states should take steps like fixing stock limits, capping prices, enhancing production and inspection of accounts of dealers, among others. In his letter to state chief secretaries on Tuesday, Bhalla said the Ministry of Home Affairs has allowed production, transport and other related supply-chain activities related to essential goods like food stuff, medicines and medical equipment. "State/ union territory governments are advised to take urgent steps to ensure availability of these essential goods by invoking the provisions of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955," he said. The Essential Commodities Act 1955 provides for the "control" of the production, "supply and distribution" of, and "trade and commerce" in "certain" commodities, in the "interest of the general public". Offences under the Act are criminal offences and may result in imprisonment of seven years or fine or both. Bhalla said, "state/ union territory government may also consider detention of offenders under the Prevention of Black-Marketing and Maintenance of Supplies of Essential Commodities Act, 1980". Under the Act, an officer of the Centre or State not below the rank of a Joint Secretary specially empowered to act under law to prevent black-marketing or any other officer not below the rank of Secretary are authorised to order the detention of a person involved in malpractices. A District Magistrate or a Police Commissioner is also empowered to detain a person "with a view to preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of supplies of commodities essential to the community it is necessary so to do, make an order directing that such person be detained" but will have to report to the state government. He also said the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution is authorising states and union territories to notify orders under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 by relaxing the requirement of prior concurrence of the central government up to June 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/check-black-marketing-detain-traders-involved-in-malpractices-mha-to-states-822796.html
08-04-2020||National||12 injured in clash during ration distribution in Aligarh||Twelve people were injured as two groups belonging to separate communities clashed over the issue of distribution of ration in Kamalpur village here, police said on Wednesday. Six persons have been arrested in connection with the clash that took place on Tuesday, ADM City, Rakesh Kumar Maalpani told PTI. "The incident took place in the village at the time of ration distribution in which two groups clashed. Twelve persons were injured in brick batting between rival groups. They have been admitted at the district Malham Singh hospital," police said.  The situation in the village is now "fully under control", police said. An FIR has been lodged against 150 people, including 100 unnamed people. Among those booked for the violence is the pradhan of the village Chaman Khan. In a separate incident on Tuesday, BJP Corporator Virendra Singh was arrested for allegedly assaulting a labourer Kanhaiya Lal following a tiff over the distribution of ration. As soon as news of his arrest spread, senior BJP leaders rushed to police station Kuwarsi where the arrested corporator was taken.  After nearly two hours of an altercation between BJP  leaders and police, the corporator was released on bail. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Muniraj G  told newspersons that an inquiry has been ordered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12-injured-in-clash-during-ration-distribution-in-aligarh-822797.html
08-04-2020||National||SC asks Centre to prevent private labs from charging high fee for COVID-19 testing||The Supreme Court on Wednesday suggested that the Centre should create a mechanism wherein private laboratories conducting COVID-19 tests do not charge exorbitant fees from public and government should reimburse the fees charged by labs. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and S Ravindra Bhat was told by the Centre that earlier 15,000 tests were conducted per day by 118 labs and later to enhance the capacity, 47 private labs were allowed to conduct the COVID-19 tests. The top court was hearing a plea filed by advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi seeking a direction to the Centre and authorities to provide free of cost testing facility for COVID-19 to all citizens in the country. Sudhi told the bench that there should be free testing of COVID-19 by labs in the country as it is expensive. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said it is a developing situation and the government at this juncture does not know how many laboratories will be needed and how long the ongoing lockdown will continue. To this, the bench suggested that the Centre should ensure that private laboratories do not charge high amount and the government should create a mechanism for reimbursement of the fees charges for the tests. Mehta said he would like to take instructions on this front after which the bench said it would pass orders in the matter. On April 3, the top court had sought response from the Centre and other authorities on the plea filed by Sudhi. The petitioner has also sought a direction to the authorities for ramping up the testing facilities for COVID-19 at the earliest "given the escalating mortality and morbidity rate across the country". The petition has questioned the March 17 advisory of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) which capped Rs 4,500 for testing of COVID-19 in private hospitals or labs, including screening and confirmatory tests. "It is extremely difficult for the common citizen to get himself/herself tested in the government hospital /labs and being no alternative in the sight, the people are constrained to pay the capped amount to the private hospital/labs for protecting their lives," it said. The plea said the impending danger of coronavirus is extremely serious, given the deprived population of the country, and testing is the only way to contain the pandemic. It alleged that authorities are "completely insensitive and indifferent" to the plight of common citizens who are already financially burdened on account of complete lockdown across the country. "Further, the capping of the prices of the testing facility of COVID-19 in private hospitals/labs strikes at the Article 14 of the Constitution of India as being arbitrary and unreasonable," it said and urged that the March 17 advisory be declared arbitrary. It also sought a direction for ensuring that all tests relating to COVID-19 are conducted under the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) or ICMR accredited pathological labs. It said ICMR should be directed to hold regular news briefings through national TV channels about the current situation on coronavirus and precautions to be taken by the citizens. The plea also said that authorities must ensure adequate numbers of testing kits and centers for COVID-19 across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-prevent-private-labs-from-charging-high-fee-for-covid-19-testing-822808.html
08-04-2020||National||Journalist among six new COVID-19 patients in Bhopal||Six more people tested positive for coronavirus in Bhopal, taking the number of such cases in the Madhya Pradesh capital to 91, officials said on Wednesday. The six new patients include a journalist working with a news channel, a public relations department official said. He possibly contracted the infection from a police officer who earlier tested positive for coronavirus, the official said. Out of the total 91 patients, one died while two have so far been discharged after recovery, Bhopal Chief Medical and Health Officer Sudhir Deharia said. Nearly 45 of the COVID-19 patients here are health workers and 12 are police personnel and their families, another official said. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has directed the officials concerned to completely seal the borders of Bhopal and Indore, which are affected more by the disease as compared to other districts in the state. So far, 173 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Indore and 16 of them died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/journalist-among-six-new-covid-19-patients-in-bhopal-822809.html
08-04-2020||National||Bhima Koregaon case: SC gives activists one more week to surrender||The Supreme Court on Wednesday gave activists Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde one more week to surrender in the case of their alleged link to banned Maoist outfit, claimed to have emerged after the Bhima Koregaon violence. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Indira Banerjee extended the time for surrender as the last opportunity, saying the petitioners have enjoyed the protection for long. Navlakha, and Teltumbde, led by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, sought more time, saying going to prison during this time of Coronavirus was "virtually a death sentence". Their counsel also said that both the activists were over 65 years old and suffered heart ailments, making them more vulnerable. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, however, opposed the plea, saying the contention was made to buy time. He said the activists were facing serious charges. He also said jail was the safest place for them. Both the activists were on March 16 given three weeks time to surrender in the case related to stringent charges under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Granting additional one week, the court made it clear that there would not be any further extension of time. "Though we expected the accused would surrender, honouring the order of this court, they have not done so. We are told that in Bombay, the courts are functioning. It would have been appropriate for the accused to surrender as the courts are open and not totally closed," the bench said in its order. On March 16, the top court had declined anticipatory bail plea by activists Teltumbde and Navalakha in the Bhima Koregaon case.  It had then noted that Section 43D(4) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, clearly put a bar for pre-arrest bail. "We are of the opinion that it cannot be said that no prima facie case is made out," the bench had also said.  The court, however, had then granted them three weeks time to surrender before the National Investigation Agency, entrusted to probe the matter.  It had then noted the petitioners had enjoyed protection from arrest for one-and-half year. The activists faced charges for their alleged Maoist links and involvement in the Bhima Koregaon violence. An event 'Elgar Parishad' was held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which allegedly led to caste violence on January 1, 2018. Several prominent activists have already been arrested in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhima-koregaon-case-sc-gives-activists-one-more-week-to-surrender-822817.html
08-04-2020||National||IT Min looking for more efforts from social media to check misleading content amid COVID-19||The Ministry of Electronics and IT (Meity)expects social media companies to put more efforts in curbing the spread of misleading content that has the potential to cause harm to the society, especially in the present crisis of COVID-19, a senior official said on Wednesday. Last week, Meity has asked social media platforms to remove rogue messages spreading misinformation and weakening the government's efforts to fight against the coronavirus. Social media companies have also been asked to save details of uploaders of such malicious content which can be shared with law enforcement agencies when required. "We have seen the report by Voyager Infosec. We are in touch with social media companies regularly and have asked to remove all the content that can potentially cause damage to the society especially in the present scenario," the Meity officer, who did not wish to be named, told PTI.  Industry body IAMAI defended the social media by putting the onus on the users for content creation and said any request to take down content will “have to come via proper legal notices”. The IT ministry has not issued any legal notice to social media companies but is coordinating with them almost every day to act against such content, the officer said. According to a report by the open-source intelligence and fact-checking IT firm Voyager Infosec, bulk videos are being posted on social media platforms to influence Muslims in India against following safe practices to contain coronavirus infection. The firm found that videos have been shot in both foreign locations and India and are being primarily posted on Chinese mobile video app TikTok with religious instigations against health advisories and fake information regarding coronavirus. These videos are further shared on other platforms like Whatsapp, Twitter and Facebook, the report said. The report submitted to India Cyber Crime Coordination Centre, claims to have analysed over 30,000 videos within a period of five days. It said that most of these videos have been created with professional video editing softwares and originally uploaded accounts are being deleted after circulating them on other social media platforms. "Social media platforms are acting on objectionable videos and removing content that is reported to them. They are cooperating among themselves but there is a need to do more by way of larger collaboration so that such content can be checked immediately," the officer said. When asked why is social media, which has large technical infrastructure, failing to check such videos as reported by Voyager Infosec, the official said the ministry will discuss with all players including the IT intelligence firm for timely action on all the objectionable content. Industry body IAMAI, whose members include TikTok, YouTube , Facebook, Twitter etc, said that the social media platform members of the association have taken proactive steps to prevent and curtail the spread of misinformation and fake news. IAMAI said that since the content on these platforms is not created by the platforms, the liability of creating/generating misinformation lies with social media users and not the platform themselves. "While the platforms have taken positive steps to restrict the spread of fake news, any form of the takedown of content will still have to come via proper legal notices as determined by existing legal provisions. The platforms on their part are often actively engaging with such relevant authorities to facilitate a more cooperative mechanism in this regard," IAMAI said. The industry body said that it has communicated to Meity and the Home Ministry with details of measures taken by its social media platform members over misinformation during the present times of crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-min-looking-for-more-efforts-from-social-media-to-check-misleading-content-amid-covid-19-822818.html
08-04-2020||National||Doctors, healthcare workers are warriors, have to be protected, SC tells Centre||Doctors and healthcare professionals are "warriors" in fight against coronavirus and have to be protected, the Supreme Court said on Wednesday even as the Centre assured that it is doing its best by providing them personal protective equipment (PPE) and other facilities. The apex court suggested that the government should create a mechanism to solicit suggestions from people about how to go ahead on the issues related to COVID-19, including on providing treatment, regulatory mechanism for people working from home and also on lockdown. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and S Ravindra Bhat, hearing through video-conferencing three petitions seeking protective kits for doctors and healthcare workers amid coronavirus pandemic, was informed by the Centre that PPE kits and other requisite things are being arranged and it is taking steps in this regard. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who made it clear that he was not opposing the prayers made in these petitions, told the bench that doctors and healthcare professionals are "corona warriors" and government is ensuring their protection and safety along with their family members. He also denied reports about salary cut of doctors and staffs of hospitals and said the Centre would write to all the states that no salary should be deducted for purchase of PPEs and masks. "If anybody is doing something like this (salary cut of doctors and staffs), we will send police," Mehta told the bench, adding, "as an institutional response, we are doing this". "The government and police will walk extra mile to protect doctors," Mehta said and added that to ensure safety of family members, doctors are being housed in hotels also. During the hearing, the bench observed, "Why do you not create a mechanism at district level where nodal officers can be appointed to get suggestions from all persons?". Responding to the query, Mehta said that they have a central control room which has officials from ministries of health, home and Ayush. He said such control rooms are also there at state level and they are dealing with calls having suggestions and complaints. "They (doctors and healthcare professionals) are warriors. They have to be protected," the bench observed, adding, "You have to think how to start production. Service sector is working from home. Their well being and mental health is also important". Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for one of the petitioners, told the bench that he appreciate the stand of the Solicitor General but doctors are afraid and if medical professionals would not come forward, things would collapse. Rohatgi also pointed out to the reports about corona positive patients escaping from hospitals. Mehta said police pickets have been placed in all the hospitals to ensure that people, who should not be mixing with others, should not leave the hospital. One of the petitions has highlighted the urgent need to provide WHO-graded protective gear to doctors, nurses and medical staff who are treating coronavirus patients across the country. One of the pleas filed by Nagpur-based Jerryl Banait, who is a doctor by profession, has said that the Centre should ensure that World Health Organization-graded protective gear, including hazmat suits, PPE, starch apparels, medical masks, goggles, face shield, respirators and head covers, is made available to all health workers like doctors, nurses, ward boys, medical and para-medical professionals who are attending COVID-19 patients. Another petition filed by advocate Amit Sahni has sought a direction to the Centre and state governments to resolve the issue of shortage of PPE kits for healthcare professionals to combat coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-healthcare-workers-are-warriors-have-to-be-protected-sc-tells-centre-822819.html
08-04-2020||National||Conduct free tests for novel coronavirus at private labs: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered that private labs would not charge Rs 4,500 as fees fixed for conducting COVID-19 test. "The private Hospitals including Laboratories have an important role to play in containing the scale of a pandemic by extending philanthropic services in the hour of national crisis," a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and S Ravindra Bhat told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The top court asked the Union government to issue necessary direction to accredited private Labs to conduct free of cost COVID-19 test. The government approved labs are already conducting the test free of cost. The court passed its interim order in a PIL, saying question as to whether the private Laboratories carrying free of cost tests are entitled for any reimbursement of expenses would be considered later. The court also directed that tests relating to COVID-19 must be carried out in NABL accredited labs or any agencies approved by ICMR. A lawyer, Shashank Deo Sudhi, has filed the plea for providing free of cost testing facility for COVID-19. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for his part, submitted that as many as 15000 tests were being undertaken per day by 118 labs, which was not sufficient. So 47 private labs had to be roped in. "As of now, more than 200 countries are suffering from this pandemic. The number of patients suffering from COVID-19 is rapidly increasing worldwide with the death toll rising rapidly. In our country, in spite of various measures taken by the Union Government and different State Government/Union Territory the number of patients and death caused by it is increasing day by day. Our country has a very large population," the bench noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/conduct-free-tests-for-novel-coronavirus-at-private-labs-supreme-court-822823.html
08-04-2020||National||Lockdown: Government helpline receives 92,000 calls on abuse and violence in 11 days||The Childline India helpline received more than 92,000 SOS calls asking for protection from abuse and violence in 11 days, a sombre indication that the lockdown has turned into extended captivity not just for many women but also for children trapped with their abusers at home. Of the 3.07 lakh calls received by the 'CHILDLINE 1098' helpline for children in distress across the country between March 20-31, covering the first week of the lockdown, 30 per cent were about protection against abuse and violence on children, said Harleen Walia, deputy director of Childline India. This comes to 92,105 calls. According to Walia, the number of calls after the lockdown, which started after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech on March 24, has increased by 50 per cent. The data was shared on Tuesday during an orientation workshop for district-based child protection units and attended by senior Women and Child Development ministry officials. Discussions at the workshop focused on coronavirus-related issues and ways to reduce stress on children during the ongoing lockdown. Some of the other calls received following the lockdown dealt with physical health (11 per cent of calls), child labour (8 per cent), missing and runaway children (8 per cent) and homeless (5 per cent), according to figures shared by Walia in the meeting. Besides, the helpline got 1,677 calls with questions on the coronavirus and 237 seeking help for those who are sick. Walia has suggested the helpline be declared an essential service during the lockdown. Many women who are victims of domestic violence are also more vulnerable during the lockdown. National Commission of Women chairperson Rekha Sharma recently said domestic violence complaints have been increasing by the day since the nationwide lockdown was imposed with 69 complaints received just through email. From March 24 till April 1, 257 complaints related to various offences against women were received. Of the 257, 69 complaints are related to domestic violence, the latest data released by the NCW showed. Sharma said the number of cases of domestic violence must be much higher but women are scared to complain due to the constant presence of their abusers at home. "Women are not approaching police because they think that if they take their husband away, her in-laws will then torture her. And he will, in turn, torture her more when he gets out of the police station. Earlier, women could go to their parents but now they are unable to reach them,” Sharma told PTI, adding that the NCW is in touch with some of the complainants.  India is currently under the biggest lockdown with around 1.3 billion people asked to stay home in view of the coronavirus outbreak, which has claimed at least 149 lives and infected more than 5,100 people. “Confinement is fostering the tension and strain created by security, health, and money worries. And it is increasing isolation for women with violent partners, separating them from the people and resources that can best help them. It’s a perfect storm for controlling, violent behaviour behind closed doors,” UN Women Executive Director Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka said in a statement calling the violence against women and girls “a shadow pandemic”. Child rights bodies recently wrote to the Prime Minister's Office, asking the government to declare 1098 toll free and to make it a COVID-19 emergency outreach number for children or parents or caregivers. In a joint statement, an alliance of six leading child development organisations (ChildFund India, Plan India, Save the Children India, SOS Children’s Villages of India, Terre des hommes and World Vision India) on April 2 also asked the government to provide uninterrupted access to critical services for the most vulnerable children and their families.  "To overcome the immediate and long-term impact of the crisis, the government should ensure, on priority basis: access to critical services such as healthcare, nutrition, food security, mental health and psychosocial support, protection against violence and ensure social protection and child-sensitive cash transfer initiatives to the most vulnerable children and poorest families," the child rights bodies said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-government-helpline-receives-92000-calls-on-abuse-and-violence-in-11-days-822826.html
08-04-2020||National||Flight restrictions will be lifted once we are confident that coronavirus is in control: Puri||India will remove its suspension of domestic and international commercial passenger flights once it is confident that the spread of coronavirus has come under control, sad Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday. "My heart goes out to people who are facing problems due to restrictions put in place on domestic & international flights, pursuant to the situation arising out of the timely announcement of a nationwide lockdown," the minister said on Twitter.  India has imposed a 21-day lockdown from March 25 to curb the coronavirus pandemic. Consequently, all domestic and international commercial passenger flights have been suspended for this time period. However, cargo flights, offshore helicopter operations, medical evacuation flights and special flights permitted by Indian aviation regulator DGCA are permitted to operate during this lockdown. "These restrictions will be lifted once we are fully confident that the spread of the virus has been controlled & it poses no danger to fellow Indians," the minister said. "I thank everyone for their cooperation and help in these testing times. Together we shall overcome and emerge stronger," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flight-restrictions-will-be-lifted-once-we-are-confident-that-coronavirus-is-in-control-puri-822837.html
08-04-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi condoles death of veteran Indian-American journalist Brahm Kanchibotla who died of coronavirus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday condoled the demise of veteran Indian-American journalist Brahm Kanchibotla who died of coronavirus, saying he will be remembered for his fine work. Kanchibotla, who was a former contributor to the United News of India news agency, died of coronavirus at a New York hospital on Monday night. "Deeply anguished by the passing away of Indian-American journalist Mr Brahm Kanchibotla. He will be remembered for his fine work and efforts to bring India and USA closer," the prime minister tweeted. "Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-condoles-death-of-veteran-indian-american-journalist-brahm-kanchibotla-who-died-of-coronavirus-822848.html
08-04-2020||National||PM hints at extending coronavirus lockdown beyond April 14||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday hinted at extending the 21-day lockdown beyond April 14 contending that he has received suggestions from several quarters to do so. Modi told leaders of political parties in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha that he would take a final call on extension of the lockdown after consulting chief ministers on April 11. An overwhelming majority of leaders of 16 political parties who attended the ‘virtual’ meeting convened by the Prime Minister were in favour of extending the lockdown and favoured top priority to saving lives of people. “The Prime Minister made it clear that lockdown will not be lifted in one go on April 14,” Pinaki Misra, Leader of the Biju Janata Dal in the Lok Sabha said. “Leaders of most political parties – almost 80% – spoke in favour of extension of the lockdown but left the final call to the Prime Minister,” Ghulam Nabi Azad, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha told reporters here. Modi described the situation in the country akin to a “social emergency” and said that several tough decisions had to be taken and urged everyone to remain vigilant. “Several state governments, district administrations and experts have asked for extension of the phase of lockdown,” the Prime Minister told the leaders of political parties. Modi said despite the resource constraints, India was among the few nations that has been able to control the pace of the spread of the virus till now. He warned that the situation keeps changing continuously and one has to remain vigilant all the time. The Prime Minister said that the priority of the government is to save each and every life. He added that the country is facing serious economic challenges as a result of COVID-19, and that the government was committed to overcome them. Besides Misra and Azad, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, Ram Gopal Yadav (Samajwadi Party), Satish Misra (Bahujan Samaj Party), Chirag Paswan (Lok Janshakti Party), T R Baalu (Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam), Sukhbir Singh Badal (Shiromani Akali Dal), Rajiv Ranjan Singh (Janata Dal-United), Sanjay Raut (Shiv Sena) and Sudip Bandyopadhyay (Trinamool) participated in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-hints-at-extending-coronavirus-lockdown-beyond-april-14-822855.html
08-04-2020||National||Face masks made compulsory in Mumbai||Amid the spike in the number of COVID-19 cases, face masks have been made compulsory for all in Mumbai.  Anyone who moves around in the city, in any public place for whatever reasons, will have to wear a face mask, according to a notification issued by BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation. "The measure was necessitated as studies have revealed that wearing facial masks can substantially reduce the spread of COVID-19 from and to persons coming in contact with each other besides other mandatory social distancing measures already implemented," municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi said.  Accordingly, he has ordered that any persons moving around in public places like streets, hospitals, offices, markets, etc, for whatever reasons must wear a face mask. This would also be applicable to all people moving around in their official or personal vehicles at any site, office or workplace, besides attending any gatherings or meetings at workplaces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/face-masks-made-compulsory-in-mumbai-822859.html
08-04-2020||National||Nadda posts thank you message for 'corona warriors'||BJP president J P Nadda on Wednesday expressed his gratitude to the emergency staff working during the lockdown imposed to control the spread of coronavirus and asked people to join in thanking the "Corona Warriors". Nadda's message on social media came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked BJP workers to write thank you messages and have people join the exercise as a mark of gratitude to health professionals, sanitation staff, police and other emergency service providers.  "Responding to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call, the country has united in tackling COVID-19. In this valiant battle for humanity's future, Corona Warriors are at the forefront. I salute their grit and determination.Join. #ThankYouCoronaWarriors," Nadda said.  Nadda said their undiluted courage, selflessness, determination and focus have ensured that India remains on track in these difficult times. Placing yourselves at great risk, as doctors, nurses, paramedics, sanitation workers, police personnel, essential supplies workers, bank staff and government employees, you have ensured that others remain safe, others remain comfortable and are well-taken care of, he said.  "You have tirelessly and with deep dedication displayed an unshakable faith and conviction that corona can be defeated and that India and humanity will ultimately triumph. Your actions in these war-like times, are deeply inspiring," Nadda said.  "We pour our heart's gratitude and thankfulness before you. We salute your determination and grit. India shall be safe and emerge victorious in this fight against COVID-19 because of your selfless toil and sacrifice," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nadda-posts-thank-you-message-for-corona-warriors-822860.html
08-04-2020||National||AIIMS issues guidelines on reuse of PPE, citing depletion of stocks amid coronavirus pandemic||The AIIMS has released guidelines for the reuse of PPE, citing their fast depletion of stocks in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, while stressing that the methods for disinfection should only be considered as extraordinary last-resort methods in the event of an imminent shortages of such kits. According to the AIIMS guidelines, decontamination of PPE kits for the purpose of reuse is currently not recommended, primarily because of concerns that it would degrade the performance, especially of the respirator. But then, decontamination and reuse of PPE kits may provide another solution by extending the existing on-hand supplies, the guidelines say. "The COVID-19 pandemic has strained our resources tremendously in the healthcare setting. One of the most urgent issues is the fast depletion of personal protective equipment (PPE) used in the care of patients. This is a significant concern for healthcare workers' health and safety," the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) said. Healthcare workers across the country have highlighted the paucity of PPE, including coveralls, goggles, masks, gloves and shoe covers among others. According to the AIIMS guidelines, coveralls and N95 masks can be decontaminated using doubling dilution of 11 per cent hydrogen peroxide vapour in a sealed room while face shields and goggles can be decontaminated using 0.5 per cent sodium hypochlorite solution and 70 per cent alcohol. The death toll due to the novel coronavirus rose to 149 and the number of cases climbed to 5,194 in the country on Wednesday, according to the Union Health Ministry. However, a PTI tally of the figures reported by various states as on Tuesday 9.45 pm showed at least 162 deaths in the country due to COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-issues-guidelines-on-reuse-of-ppe-citing-depletion-of-stocks-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-822874.html
08-04-2020||National||Blackman scare in Kerala at the time of coronavirus||Amidst the Coronavirus scare, certain parts of Kerala were witnessing yet another scare also, black man scare, which is suspected to be the outcome of the frustration of anti-social elements owing to the lockdown. The black man scare initially got triggered at Kunnamkulam area, about 20 kilometres from Thrissur town and later spread to nearby districts of Malappuram and Kozhikode also. In order to escalate the scare, the anti-social elements even left the severed head of a cat on the premises of an MLA's house, spreading visuals of a tug of war player heating his body using the car heater and also spreading some old visuals of a thief. Kunnamkulam circle inspector Suresh K G said that after a couple of cases were registered against some youth who shared messages creating the nuisance, the COVID-19 scare has quite subsided. The police suspect that antisocial elements could have left the head of a dead cat on the premises of Congress MLA Anil Akkara's house in order the grab more attention for the scare. In some parts of the state, the antisocial elements were also using laser lights that could create images to create scare among people, especially women and children. The police have enhanced night patrols at some places where the black man scare is at its peak. Earlier also there were instances of black man scare being triggered at some parts of the state by anti-social elements. Two years back the state also witnessed a scare over stickers on window panes, which was later found to be a protective sticker used to avoid glasses breaking during transportation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/blackman-scare-in-kerala-at-the-time-of-coronavirus-822877.html
08-04-2020||National||Amid chatter of lockdown extension, migrant labourers' woes increase||Amid talk about extension of the 21-day COVID-19 lockdown, concerns are rising over the condition of migrant labourers lodged in relief camps and stranded in cities and those who have managed to reach their villages in different states and how they will cope up in such a scenario. Food remains one of the foremost concerns for migrant labourers, as those in their native places are unable to access ration shops due to the police's stringent enforcement of the lockdown, while those who are confined to cities lament that they do not have ration card and this is holding them back from getting food supply. Reaching food distribution centres is also a problem for many. Also, experts on migration raised concerns about their livelihood in the future as the lockdown is likely to continue even if relaxations are provided. If the lockdown continues, there is a fear that the whole bunch of migrant workers – those stranded in cities as well as those who have returned to villages – will face job losses as well as income loss. For the immediate present, experts also believe the number of relief camps is not up to the mark and NGOs, who are now in the scene, are likely to exhaust their resources soon as governments have stepped in late. "Among states, Kerala is doing a fine job. But several states, especially Delhi, have failed to protect the migrant labourers," Ginu Zacharia Oommen, Kerala Public Service Commission member and an expert on international migration, told DH. Governments in several states stepping in late and not augmenting their resources while leaving a large number of migrant workers to be handled by NGOs was a concern Prof Manish Jha of Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) shared. "The capacity of NGOs is very limited, and it will be difficult for them to sustain this for a longer period is difficult. Usually, governments step in soon but here this did not happen. The number of relief camps or food distribution centres are not adequate," told DH. Three-fourth of the over 26,467 relief camps, including 22,567 by various state governments, set up for migrant labourers are in Kerala and Maharashtra with activists and experts finding fault with the poor spread of such facilities in other states. Of the roughly 10.37 lakh staying in these camps, according to statistics placed before Supreme Court by the Ministry of Home Affairs on Tuesday, 6.31 lakh are in government facilities. However, when it comes to food distribution centres, there are 17,324 such facilities but here the majority is operated by NGOs (9,473). Around 84.26 lakh people are benefited out of which 54.15 lakh get food from government facilities. Another 15.05 lakh people are being provided accommodation and food by their employers across the country. Among the states, Kerala has the highest number of 15,541 camps where 3.02 lakh migrant workers are staying while Maharashtra has 4,536 camps with 4,47 lakh people of which government camps are just 1,135 where 73,492 are lodged. The National capital, which witnessed an exodus in the last weekend of March, has 102 camps where 4,788 are staying while Uttar Pradesh, one of the destinations of those who left the capital, have 2,230 camps, all set up by the state government, where a little over one lakh people stay. Bihar, where its Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has said that people should not return to the state for the time being, has 148 camps where 14,354 are staying. In Karnataka, there are 217 camps – 208 run by the government where 16,138 out of 16,392 in such facilities stays. The figures on relief camps and migrant workers also brought in question the recent allocation of over Rs 17,000 crore to states. CPI(M) General Secretary tweeted: "Centre's own report to Supreme Court says that out of 22,567 active govt relief camps and shelters all over India, 15,541 are run by Kerala government. That is 68.8% of all camps! Similarly, of the 631,119 persons houses in relief camps/shelters, 302,016 (or 47.9%) are in Kerala (1/2). Centre allocates Rs 157 crore to Kerala in SDRF out of country's allocation of Rs 11,092 crore. Only 1.4%! Does Modi government have any answers?" Both Oommen and Jha highlighted the problems faced by migrant labourers when it comes to accessing rations. "The important point to note is that migrant labourers do not have ration cards at their work stations. This was one of the reasons for the recent exodus. If they do not have ration cards, how will those labourers stranded in cities access rice and daal the government announced to distribute for free? We should also keep in mind that Uttar Pradesh and Bihar could not accept migrant labourers during the initial stages. Several states were not sympathetic towards migrant labourers," Oommen said. Jha also highlighted the issue of access to ration and referred to the situation in Uttar Pradesh. "In UP, some people have received Rs 1,000. They have some money, but they cannot reach ration shops. In most cases, the money has not reached. People are also scared to venture out due to fear of the police. The government probably has not proactively applied its mind in ensuring food for migrant workers," he said. Continuing to depend on NGOs, which are doing "really good work", may not be feasible, especially in states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar where the civil society network is very weak, Jha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-chatter-of-lockdown-extension-migrant-labourers-woes-increase-822911.html
08-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Film producer Karim Morani tests positive for COVID-19||Producer Karim Morani on Wednesday tested positive for coronavirus days after his daughter Zoa and Shaza were also found positive for COVID-19. This is the latest coronavirus case in Bollywood after singer Kanika Kapoor, actor Purab Kohli and Karim's actor daughter Zoa, tested positive for COVID-19. Kanika has recovered from it. On April 6, Shaza Morani and her actor sister Zoa Morani had tested positive for coronavirus and are undergoing treatment for the same at different hospitals. "Karim bhai has tested positive. The results came this morning. He will be in Nanavati for the treatment. His wife and other staff from the house have tested negative," Karim’s brother Mohammed Morani, told PTI. Karim has backed many Bollywood films, including Shah Rukh Khan's “Ra.One”, “Chennai Express”, “Happy New Year” and “Dilwale”. “Both Shaza and Zoa are doing fine. Shaza will undergo two tests again,” Mohammed informed. Shaza, who had returned from Sri Lanka in the first week of March, showed no symptoms but tested positive and is admitted to Nanavati Hospital. While, Zoa, who had returned from Rajasthan around mid-March, had a few symptoms. She initially tested negative but was found positive for the virus later. Morani family members and house help are under quarantine. According to the health ministry, as of Wednesday morning, death toll due to COVID-19 has risen to 149 with 5,194 cases in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-film-producer-karim-morani-tests-positive-for-covid-19-822915.html
08-04-2020||National||PM Modi urges people to download Aarogya Setu app||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday urged people to download the 'Aarogya Setu' mobile application, saying it is an important step in the country's fight against COVID-19. "By leveraging technology, it provides important information. As more and more people use it, its effectiveness will increase," he wrote on Twitter. He also shared links from where the app can be downloaded from online stores. The government had on April 2 launched the mobile app to help people assess their risk of getting infected with coronavirus and alert authorities if they have come in close contact with an infected person.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-urges-people-to-download-aarogya-setu-app-822917.html
08-04-2020||National||Situation akin to 'social emergency', has necessitated tough decisions: PM to leaders on COVID-19||Interacting with floor leaders of opposition and other parties in Parliament via video conferencing on Wednesday, Modi said, "We must continue to remain vigilant." "The situation in the country is akin to a social emergency...it has necessitated tough decisions and we must continue to remain vigilant," the prime minister told the leaders, according to an official statement. States, district administrations and experts have suggested extension of the ongoing lockdown beyond April 14 to contain the spread of the virus, Modi said. He said that the priority of the government is saving each and every life. Modi told the leaders that the country is facing "serious economic challenges as a result of COVID-19, and the government is committed to overcoming them." The leaders who attended the virtual meet talked about boosting the health and morale of the healthcare workers, ramping up testing facilities, the need to assist smaller states and UTs, and tackling the challenges of hunger and malnutrition. They also spoke about economic and other policy measures to boost the country's capability in the battle against the pandemic, the statement said. Suggestions were also given by the leaders on extending the lockdown, and on a "phased exit" after the lockdown ended. The leaders provided feedback, suggested policy measures, discussed the 21-day lockdown and the way forward, according to the statement. They thanked the prime minister for the meeting, appreciated the timely measures taken by him and said that the "entire country is standing united behind him during the crisis", the statement said. During the interaction, Modi underlined the impact of the emerging situation, as witnessed in resource constraints. "Yet, India has been among the few nations to control the pace of spread of the virus till now," the statement said. The prime minister noted that in these changing circumstances, the country should simultaneously try to bring about a change in its work culture and working style. He said that the country witnessed "constructive and positive politics" through the coming together of all sections of polity to present a united front in the battle against the pandemic. Modi also praised the sense of belonging, discipline, dedication and commitment with which people are contributing in the endeavour, "be it in following social distancing, janta curfew or the lockdown". He was of the view that "the present situation is an epoch changing event in mankind's history and we must evolve to counter its impact." The death toll due to the novel coronavirus rose to 149 and the number of cases climbed to 5,194 in the country on Wednesday, according to the Union Health Ministry. The prime minister praised the efforts of state governments working together with the Centre in this fight against the pandemic. Top officials of the government of India gave detailed presentations on steps being taken to meet the emerging challenges, including status of distribution of benefits under the Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Yojana. Modi thanked the leaders for their constructive suggestions and feedback, adding that their commitment to assist the government in this battle reaffirms the democratic foundations of the country and the spirit of cooperative federalism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/situation-akin-to-social-emergency-has-necessitated-tough-decisions-pm-to-leaders-on-covid-19-822927.html
08-04-2020||National||Tablighi Jamaat leader will join probe after self-quarantine period is over, says lawyer||Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi will be join investigation after his quarantine period is over, said his lawyer. On Tuesday, Delhi Police's Crime Branch lodged an FIR against seven people, including the cleric, on a complaint by SHO Nizamuddin for holding a religious congregation here allegedly in violation of the lockdown orders and not maintaining social distancing to contain the spread of coronavirus. The Delhi Police's Crime Branch wrote to Saad and others on Wednesday, seeking the details under Section 91 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. "Saad is currently under self quarantine and will join investigation once the period of 14 days gets over," his advocate, Tauseef Khan, told PTI. According to the FIR, the Delhi Police contacted the authorities of Markaz on March 21 and reminded them of the government order that prohibited any political or religious gathering of more than 50 people. However, no one paid any heed to the police's direction, it said. Moreover, an audio recording purportedly of Saad was found in circulation on WhatsApp on March 21, in which he was heard asking his followers to defy the lockdown and social distancing and to attend the religious gathering of the Markaz. On March 24, the government ordered 21-day nationwide lockdown and restricted any social, political or religious gathering. The same day a meeting was held at Hazarat Nizamuddin police station between SHO and officer bearers of Markaz. The meeting was attended by Saad, Mohammad Ashraf, Mohammad Salman, Yunus, Mursaleen Saifi, Jishan and Mufti Shehzad and they were informed about lockdown orders. It was found that despite repeated efforts, they did not inform the Health Department or any other government agency about the huge gathering inside the Markaz and deliberately disobeyed government orders. The sub-divisional magistrate of Defence Colony inspected the premises several times and found that around 1,300 people, including foreign nationals, were residing there without maintaining social distance. It was also found that there were no arrangements of hand sanitizers and face masks at the premises. So far, thousands of COVID-19 cases across the country have been found to be linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Delhi last month. More than 25,500 Tablighi members and their contacts have been quarantined in the country after the Centre and the state governments conducted a "mega operation" to identify them, a senior Union Health Ministry official said on Monday. At least 9,000 people participated in the religious congregation in Nizamuddin. Later, many of the attendees travelled to various parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tablighi-jamaat-leader-will-join-probe-after-self-quarantine-period-is-over-says-lawyer-822940.html
08-04-2020||National||Supreme Court asks Centre to ensure full protection to doctors acting as coronavirus warriors||The Supreme Court on Wednesday directed the Centre to ensure full protection to doctors and health workers, who were acting as "warriors" and "first line of defence in the country" in the fight against Coronavirus. Observing that the pandemic, engulfing the entire country, is a national calamity, the top court said all citizens of the country have to act in a responsible manner to extend helping hand to the government and medical staff to perform their duties to contain and combat the Covid-19. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and S Ravindra Bhat asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to provide all protective gears personal protection equipment (PPE) to the doctors and other health workers, attending the patients of Coronavirus.  Acting on a batch of PILs by a Nagpur doctor and others, the court also said the government should explore all alternatives including enabling and augmenting domestic production of protective clothing and gear to medical professionals. "The doctors and the medical staff who are the first line of defence of the country to combat with this pandemic have to be protected by providing Personal Protective Equipments as recommended by WHO on February 27, 2020," the bench said. The top court also directed to provide the necessary police security to the doctors and medical staff in hospitals and places where patients who have been diagnosed Covid-19 or patients suspected of it or those quarantined were housed.  Taking note of April 2 incident in Indore where doctors were attacked by a mob, the bench ordered, "Necessary police security should be also extended to doctors and other medical staff who visit places to conduct screening of people to find out symptoms of the disease." The court also ordered that necessary action must be taken against those persons who obstructed and committed any offence in respect to the performance of duties by health workers. The court had on April 1 sought a response from the Centre on a plea by Jerryl Banait for making available WHO approved protection kits for doctors, as they are working under tedious conditions to tackle Covid-19 pandemic.  The petitioner sought a direction to ensure availability of World Health Organisation- recommended graded protective gear, including Hazmat (Hazardous material) suits, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) sterile medical or nitrile gloves, starch apparels, medical masks, goggles, face shield, respirators (i e, N – 95 Respirator Mask or Triple Layer Medical Mask or equivalent), shoe covers, head covers and coveralls or gowns to all health workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-asks-centre-to-ensure-full-protection-to-doctors-acting-as-coronavirus-warriors-822942.html
08-04-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi disapproves of 'campaign' to honour him; says could be attempt to drag him into controversy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed his disapproval of a reported campaign that people should give him a standing ovation for five minutes, saying it appears to be a mischief to drag him into controversy. In a series of tweets in Hindi, he said maybe it is someone's goodwill, "yet I insist that if you really have so much love and want to honour Modi, then take the responsibility of a poor family, at least as long as the coronavirus crisis exists." "There can be no greater honour for me than this," he said. Modi said it has been brought to his notice that some people are running this campaign to honour him by giving him a standing ovation for five minutes. "At first sight, it appears to be a mischief to drag Modi in a controversy," he wrote. Modi's tweets were in response to an unsigned message circulating online that asked people to give him a standing ovation for five minutes at 5 pm on Sunday for the work he has been doing for the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-disapproves-of-campaign-to-honour-him-says-could-be-attempt-to-drag-him-into-controversy-822943.html
08-04-2020||National||Indian Railways deploys 2500 doctors to fight COVID-19 cases||Indian Railways has deployed over 2,500 doctors and 35,000 paramedical staffs to treat  COVID-19 hit patients. The railways also plan to recruit more doctors and paramedical staff on contract basis coming days as part of national transporter plan to fight against coronavirus.  The railways already reserved dedicated  17 of its hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients. Besides it also reserved several blocks in 37 other hospitals to serve this purpose. In total railways has to keep 5,000 beds to treat COVID-19 patients, said an official. The national transporter already converted 3,500 coaches as isolation ward and soon it will reach its target to 5000 coaches, said an official in the railways. Several railways workshop have received the DRDO approval for produce PPEs (Personal Protection Equipment). Besides a number of workshops also engaging in producing sanitizer, masks and hospital equipments. The railways aim to supply 50% of the overalls to other medical professionals on the front line. With the estimate that around 1.5 crore PPEs are required by June end as the COVID-19 cases increases, the railways plan to meet this demand, said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-deploys-2500-doctors-to-fight-covid-19-cases-822946.html
08-04-2020||National||Do not label any community or area for spread of COVID-19: Govt||The government on Wednesday issued an advisory to address the social stigma associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, urging people not to label any community or area for the spread of the novel coronavirus. The advisory comes following a spurt in coronavirus cases after a Tablighi Jamaat meet at the group's headquarters in Nizamuddin here, and instances of people, especially on social media, blaming the Muslim community for the spread if disease. Public health emergencies during an outbreak of communicable diseases may cause fear and anxiety leading to prejudices against people and communities, social isolation and stigma, said the government advisory posted on the health ministry website. Such behaviour may culminate into increased hostility, chaos and unnecessary social disruptions, the advisory said. The government also listed various dos and don'ts in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. "Do not target healthcare and sanitary workers or police. They are there to help you," the government urged the people amid cases of harassment and social stigmatization of healthcare and sanitation workers. Cases have been reported of people affected with COVID-19 as well as healthcare workers, sanitary workers and police, who are in the frontline for management of the outbreak, facing discrimination on account of heightened fear and misinformation about the infection, the advisory said. Even those who have recovered from COVID-19 face such discrimination, it noted. Certain communities and areas are being labelled purely based on false reports floating on social media and elsewhere, the advisory said.   There is an urgent need to counter such prejudices and to rise as a community that is empowered with health literacy and responds appropriately in the face of this adversity, it said. "Do not label any community or area for spread of COVID-19," the advisory said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/do-not-label-any-community-or-area-for-spread-of-covid-19-govt-822952.html
08-04-2020||National||Jaishankar and Aussie FM discuss issues related to coronavirus crisis||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday held a telephonic conversation with his Australian counterpart Marise Payne and shared the respective domestic response strategies by the two countries to deal with the coronavirus crisis. The talks between the two foreign ministers came two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Australian PM Scott Morrison agreed on the importance of bilateral experience-sharing in flattening the growth curve of the coronavirus. In a tweet, Jaishankar said India is also responding "positively" to Australia's requirements for drugs, without elaborating whether it has sought supply of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine like many other countries. The US and a sizeable number of countries have pressed India to provide the drug, cited by many as a viable therapeutic solution to fight coronavirus infection. "A very good conversation with FM @MarisePayne of Australia on our respective responses to #COVID19. She assured that there is no change in the status of Indian students studying in Australia," Jaishankar tweeted. According to estimates, over 80,000 Indian students are studying in Australia. The country has recorded around 6,000 cases of coronavirus and over 40 people died of the infection. In India, the virus has infected nearly 5,300 people and killed 149. Globally, the virus has killed over 75,000 people and infected more than 13 lakh. "India will fully facilitate arrangements for Australians wishing to return home. Is also responding positively to Australia's drug requirements," Jaishankar said. On Monday, Modi and Morrison held a telephonic conversation over the pandemic. They agreed on the importance of bilateral experience-sharing in the context of this health crisis, including through collaborative research efforts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-and-aussie-fm-discuss-issues-related-to-coronavirus-crisis-822954.html
08-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Varsity helplines face students' anxieties due to uncertainty, lifestyle changes||Earlier this week, the University Grants Commission (UGC) directed all universities and colleges to set up mental health helplines to address students' concerns during the health crisis.   Even before the UGC directive, many universities like Delhi University (DU) and Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) here had already begun counselling services for students. Private universities like Ashoka University in Haryana are also providing such services to the students. Dr SP Jena, head of DU's Psychology Department, said the counselling services were started through email on March 3. "We have been getting 10-15 queries every day. The queries pertain to panic attacks and general anxiety which students might have been experiencing earlier but have got aggravated due to this situation," he said. Dr Jena said he asks students to not follow news about coronavirus and engage themselves more in entertainment activities to divert attention. They want to expand the counselling services to help staffers of the varsity but right now, they are only focussing on students, he said. "Students also call for queries about their academics, with problems of concentration. They do not have a time management plan and I suggest to them to have a time table. It's a good thing they are approaching us," he added. DU's Rajdhani College has formed a committee comprising a counsellor who retired from AIIMS, college officials, students, incharges of National Cadet Corps (NCC) Girls and Boys divisions and northeast students to help the students overcome issues related to mental and physical health during this time of crisis. "The students call about queries on when the exams will happen and whether the varsity will promote students in case exams are not able to take place," said college principal Dr Rajesh Giri. The JMI has also started tele-counselling services for students and staff members distressed by the coronavirus crisis. Najma Akhtar, vice-chancellor of JMI, said the main query the counsellers are getting is when will the lockdown end. "There are around 300 hostellers who had to stay back. They keep on asking, 'What will happen to us? When will be go back home?' There are around 40 foreign students in our hostels. The main query is how they will go back home," she said. "We have written to every embassy informing them about the students. I am scared that they should not suffer from depression. They had the impression that they would be going back home during the summer break but now they are uncertain," Akhtar said. Dr Arvinder Singh, director and founder of Ashoka Centre For Well Being at Ashoka University, said the centre currently has six counsellers and students can book online sessions. "We use Google hangout and Zoom app to reach out to students. We also have a telephonic helpline which runs for a couple of hours every day for students and faculty members," she said. Singh is also conducted group therapy sessions online to help students cope with anxiety. "It's a time when students are going through a lot of anxiety, fear and are also feeling boxed in. There is uncertainty about what will happen, how will we graduate and the job market when the economy has taken a downturn," she said. Dr Singh said they have a multi-pronged approach to help students – a counselling centre, group therapy sessions, peer student groups – cope with this extraordinary situation. "We give self-care tips and also tell them about the importance of sleep hygiene," she added. Ambedkar University, Delhi (AUD) runs the Ehsaas Psychotherapy and Counselling Clinic to meet the needs of those experiencing psychosocial difficulties. Professor Anu Singh Lather, Vice Chancellor, AUD said members from the clinic are available daily since March 23 on phone and email to help the varsity's students in dealing with the anxieties created by sudden isolation, change of routine and stress about academic and career plans. The opportunity to share problems and difficulties with therapists leads to considerable reduction in distress, she said, adding that faculty members are also being encouraged to incorporate mentorship and counselling while conducting online teaching sessions. According to counsellors at AUD, most students have reported distress associated with the pandemic and the other changes in lifestyle associated with it. They are worried about their future even in the immediate context. The likelihood that job opportunities will go down is a great concern, they said. In addition, a large number of students are feeling anxious because they are far away from their families and cannot travel home because of the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-varsity-helplines-face-students-anxieties-due-to-uncertainty-lifestyle-changes-822956.html
08-04-2020||National||COVID-19 cases rise to 5,274, death toll stands at 149: Health Ministry||The total number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 5,274 on Wednesday, registering an increase of 485 cases in the last 24 hours, while the death toll stood at 149, the Union Health Ministry said. The number of active COVID-19 cases is 4,714 and as many as 410 people were cured and discharged and one had migrated, it said. The total number of cases include 71 foreign nationals. As many as 25 new deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. Sixteen people died Maharashtra, two each in Delhi, West Bengal, Haryana and Tamil Nadu and one in Andhra Pradesh. Maharashtra has reported the most coronavirus deaths at 64, followed by Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh at 13 each and Delhi at 9. Telangana, Punjab and Tamil Nadu have reported seven fatalities each. West Bengal has registered five deaths, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh have reported four each, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan have recorded three deaths each. Two deaths each have been reported from Jammu and Kashmir and Kerala. Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Odisha reported one fatality each, according to the health ministry data. The death toll on Tuesday evening was 124. However, a PTI tally of figures reported by various states as on Wednesday evening showed at least 5,521 cases and 172 deaths while 500 were discharged. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of cases announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states. According to the ministry's data updated at 5 pm, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country is from Maharashtra at 1,018, followed by Tamil Nadu at 690 and Delhi at 576 cases. The cases have risen to 427 in Telangana while Kerala has reported 336 COVID-19 cases so far. Rajasthan has 328 cases, Uttar Pradesh has 343 and Andhra Pradesh reported 305 coronavirus cases. Coronavirus cases have risen to 229 in Madhya Pradesh, 175 in Karnataka and 165 in Gujarat. Haryana has 147 cases, Jammu and Kashmir has 116, West Bengal has 99 and Punjab has 91 positive patients so far. Odisha has reported 42 coronavirus cases while 38 people were infected with the virus in Bihar, Uttarakhand has 31 patients and Assam 27. Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh have 18 cases each while Ladakh has 14 positive patients so far. Ten cases each have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Chhattisgarh. Goa has reported seven COVID-19 infections, followed by Puducherry at five cases. Jharkhand has reported four cases and Manipur two. Tripura, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported one case each. "State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation," the ministry said on its website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-rise-to-5274-death-toll-stands-at-149-health-ministry-822963.html
08-04-2020||National||Low public spend on healthcare may pose challenges to fight COVID-19||Although the total budgetary allocation for healthcare has increased only marginally during the past five fiscals, the total per-capita spending on healthcare has almost doubled from Rs 1,008 in 2014-15 to Rs 1,944 in 2019-20, clipping at a CAGR of 14 per cent, says a study. During this period, the central and the states allocation on healthcare was 1.03 per cent (Rs 1.3 lakh crore ) in 2014-15 which rose to 1.29 per of the GDP (Rs 2.6 lakh crore) in FY20, wherein the states spent 75 per cent of the total in FY20, show the data collated by Care Ratings.  Of this, per-capita spending on healthcare has increased from Rs 1,016 in 2014-15 to Rs 1,962 in 2019-20, while per-capita capital spending has doubled from Rs 92 per person to Rs 181 per person in the same period, which still remains the lowest among the BRICS peers and OCED nations, which top the per-capita and budgetary spends on health. The report assumes importance given the fast spreading of the virus and India's preparedness to face the pandemic, as even those nations with better infrastructure have seen huge number of deaths.    According to the OECD (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) data, the country's total healthcare spending (private and public) stood at a low 3.6 per cent of GDP in 2016 (latest available) which is very low compared to other countries. The average for OECD countries in 2018 was 8.8 per cent of GDP while developed countries like the US (16.9 per cent), Germany (11.2 per cent), France (11.2 per cent) and Japan (10.9 per cent) spend more than 10 per cent of GDP on healthcare. Even the BRICS nations have higher proportion than India with the highest in Brazil (9.2 per cent) followed by South Africa (8.1 per cent), Russia (5.3 per cent) and China (5 per cent). Only Indonesia has a lower share than India at 3.1 per cent. According to the OECD data, in 2016 India's per-capita healthcare spending was USD 209 as against OECD average of USD 3,994. In the US, it stood at USD 10,586, Germany (USD 5,986), France (USD 4,965) and Japan (USD 4,766) per person. Total expenditure on healthcare has seen a sustained increase from 1.03 per cent in 2014-15 to 1.29 per cent in 2019-20. In absolute terms, it was a CAGR of 15 per cent from Rs 1.3 lakh crore in 2014-15 to Rs 2.6 lakh crore in 2019-20, of the total spending, revenue expenditure accounts for almost 90 per cent. This share has marginally declined from 90.9 per cent in FY15 to 90.8 per cent in FY20 after peaking at 91.7 per cent in FY18. The share of capital expenditure has increased from 8.9 per cent in FY15 to 9.1 per cent in FY20 after peaking at 9.15 per cent in FY19, show the Care Ratings data. Revenue expenditure of the Centre includes establishment expenditure, spending on various healthcare programmes, gross budgetary support to various medical institutions and transfers to the states under various central schemes such as the  National Health Mission, Ayushman Bharat, among others. Revenue expenditure includes expenditure on salaries and hence has increased while capital expenditure is for fixed structure and facilities and has not seen a commensurate increase. Both revenue expenditure and capex on healthcare have seen a gradual pick-up during this period with revenue expenditure rising from 0.94 per cent in FY15 to 1.17 per cent in FY20 while capital expenditure rising from 0.09 per cent to 0.19 per cent. Total expenditure incurred on healthcare--as percentage of total budgetary outlay of both the Centre and the states) has increased from 3.5 per cent in FY15 to 3.9 per cent in FY20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/low-public-spend-on-healthcare-may-pose-challenges-to-fight-covid-19-822970.html
08-04-2020||National||Railways introduces 109 time-tabled parcel trains over 58 routes to connect key centres||In a major boost to supply chain across the country, the railways has for the first time introduced time-tabled parcel trains for nationwide transportation of essential commodities and other goods, the national transporter said on Wednesday, identifying 40 new routes for such vans. It said that this is expected to boost the availability of vital goods required for ordinary citizens, industry and agriculture during the coronavirus outbreak. Approximately, 58 routes (109 trains) for parcel special trains have been notified since the beginning of the lockdown. Till April 5, 27 routes were notified, out of which 17 routes were regular scheduled services, while the remaining were for single trips only.   "Subsequently, 40 new routes have been identified and notified (and frequency of some of the previous routes has been increased). With this, almost all the important cities of India will get connected for transportation of vital goods at a fast speed. It may be noted that these services are expected to be further scaled up," railways said in a statement. The railways said that local industries, e-commerce companies, interested groups, individuals and any other prospective loaders can book parcels on these trains. Time-tabled parcel trains are planned as per the demand of the customers. They connect vital corridors of the country like Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad, and Bengaluru. In addition, proper connectivity has also been ensured to Guwahati to ensure supplies in the Northeastern region of the country. Other important cities connected via these trains are Bhopal, Allahabad, Dehradun, Varanasi, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Ranchi, Gorakhpur, Thiruvananthapuram, Salem, Warangal, Vijayawada, Vishakhapatanam, Rourkela, Bilaspur, Bhusawal, Tatanagar, Jaipur, Jhansi, Agra, Nasik, Nagpur, Akola, Jalgaon, Surat, Pune, Raipur, Patna, Asansol, Kanpur, Jaipur, Bikaner, Ajmer, Gwalior, Mathura, Nellore, Jabalpur. The Indian Railways has also been running other parcel trains as per demand of customers during this period, which include 'Milk Specials' from Palanpur (Gujarat) to Palwal (near Delhi), and from Renigunta (AP) to Delhi, milk products from Kankariya (Gujarat) to Kanpur (UP) and Sankrail (near Kolkata) and food products from Moga (Punjab) to Changsari (Assam). "Time-tabled parcel trains are being run even on those routes where demand is less so that no part of the country remains unconnected. Some trains are being run with only two parcel vans, or with one parcel van and brake van," the railways said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-introduces-109-time-tabled-parcel-trains-over-58-routes-to-connect-key-centres-822979.html
08-04-2020||National||COVID-19: IITs to hold special placement drives for students affected by cancelled job offers||The Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) will hold special placement drives for those students whose job offers got cancelled amid the coronavirus outbreak, Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said on Wednesday.  "I have also asked all IIT directors to hold special placement drives for the students affected by cancelled job offers. The students to whom the jobs were offered during the placement drive are among the country's brightest minds and can help recruiters in times of crisis," he said. On Monday, the minister had appealed to recruiters not to withdraw any job offers made to students in campus placements due to the economic slowdown created by the coronavirus pandemic. "I have also appealed to all campus recruiters not to withdraw jobs offered to graduating students of technical education institutions," he added. His appeal came after a few job offers at the IITs and Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) got revoked due to uncertainty among companies in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Nishank had last week directed directors of 23 IITs to ensure that campus placements are not affected due to the situation. The All IITs' Placement Committee (AIPC) had also reached out to all the companies that visited for campus recruitment, requesting them not to rescind placement offers made for the academic year 2019-20. IIT Delhi Director V Ramgopal Rao had also issued a public appeal last week to all recruiters. Rao argued that since all IITs strictly follow the equal opportunity principle (one candidate, one job), withdrawing an offer would mean students "will end up not having any job right now". "We all understand these are difficult times. But please be considerate to keep your promises. A few months of delay may be fine. Please do not complicate the lives of these brightest children in an already complex environment. If at all, they are capable of getting you out of recession faster than you can imagine," he wrote in his appeal shared on social media. According to Union health ministry figures, the total number of cases of coronavirus infections in the country stand at 5,194 and the death toll is 149.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-iits-to-hold-special-placement-drives-for-students-affected-by-cancelled-job-offers-822982.html
08-04-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh to seal hotspots in 15 districts after fourth coronavirus death; Tally at 361||Uttar Pradesh reported fourth death from COVID-19 on Wednesday even as the total number of coronavirus positive cases in the state mounted to 361. According to the official sources here, a 76-year old woman, who had been infected with the virus, died at the government medical college hospital in Meerut. The woman had some underlying medical conditions. Meanwhile, with forty people testing positive for the virus, the number of cases in the state jumped to 361 on Wednesday. Of these, as many as 195 were members of Tablighi Jamaat, many of whom had taken part in the recent religious event at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. Although the number of new infections slowed in the state in the past three days, the state government decided to completely seal the hotspots in 15 districts in the state from midnight on Wednesday. At present 37 districts in the state were affected by Coronavirus infection. An official spokesman here said that curfew-like conditions would prevail in the hotpots and even the shops selling essential commodities would not be allowed to open. Banks, ATMs, medicine shops and other services would remain closed in these areas, he said. Besides Lucknow, the other districts, where the hotspots would be sealed included Agra, Meerut and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-to-seal-hotspots-in-15-districts-after-fourth-coronavirus-death-tally-at-361-822984.html
08-04-2020||National||Maharashtra govt questions NSA advisor, Tablighi Jamaat chief's meet||In what could snowball into a Centre vs State issue, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday raised questions over the midnight meeting between National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad.  Maharashtra's home minister Anil Deshmukh of the NCP raised a question as to how the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz was allowed when it was just a stone-throw distance away form the Nizamuddin police station.  Deshmukh's statement comes just a couple of days after NCP founder-president Sharad Pawar questioned - who gave permission for the meeting amid heightened awareness vis-a-vis COVID-19? Deshmukh wanted to know what transpired during the Doval-Maulana meeting. "Who sent NSA Doval to Markaz and why?  Is this the job of NSA or Delhi Police Commissioner," Deshmukh said.  He also wanted to know why Doval and Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava have so far not spoken on this issue.  "Where did Maulana Saad abscond after meeting Doval?... where is he (Maulana Saad) now?  Who is related to them (Tablighi Jamaat)," Deshmukh asked.  He also said that on March 15-16, the Tablighi Jamaat was to hold a grand congregation at Vasai near Mumbai, in which over 50,000 people were to attend, but Maharashtra government withdrew the permission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-govt-questions-nsa-advisor-tablighi-jamaat-chiefs-meet-822985.html
08-04-2020||National||Arunachal and Nagaland fighting COVID-19 without a testing lab||Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland, two states in the Northeast are fighting the fear of Coronavirus without a laboratory to test the samples of suspected patients.    Mizoram, on the other hand, got a testing laboratory only on Tuesday.     The two states are now depended on the testing laboratories in neighbouring Assam, which already reported 28 COVID-19 positive cases and tested more than 2, 000 samples. The state at present has six ICMR-accredited laboratories where 5,000 samples can be tested in a day now.     Arunachal has reported one positive case so far but no positive case has been reported in Nagaland as on Wednesday.         As most states are going for more tests to detect the positive cases, lack of a testing laboratory has affected the same in the two states, health officials said.    Nagaland has conducted tests on 61 samples so far while the same is about 85 in Arunachal Pradesh. "We need a testing laboratory to do more tests. People became more worried after a man in Lohit district, who returned from Nizamuddin congregation tested positive. But without tests, it is difficult to identify those who got infected from him but are asymptomatic," said a source in Arunachal Pradesh.     Spokesperson of Nagaland government, Neiba Kronu on Tuesday said the state government was fast-tracking efforts to set up two testing laboratories, one each in Kohima and Dimapur. Of the 61 samples the state sent for tests to Assam, 48 samples tested negative, while reports of 13 are still awaited.     The minister said a total of 5,069 persons declared their travel history (till March 6) so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arunachal-and-nagaland-fighting-covid-19-without-a-testing-lab-822998.html
08-04-2020||National||Govt completes transfer of first installment of Rs 500 to 20 cr women Jan Dhan accounts||The government has completed transfer of first installment of Rs 500 to about 20 crore women Jan Dhan account holders, as part of the Rs 1.70 lakh crore relief package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month, sources said. The minister had said as many of 20.5 crore women Jan Dhan account holders will get Rs 500 per month for next three months to run their households, a move aimed at mitigating the hardships caused by the lockdown. The money has reached each and every account and the beneficiary can withdraw as per their needs keeping social distancing norm in the mind, sources said. In order to maintain social distancing and to ensure orderly withdrawal of money by the beneficiaries, Indian Banks' Association(IBA) has designed a schedule to be followed by all banks for the month of April. The transfer was staggered over 5 days to avoid rush at bank branches. As per the schedule, women Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) account holders having account number with last digit as 0 and 1 received money in their accounts on April 3, while account numbers ending with 2 or 3 got it on April 4. On April 7, beneficiaries with account number ending with 4 or 5 were to collect their money, IBA said. The last tranche would be remitted on April 9 for account number ending with 8 or 9, it said. It further said beneficiaries may withdraw any day at their convenience after April 9.  Two more installments of Rs 500 will be remitted to the women Jan Dhan accounts in May and June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-completes-transfer-of-first-installment-of-rs-500-to-20-cr-women-jan-dhan-accounts-823002.html
08-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Death toll in Uttar Pradesh rises to 4, total cases 361||One more person died due to coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday, taking the toll to four, while the number of cases climbed by 29 to 361, according to official data. Earlier, three COVID-19 patients had died in Meerut, Basti and Varanasi districts. With one death reported from Agra on Wednesday, four COVID-19 patients have so far died in the state, an official bulletin issued here said. Five fresh cases each were reported from Rampur and Lucknow, four from Ghaziabad; three from Bulandshahr; two each from Agra , Varanasi , Meerut and Sitapur; and one each from Jaunpur, Baghpat, Saharanpur and Kaushambi, it stated. A total of 31 patients have recovered and been discharged from hospitals, it added. According to the bulletin, 16 of the 29 fresh cases are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat, the bulletin said. Out of the total 361 cases in the state, 195 are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Delhi last month, including 38 in Agra, 17 each in Lucknow and Shamli, 15 in Meerut , 14 each in Ghaziabad and Saharanpur and 10 in Sitapur, among others, it stated. Thousands of people had participated in the congregation held at the Tablighi Jamaat's headquarters in Delhi's Nizamuddin last month and then travelled to various parts of the country, with many of them carrying the virus. The district-wise tally of coronavirus cases is Agra (64), Gautam Buddh Nagar (58), Meerut (35), Lucknow (29), Ghaziabad (27), Shamli (17), Saharanpur (14), Sitapur (10), Varanasi (9), Kanpur , Bulandshahr, Basti (8 each), Firozabad (7), Bareilly, Maharajganj (6 each) and Ghazipur, Rampur (5 each). Lakhimpur Kheri , Jaunpur, Azamgarh, Hathras (4 each), Baghpat, Hapur, Pratapgarh (3 each), Pilibhit , Banda, Mirzapur, Rae Bareli, Kaushambi, Mathura (2 each), Moradabad, Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Auraiya, Barabanki, Bijnor, Prayagraj, Badaun (one each).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-in-uttar-pradesh-rises-to-4-total-cases-361-823003.html
08-04-2020||National||Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro refers to Ramayana, Bible to cajole India to export Hydroxychloroquine||Unlike the United States, Brazil chose to invoke Hanuman of Ramayana to cajole Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi into allowing it to import Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) from India.  PM Narendra Modi received a letter from Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, who referred to Ramayana, particularly the tale of Hanuman’s epic act of carrying the Mount Gandhamadana so that Rama’s injured brother Laksmana could be cured by the magical herb Sanjeevani. He also referred to the Biblical tale of Jesus restoring the sight of a blind man called Bartimaeus.  “Just as Lord Hanuman brought the holy medicine from the Himalayas to save the life of Lord Rama’s brother Laksmana, and Jesus healed those who were sick and restored sight to Bartomeu, India and Brazil will overcome this global crisis by joining forces and sharing blessings for the sake of all people,” Bolsanaro wrote to Modi.  Brazil is among the countries which are keen to import the HCQ from India.  The HCQ, an anti-malaria drug, has been recommended for treatment of Covid-19 patients.  Bolsonaro’s way of nudging Modi to relax the ban on the export of the HCQ was in stark contrast to the one chosen by American President Donald Trump, who had warned New Delhi of “retaliation” if it did not allow the US to procure the drug from India.  The Prime Minister and the Brazilian President on Sunday discussed the Covid-19 pandemic over the phone. It was during the phone-call when Bolsonaro requested Modi to relax the ban allowing the export of the HCQ from India to Brazil.  He followed it up with the letter, referring to the tales in Ramayana and Bible.  Brazil has so far recorded 12056 Covid-19 positive cases and 553 deaths. In India, so far 5149 people have fallen sick after being infected by the virus and 149 of them died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/brazil-president-jair-bolsonaro-refers-to-ramayana-bible-to-cajole-india-to-export-hydroxychloroquine-823004.html
08-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: 20 hotspots sealed, masks made mandatory in Delhi||Taking the fight against COVID-19 to top gear, Delhi government on Wednesday sealed 20 hotspots in the capital, made wearing of masks while venturing out and put curbs on government spending to pool in more money for steps to contain the virus infection. The government action to seal the hotspots came hours after Uttar Pradesh announced sealing of hotspots in its 15 districts, including in Noida and Ghaziabad that are bordering the national capital. The frenzied activities came on a day 93 fresh cases, all linked to Tablighi Jamaat and were in quarantine centres, taking the total number of cases to 669. Of the total, 426 are linked to those who attended a religious gathering organised by Tablighi Jamaat in south Delhi’s Nizamuddin in mid-March. "A total of 20 hotspots have been identified in Delhi, nobody will be allowed to enter or exit from these areas. People stepping outdoors will have to wear face masks compulsorily, action will be taken against those not following it," Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia told reporters. Minutes before, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, "wearing of facial masks can reduce the spread of COVID-19 substantially. Therefore, it has been decided that facial masks will be compulsory for anyone stepping out of their house. Cloth mask shall be eligible too." Facing fund crunch, the Delhi government has also decided to impose austerity measures in government spending, considering the present revenue status and the money needed in fighting the pandemic. Government departments can now spend money only on salary and any other expenditure that is not linked to COVID-19 would need the permission from Finance Department. Among the hotspots that were sealed included Nizamuddin, Sangam Vihar, Dwarka, Dilshad Garden, Hauz Rani, Sadar Bazar and Seemapuri among others. In east Delhi, at least three apartment complexes were sealed. Officials said the health authorities will conduct random testing in these localities to check for virus infection. On Tuesday, Kejriwal had unveiled a five-point action plan, which included aggressive testing and tracing of people who could have possibly come in contact with COVID-19 positive patients. With one lakh rapid test kits arriving in the capital by Friday, Delhi government has plans to aggressively go in for testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-20-hotspots-sealed-masks-made-mandatory-in-delhi-823006.html
08-04-2020||National||Eleven new COVID-19 cases in Gujarat; state tally 186||Coronavirus positive cases in Gujarat mounted to 186 on Wednesday after detection of 11 new patients, a top Health official said. Of the 11 new cases, six are form Vadodara, four from Bhavnagar, and one from Surat, said Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi. She said no fresh death or recovery was reported on Wednesday. Gujarat has so far reported 16 deaths due to COVID-19 while 25 people have been discharged from hospitals after recovery, the bureaucrat said, adding that the number of locally transmitted cases has gone up to 121. Ahmedabad has reported maximum 83 COVID-19 cases out of the total 186 cases. In other districts, 23 cases have been reported so far from Surat, 18 each from Bhavnagar and Vadodara, 13 from Gandhinagar, 11 from Rajkot, 5 from Patan, three from Porbandar, two each from Kutch, Mehsana and Gir Somnath, and one each from Panchmahal, Chhota Udepur, Jamnagar, Morbi, Anand, and Sabarkantha. Ahmedabad also tops the chart of the deceased patients at five, followed by Surat four, Vadodara and Bhavnagar two each, and Panchmahal, Patan and Jamnagar one each. Of the total 186 cases, as many as 121 are locally transmitted while 33 patients have had a history of travelling abroad and 32 of visiting other states, the health department said. Out of the 145 "active" cases, two are on ventilator and in critical condition, while the condition of 143 others is stable, it said. Under its cluster containment plan, the state government has so far identified a total 44 locations in five cities of Ahmedabad (28), Rajkot (7), Bhavnagar (5), Surat (2) and Vadodara (2), covering 99,121 persons. Measures like imposing a complete lockdown in these areas along with intensive screening of suspected cases have been initiated. According to the government, out of the 672 samples tested in the last 24 hours, results of 133 are awaited. A total of 4,224 samples have been tested in Gujarat so far, the department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eleven-new-covid-19-cases-in-gujarat-state-tally-186-823012.html
08-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Monkeys, elephants and dogs reclaim India's streets in COVID-19 lockdown||Hundreds of monkeys have taken over the streets around India's presidential palace, leading an animal offensive taking advantage of deserted streets as the country remains under a coronavirus lockdown. With India's 1.3 billion population and tens of millions of cars conspicuous by their absence, stray domestic animals and wildlife has moved to fill the void, while also suffering from the pandemic fallout. In the financial capital Mumbai, peacocks have been seen perched on top of parked cars, displaying their spectacular trains. In Delhi, troops of monkeys now scamper over the walls of the Rashtrapati Bhawan presidential compound, past military guards and into the grounds of ministries and other official buildings. "They are stealing a lot more, but not yet threatening humans," said one officer on duty at the palace entrance. The Rhesus macaque monkeys -- who often snatch food from shoppers' bags -- have long been a problem in the capital, but there have been reports of some getting into office buildings during the lockdown. Other animals have also been emboldened by the coronavirus restrictions on humans, who are only allowed out for food and essential items. A Himalayan black bear last week wandered into Gangtok, capital of the northeastern state of Sikkim, entering a telecoms office and injuring an engineer, media reported.   Indian Forest Service officers, meanwhile, have shared videos on social media of elephants trundling past shuttered shops along deserted streets. But the lockdown has also been deadly for some animals. Four horses normally employed for tourist carriage rides near Kolkata's landmark Victoria Memorial have died from starvation in recent days, animal rights activists said. Some 115 horses, which make their living pulling carriages bedecked with flowers and balloons, were left to fend for themselves after the government ordered the shutdown, Sushmita Roy, spokeswoman for the Love and Care for Animals group told AFP. "They are becoming sick. We fear many more will die in coming days if they do not get food," she said. The owners of the carriages say they have no money for the horses after being ordered off the streets. "We are finding it difficult to feed our family. How can we feed our horses?" said one owner, Sunny. India's army of stray cows and dogs have also found new freedom to take over city intersections and forage in waste bins, but even those scraps have disappeared as restaurants and shops have closed. Aditi Badam of the Posh Foundation in Noida, outside Delhi, said shelters like his were struggling to feed its animals and other strays during the lockdown. Her foundation has been receiving increasing numbers of calls about abandoned dogs and pets, which he said had become a "major issue". "It getting tougher day by day here," Badam told AFP, adding that strays near the office blocks of multinational companies and outsourcing firms in the city were starving as all had closed down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-monkeys-elephants-and-dogs-reclaim-indias-streets-in-covid-19-lockdown-823014.html
08-04-2020||National||Ambedkar's birthday declared a closed holiday by central government||The central government has declared April 14, the birthday of B R Ambedkar, as a closed holiday for all its offices, according to a Personnel Ministry order issued Wednesday. The Centre has also notified the holiday under the Section 25 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, for banks. The section says: "When the day on which a promissory note or bill of exchange is at maturity is a public holiday, the instrument shall be deemed to be due on the next preceding, business day". Thus, all Central government offices and banks will be closed for business on Tuesday. In an order issued to all its departments, the ministry said, "It has been decided to declare Tuesday, the 14th April 2020, as a closed holiday on account of the birthday of Dr B R Ambedkar, for all central government offices, including industrial establishments throughout India".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ambedkars-birthday-declared-a-closed-holiday-by-central-government-823026.html
08-04-2020||National||Over 2 crore construction workers provided with Rs 3,000-cr funds by states amid coronavirus lockdown: MHA||More than 2 crore workers engaged in building and construction work have been provided Rs 3,000-crore funds by various states and Union Territories under the Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Yojana till now, a senior home ministry official said on Wednesday. "Under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana, the government has declared a relief package of Rs 1.7 lakh crore and under this there is a component for building and construction workers. There are about 3.5 crore such workers who are registered and the state governments were told that there is about Rs 31,000 fund available under this head. "State governments have begun implementation and 31 states and union territories have announced cash benefits ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 6,000 (to construction workers)," Punya Salila Srivastava, joint secretary in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), told reporters during a daily briefing. "Over 2 crore workers have been given about Rs 3,000-crore funds. About 29 lakh such workers have also been given food relief," she said while sharing updates about the steps taken to combat COVID-19 and enforcement of the ongoing lockdown in the country. The officer said measures to enforce the 21-day lockdown in the country, from March 25 to April 14, have been "enhanced" by state governments and the police are doing "intensive surveillance". She said the administrations in various states and UTs are also taking the help of community leaders to spread awareness among the people about the pandemic and the lockdown. "The state authorities have also initiated social distancing measures at public places like markets and banks by taking steps like area marking and barricading," Srivastava said, adding that the movement of essential goods and services in the country is also "satisfactory". As it was thought, she said, that people may indulge into blackmarketing or hoarding of essential items, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla has written to all chief secretaries saying that "they should implement provisions under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 and ensure that essential goods are available." State governments can take many steps like fixing of stock limits, capping of prices and inspection of dealers' accounts, among others, to check these instances, she added. "We hope that with these measures our lockdown will be implemented effectively," Srivastava said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2-crore-construction-workers-provided-with-rs-3000-cr-funds-by-states-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-mha-823034.html
08-04-2020||National||TMC, DMK, YSR oppose MPLADS suspension||The Trinamool Congress on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reverse its decision to suspend the MPs’ Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) for two years and to utilize the fund allocated for the programme to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. The DMK and the YSR Congress Party too joined the TMC during a video-conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to oppose the suspension of the MPLADS. Sudip Bandopadhyay, the leader of the TMC in the Lok Sabha, conveyed to the prime minister that he and other MPs of his party were ready to contribute their salaries fully to help the government to pool resources to deal with the pandemic and its social and economic impact. A meeting of the Union Cabinet chaired by the prime minister on Monday approved an ordinance to cut the salaries of the MPs by 30% for a year and utilize the fund to deal with the COVID-19 crisis. It also decided to temporarily suspend the MPLADS during 2020-21 and 2021-22. Bandopadhyay said that the MPs of his party were ready for even a 100% cut of their salaries, but the MPLADS should not be suspended. He pointed out that the MPLADS had given the MPs opportunity to develop their constituencies and help bring change in the lives of the common people. T R Baalu, the leader of the DMK in the Lok Sabha, too urged the prime minister to withdraw the decision of suspending the MPLADS as it was only scheme available to the MPs to meet the demands of the people of their respective constituencies. The YSR Congress Party’s MPs, Vijai Sai Reddy and Mithun Reddy represented their party in the video-conference with Modi. The party, which is in power in Andhra Pradesh, also demanded withdrawal of the decision to suspend the MPLADS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-dmk-ysr-oppose-mplads-suspension-823041.html
08-04-2020||National||Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi traced: Delhi Police sources||The Delhi Police has traced Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi, who has been on the run after an FIR was registered against him for organising a religious gathering last month despite restrictions to combat the coronavirus, sources said on Wednesday. The cleric has been traced to Zakir Nagar in southeast Delhi, sources said. His lawyer Tauseef Khan, however, said Saad is under self-quarantine and will join investigation after his quarantine period is over. On March 31, Delhi Police's Crime Branch lodged an FIR against seven people, including the cleric, on a complaint by Station House Officer Nizamuddin for holding the congregation here allegedly in violation of the orders against large gathering and not maintaining social distancing to contain the spread of coronavirus. A day later, the Delhi Police's Crime Branch wrote to Saad and others, seeking the details under Section 91 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. A second notice was also issued to him this week. "Saad is currently under self-quarantine and will join investigation once the period of 14 days gets over," his advocate, Tauseef Khan, told PTI. Saad's quarantine is expected to end next week. His lawyer said a reply to the second notice will be given soon. In an audio message last week, Saad said he was exercising self-quarantine after several hundreds who visited the Tablighi Jamaat's Nizamudddin markaz tested positive for coronavirus. Visited by thousands last month, the Nizamudddin centre also turned out to be a hotspot for spread of coronavirus not only in national capital and country. According to the FIR, the Delhi Police contacted the centre on March 21 and reminded them of the government order that prohibited any political or religious gathering of more than 50 people. However, no one paid any heed to the police's direction, it said. Moreover, an audio recording purportedly of Saad was found in circulation on WhatsApp on March 21, in which he was heard asking his followers to defy the lockdown and social distancing and to attend the religious gathering of the Markaz. On March 24, the government ordered 21-day nationwide lockdown and restricted any social, political or religious gathering. The same day a meeting was held at Hazarat Nizamuddin police station between SHO and officer bearers of the centre. The meeting was attended by Saad, Mohammad Ashraf, Mohammad Salman, Yunus, Mursaleen Saifi, Jishan and Mufti Shehzad and they were informed about lockdown orders. So far, several hundred cases of COVID-19 cases across the country have been found to be linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Delhi last month. More than 25,500 Tablighi members and their contacts have been quarantined in the country after the Centre and the state governments conducted a "mega operation" to identify them. At least 9,000 people participated in the religious congregation in Nizamuddin. Later, many of the attendees travelled to various parts of the country. PTI NIT PR SMN SMN||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tablighi-jamaat-leader-maulana-saad-kandhalvi-traced-delhi-police-sources-823043.html
08-04-2020||National||Withdraw statement on avertisement ban: Indian Newspaper Society to Sonia Gandhi||The Indian Newspaper Society (INS) on Wednesday urged Congress president Sonia Gandhi to withdraw her suggestion of a two-year ban on media advertisements by governments and public sector units, saying the proposal tantamount to "financial censorship". In a statement, INS President Shailesh Gupta expressed "disbelief" at the remarks of Sonia, which she made in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi while suggesting ways to mop up money in the fight against COVID-19. "Such a proposal tantamount to financial censorship. It is a very small amount as far as government spending is concerned, but it is a huge amount for the newspaper industry which is essential for any vibrant democracy and is struggling to survive," Gupta said. Emphasising that there is already a decline in advertisement and circulation revenue due to recession and digital "onslaught", he said the sector faces a severe financial crisis due to complete lockdown of industries and business. "At a time like this when media personnel are risking their lives and bringing news on the pandemic situation, the suggestion of the Congress president for a two-year ban on media advertisements is deeply disturbing and demotivating for the entire media industry," he said, as he demanded Sonia to withdraw her statement. In the age of fake news and distortion, he said, print is the best platform to get news and views directly across the people in every nook and corner of the country for both the government and the Opposition. He said print media is the only industry, which has a wage board, and the government decides what employees should be paid. "This being the only industry where market forces do not decide salaries, the government has a responsibility towards the industry," Gupta said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/withdraw-statement-on-avertisement-ban-indian-newspaper-society-to-sonia-gandhi-823073.html
08-04-2020||National||Officials of SAARC nations discuss COVID-19 crisis, Pakistan stays away||Pakistan on Wednesday stayed away from a video-conference India arranged to discuss the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on trade among the SAARC nations. The senior officials of the Ministry of Commerce of the Government of India and their counterparts from five of the six other SAARC nations took part in the video-conference and discussed the impact of travel restrictions and the larger COVID-19 situation on intra-regional trade. No representative from Pakistan Government participated in the meeting. New Delhi arranged the video-conference as a follow-up to the virtual summit Prime Minister Narendra Modi had held on March 15 with the leaders of almost all other SAARC nations to discuss the ways to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic and its human and economic implications.  Though Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan had not participated in the virtual summit, his Special Advisor on Health Affairs, Dr Zafar Mirza, represented him. The representative of Pakistan Government had also participated in the video-conference of the SAARC health officials on March 26. But Pakistan is the only SAARC nation which has not contributed to the COVID-19 Emergency Fund created by all other nations in the bloc. The SAARC trade officials, who participated in the video-conference on Wednesday, recognized that the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown, transport curbs and travel restrictions have a considerable adverse impact on trade in the South Asian region. “It was stressed that new ways and means be jointly identified to sustain and expand the intra-regional trade until the normal trade channels are fully restored. The imperative need to maintain essential trade within the SAARC region was viewed as an important thrust area for favourable consideration,” the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) stated in a press-release issued after the video-conference. The issues the SAARC trade officials discussed included facilitation of trade through pragmatic solutions such as provisional clearance of imports at preferential duty with suitable conditions, provisional acceptance of digitally signed certificates of origin, acceptance of scanned copies of documents for clearance of imports by customs and release of payments by banks, resolving issues being faced for exports or imports at land customs stations on land border. “Impact of health issues such as COVID-19 on regional trade and possible measures to mitigate it was seen as a new focus area for discussion in the larger framework of trade facilitation in the SAARC region,” the MEA stated. “The need to enhance the quantum of intra SAARC trade was also highlighted.” The trade officials of India, Bhutan, Maldives, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Afghanistan and Bangladesh agreed to remain in close and regular touch through a designated focal point in each country. They also agreed to have further interaction on ideas and proposed actions aimed at early restoration of normal trade in the region after the movement restrictions imposed to contain the COVID-19 crisis end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/officials-of-saarc-nations-discuss-covid-19-crisis-pakistan-stays-away-823074.html
08-04-2020||National Politics||Narendra Modi govt has succumbed to US threat by allowing export of hydroxychloroquine: CPI(M)||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Tuesday hit out at the government for "capitulating" to the US over its decision to partially lift a ban on export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine. The party also condemned the "retaliation" threat made by US President Donald Trump. The government's decision came a week after a telephonic conversation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Trump, who sought supply of hydroxychloroquine to the US to treat coronavirus infected people. Trump on Monday said he would be surprised if New Delhi did not relent to the request as it has good relations with Washington and warned India of retaliation if it did not export the anti-malarial drug despite his personal request. "The statement by the US President is unacceptable. But Modi govt has succumbed to the threat by allowing the export. That this happened after an expensive gala was organised for him by Modi, instead of preparing to contain COVID-19, shows how this govt has let down India," said Yechury in a tweet. Trump had appreciated that India was allowing the supply (of hydroxychloroquine) to come out, but if it did not, "that would be okay, but of course, there may be retaliation, why wouldn't there be?" "Trump's threat of retaliation for easing restrictions on export of vital generic drugs including hydroxychloroquine is just arm twisting. Govt's capitulation to this brazen blackmail undermines vital concerns in our battle against #COVID19. Yet another surrender to US interests," the Left leader said. He further said that in the recent past, the government has shown "unplanned fiddling" with the export of all sorts of PPE, N5 surgical masks, gloves, ventilators with a disastrous impact on the safety of our frontline health workers. "Trump's threat to India is in tune with the obnoxious attempts to secure drugs and other pandemic related maternal and in diverting supplies meant for other countries in pure self interest," he said. "The polit bureau of the CPI(M) demands that this decision is rescinded in the supreme interest of our people's health and safety, which face a major threat from the pandemic," he said. On March 25, India banned export of hydroxychloroquine in the midst of views in some quarters that the drug could be used to fight COVID-19. India is the largest exporter of the drug. It is learnt that high-ranking officials of India and the US were engaged over the issue of supply HCQ to the US by certain Indian companies following telephonic conversation between Modi and Trump and the decision to ease restrictions on export of the drug was result of a process. The assessment in the government on Trump's comment on "retaliation" is that his response was not pre-meditated and that it was an instantaneous reaction by the US President when put on the spot. There was indication that the decision to lift the partial ban on the two drugs was taken at a high-level meeting last night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narendra-modi-govt-has-succumbed-to-us-threat-by-allowing-export-of-hydroxychloroquine-cpim-822705.html
08-04-2020||National Politics||Congress leader P Chidambaram slams govt's approach towards poor during coronavirus lockdown||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday called for providing immediate cash to the poor, while accusing the government of adopting a miserly and negligent approach towards the deprived during the lockdown. "With unemployment at 23 per cent (CMIE) and a freeze on daily wages/incomes, the government must immediately find the resources and remonetise (give cash to) the poor," he said in a series of tweets. "The miserly and cruelly negligent approach of the government has compounded the hardships of the poor," he charged. As of today, both numbers point to adopting a cautious and conservative approach. What is sorely missing in the lockdown strategy is putting cash in the hands of poor people. There are several sections of the poor who have not received a single rupee from the government. He said as among the first to advocate a lockdown, he welcomed the central government consulting the states on whether the lockdown should be lifted after April 14. The answer to that question cannot be based on personal or sectoral interests, he said. "The answer must be determined solely by two numbers — the absolute increase in positive cases every day and the rate of increase. The answer to that question cannot be based on personal or sectoral interests. The answer must be determined solely by two numbers — the absolute increase in positive cases every day and the rate of increase. "As of today, both numbers point to adopting a cautious and conservative approach," he said. Chidambaram pointed out that what is missing in the lockdown strategy is putting cash in the hands of poor people.  There are several sections of the poor who have not received a single rupee from the government, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leader-p-chidambaram-slams-govts-approach-towards-poor-during-coronavirus-lockdown-822749.html
08-04-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi interacts with floor leaders of political parties on coronavirus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday held a meeting with floor leaders of opposition and other parties in Parliament to discuss the situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic and the government’s efforts to contain the fast-spreading virus in the country. The interaction was held through video conferencing and those participated, included Ghulam Nabi Azad, leader of the opposition in Rajya Sabha, and Nationalist Congress Party head Sharad Pawar. The meet comes amidst indications that the Central government may extend the lockdown across the country beyond April 14 after several states have favoured the extension to contain the fast-spreading virus, as the positive cases in the country show no signs of any let up. As per the Union health ministry’s Wednesday morning update, there are 149 deaths and 5,194 confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the country even as the country entered its third week of nationwide lockdown. Apart from Azad and Pawar, others who attended the virtual meet included, Ram Gopal Yadav (Samajwadi Party), Satish Misra (Bahujan Samaj Party), Chirag Paswan (Lok Janshakti Party), T R Baalu (Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam), Sukhbir Singh Badal (Shiromani Akali Dal), Rajiv Ranjan Singh (Janata Dal-United), Pinaki Mishra (Biju Janata Dal) and Sanjay Raut (Shiv Sena). Giving up its initial reluctance, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) also attended the interaction. TMC leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay was among the participants. Modi interacted with leaders of those parties whose combined strength of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha adds up to five. This is prime minister's first interaction with the floor leaders, including those from the Opposition, after the imposition of the nationwide lockdown on March 25 though he had held interactions with chief ministers of all states including those ruled by non-NDA parties. The prime minister has also held interactions with various stakeholders, including doctors, journalists and heads of Indian missions to get a feedback on ways to check the spread of coronavirus. He also recently spoke to various political party heads including Congress' Sonia Gandhi, TMC's Mamata Banerjee and DMK's MK Stalin and discussed the COVID-19 situation. He had also talked to former presidents Pratibha Patil and Pranab Mukherjee, and former prime ministers HD Deve Gowda and Manmohan Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-interacts-with-floor-leaders-of-political-parties-on-coronavirus-822794.html
08-04-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi says farmers be allowed to harvest crops while maintaining safety||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday called for giving relief to farmers during the COVID-19 lockdown by allowing them to harvest crops while maintaining safety, saying this is the only way out as they are facing a double whammy. "The Rabi crop stands ready in the fields but harvesting of the crop due to COVID-19 lockdown is difficult. The livelihoods of hundreds of farmers are at risk," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "Those farmers who feed the country are today in dual trouble. The only way out is to give relief to them in the lockdown while maintaining safety is to allow them harvesting," he said. The Congress leader has earlier called for adopting a nuanced approach to tackle the situation in India, as the situation here is different from other nations. The country is under a 21-day lockdown from March 24 to control the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-says-farmers-be-allowed-to-harvest-crops-while-maintaining-safety-822842.html
08-04-2020||National Politics||Do not succumb to threats as world is watching, think about Indians first: Congress to PM Narendra Modi||he Congress on Wednesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should not succumb to threats and take any decision out of pressure at the time of a health crisis as it would set the wrong precedent in international diplomacy. The opposition party's remarks came after US President Donald Trump on Monday warned that his country may "retaliate" if India did not export hydroxychloroquine drug, used for COVID-19 treatment, despite his personal request. On Tuesday, the government decided to partially lift the ban on export of the anti-malarial drug, paving the way for its supply to the US and other countries hit by the coronavirus pandemic, saying India would export hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol on a case-by-case basis to the countries which have already placed orders for them after meeting domestic requirements. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, "Foreign policy is apolitical and we are with the government on this. But, it should not take any decision out of fear or threats as it sends a wrong signal to the outside world". Addressing a press conference through video conferencing, Khera said the prime minister should not take any step that goes against the country and its 130 crore citizens as they are his first responsibility while everything else comes later. Asserting that there was no place for threats in international diplomacy, he said, "Whether we should have buckled under pressure is something that history is watching". Khera said India is not used to the language of threats and allowing export of the life-saving drug sets a wrong precedent. "What is the kind of precedent we are trying to set when we buckle up under threats in this hour of crisis," he asked. The Congress leader said the nation has a "tradition" of not succumbing to threats as Indira Gandhi had "shown some countries their place" when they threatened India during the struggle for a separate Bangladesh. "We expect our prime minister to learn from our rich traditions and history. We need to remind our prime minister that we should not be bogged down by threats, as we represent 130 crore Indians," he said. "Please do not forget that our first responsibility is towards India and its 130 crore Indians, and everything else comes later," he told the PM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/do-not-succumb-to-threats-as-world-is-watching-think-about-indians-first-congress-to-pm-narendra-modi-822852.html
08-04-2020||National Politics||Don't stop MPLAD funds, ready to give away full salary: TMC at meeting with PM Narendra Modi||TMC leader Sudip Bandopadhyay urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday not to suspend the MPLAD funds scheme as it would impact development works at the grassroots level and demanded a financial moratorium for West Bengal to tackle the coronavirus outbreak. Bandopadhyay, the leader of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the Lok Sabha, spoke to the prime minister during a video-conference Modi held with the floor leaders of different parties in Parliament to discuss the situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic and the government's efforts to contain the fast-spreading virus in the country. "I have requested the prime minister for a financial moratorium for West Bengal and to give the financial package of Rs 25,000 crore as demanded by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. I have also requested him not to suspend the MPLAD funds and told him that we are ready to give away our full salary," he said. The MPLAD funds help public representatives to take development to the grassroots level and it should not be stopped, Bandopadhyay added. The Union cabinet approved an ordinance on Monday to reduce the salaries of the Members of Parliament (MPs) by 30 per cent for a year and utilise the amount in the fight against coronavirus. The cabinet also approved a temporary suspension of the MPLAD (Member of Parliament Local Area Development) funds scheme during 2020-21 and 2021-22, and said it will be used for managing health services and the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. The TMC had earlier said it would not attend Wednesday's meeting with the prime minister, but subsequently, changed its decision. On the export of hydroxychloroquine, Bandopadhyay said the TMC has conveyed its opinion that the medicine should be shipped to other countries only after it is ensured that India has an adequate supply to serve its own needs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-stop-mplad-funds-ready-to-give-away-full-salary-tmc-at-meeting-with-pm-narendra-modi-822872.html
08-04-2020||National Politics||Told PM Narendra Modi to focus on coronavirus, drop new Parliament building plan: DMK T R Baalu||The DMK on Wednesday said it urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a meeting via video link to drop the move to construct a new Parliament building and instead focus on battling COVID-19 and claimed that funds announced by the Centre for tackling the virus was inadequate. The Dravidian party's senior leader T R Baalu, who represented his party in the video conference said he sought a relief of Rs 10,000 from the central government, in two equal installments, to be provided to all BPL families, besides Rs 5,000 as subsidy to all LPG users. In the meet, Baalu told reporters here that he asked Modi to "drop the (building a new Parliament) move as it was unnecessary at this juncture. The nation would require huge funds to combat Covid-19 pandemic." Apparently, he indicated that funds (if any, the Centre was mulling to allocate for the new project) could be used for preventing and treating people besides other activities related to fighting the virus. Baalu who called upon political parties to sink their differences and strive together in containing the virus, questioned the rationale behind the Centre's decision to spend a whopping Rs 25,000 crores, to construct the new Parliament building. Also, he raised the issue of about 300 Tamil Nadu fishermen stranded in Iran and sought appropriate steps to bring them back. "The Prime Minister noted all the points that I had emphasised," he said. Terming the COVID-19 pandemic as an "emergency health situation" he said, "We are facing an emergency health situation and during this hour of crisis we should work together cutting across party lines to contain the coronavirus." "I had conveyed this to Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the video conference today," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/told-pm-narendra-modi-to-focus-on-coronavirus-drop-new-parliament-building-plan-dmk-t-r-baalu-822941.html
08-04-2020||National Politics||Communal politics over Nizamuddin event unacceptable: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that some people were indulging in communal politics over the Nizamuddin event in New Delhi. Addressing media persons at the state secretariat the Chief Minister also said that pandemic does not attack on the basis of religion. “ It has come to our notice that some people are resorting to communal politics over the event at Nizamuddin. This is utterly condemnable and cannot be accepted. A pandemic does not attack on the basis of religion and caste,” said Banerjee. She also asked why the gathering at Nizamuddin was not stooped when it was taking place in March. Banerjee said that the West Bengal Government has 200 persons who attended the event to quarantine among which 108 are foreign nationals. “ This is not the time for indulging in communal politics. Why was not the gathering stopped when it took place last month,” said Banerjee. She also said that a riot took place in Delhi before the nationwide lockdown. As for the possibility of extending the nationwide lockdown, Banerjee said that she was not aware of it and will only be able to comment on the issue after speaking to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Meanwhile, Banerjee said that the number of active positive COVID-19 cases in West Bengal has gone up to 71.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/communal-politics-over-nizamuddin-event-unacceptable-west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-822949.html
08-04-2020||National Politics||Don't pay heed to US prez's threat for drug export: Sanjay Raut to PM||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to pay heed to US President Donald Trump's threat of retaliation if India did not export the drug Hydroxychloroquine. After attending a meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi of leaders of various parties on the coronavirus situation via video conference in Mumbai, Raut said the PM hinted that the ongoing lockdown might be extended further since it was the only option. "I told him that the party will support any decision he takes," Raut told PTI. President Donald Trump has warned India that the US may retaliate if it did not export anti-malarial drug Hydroxychloroquine despite his personal request, saying he would be surprised in case of a negative outcome as New Delhi has good relations with Washington. Hydroxychloroquine, an old and inexpensive drug used to treat malaria, is seen as a viable therapeutic solution by President Trump to coronavirus that has so far killed more than 10,000 Americans and infected over 3.6 lakh within weeks. "If the US seeks help from India as a friend, it is the duty to extend assistance, but threatening is an insult of our country and as the PM you should respond," Raut said to have told the PM. The Sena Parliamentary Party Leader later told PTI that he put forth his views on the behalf of the Sena and assured the PM of all assistance to tackle the coronavirus outbreak. "I told him we are all together under your leadership," he said. Raut also said that the Sena supports the 30 per cent cut in the salaries of MPs to raise funds to fight coronavirus. PTI MR NSK NSK||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-pay-heed-to-us-prezs-threat-for-drug-export-sanjay-raut-to-pm-823031.html
08-04-2020||National Politics||Government-Opposition exchanges grow after COVID-19 through letters, phone calls, video conferencing||When Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday held a video interaction with floor leaders of 16 political parties on the issue of COVID-19 lockdown, this was not an isolated interaction. In the last one month, Modi and Opposition parties have held over a dozen interactions. The exchanges between the two sides have happened through video conferencing, phone calls and even the age-old medium of writing letters. The relationship between the government and the Opposition has hardly been that interactive in the past. Despite occasional sparring in political parties in the country, even the arch-rivals of various parties have been interacting with each other to work out an effective response to the menace. Prime Minister Narendra Modi personally called all several Opposition leaders including bete noire Sonia Gandhi, the incumbent President of Congress. Sonia, who has generally maintained a distance from the government wrote at least three letters to the Prime Ministers. Many other Opposition leaders including a trenchant critic of Modi like Rahul Gandhi, Digvijay Singh and Shashi Tharoor wrote letters to him. In the last letter on April 7, Sonia Gandhi also gave five suggestions to Modi on COVID-19 combat strategy after the Prime Minister sought suggestions from all parties. Earlier on March 26 also, she had written a letter to the Prime Minister, lending support to his decision on a 21-day nationwide lockdown to fight the disease. On March 24, she had written the first letter to the Prime Minister. Rahul Gandhi had written to PM Modi on March 29, saying Congress is standing with the government in the fight against coronavirus and also highlighting the confusion due to sudden announcement of the lockdown. In the all-party meeting on Wednesday, Modi praised the efforts of state governments working together with the Centre in this fight against the pandemic. He noted that the country has witnessed constructive and positive politics through the coming together of all sections of the polity to present a united front in this battle. Leaders from other parties, mostly from the Opposition also thanked the Prime Minister for the meeting, appreciated the timely measures taken by him and said that the entire country is standing united behind him during the crisis. Modi thanked the leaders for their constructive suggestions and feedback, adding that their commitment to assist the government in this battle reaffirms the democratic foundations of the country and the spirit of cooperative federalism. On April 5, as the challenge surmounted, Modi widened the ambit of political discussions and dialled Congress interim President Sonia Gandhi, two former Presidents Pranab Mukherjee and Pratibha Patil, two former Prime Ministers Manmohan Singh and HD Deve Gowda, three former  Chief Ministers Mulayam Singh Yadav,  his son Akhilesh Yadav and Parkash Singh Badal, three incumbent Chief Ministers Mamata Banerjee  Naveen Patnaik and  K Chandrasekhar Rao (Telangana)  and DMK leader M K Stalin. He also interacted with all Chief Ministers first on March 20, telling them that the states and Centre must work together to combat the pandemic. This first formal interaction of the Prime Minister with Chief Ministers including many from the Opposition-ruled states set the ball rolling for a coordinated Centre-state strategy to combat the disease. Modi again spoke to Chief Ministers on April 2 to bolster efforts to tackle COVID-19. He will be doing a third video conferencing with all Chief Ministers on April 11 as the deadline for 21-day lockdown on April 14 nears. In this meeting, he will take a final call on whether or not to extend the lockdown and again it is the coordination aspect, which will play a key role in deciding the future roadmap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-opposition-exchanges-grow-after-covid-19-through-letters-phone-calls-video-conferencing-823037.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||Encounter breaks out between security forces, militants in J&K's Baramulla||An encounter broke out between security forces and militants in the Sopore area of Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla district on Wednesday, police said. A cordon and search operation was launched in the Arampora area of Sopore in the north Kashmir district late Tuesday night after specific information about the presence of militants there was received, a police official said. He said security forces conducted searches in the area and maintained a tight cordon to prevent militants from fleeing.  The contact with the militants was established Wednesday morning after the ultras fired upon a search party of the forces, who retaliated, ensuing an encounter, the official said. He said the gunfight was going on and further details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-militants-in-jks-baramulla-822748.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||People catching COVID-19 infection in quarantine in Jammu and Kashmir||With at least four persons, who had travelled back to Kashmir three weeks ago, testing positive even after completing two weeks of mandatory quarantine, health authorities are concerned that they may have got infected with COVID-19 at the quarantine facility itself. While the quarantine for COVID-19 is meant to monitor suspected cases for symptoms for two weeks, four new cases from south Kashmir’s Shopian district has given rise to many questions regarding the manner and mechanism of the preventive locking process. Dr Naveed Nazir Shah, in-charge of COVID-19 at Chest Diseases Hospital in Srinagar, said it was quite possible that the people in quarantine were exposed to the virus in the facility they were sharing. Urging authorities to follow quarantine guidelines in letter and spirit, he said: “People cannot be living too close to each other and huddling together. In the current scenario, it is important to maintain physical distance from everyone, symptoms or no symptoms.” Prof Parvaiz A Koul, head department of internal and pulmonary medicine at territory care SKIMS Hospital in Srinagar says the “late positivity” could be due to two reasons. “The incubation period in these patients has been very long, which is quite rare, or they were infected at the quarantine itself,” he said. Prof Koul, an influenza expert, said there is a possibility that one of the persons was already COVID-19 positive when the group was put under quarantine and that resulted in others getting infected due to cohabitation in a facility. Advocating for home quarantine of suspected cases, he said: “If, under quarantine, people are not safeguarded against possible infection from each other, we are putting their lives at risk.” The four persons, along with seven other pilgrims, had returned to Srinagar on the same flight on March 16 in which elderly woman from Khanyar area of Srinagar who was Kashmir’s first COVID-19 positive case travelled. On their return, all of them were traced and put in quarantine, while their family members were instructed to stay at home and were put under surveillance. The four people who have now tested positive, along with seven others, were discharged two weeks later in absence of any symptoms. However, soon after, they were again taken to hospital as one of their co-passengers had been found positive for COVID-19. Surprisingly, four from this group also tested positive, three weeks after their arrival from Saudi Arabia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-catching-covid-19-infection-in-quarantine-in-jammu-and-kashmir-822774.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police Assistant Sub Inspector tests positive for COVID-19||ASI Jeet Singh, posted with the traffic wing in South Delhi's Hauz Khas circle, had developed cough and fever on April 1 and was sent to AIIMS for a check-up where doctors advised him to be under 14-days home quarantine.  Delhi Police spokesperson Additional Commissioner MS Randhawa said Singh's test results that came on Tuesday showed he was infected by COVID-19.  Singh's case was among the 51 fresh cases reported in the national capital on Tuesday, taking the total COVID-19 cases to 576. Nine persons have died due to COVID-19 in the capital so far, including two who breathed their last on Tuesday.  During his quarantine period, Singh was staying at his house in Kalkaji.   Soon after his test results were out, Singh was shifted to the COVID-19 ward of Safdarjung Hospital.  The authorities of Safdarjung hospital have noted all the details of his health history and his family members. Three traffic staff working with him in duty have been asked to self-isolate for the next 14 days, Randhawa said.  The Station House Officer of Kalkaji police station has intimated Health Department about the test results to take further measures like contact tracing as well as initiate measures that need to be taken in the locality where Singh lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-assistant-sub-inspector-tests-positive-for-covid-19-822780.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||Pandemic Podcast: Frontline of the valley, Jammu and Kashmir||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast gives you a bird’s-eye view of the COVID-19 situation. In this episode we take a closer look at India’s newly-created Union Territory, Jammu and Kashmir. DH’s Zulfikar Majid throws light on the ground situation there. We also have L Subramani talking to DR Elango and DH Fact Check by Akash Sriram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pandemic-podcast-frontline-of-the-valley-jammu-and-kashmir-822781.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||Jaish-e-Mohammad commander killed in Kashmir’s Sopore||A top commander of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) militant outfit was killed in an encounter with security forces in the Sopore area of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Wednesday. “JeM commander Sajad Nawab Dar got neutralized in ongoing encounter at Sopore. Further details to follow,” a tweet by Kashmir Zone police read. The gunfight broke out in Gulabad-Arampora area of Sopore, 52 kms from here, during wee hours of Tuesday after Army’s 22-Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) following ‘specific inputs’ about the presence of militants in the area. As the security forces intensified the searches, the hiding militants opened fire, which was retaliated leading to a gunfight. A police spokesperson had in the morning said that two to four militants were reported to be present in the cordoned area. Amid cornavirus pandemic, the militancy incidents in Kashmir have seen a rise with six security personnel, ten militants and three civilians killed since last one week. On Tuesday, a CRPF jawan was killed in a militant attack in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district. On Sunday, five army personnel, including a junior commissioned officer from Special Forces squad were killed in a “hand to hand and close quarter battle” with infiltrating militants in snow bound woods of Keran sector along the Line of Control in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district. Five militants were also killed in the gun battle that raged in the woods of Kupwara on Wednesday and culminated on Sunday morning. Prior to that four militants affiliated with Hizb-ul-Mujahideen outfit were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on April 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jaish-e-mohammad-commander-killed-in-kashmir-s-sopore-822783.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||One more person tests positive for COVID-19 in Uttarakhand||One more person tested positive for COVID-19 in Uttarakhand on Wednesday, officials said. A Health Department spokesman said the latest case has been reported from Haridwar and it takes the number of coronavirus patients in the state to 32. Five people suffering from COVID-19 have been cured and discharged in the state so far, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-more-person-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-uttarakhand-822795.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||I-T Dept cautions against breach in e-filing accounts||The Income-Tax Department has asked taxpayers to guard against possible breach of their personal e-filing account and report such an instance to the police cyber security wing. "If you think your e-filing account many have been compromised or accessed in an unauthorised manner, then you may be a victim of cybercrime," the department said in an advisory. "Please report the incident to the concerned police or cyber cell authorities as a first step," it said. The e-filing account of an individual or entity is accessed by logging on to the web portal of the department-- https://www.incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in. A senior official said the advisory has been issued in the wake of increased vulnerability and attacks on online systems as the country and the world battle the COVID-19 pandemic and more online systems are being used due to a major scaling down of human interface.   The department also suggested that a person can also file an online criminal complaint/FIR by visiting https://cybercrime.gov.in/ that has been launched by the government "to facilitate victims and complainants to report cybercrime complaints online." The advisory added that the department, on its part, will also share information related to a cyber crime instance "with relevant law enforcement authorities when so summoned under their statutory powers of investigation." "As a general precaution, please do not share your login credentials or other sensitive information," it said.  The e-filing account is used by taxpayers to file their income tax returns (ITRs) and perform a host of other tax-related works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-t-dept-cautions-against-breach-in-e-filing-accounts-822807.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||Going to prison in time of COVID-19 like death sentence, activists tells Supreme Court||Their counsel told a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Indira Banerjee that both the activists were over 65 years and suffer heart ailments, making them more vulnerable. On March 16, they were given three weeks time to surrender. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, however opposed the plea, saying the contention was made to buy time. He said the activists were facing serious charges. He also said jail was the safe place for them.  The bench reserved the order on applications filed by Navlakha and Teltumbde. On March 16, the top court had declined anticipatory bail plea by activists Teltumbde and Navalakha in the Bhima Koregaon case. It had then noted that Section 43D(4) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, clearly put a bar for pre-arrest bail. "We are of the opinion that it cannot be said that no prima facie case is made out," the bench had also said.  The court, however, had then granted them three weeks time to surrender before the National Investigation Agency, entrusted to probe the matter.  It had then noted the petitioners had enjoyed protection from arrest for a one-and-half year. The activists faced charges for their alleged Maoist links and involvement in the Bhima Koregaon violence. An event 'Elgar Parishad' was held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which allegedly led to caste violence on January 1, 2018. Several prominent activists have already been arrested in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/going-to-prison-in-time-of-covid-19-like-death-sentence-activists-tells-supreme-court-822811.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Urine-filled bottles thrown from quarantine centre in Dwarka to adjacent area in Delhi||A case has been registered against unknown people for allegedly throwing bottles filled with urine from a quarantine centre in Sector 16 in Dwarka in the adjacent area, police said on Wednesday. The FIR was registered against unknown people on Tuesday after police received a complaint from a DUSIB employee who was on duty at the quarantine centre, they said. The complainant received information about the incident from the civil defence personnel deployed at the centre, police said. "At around 6 pm, civil defence personnel deputed at quarantine centre situated at DUSIB flats 16 B Dwarka, came to me and intimated that two bottles were lying in the open area (pump house) which appeared to be filled with urine. It is assumed that the same (bottles) have been thrown by the suspects under quarantine in DUSIB flats, the FIR stated. The complainant also mentioned the flat numbers and said that the residents were suspected to be behind the act. The intention behind the indecent activity of throwing bottles filled with urine may be to spread coronavirus among other people, the FIR added. A case has been registered under relevant section of the Indian Penal Code, police said, adding further investigation is going on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-urine-filled-bottles-thrown-from-quarantine-centre-in-dwarka-to-adjacent-area-in-delhi-822813.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 cases rise to 141 in Haryana||With 11 more people testing positive for coronavirus, the number of COVID-19 cases in Haryana rose to 141 on Wednesday. Among the fresh cases, seven were reported from Faridabad, one from Nuh and two from Palwal while Fatehabad district reported its first case, according to state health Department's bulletin. At present, there are 122 active cases in the state, 17 patients have been discharged while the state has recorded two COVID-related deaths. Reports of 558 samples were awaited.     Among the total positive cases reported ten are foreign nationals including six from Sri Lanka, and one each from Nepal, Thailand, Indonesia and South Africa while 51 are from other states of India, as per the bulletin.  The worst affected districts are Nuh (38 cases), Palwal (28), Faridabad (28) and Gurugram (20). State Home and Health Minister Anil Vij had on Tuesday said the sharp spike in the number of COVID-19 cases was due to sizeable numbers of Tablighi Jamaat members testing positive. He said 1,526 of the Jamaat members including 107 foreigners have so far being tracked down in the state. A majority of those who entered the state before the lockdown had been traced to Nuh district. Jamaat members,who may still be hiding in the state, have been given time till 5 pm on April 8 to report to the district administration concerned failing which strict action will be initiated against them as per law, Vij had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-rise-to-141-in-haryana-822821.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||Tablighi event attendees who are hiding will face action: Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has asked the state residents who participated in the Tablighi Jamaat's religious congregation in Delhi last month to report to the state authorities within 24 hours or face criminal charges. The congregation organised by the Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in the national capital last month emerged as a major coronavirus hotspot in the country. "The administration has quarantined all those from the state who attended the Nizamuddin Markaz and identified the people from abroad who have been hiding in mosques," Chouhan said in a tweet late Tuesday night. "Even after this, if someone is hiding somewhere, I request them to inform the administration on their own within the next 24 hours. If they fail to do so, they will face criminal charges for endangering the security of the state and the country and appropriate legal action will be taken against them," he added. Till Tuesday, the state reported 313 COVID-19 cases and 23 deaths due to the viral disease. The Tablighi Jamaat held a congregation last month at Nizamuddin in Delhi which was attended by a number of people from across the country and abroad. A number of participants have been found infected with the coronavirus and are being accused of spreading the disease across the country. Many of them have been identified and quarantined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tablighi-event-attendees-who-are-hiding-will-face-action-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-822822.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Fighting hunger, differently abled man in Uttar Pradesh serves food to needy||Once on the verge of starvation following the countrywide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus, a differently-abled man here is now serving food to thousands of deprived families. Like many, life came to a standstill for Tej Bahadur Yadav (36) when the Centre announced the lockdown in the country. Yadav, who runs an e-rickshaw, was affected by polio. "Whatever saving I had was spent within four to five days, and my family was on the verge of starvation when the lockdown was announced. It was difficult for me to feed my wife, who is also differently-abled, and two children - a four-year-old daughter and six-year-old son," he told PTI. On March 27, Yadav had gone to collect food for his family at a community kitchen in Gomti Nagar Extension, where locals and government officials were distributing food for the needy. While others left after taking the food, Yadav stayed there and offered his services. Recalling the day, Gomti Nagar Extension Mahasamiti, Secretary, Uma Shankar Dubey said, "Looking at him standing on one leg, I thought he wanted more food packets, but he offered to work to provide food to the deprived people. “At that time, I did not think of any work for him, but when he insisted, I asked him what he could do. He said he runs e-rickshaw and can help in distributing food,” the official said. “And most importantly, he insisted that he will not take anything for his services, and that he wanted to do something for the society at this crucial time," Dubey said. Since, then it has become the daily routine of Yadav to reach the community kitchen at 10 am, recharge his e-rickshaw and take food packets to the needy. "I had no money, I cannot walk, but I can ride e-rickshaw and I offered what I can do the best. At a time, I carry 500 food packets and take them to wherever there is a need. I distribute over 1,500 food packets till evening. It gives me immense satisfaction that I can do something for the society," he said. Yadav has received widespread appreciation after people came to know about his story.  About his family, the Barabanki resident said his father worked as a guard in Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) and had died in 2017. He said his brother took away all the insurance money and other resources due to which he decided to run e-rickshaw to feed his family. Dubey said Yadav is punctual and performs every task with vigour. "He is an inspiration to the society. After the lockdown ends, we will discuss his case with the authorities and try to get him disability pension or other relief, “ the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-fighting-hunger-differently-abled-man-in-uttar-pradesh-serves-food-to-needy-822827.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||FIR against MP Cong MLA Kushwaha for violating lockdown||An FIR has been registered against local Congress MLA Siddharth Kushwaha and seven others for allegedly defying CrPC Section 144, which bans assembly of four or more people, during the lockdown, police said on Wednesday. The MLA led a protest near Nai Basti area of Satna in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday, in violation of Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and the lockdown enforced in the district, police inspector Mohit Saxena said. Details of the protest that Kushwaha led were not immediately known. "We have booked eight persons, including Kushwaha, under relevant provisions of the India Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act," the police official said. Efforts were on to identify others involved in the protest, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-against-mp-cong-mla-kushwaha-for-violating-lockdown-822830.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||Fire tender vehicles to be used for sanitation purpose in UP||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday flagged off fire tender vehicles to be be used for sanitisation purpose in 66 tehsils of the state, the UP Government said in a statement issued here. "Almost 10 days back, the DGP and Additional Chief Secretary (Home) were told that if the fire tender vehicles are used for sanitisation purpose, then it will help to free the villages and cities from the infection. The modern fire tender is equipped with the latest technology, and they will be engaged in sanitisation works to get rid of coronavirus, Adityanath said. The chief minister also said that these fire tenders will be used to save people from incidents of widespread fire (reported when the temperature rises) and for sanitisation purposes to combat COVID-19, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-tender-vehicles-to-be-used-for-sanitation-purpose-in-up-822839.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||Probe 'when, why and who' gave visas to foreign Tablighi Jamaat members: Akhilesh Yadav||In an apparent attack on the BJP government at the Centre over the action against foreign Tablighi Jamaat members, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday said it should also be probed "when, why and who" gave visas to them. "Those probing should also voluntarily probe that when, why and who gave visas to those who are being caught. How many tests of coronavirus are being done? And what arrangement is being made for the treatment of other diseases and also for those who are hungry," Akhilesh said in a tweet in Hindi. समीक्षा करनेवाले सदिच्छा से इसकी भी समीक्षा-परीक्षा करें कि जिनकी धर-पकड़ की जा रही है उन्हें कब, क्यों व किसने वीज़ा दिया, कोरोना के कितने टेस्ट किए जा रहे हैं व अन्य बीमारियों के इलाज व भूखे-भटके लोगों के लिए क्या व्यवस्थाएँ हैं| कृपया राहत कोष की पारदर्शिता की भी समीक्षा करें Over 900 Tablighi Jamaat members, who had come to India on tourist visas, have been blacklisted by the government for allegedly violating visa conditions for participating in religious activities. Action was taken against them after over 2,300 Jamaat activists were found to be living at the the organisation's headquarters in Delhi's Nizamuddin despite the 21-day lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus. "Please also review the transparency in relief funds," Yadav said. So far, Uttar Pradesh has reported 332 coronavirus cases, of which 176 are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation held in Delhi's Nizamuddin last month. The state authorities have identified around 1,600 people associated with the Jamaat and 1,200 among them have been quarantined. BSP supremo Mayawati in a tweet suggested better coordination between the Centre and states over the coronavirus issue. "Due to rising cases of coronavirus, the Centre and state governments should act with better coordination and take decisions keeping in mind the interest of 130 crore people of the country. The BSP will welcome such decisions based on 'Sarvjan Hitay'," Maywati said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/probe-when-why-and-who-gave-visas-to-foreign-tablighi-jamaat-members-akhilesh-yadav-822844.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal interacts with Delhi MPs on coronavirus, says 'will have to fight it together'||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday held a meeting with MPs from the national capital on the coronavirus outbreak and said "we all will have to fight it together". In the meeting via video conferencing, Lok Sabha members belonging to the BJP and Rajya Sabha members of the Aam Aadmi Party interacted with the chief minister and discussed measures to contain the COVID-19 spread in the national capital. "Discussed the issue of corona with Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs via video conferencing. Several MPs have given good suggestions which will soon be implemented by the government. We all will have to fight it together," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. The meeting came a day after Kejriwal announced a five-point action plan which includes one lakh rapid anti-body blood test in hotspots to contain the spread of the coronavirus. There are ten Members of Parliament, including seven of Lok Sabha from BJP and three of Rajya Sabha from AAP, in the national capital. The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital on Tuesday rose to 576, with 51 fresh cases and two deaths being reported in a day, according to the Delhi health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-interacts-with-delhi-mps-on-coronavirus-says-will-have-to-fight-it-together-822845.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 cases rise to 363 in Rajasthan||Twenty people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Rajasthan on Wednesday, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in the state to 363, an official said. The disease has claimed six lives in the state till now, but officials maintain that the deaths occurred due to co-morbidity, which means more than one illness or disease occurring in a person at the same time. Out of the 20 new cases of the virus, 12 were from Jaipur. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the Rajasthan capital now stands at 118. "Twenty new cases have come up today. One patient who tested positive today in Jaipur has no recent travel history," Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said. The 62-year-old patient, a resident of the city, was admitted at the SMS Hospital. The patient has not given any recent travel or contact history. He is an employee of a private firm, the official said. Singh said the man was referred from Kawantia Hospital to the SMS Hospital. The rest of the people who tested COVID-19 positive either have links to Tablighi Jamaat congregation participants or had come in contact with positive cases with recent travel history, officials said. The congregation took place in early March in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area and several people who participated in the event got infected by the coronavirus. They travelled across the country after attending the congregation. Besides Jaipur, six cases were reported from Bikaner and one each in Banswara and Jodhpur. Rajasthan is under lockdown from March 22 and massive surveys and screening is underway to trace COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-rise-to-363-in-rajasthan-822846.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||AIIMS administration rejects RDA proposal to make donation to PM-CARES voluntary||The AIIMS administration has rejected the proposal by its Resident Doctors' Association to make donations to the PM-CARES fund voluntary or opt-in, saying there is no mechanism in place for an opt-in donation in the institute. In a response to the RDA's demand, the  administration on Wednesday said there is no mechanism currently for an opt-in donation and all such voluntary donations are to be made directly to the charity of choice. The letter also stated that there is no provision to collect donations from residents for internal use for provision of PPEs and other facilities to equip healthcare workers. The AIIMS RDA had written to the hospital administration, demanding that donations to PM-Citizen Assistance Relief in Emergency Situations (CARES) fund be made a voluntary exercise/opt-in and the money collected be used locally for procuring protective gear for them after the administration appealed to all resident doctors to contribute their one-day salary to the PM-CARES fund to aid the government's effort to fight COVID-19. "In continuation of the appeal dated April 4, the RDA through letter have stated that the collection of donation be made voluntary (opt-in) and use of funds be done locally for provision of PPEs and other facilities to equip the healthcare workers. "In this regard, it may be noted that there is no mechanism currently for an Opt-in donation and all such voluntary donations are to be made directly to the charity of choice. There is no provision to collect donations from residents for internal use for provision of PPEs and other facilities to equip the healthcare workers," the AIIMS registrar said. He further clarified that the current requirement is of procurement of PPEs rather than of collection of funds from residents for this purpose stating adequate funds are available. "The RDA is therefore advised to clarify whether they wish to contribute for the above noble cause or not. There will be no provision for an Opt-in contribution," the notice which was sent to HODs, Chiefs of Centres and RDA President stated. Reacting to it, AIIMS RDA General Secretary Dr Srinivas Rajkumar T said, "Regarding contribution to the PM-CARES fund, the administration is saying no to the provision of opt-in. Also, that fund will not be used for PPE from this institute. RDA AIIMS is left with option either to reject it completely or choose individual opt-out." The AIIMS RDA had on April 4 said the notice for donation without consulting them violates an individual's right to support the country in the way they prefer. In its notice, the administration had also said that any resident having objection to it may write through email, WhatsApp or SMS to their account officers latest by April 6.  “If no objection is received by April 6, the deduction of amount equal to one-day salary will be made from the arrears to be accrued on account of the enhancement of DA towards the contribution to PM CARES fund,” the administration's notice said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aiims-administration-rejects-rda-proposal-to-make-donation-to-pm-cares-voluntary-822851.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 hotspots in 15 UP districts sealed till April 15: UP govt||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday said all COVID-19 hotspots in 15 districts of the state will be sealed till April 15 to check the spread of the deadly coronavirus. "All coronavirus hotspots in 15 districts will be completely sealed till April 15 morning. Only home delivery will be allowed. These are places where a number of COVID-19 cases have been found," Director, Information Shishir told PTI. These hotspots will be identified by the evening, Additional Chief Secretary, Information, Awanish Awasthi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-hotspots-in-15-up-districts-sealed-till-april-15-up-govt-822854.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Centre to release another Rs 34,000 cr compensation for COVID-19 pandemic to states soon||In a bid to provide further relief to states amid the coronavirus outbreak, the finance ministry is planning to soon release another about Rs 34,000 crore to states as compensation for their revenue loss in the goods and services tax (GST) regime. States, so far, have been paid pending dues till November and the remaining will be cleared in phases soon, sources said. The finance ministry cleared about Rs 34,000 crore pending GST compensation for October and November in two tranches. The first tranche of Rs 19,950 crore was released on February 17, while the remaining amount of Rs 14,103 crore was distributed to states and Union territories on Tuesday, sources added. In all, Rs 34,053 crore were released at a time when states are facing liquidity crunch due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain spread of coronavirus. According to sources, the government has released close to Rs 1.35 lakh crore to states and union territories towards GST compensation cess. Under GST law, states were guaranteed to be paid for any loss of revenue in the first five years of the GST implementation, which came into force from July 1, 2017. The shortfall is calculated assuming a 14 per cent annual growth in GST collections by states over the base year of 2015-16. Under the GST structure, taxes are levied under 5, 12, 18 and 28 per cent slabs. On top of the highest tax slab, a cess is levied on luxury, sin and demerit goods and the proceeds from the same are used to compensate states for any revenue loss. The Centre has, so far, released about Rs 2.45 lakh crore as GST compensation to states since the implementation of GST on July 1, 2017. During July 2017-March 2018, Rs 48,785 crore was released, while between April 2018-March 2019, Rs 81,141 crore was paid to states. For April-May and June-July last year, Rs 17,789 crore and Rs 27,956 crore were released. Further, Rs 35,298 crore was paid to states as compensation for August-September and Rs 34,053 crore for October-November 2019. GST collections in March slipped below the psychological Rs 1-lakh crore mark for the first time in four months to Rs 97,597 crore as the COVID-19 lockdown that shut most businesses compounded tax collections in an already sluggish economy. GST mop-up in March recorded a 8.4 per cent decline over March 2019 collection of Rs 1.06 lakh crore. The collections were lower on account of dip in revenues from domestic transactions as well as imports. In the last four months -- November 2019-February 2020 -- GST collection surpassed the Rs 1-lakh crore mark. In February, mop-up was Rs 1.05 lakh crore, January (Rs 1.10 lakh crore), December (Rs 1.03 lakh crore) and November (Rs 1.03 lakh crore).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-centre-to-release-another-rs-34000-cr-compensation-for-covid-19-pandemic-to-states-soon-822898.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||Migrant woman in Bihar coronavirus isolation ward sexually abused, dies||In a horrifying incident, a migrant woman was sexually abused in a Gaya hospital where she was kept in an isolation ward. Three days later, she died due to excessive bleeding. The matter came to light on Tuesday when her mother-in-law informed the authorities concerned about the shocking incident. The 25-year-old victim had returned to Bihar’s Gaya district from Ludhiana (in Punjab) along with her husband on March 25. Before returning to her in-laws’ place, she had undergone abortion at Ludhiana just when she was two months pregnant. On reaching Gaya, she complained of excessive bleeding. Her husband admitted her to Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH) on March 27 where she was kept in the emergency ward. Later, on April 1, on being suspected to be coronavirus patient, she was kept in an isolation ward. Her family members alleged that it was in this isolation ward where a doctor attending to her overnight outraged her modesty for two successive nights on April 2 and 3. “The following day, she was discharged from the hospital after her coronavirus test report was found to be negative. However, after returning home, she remained aloof and struck by fear. On questioning, she revealed how a doctor had sexually abused her in the isolation ward. On April 6, she passed away due to excessive bleeding,” said her mother-in-law. On receiving the information, the local police asked the mother-in-law to come to the hospital on Tuesday and identify the doctor (about whom the victim had given a description). However, the accused was not identified. “Prima facie, the matter is serious. We are verifying the allegations. We will dig out the CCTV footage in the hospital and take strict action after identifying the culprit,” said Dr VK Prasad, the hospital superintendent. Meanwhile, the Gaya police have arrested two people who posed as doctors and entered the isolation ward using doctors’ kits. One of the apprehended people works in a private hospital. The investigation is ongoing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-woman-in-bihar-coronavirus-isolation-ward-sexually-abused-dies-822914.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||Centre should provide financial packages to states based on number of COVID-19 cases: Sachin Pilot||To ensure a “comprehensive victory” over the COVID-19 pandemic, the Centre should provide financial packages to states in proportion to the number of coronavirus cases and the propensity for further spread of the infection, Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot said on Wednesday. Pilot also said a decision on whether the lockdown should be lifted or not following the 21-day period should be taken after consultation with the states, medical experts and scientists, and if it is lifted, it should be done in stages. The lockdown across the country was imposed from March 25 to prevent the spread of the virus. In an interview to PTI, he said Rajasthan managed to have limited success in containing the virus as it acted fast and reached out to people not just in cities and towns, but also in villages. Pilot, who holds the rural development and panchayati raj portfolio, said Rajasthan was one of the first states to get sodium hypochlorite sprayed in rural areas and so far, 38,000 villages out of a total of 46,000 have been disinfected. “Every single panchayat has been given Rs 50,000 to procure masks and hand sanitizers. This was done early to prevent panic buying and stopping the rural population from rushing to urban areas to procure them,” he said. The Rajasthan deputy chief minister said in order to ensure that the most vulnerable sections of society are able to sustain themselves, it is important that states are given dedicated financial packages. ] “For us to be able to have a comprehensive victory over the coronavirus challenge, states will have to be assisted with dedicated financial packages,” he said. “I think what should be done is that every state-specific resource allocation should be done in proportion to the spread of the infection, according to the propensity for further spread and the states present capacities to meet the crisis. We can extrapolate the data scientifically. Every state government must be given a package as the economic activity has almost come to a halt,” Pilot said. State-specific financial packages depending on resources, capacity, infection rate and future roadmap is the need of the hour, he said Asked about the Rs 1.7-lakh-crore relief package that the central government had announce last month, Pilot said that was a pan-India relief and a national announcement, but states have to be given the wherewithal to take care of patients and fight the pandemic. “If you look at any country in the world, the percentage of GDP deployed to fight this virus, India is still behind in that,” he said. He said the Centre’s package was a macro level announcement, but states need to be given financial support to combat and defeat the COVID-19. On whether the lockdown should be extended, Pilot said a “one size fits all solution” was not possible as India is a very diverse country with different geographical and social conditions. “So, what might work in Meghalaya or Manipur may not work in Puducherry or Kerala,” he said. Noting that there was still a week to go for the 21-day lockdown to end, he said there was time to take a considered and a well thought out view on it. “It is a tough decision to make, it boils down to lives versus livelihood and both are important. I don’t think the infection has peaked and we cannot afford to make the same mistakes like the US or western European countries have made,” he said. “I think that the decision should be taken with full consultation from all the states, scientific community and medical experts must be involved and whatever decision once we take, all of us should stand by it. We must fight this challenge as one nation and one people,” Pilot said, adding that there was no point speculating on it. Pilot, who is also the Congress state unit chief, said the party workers have been on the ground and using technology to reach out to vulnerable sections in the state. “We have a control room at my residence in Jaipur and in every district headquarter, DCC chiefs from their own homes are serving as a bridge between the administration and the government and all those who have been left out, Congress office bearers are trying to help them,” he said. Pilot said it was the state’s quick response that is helping it contain the pandemic as seen in Bhilwara and other areas. “We were the first state in India to go in for a lockdown. We moved quickly and that is why we were able to get some initial success in containing the virus, of course the numbers are now more than 300, but we have worked on many fronts simultaneously,” he said. He said on one hand the state government deployed doctors, paramedics, health workers, and on the other ensured that the supply chain for essential commodities was maintained. “We were quite strict in enforcing the curfew. So wherever there was an infection – we imposed curfew in the 2km radius. As of now we have 38 places where there is a curfew in Rajasthan besides the lockdown,” Pilot said. Rajasthan has 46,000 villages where village sanitation committees headed by sarpanchs were activated to campaign in bringing about behavioral changes to ensure social distancing norms, he said. “We put soap bars in MGNREGA kit bags as early as March 20 and made it mandatory for the workers to wash hands four times a day. So that culture of washing hands and keeping sanitised kicked in much early,” Pilot said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-should-provide-financial-packages-to-states-based-on-number-of-covid-19-cases-sachin-pilot-822921.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||33 new coronavirus positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir, tally rises to 158||The number of COVID-19 positive cases continues to show surge in Jammu and Kashmir as 33 new cases detected on Wednesday, highest ever since the pandemic gripped the Union Territory on March 18. With this the total number of positive cases have gone up to 158 out of which three have died while six patients have recovered. “Just Now 19 more cases test positive Kashmir Division- details follow (sic),” J&K government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal, tweeted without elaborating further. Earlier in another tweet, he said: “#COVID19 #JammuAndKashmir Status Update 14 new cases today; 11 in Kashmir, 3 in Jammu 139 cases in all now; 130 active cases; 27 in Jammu Division, 103 in Kashmir. Good News too: 2 patients discharged from SKIMS,” The patients, who tested positive in Kashmir, are residents of Srinagar, Baramulla and Bandipora districts. The four patients tested positive from Bandipora had a history of contact with previous patients and are aged 16, 38, 30 and 36 years, reports said. Five patients from Srinagar with travel history to Nigeria are aged 33, 35, 31, 41 and 46 years, reports said. One patient is from Tangmarg area of Baramulla and he is said to be around 70 years old with contact with a previous COVID-19 positive patient. The other patient is said to be a 16-year-old from north Kashmir’s Kupwara district,who had returned from Markaz Nizamudin in New Delhi. The details of other patients were not available immediately. Health officials said the total number of cases was likely to rise as details regarding test results of samples collected in other labs, including Jammu, were awaited. Prof Parvaiz Koul, head department of internal and pulmonary medicine at super-specialty SKIMS hospital in Srinagar, termed the rise in cases “worrisome”. He said the cases were suggestive of “limited community transmission”. “If such cases increase, we may have moved from local transmission to community transmission,” he said. Meanwhile, Financial Commissioner, Health and Medical Education, Atal Dulloo, has emphasized the need to ramp up testing of suspected COVID patients besides augmenting the capacity and facilities of the laboratories. He directed the officers for upgrading the facilities in the designated COVID-19 hospitals across Jammu and Kashmir so that they can provide Level-3 treatment to the coronavirus patients. The Commissioner said that increasing the sample testing should be the focus of the authorities in order to have a clear picture about the disease for tackling it in a better way. He said that all high risk contacts of the positive cases should be tracked, quarantined and lab tested as per the protocol “We need to be meticulous about the services that are being provided at the designated COVID-19 hospitals and have to increase our strength in terms of enhanced facilities and manpower,” Dulloo said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/33-new-coronavirus-positive-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-tally-rises-to-158-822935.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||BJP MP Subrat Pathak booked for assaulting senior Uttar Pradesh official||Refusal to give sanction to some projects in favour of BJP Lok Sabha member from Kannauj constituency Subrat Pathak bypassing the rules cost a senior Uttar Pradesh revenue official dearly when the MP barged into the latter's official residence with his supporters and thrashed him. According to the police sources here, Arvind Kumar, who was a tehsildar (revenue officer), was allegedly beaten by Pathak and his supporters in Kannauj, about 200 kilometres from here, on Tuesday. Kumar said that the MP had been exerting pressure on him to give sanction some projects in violation of the rules. ''He (Pathak) first abused me on the telephone and a little later barged into my residence and assaulted me,'' the official said. Although Kumar called senior district officials and apprised them of the incident, they failed to turn up to rescue him. A case was registered against the MP under the SC/ST Act and other sections of the IPC, sources said adding that an investigation was underway. Pathak, however, refuted the allegations and claimed that the official 'misbehaved' with him (Pathak), when he sought an explanation from him on complaints regarding irregularities in distribution of food grains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mp-subrat-pathak-booked-for-assaulting-senior-uttar-pradesh-official-822967.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: 30 doctors, nurses in AIIMS Delhi advised quarantine||Around 30 healthcare workers including doctors, nurses and technicians at the Cardio-Neuro Centre in AIIMS here have been advised to undergo quarantine after a 72-year-old man who visited the facility with neurological problem tested positive for COVID-19, sources said on Wednesday. The patient had reported to the emergency with brain stroke symptoms around two days back and was immediately shifted to the Neurology ward N-S5 for evaluation and treatment. "He was then subjected to radiological investigations like CT and MRI and was kept in a cubicle with other patients. He later complained of chest and respiratory distress  after which his chest X-ray was done and and he was intubated.  "There was some suspicion over his respiratory problems and his sample was taken and sent for testing which came out positive for COVID-19,"  a source said. According to an official, the patient was immediately transported to AIIMS Trauma Centre, which has been converted into a dedicated COVID-19 hospital, and contact tracing has been initiated. The neurology ward where the patient was admitted is being sanitized and doctors in the emergency department are making robust screening of all patients to identity such cases.   The patient is in critical condition and doctors are keeping a close watch on his health status.  "About 30 healthcare workers including doctors, nurses and technicians who came in contact with the patient have been advised to self-quarantine for 14 days. After five days, their samples would be tested," the official said. The death toll due to the novel coronavirus rose to 149 and the number of cases to 5,194 in the country on Wednesday, according to the Union Health Ministry. However, a PTI tally of figures reported by various states as on Tuesday 9.45 p.m. showed 5,192 testing positive for coronavirus across the country and at least 162 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-30-doctors-nurses-in-aiims-delhi-advised-quarantine-822987.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Case against youth connected with Tablighi Jamaat for spitting at doctor in quarantine facility||A 28-year-old man lodged in a quarantine centre in Delhi was on Wednesday booked for allegedly spitting on a doctor and other medical staff. Mohd Irshad, who is at the quarantine centre at EWS Flats in Bakkarwala, was charged under Sections 188 (disobeying instructions of public servant), 269, 270 and 271 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act. The registration of the case came following the Sub Divisional Magistrate of Punjabi Bagh filing a complaint after he received a report from Dr Sanjay Kumar, who was in charge of the medical team posted at the quarantine facility. Irshad is a follower of Tablighi Jamaat and he was among those who were evacuated in late March from its headquarters. Kumar informed the SDM that Irshad, who is lodged in Room No 220, has "misbehaved" with him and his medical staff and spat on them "despite the repeated warning not to do so". The medical team at the facility claimed that Irshad spat on them and insisted on giving cough syrup to him. The cough syrup was issued to him after "repeated intimidation by the patient", they claimed. They demanded that the authorities take stock of "this serious incident" and provide necessary security to them. Earlier, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal too had demanded deployment of police in hospitals where Covid-19 patients are admitted. On April 2, Delhi Health Secretary Padmini Singla shot off a letter to Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava seeking police deployment in hospitals where Tablighi Jamaat followers are admitted were allegedly creating trouble. Singla also referred to an incident in Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital on Wednesday where a Tablighi Jamaat follower attempted to commit suicide but was rescued by staff. In another incident in Narela DDA quarantine facility, two others from the outfit escaped and were later tracked to Patparganj. "...Patients particularly those transferred from Markaz (Tablighi Jamaat headquarters), are creating a law and order problem and commotion in the hospitals which is becoming very difficult for the hospital staff to handle," Singla wrote in her letter demanding police deployment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-case-against-youth-connected-with-tablighi-jamaat-for-spitting-at-doctor-in-quarantine-facility-822989.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: DMC alleges targeting of Muslims, seeks report from Delhi Police||The Delhi Minorities Commission has issued notices to the police commissioner seeking action against an alleged attempt to boycott Muslims in the national capital's Shastri Nagar area and a purported attack on a youth from the community in Bawana, the panel said on Wednesday. The DMC has sought a report from the commissioner within a week on the two matters. While the notice in connection with the Shastri Nagar matter was issued on Tuesday, the one for the Bawana incident was issued on Monday. "The Delhi Minorities Commission in its notice attached a video from Shastri Nagar in Delhi which was shot on April 5. A group of people are seen holding a meeting on the street. They are planning to stop Muslims from entering their colony and asking people in other colonies to do the same," DMC Chairperson Zafarul Islam Khan said. In the second notice, the commission said a youth, Mahboob, who had attended a Tablighi Jamaat conference in Bhopal, was beaten and "seriously" injured in Bawana's Harewali village. It asked the police commissioner to take appropriate action and ensure visible police presence. It also called for sending out a strong message that any disturbance of law and order will not be tolerated. Thousands of people who attended a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi last month have tested positive for coronavirus, causing the number of infections in the country to rise rapidly. Many state governments have said that Tablighi Jamaat members constitute a major chunk of their total COVID-19 cases. On Sunday, the Union health ministry had said that the rate of doubling of COVID-19 cases in India is at present 4.1 days but if the cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation had not come, it would have been 7.4 days. The number of coronavirus cases in India rose to 5,194 and the death toll climbed to 149 on Wednesday, according to the ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-dmc-alleges-targeting-of-muslims-seeks-report-from-delhi-police-823000.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||‘If Shabir Shah can spend years in jail, why can't people stay indoors to prevent coronavirus spread?'||Asking people to follow lockdown to prevent coronavirus spread, jailed Kashmiri separatist leader Shabir Shah’s medico wife on Wednesday cited her hubby's example saying if Shah can spend years in jail, why cannot people stay indoors. “My husband has spent 33-years in jail because of his strong political belief. Still, he is confined in New Delhi's Tihar jail where he has been kept in a 6x6 cell. People should learn from him and act upon the advisories issued for their wellbeing,” Dr Bilquis, who works as a resident medical officer (RMO) at Srinagar’s JLNM Hospital, was quoted as having said by a local news gathering agency. “COVID-19 attacks indiscriminately without knowing who is employed or unemployed, old or young, doctor or engineer. It is our collective responsibility to stay away from gatherings and remain indoors for time being,” she advised. Dr Bilquis said that she was unable to understand why people were scared and fleeing from quarantine centres. “I have not visited my home for the last couple of weeks. My husband is also in Tihar Jail. I along with other health experts are screening and monitoring patients continuously, so people should behave maturely and assist administration at this juncture,” she added. Shah was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in July 2017 in a decade-old alleged terror financing case. He has been logged in Tihar prison since. Shah remained in jail from September 1989 to October 1994 for propagating separatist ideology. Earlier, he had been in and out of jail since 1968. For serving long years in jail, Shah was known among his supporters as Nelson Mandela of Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/if-shabir-shah-can-spend-years-in-jail-why-cant-people-stay-indoors-to-prevent-coronavirus-spread-823021.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delay in releasing prisoners to make futile efforts to decongest jails, says Delhi High Court Judge||A high-powered committee, headed by a Delhi High Court judge, has cautioned the authorities that any delay in releasing eligible convicts on 'emergency parole' to decongest jails to prevent the spread of coronavirus will make the entire effort futile. The global pandemic, also called COVID-19, has infected 5,194 people in India and claimed 149 lives. The Director General (Prisons) and Delhi government's Principal Secretary (Home) assured the chairperson of the committee on Tuesday that they would expedite the process of granting 'emergency parole' to the eligible convicts and the process would be completed within three days. The committee, headed by Justice Hima Kohli, was constituted in March on the orders of the Supreme Court. It has deliberated and resolved on various means of achieving social distancing including to quarantine fresh inmates, taking stock of effect of criterion earlier adopted, determining fresh category of prisoners who can be released on interim bail to check the spread of the virus in prisons. According to the DG (Prisons), after adopting the criteria made earlier for release prisoners, the jail population has come down from 17,552 as on March 25 to 16,179 as on April 7. On complete implementation of the criteria, it would further come down to about 15,500. The committee was further informed that in view of its March 28 directions, 686 orders were issued for release of convicts on parole and 650 have been released and 261 cases are under process. The authorities said though orders have been issued with respect to 686 convicts for their release on 'emergency parole', some of them have not been released as they are unwilling and some are residents of Punjab, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. In the March 28 meeting held by the committee constituted by the Delhi government, it was resolved that the process of granting eight weeks parole to around 1,500 prisoners, under a newly incorporated provision in the prison rules, would be completed expeditiously. “However, as per the report submitted (on April 7), only 650 convicts have been released so far. Chairperson has cautioned DG (Prisons) and Principal Secretary (Home) that any delay in release of the eligible convicts on 'emergency parole' so as to complete the exercise of de-congestion of jail, will make the entire effort futile,” as per the minutes of the meeting. The decision by the committee was taken in a meeting held via video conferencing with officials of DG (Prisons), Delhi State Legal Services Authority and Home Department of the Delhi government. The meeting was held pursuant to the March 23 direction of the apex court to every state to set up a high powered committee to take measures to reduce population of inmates in the over-crowded jails in the country by determining the category of prisoners to be released on parole and interim bail. The minutes also recorded that the chairperson has expressed “her deep disappointment and displeasure for the non-implementation” of the resolutions adopted in the earlier meeting regarding remission of sentence to be granted to the convicts. The panel was informed that none of the convicts were granted remission of sentence. The authorities told the panel that necessary orders have been passed by the Delhi government in this regard and they will expedite the process to achieve the object for which the committee has been constituted. The committee also expresses satisfaction over the steps and precautions taken by the jail authorities to prevent outbreak of COVID-19 in jail premises. Some of the steps taken by the authorities include frequent cleaning and sanitisation of bathing area and kitchen area, maintaining social distancing and quarantine of new prisoners. The panel noted that on the basis of criteria adopted earlier, as on date only about 1500 inmates/ convicts or undertrial prisoners have been released on parole or interim bail. The panel further relaxed the criteria for considering releasing prisoners on interim bail, including preferably on basis of personal bond. The committee directed the DSLSA official to gather information on steps taken by Juvenile Justice Boards and Child Welfare Committees towards implementation of directions passed by the apex court. The panel was informed that after adopting the criteria laid down on April 7 meeting for releasing undertrials on interim bail, the number will further come down to 14,500 in a week's time. The DG (Prisons) had earlier said that in the 16 jails in Delhi which have a total capacity of 10,026 prisoners, there are 17,440 inmates of which 14,355 are undertrial prisoners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delay-in-releasing-prisoners-to-make-futile-efforts-to-decongest-jails-says-delhi-high-court-judge-823023.html
08-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh reports 72 new COVID-19 cases; state tally now 385||As 72 new coronavirus positive cases were reported in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday, the number of such patients in the state jumped to 385, health officials said. Of these 385, the highest number of 213 cases are from Indore, the commercial capital of the state. Forty of these cases were reported in the district on Wednesday alone, the officials said. Nine new cases were reported in Bhopal in 24-hours, which took the tally of COVID-19 patients in the state capital to 94, they said. The death toll due to coronavirus in the state now stands at 29 of whom, 21 persons died in Indore. Five others died in Ujjain, one each in Bhopal, Khargone and Chhindwara, said health officials. With cases of infection being reported from two more districts of the state Khandwa and Raisen - on Wednesday, the pandemic has covered 16 districts of the state so far. Apart from Indore and Bhopal, Morena district has recorded 13 cases, Jabalpur nine, Ujjain 15, Khargone 12, Barwani 12, Gwalior six, Chhindwara and Shivpuri two each and Betul, Sheopur, Hoshangabad, Vidisha, Raisen (new district) and Khandwa (new district) recording one case each. One patient hails from other state. One patient hails from other state. So far, 25 persons have been discharged from hospitals after their recovery, the officials said. The condition of 264 patients is stable, while 26 patients were said to be in a serious condition. In the past one week, two IAS officers posted in the state's health department have tested positive for coronavirus. Besides, about 45 health workers, including doctors, 12 police personnel and their family members, have tested positive in Bhopal. Meanwhile, the authorities on Wednesday sealed Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain districts to control the spread of coronavirus, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-reports-72-new-covid-19-cases-state-tally-now-385-823061.html
08-04-2020||Opinion||Is COVID-19 being used as yet another excuse to direct antipathy towards Muslims?||Ironically, not only is Shamim herself furious with the Tablighi Jamaat for its irresponsibility in hosting a huge gathering at its Delhi headquarters in March, but she does not even consider the sect Muslim, an opinion shared by the country’s major Sunni sects. In fact, Tablighis are not even allowed to worship in mosques belonging to the Barelvi sect, to which a majority of Muslims in India belong. Many Muslims avoid them because of their insistence on teaching the community the “correct’’ way to practice Islam.  The attitude of other Muslim clergies towards the epidemic was the opposite. Citing examples from the Quran and the Prophet’s life, they ordered that mosques be closed for public prayer and exhorted their community to pray at home once their respective states announced a lockdown, i.e., even before the national lockdown.  Yet, today, all Muslims, especially those whose attire declares them to be so, are being viewed with fear and suspicion because of this one unpopular sect, whose careless disregard for rules is being linked to the sudden spike in COVID-19 cases. However, the boycott threats and physical attacks that have started taking place on Muslims by ordinary non-Muslims (in Assam, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Punjab and Karnataka), can only be attributed to two other sources. First, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The party’s WhatsApp groups and even some of its MPs are furiously spreading fake videos and making false allegations about Muslims deliberately spreading the virus.  Second, popular news channels. These have not only accused the Tablighis of being part of an ‘Islamic conspiracy’ to spread the coronavirus,  and coined terms such as ‘coronajihad’ and ‘corona bombs’, but also telecast fake news about violence by Tablighis against medical officers, which the police has refuted. Two factors explain the conduct of these channels. Some of them are owned by BJP supporters. Others support the Hindutva ideology and have displayed anti-Muslim prejudice on previous occasions too. Indeed, over the last two years, these channels have followed a disturbing agenda, that of communalising every issue involving any Muslim. Be it in the Hadiya case, where a Hindu adult female in Kerala voluntarily converted to Islam and later married a Muslim; or the murders of Delhi Hindus Ankit Saxena and Dhruv Tyagi by their Muslim neighbours in separate incidents,  these channels have projected the entire Muslim community as ‘jihadis’ and the entire Hindu community as their victims. While doing so, they have also accused opposition parties, the ‘tukde tukde gang’, and ‘urban Naxals’ -- in brief, every section that opposes Narendra Modi -- of supporting the ‘jihadis’. The latest example of the way these channels portray every issue as a Hindu-Muslim conflict was an expose of a land scam in Jammu. It was projected as a "Land jihad" aimed at changing the demographics of Jammu at the behest of Pakistan. The Shaheen Bagh anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protesters were linked to this conspiracy.  They are now being linked with the Tablighi Jamaat’s ‘coronajihad’.  The absurdity of jihad being waged by Muslims primarily against Muslims themselves, or the way the Centre -- the Delhi police controlled by it -- and the Delhi government, all turned a blind eye to such a huge congregation in the heart of the Capital, were not questions debated by these channels. Instead, the president of the News Broadcasters Association issued a statement deploring threats against  TV journalists for their expose of the Tablighi Jamaat. The Jamiat Ulama-e-Hind, the country's largest organisation of Muslim clergy, has now filed a petition in the Supreme Court urging action against these channels.   More disturbing is the conduct of some news agencies known to be favoured by the Centre, and even some mainstream papers. They have used terms such as ‘napalming the country’’ to describe the trips made by the Tablighis from Delhi to different states, and even published some unsubstantiated allegations of misconduct by Jamaat members. These have been contradicted both by the police (in Saharanpur), and by a Hindu medical officer involved in the evacuation of Jamaat members. There is no doubt that the Tablighi Jamaat's criminal irresponsibility has made thousands of Indians (most but not all of them Muslims) vulnerable to the coronavirus. However, it’s the media that has made Muslims across India vulnerable, by projecting the recklessness and blind beliefs of one Muslim sect as part of a ‘jihad’.   (Jyoti Punwani is a Mumbai-based freelance journalist who writes on issues concerning communalism and human rights) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/is-covid-19-being-used-as-yet-another-excuse-to-direct-antipathy-towards-muslims-822801.html
08-04-2020||South||Kerala side alleges SC 'did not hear us' in inter-state border matter||The Kerala side on Tuesday alleged that it was not heard by the Supreme Court, before it closed the case related to Karnataka's blockade of inter-state border at Talapady. Kasargod MP Rajmohan Unnithan, on the other hand, asked the court to take suo moto contempt action against the officials of the State of Karnataka for "gross violations of its order" as the state police still prevented ambulances with patients to cross over to Mangalore and returned them back. The Congress MP, who filed a PIL, also asked the Chief Justice of India to list the case for "effective hearing". He claimed the lawyers representing the State of Kerala or Karnataka and the other PIL petitioners were also not heard by the court. Advocate Jose Abraham, representing one of the parties, said, "We were representing the petitioners in the case, and had a few substantial submissions, so disposing of the matter without hearing us including the State of Kerala have gravely affected not only the petitioners but also people of affected districts in Kerala." The matter was heard by a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde through video conferencing. The court went by a submission from Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that Kerala and Karnataka have agreed to movement of patients for medical treatment at the inter-state border, the counsel said. The border was reportedly closed after high incidence of Covid-19 patients were reported in Kasargod. "We have been waiting since morning for the link to be shared for the hearing and we got to know the status of the case only from media," he said in a letter to the Secretary General, Supreme Court. "Such incidents would seriously raise question as to the efficiency of video conferencing facility and will have serious repercussions for its continuance," he contended. Adequate steps must be taken to ensure that all the concerned parties are given a free and fair hearing and are constantly updated on the developments, Abraham demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-side-alleges-sc-did-not-hear-us-in-inter-state-border-matter-822682.html
08-04-2020||South||15 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Andhra Pradesh, tally goes up to 329||Of the 15 cases, six each from SPS Nellore and Krishna districts while three were reported in Chittoor district. With 74 cases, Kurnool topped the chart in the state followed by SPS Nellore with 49, Guntur with 41 and Krishna 35. In all, six patients had recovered from the disease and been discharged from hospitals while four have died so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/15-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-goes-up-to-329-822762.html
08-04-2020||South||Time not yet ripe to ease COVID-19 lockdown: Kerala panel||Describing the COVID-19 pandemic as an "unprecedented" public health crisis in recent history, a Kerala government-appointed task force has pitched for a "phased" and "calibrated" lifting of the national lockdown, saying "time is not yet ripe" for its full withdrawal from April 14. Continuing restriction of large scale movement of people across international and state boundaries was critical and easing it should not be considered unless and until the situation was under control in every state, it suggested. "The Expert Committee assessed that the time is not yet ripe for full withdrawal of the lockdown on April 14th, 2020. The committee recommends a withdrawal strategy that should be gradual, phased and calibrated to ensure that the caseload is always kept below the (surge) capacity of the healthcare system to deal with it," the panel said in its report. However, the panel said it also felt that prolonged and stringent lockdown would lead to economic hardship, famine and law and order problems, which could undermine both the lockdown and the health management objectives. The 17-member task force, headed by former chief secretary K M Abraham and comprising eminent personalities, including renowned film director Adoor Gopalakrishnan, submitted its report to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced the 21-day lockdown to check the spread of the coronavirus. When asked about the strategy the government was likely to adopt after the lockdown period, Vijayan told reporters on Tuesday the state would be able to chart its future course of action only after knowing the Centre's decision on the 21-day lockdown, imposed to check the spread of the deadly virus. The task force report was for the Centre's perusal and not for the state government, the Chief Minister said adding it had been sent to the Prime Minister. A total of 336 people in the state had been infected by the coronavirus, of which 263 are active cases. Over 1.40 lakh are under observation and 752 people in various hospitals. Kerala, which reported the country's first three coronavirus cases and successfully treated them, has seven COVID-19 hotspot districts -- Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod. Replying to a question, Vijayan said it was a nationwide 21-day lockdown and the state government was following the directions of the Centre. "The centre had declared a 21-day-long lockdown till April 14. Let the centre take a decision whether to continue or not with the lockdown... We will take a suitable decision accordingly," he added. The phased withdrawal would be sustainable only if there was a steady recovery and decline in the number of cases leading to initial flattening of the infection curve and then gradual tapering of the curve to zero infection cases, according to the 39-page report.  The government should advise people of the state that in the event of a resurgence, they should be ready and willing to undergo the rigours of a complete lockdown once again, it said. It suggested that the unit for operationalising a phased withdrawal approach should be a district as it had defined boundaries and an executive magistrate who had the authority to effectively enforce the measures of the phased lockdown. While the lockdown may be relaxed, the effort to ramp up production and procurement of test kits, ventilators, personal protective equipment for healthcare personnel and masks should not be relaxed, the experts opined. There should be a national effort for this purpose and all available capacity, including adapted capacity in other industries, should be used, it said. "Central government should release funds for this and create a mechanism to distribute them on a need basis to avoid state governments trying to outbid one another or creating supply-side disruptions", it said. As different states are expected to pass through the peak infection at different timings, it will be useful and important to establish a national coordination mechanism so that they could support one another with experience, expertise, equipment and finances, the report suggested. It mooted three-phased criteria for the relaxation of lockdown in affected districts. In Phase 1, no person shall travel outside the house without wearing face masks and no gathering of more than five persons for any purpose should be permitted. No religious congregations to be permitted and all places of worship shall remain closed and attendance at marriages and funerals should be restricted to 10 persons. Cordoning off the entire panchayat or wards and enforcing complete restriction of travel outside were recommended in infection hotspot areas. Deploying of additional police force in the hotspot boundary is necessary to ensure the strict enforcement of the lockdown and essential commodities and food from community kitchen are delivered through the Voluntary Task Force, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/time-not-yet-ripe-to-ease-covid-19-lockdown-kerala-panel-822777.html
08-04-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: Hooked up to alcohol, man dies in Tamil Nadu after vain bid to get booze||After trying desperately to get a bottle of liquor, a 65-year old man fainted and he was later pronounced brought dead by authorities at a government hospital, a senior police official said here on Wednesday. The elderly man, when he heard that liquor stocks were being shifted from four neighbourhood outlets to a warehouse, lined up in front of the shops at Janakipuram here along with scores of other consumers. They desperately pleaded with officials to sell them any alcoholic beverage. Despite police presence and in spite of authorities telling consumers that stocks cannot be sold in view of lockdown, they continued to mill around the premises on Tuesday with a hope that officials would relent. Following incidents of State-run Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC) liquor stores getting burgled in regions including Coimbatore and Tiruchirappalli recently, authorities have been transferring inventories from outlets considered vulnerable to warehouses. As part of the lockdown from 6 pm on March 24 in the state, all liquor outlets are shut. The sexagenarian, after trying his luck in three other shops, came to the fourth one and "he tried his best to get a bottle of liquor but could not and he fainted. We rushed him to a government hospital in an ambulance, but hospital authorities pronounced him brought dead yesterday," a senior district police official told PTI. The official said the elderly person was used to consuming alcohol and could not get his dose in view of curbs and was dejected. The crowd of men, who teemed around the liquor shops were dispersed and they were not sold beverages, he added. Following the lockdown, at least four men have died recently in Tamil Nadu after they consumed shaving lotion and paint varnish, falsely believing that these would give them a high and were not harmful. A 43-year old man hailing from Karur district allegedly committed suicide following frustration due to days of alcohol deprivation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-hooked-up-to-alcohol-man-dies-in-tamil-nadu-after-vain-bid-to-get-booze-822835.html
08-04-2020||South||Pastor booked for allegedly raping woman in Andhra Pradesh||A case has been registered against a pastor for allegedly sexually assaulting a 24-year- old woman here, police said on Wednesday. The crime came to light on Tuesday after the victim lodged a complaint against the pastor. In the complaint, she stated that she was raped by the priest Joel Rachel, who also threatened to release her morphed photographs taken by him, they said. The accused had been visiting the woman's house for prayers for the past few weeks and had taken some pictures using his mobile. Later, he threatened to morph them. Last Sunday, during the lockdown, the pastor visited her again and raped her while her family members were away, the complaint said. Based on the complaint, a case was registered under IPC section 376. The victim was admitted to District Government Hospital in Machilipatnam for medical tests while the accused has been absconding, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pastor-booked-for-allegedly-raping-woman-in-andhra-pradesh-822840.html
08-04-2020||South||South Korea-style testing kiosks debut in TN||A medical team sits inside the clinical kiosk at the entrance of the Government Hospital in Tiruppur where anyone can get screened. If the healthcare professionals feel the person needs to be tested for COVID-19, he is sent to the second booth – the testing kiosk outside the quarantine centre. Once the swab samples are collected, the person is sent to the isolation ward. Welcome to the South Korea-style testing method introduced in the knitwear hub of Tiruppur for the first time in Tamil Nadu, which stands second in the number of COVID-19 cases in the country at 690. The testing kiosks – clinical and sample collection – is a first-of-its-kind because the potential patients are sent after initial screening by doctors. The kiosks came into being at the Government Hospital on Wednesday with people turning up to get tested. Tiruppur district has 20 COVID-19 patients so far. The Tiruppur District administration has been at the forefront of adopting innovative methods to tackle COVID-19. Last week, the district launched India’s first disinfection tunnel at a cost of Rs 90,000 and it has now been replicated across India. The kiosks cost Rs 1 lakh each and they allow healthcare professions to use gloves attached to the booth to collect swab samples from people who are asked to sit outside the kiosk. The chair on which the person sits for collection of his samples will be disinfected immediately after the test is over. “This is the first time in the country that we have two kiosks. One for screening and another for testing. In a country like ours, we cannot have direct testing kiosks because of the population. So, we decided to have a screening kiosk where people will first be checked to ascertain whether they need a test,” Tiruppur District Collector Dr K Vijayakarthikeyan told DH. Once the samples are collected, the persons tested are sent to the quarantine facility inside the hospital. The kiosks would help healthcare professionals collect anywhere between 40 and 50 samples in an hour. He said the number of kiosks would be increased after TN gets rapid test kits from China. “Once we get the rapid test kits which will allow us to get results in half an hour, we plan to set up a greater number of kiosks in Tiruppur especially at the containment zones. We hope to set up more such kiosks in the coming days,” Vijayakarthikeyan said. Chennai to get testing kiosks Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has also planned to set up testing kiosks in Chennai by the end of this week and after the rapid test kits arrive. “We plan to set up testing kiosks across the city which would save a lot of time for both collection agents and patients. These kiosks will be set up in the next couple of days,” P Madhusudan Reddy, Joint Commissioner (Health), GCC, told DH. Chennai has the maximum number of positive COVID-19 patients in Tamil Nadu at 149.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/south-korea-style-testing-kiosks-debut-in-tn-822857.html
08-04-2020||South||COVID-19: Over 1,300 foreigners flown to home country by special flight||A total of 1,304 foreign nationals left for their home through special flights operated from the airport here during the ongoing 21-day national lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, Customs officials said. Eight special relief flights were operated till Monday to Malaysia, France, Frankfurt and Muscat and the Customs department facilitated the journey of the overseas passengers, they said. Meanwhile, the courier terminal at the airport handled 206 shipments including 23 shipments of critical components used in the manufacture of ventilators. About one shipment of gloves was cleared on priority, they said. Other initiatives taken by the department include granting of permission for the transfer of computers and related accessories to residences of employees of Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) to facilitate work from home. A 24x7 customs clearances of goods have been set up to avoid any supply disruptions. A dedicated coronavirus helpdesk for export-import trade stakeholders has been set up to facilitate resolutions of issues faced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-over-1300-foreigners-flown-to-home-country-by-special-flight-822907.html
08-04-2020||South||With maximum cases in the state, how is Chennai fighting coronavirus?||With 149 positive coronavirus patients, the maximum in the state, and people jamming the roads flouting the prohibitory orders, Chennai with a population of 80 lakh is struggling to contain the spread of coronavirus. Of the 15 zones that the city has been split for administrative convenience, only two do not have any positive COVID-19 patient, while the maximum number of cases (81) have been reported from the densely populated North Chennai. Yet, traffic snarl was reported at Koyambedu on Wednesday morning where the integrated vegetable and fruit market is located, signifying the lack of seriousness among the general public. The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) was also forced to close a vegetable market in the city’s shopping district of T. Nagar after people failed to maintain social distance. But the GCC has made prevention of COVID-19 spread as its prime goal and is surveying all 18 lakh households in its jurisdiction on a daily basis to screen people for any symptoms. Screening of households The GCC has hired 10,000 members of Self Help Groups (SHGs) for three months and has deployed them for screening activities. The exercise of screening every household in the city began on Sunday with members of the SHGs visiting every household and collecting details about their health status. “We consider the entire city as a containment zone as we have decided to adopt a saturation approach to prevent further spread of COVID-19. One worker is asked to visit 100 to 200 households a day and collect all details about the health of those surveyed. They also bring a list of people with fever and cold,” GCC’s Joint Commissioner (Health) P Madhusudan Reddy told DH. The list of people with fever and cold are handed over to officials who pass on their details to 46 Rapid Response Teams consisting of health care professionals and nurses who would visit those persons immediately to check their symptoms. Also, people with hypertension, diabetes and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and pregnant women are not just screened but are asked repeatedly not to step out of their homes. “Healthcare professionals ascertain whether these persons are potential COVID-19 patients by checking their symptoms. If they feel the person could be Corona positive, they recommend swab test for them,” Reddy explained. In addition, the city has 67 ‘containment zones’, which are located in the immediate vicinity of the houses of positive patients, where the influx and outflow of the people are regulated by placing barricades.Containment activities The containment zone is demarcating 8 km, including a buffer of 2-3 km, in the radius of the locality where positive patients lived before being shifted to hospitals. Though the city has 67 active containment zones, with the number of cases increasing every day, Reddy says the entire city is being treated as a containment zone due to the high number of positive patients. “No area is closed. We only barricade the streets in the immediate vicinity of the index cases. We only regulate the influx and outflux of people in these areas. This is necessary to prevent further outspread of COVID-19 as there may have been local contact. We are just restricting the movement of people,” Alby John, Regional Deputy Commissioner (South), GCC, told DH. He added that passive surveillance like regular announcement through a microphone on the precautions needed to be taken and what needs to be done if one develops symptoms are also being made in almost all areas on a daily basis, besides disinfecting all houses and public places in the containment zones. The GCC has also begun collecting swab samples of family members of COVID-19 positive patients at their homes to ensure that people under home quarantine don’t step out even for giving tests. “We also plan to set up sample collection kiosks across the city by this week-end to prevent people from travelling to hospitals. We are working on this,” Reddy added.Measures to avoid people leaving homes To prevent people from stepping out of their homes to buy vegetables and provisions, the GCC and Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) are taking measures to ensure that essential items reach the people’s doorsteps. GCC has tied with the Tamil Nadu Traders’ Association to launch fair price mobile markets across the city in the next few days.5,000 tri-cycles and 2,000 small motor vehicles will be deployed by the GCC to set up these mobile shops. “These vehicles would come around the city every day for people to buy provisions and vegetables. This is to discourage people from coming out of their homes,” a GCC official said. He also said the traders who operate these shops will wear masks and gloves and will be provided with special vehicle passes to help procure and transport materials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/with-maximum-cases-in-the-state-how-is-chennai-fighting-coronavirus-822953.html
08-04-2020||South||Nine more infected by COVID-19 infected in Kerala, tally at 345||Nine more persons in Kerala were tested Covid-19 positive in Kerala on Wednesday, while 13 infected persons got cured. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that two of the infected persons were those who attended the Nizamuddin congregation. As many as 212 persons from Kerala were found to have attended the Nizamuddin congregation, of which 15 were so far found Covid-19 infected. So far 345 persons in Kerala were tested Covid-19 positive, of which 84 were already cured and two died and the remaining 259 persons were now under treatment. Only one more person was tested Covid-19 positive in Kasargod on Wednesday and the district was almost coming out from the scare of a community spread. As many as 131 persons were now under treatment in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nine-more-infected-by-covid-19-infected-in-kerala-tally-at-345-822960.html
08-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu's tally of COVID-19 positive cases goes up to 738; 5 patients critical||With 48 persons testing positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, the tally in Tamil Nadu went up to 738 even as five patients are reported to be critical. The death toll also increased to 8 with the death of a 45-year-old man with no travel history who was admitted to a private hospital in Vellore, 140 kms from here. Of the 48 who tested positive on Wednesday, 42 belong to a “single source” a reference to those who attended a religious congregation in Delhi. Briefing reporters, Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh said 21 patients have been discharged from hospitals so far after recovery. This includes a 72-year-old man who returned home on Thursday after treatment. “A total of 21 people have been discharged from hospitals so far and we have discharged a 72-year-old man from a hospital. We are taking every possible step to successfully treat everyone,” she said, adding that four doctors have so far tested positive for Covid-19. To a question, the Health Secretary said at least 553 persons who attended the aforesaid event have tested positive besides 126 people who came in contact with them. The number of people testing positive from one cluster stands at 679 out of the total 738 Covid-19 patients. She also said five patients admitted to different hospitals are critical in response to a question. With 34 districts getting affected due to Covid-19, all have been brought under surveillance, she said, adding containment activities are on full swing in the zones identified. The state has so far tested 6,075 samples and have placed 1,953 persons in isolations wards in hospitals. It also plans to begin mass testing of people from this weekend once the state gets 1 lakh rapid test kits from China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-tally-of-covid-19-positive-cases-goes-up-to-738-5-patients-critical-822964.html
08-04-2020||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan terms Smriti Irani's helping hand for Wayanad fake||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that the reports that Union Minister Smriti Irani extended help to a group of migrant workers starving at Wayanad in Kerala was a fake one. He said that it was unfair to make fake claims with regard to the Covid-19 relief measures. A section of media, including RSS mouthpiece Organiser, reported that a group of migrant workers, including many from Amethi, were stranded without food at a camp in Wayanad constituency, which is represented by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in the Lok Sabha, and following Smriti's intervention Sewa Bharati workers supplied food to them. Vijayan said that the said 41 migrants were staying at a quarter of an individual at Karuvarakundu in Malappuram district, which comes under Wayanad constituency. Though the food was earlier offered to them from the nearby community kitchen, the migrants and their employer said they themselves would make food. Hence 25 kits containing essential commodities were supplied by the government officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-terms-smriti-iranis-helping-hand-for-wayanad-fake-822968.html
08-04-2020||South||Four COVID-19 patients released by 'mistake' in Tamil Nadu||In a major administrative lapse, four persons whose Covid-19 results came positive were discharged from a quarantine centre in Villupuram by “mistake” on Tuesday night. While three have been traced and admitted to the Villupuram Government Medical College Hospital, police are on the lookout for the fourth man. The person in question is a resident of Delhi and is understood to have come to Puducherry for an interview. He along with 24 others were quarantined at a private college after they came in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient. Authorities with the Health Department released all 25 persons under quarantine on Tuesday night though the results of four of them came positive. While three persons were traced on Wednesday morning, the hunt for the fourth person is still on after the authorities complained to police. The fourth person hails from Patel Nagar in Delhi and is understood to have lived in Puducherry for some time before coming to Villupuram. Sources said the Health Department has launched a probe into the incident by seeking a report. Villupuram Collector A Annadurai told DH that the police have formed special teams to trace the missing patient. “He is a migrant from Delhi and efforts are on to trace him,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-covid-19-patients-released-by-mistake-in-tamil-nadu-823029.html
08-04-2020||South||Low cost, quick result coronavirus test kits unveiled by Andhra Pradesh||The Andhra Pradesh government has unveiled a COVID-19 test kit costing Rs 1,200, which can reveal the results within 55 minutes. These cartridges are PCR – Polymerase Chain Reaction based, into which nasal or throat swab samples are taken and assessment is carried utilizing the existing Tuberculosis test machines. The Visakhapatnam based Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone (AMTZ) is manufacturing 2,000 such testing cartridges per day, as of now. Rajat Bhargava, special chief secretary, industries and commerce department, told DH, “These are ICMR approved kits which can reveal the results within 55 minutes against the three days taken for now. It costs only Rs 1,200 per person, while the present expense is Rs 4,500. About 20 tests could be performed using one machine, with one disposable cartridge per person.” Once AMTZ, a medical equipment manufacturing and testing facility, gets the laser welding apparatus, production could be scaled up to 25,000 units per day, state’s industries minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy said after the apparatus was released by Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy on Wednesday. Centre orders 35,000 ventilators from AMTZ, costing Rs 1.6 lakh each Beginning April 15, AMTZ will also produce ventilators, first 3,000 units a month and later about 6,000 units. Each of these life support machines cost Rs 1.66 lakh and the central government has already placed orders for 3,500 ventilators. “AMTZ would cater to our state’s demand and also supply to other states meeting the national requirement,” Mekapati said. Hindustan Lifecare (HLL) will assist AMTZ in the assembly of the ventilators. Andhra Pradesh government is planning to scale up the cartridges supply so that 4,000 tests could be conducted a day in the state. DNA, RNA, PCR tests can also be performed using these cartridges, the minister said adding that by May, 7.5 lakh kits would be manufactured and delivered to other states as well. Mekapati said that AMTZ took only 35 days to manufacture the cartridges from the day instructions were given by the chief minister. Meanwhile, as of Wednesday morning, the COVID-19 positive cases in the state stood at 329, with Kurnool district alone reporting 74 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/low-cost-quick-result-coronavirus-test-kits-unveiled-by-andhra-pradesh-823036.html
08-04-2020||State||Yediyurappa bats for easing lockdown in coronavirus-free districts||Karnataka's exit strategy from the lockdown proposes easing restrictions in 11 of the 30 districts where COVID-19 cases have not been reported, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa told DH in an interview on Tuesday. "In the coming days, we can allow intra-district movement of people in these districts. If the Prime Minister allows, we can do that," Yediyurappa said.  But in 19 districts, including Bengaluru Urban where cases have been reported, more stringent measures were required, Yediyurappa said and lamented about people not responding to curbs "appropriately". A task force constituted to draw up a lockdown exit strategy is monitoring all developments in the state regarding the disease. "We will soon convene a Cabinet meeting and form district-level task forces, which I think will be more effective in containing the spread of COVID-19," the CM said. The Chief Minister said the government remained cautious as experts expected a surge in cases towards the end of April or in the first week of May. "I am not in a position to find solace in the fact that Karnataka is in 10th position nationally," he said. "All precautionary measures are in place, but people are not responding (to the lockdown) appropriately. It's inevitable to take stricter action."   Mincing no words on the state’s precarious financial situation, Yediyurappa, who is also the finance minister, said he will sit with officials after April 15 to chalk out the way forward. "We aren't getting any revenues at all. Excise, motor vehicles taxes, commercial taxes...there are no collections. Everything has stopped," he said. "And it's not just Karnataka. Even the Centre's finances are not good."  The government, he said, was yet to calculate the extent of losses suffered due to the lockdown.  Asked about a post-lockdown plan to return to normalcy, Yediyurappa said it was too early for that. "You know, there's no guarantee that the lockdown will end on April 14. Only when the lockdown is over can we sit down and plan," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/yediyurappa-bats-for-easing-lockdown-in-coronavirus-free-districts-822689.html
08-04-2020||State||Coronavirus: Rs 1,861 crore released for MGNREGA, says K S Eshwarappa||The Karnataka government will ensure that workers will soon find employment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa said Tuesday. Speaking to mediapersons, the minister said that the Centre had released Rs 1,861 crore of MGNREGA funds. Of this, Rs 1,039 crore will go towards paying pending dues to labourers. In addition, there is a fund of Rs 257 crore available with the State government. In all, the State will have Rs 1,077 crore at its disposal after deducting salaries. Further, owing to the COVID-19 crisis, the wages under the MGNREGA per worker have been increased to Rs 275 per day. “The government will ensure that labourers find work under MGNREGA in the coming days. They will be deployed to work while ensuring social distancing,” Eshwarappa said. With the onset of summer, the government is taking measures to ensure that there is adequate drinking water, the minister added. In retort to state Congress president D K Shivakumar’s allegation that Eshwarappa was nowhere to be seen, the minister said he was well occupied as he was the incharge of three districts to monitor the pandemic. “I have no time to sleep,” the minister said, alleging that Shivakumar was politicising the pandemic. Further, he said he had given four months of his salary to the CM Relief Fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-rs-1861-crore-released-for-mgnrega-says-k-s-eshwarappa-822736.html
08-04-2020||State||COVID-19: CM B S Yediyurappa calls up nurse, hails her hard work||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, on Wednesday, called up Belagavi-based nurse Sugandha Korepura, after he was moved by images of her daughter crying for her to come home. Sugandha, who is on COVID-19 duty, has not gone home for 15 days. She is attached to the COVID-19 ward of the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences. On Wednesday, news channels aired a video of her little girl crying outside the hospital for her to return home, which left Sugandha teary-eyed. “You are struggling, working very hard without even seeing your own children. I saw it on TV. Please cooperate. You will have better opportunities in the future. I’ll look out for you. God bless you, and I hope your hard work does you well,” Yediyurappa told Sugandha over the phone. Karnataka has deployed about 27,000 health personnel to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. The state-run Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) has launched an online training programme that hopes to cover all 4.5 lakh qualified nurses in Karnataka for two hours a day on the standard operating procedure to treat COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-calls-up-nurse-hails-her-hard-work-822804.html
08-04-2020||State||Man arrested for threatening police||A man was arrested for allegedly stopping police personnel from discharging their duty and also for abusing them, at Banakal checkpost in Mudigere taluk. The arrested is Duggappa Gowda. When the police stopped the car in which Gowda was travelling to Banakal from Mudigere, he allegedly threatened the police of dire consequences. A case has been registered at Banakal police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/man-arrested-for-threatening-police-822918.html
08-04-2020||State||Pinarayi to talk to Karnataka on patients ‘facing difficulties’ amid lockdown||Three people from Kasargod district, suffering from illnesses, were allowed to enter Mangaluru for treatment by the Karnataka authorities on Wednesday. But the relatives of one of the patients alleged that they were denied treatment at a hospital in Mangaluru. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the difficulties faced by patients who went to Mangaluru would be brought to the notice of the Karnataka government.  Rashid, a native of Kasargod, took his wife Taslima to a hospital in Mangaluru after she complained of shivering. He told DH that though the authorities at Talapady checkpost on the inter-state border allowed them to proceed to Mangaluru, they were not taken to the hospital they preferred. The doctors at the medical college hospital where they were taken refused to treat the patient. Rashid said he overheard the doctors saying that patients from Kerala would not be provided treatment. After waiting for an hour and a half, he took his wife away and was planning to take her to a private hospital in Kannur district on Thursday. The second patient, suffering from a heart problem, was admitted to a hospital in Mangaluru. The third patient arrived in Mangaluru in the afternoon. All the patients were being taken to the medical college hospital in the city, said police sources. Police sources in Kasargod said three patients from the district were allowed to cross the inter-state border on Wednesday.  Another patient with diabetes was not allowed to go, saying it was not a critical case. Kasargod facility taking shape The Kerala government is initiating steps on a war-footing for enhancing the medical infrastructure in Kasargod. The administrative block of the upcoming medical college hospital in the district has already been developed as a 100-bed COVID-19 hospital in a week’s time. The government, on Wednesday, decided to sanction 273 posts for developing the medical college hospital into a 300-bed facility. A 24-hour casualty section, inpatient and outpatient services would begin soon, the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pinarayi-to-talk-to-karnataka-on-patients-facing-difficulties-amid-lockdown-823044.html
08-04-2020||State||Gujarat to get Karnataka fodder||Farmers in Gujarat will get fodder from Karnataka as the Railways on Wednesday ran a special train to carry “bhoosa” (fodder and husk) from Haveri. The South Western Railways said 14 wagons carrying the material left Haveri to Ranoli in Gujarat. “This is an important agricultural material used specifically to feed domesticated livestock and is required to maintain supply of milk and dairy products during the lockdown period,” it said. The fodder was booked by the Gujarat Ambuja Exports from Shiggaon taluk which is 45 km from the Haveri station to Ranoli in Vadodara, Gujarat. The SWR is committed to ensuring food and essential commodities to meet the requirements of citizens, and the Railways, in view of the lockdown, has made the parcel van easily available for quick mass transportation to any part of the country. Government agencies, NGOs, traders can contact Senior Divisional Commercial manager of Bengaluru, Mysuru and Hubballi, to avail the service of the parcel vans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/gujarat-to-get-karnataka-fodder-823047.html
08-04-2020||State||ATI goes online to train TP, GP officials to tackle COVID-19||The Administrative Training Institute (ATI) is going online to impart training to the taluk panchayat and the gram panchayat-level officials on tackling COVID-19. The Disaster Management Centre of ATI will conduct the training through Zoom application. Taluk panchayat executive officers and officials of the gram panchayats are invited to undergo training sessions on Thursday. District Vector-borne Diseases Control officer Dr S Chidambar and World Health Organization representative Dr Sudhir Nayak will conduct sessions on handling the situation in rural region. The officials from 102 panchatays from 16 districts will attend the programme, on Thursday. The authorities have provided the required details and the participants need to login, using the details. Centre for Disaster Management, ATI, Ashok Kumar Sanganal said that the training programme will be imparted to the officials of the 175 panchayat officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ati-goes-online-to-train-tp-gp-officials-to-tackle-covid-19-823049.html
08-04-2020||State||Agri officer donates Rs 5 lakh for CM's fund||Agriculture Department assistant director Sharanappa Gungadi has contributed Rs 5 lakh to the Chief Minister Relief Fund to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection.  Sharanappa has transferred the amount from his account at Pragathi Gramin Bank, Bevur, to the CM's Relief Fund. This amount is almost equivalent to his annual salary.  A native of Nelajeri village in the taluk, Sharanappa joined the Agriculture Department ten years ago.  Sharanappa has requested the government employees, merchants and businessmen to lend a helping hand to the government in this hour of crisis. The government is leaving no stone unturned to prevent the spread of the deadly disease and helping the poor, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/agri-officer-donates-rs-5-lakh-for-cms-fund-823050.html
08-04-2020||State||Two elephants found dead in MM Hills||Two jumbos were found dead in the Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary limits on Wednesday. While a female elephant aged around 29 years was found dead at Changadi forest area, a male elephant aged around 20 years was found dead at Erakayam forest area. The female jumbo slipped to death while searching for water, Forest department officials said. The carcass was found on Tuesday and the elephant is suspected to have died three days ago. The male elephant was found dead near the Namdhari Halla in Erakayam forest range on Wednesday. Range Forest Officer Rajesh Gawal visited the spot. Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCF) Yedukondalu said, "The female elephant died after slipping from a hillock, while searching for water at Ramapura wildlife range in Changadi forest area. The post mortem report states that the jumbo died of multiple injuries due to the fall".  The male elephant died a natural death, the DCF said. Two female elephants were found dead in the Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary limits a couple of days ago. Jumbo stuck on Charmadi Ghat A lone wild elephant was found camping on the seventh curve of the Charmadi Ghat road in Kottigehara of Chikkamagaluru district. On Tuesday night, the elephant uprooted a Baine tree by the roadside. Forest personnel from Belthangady came to the spot on Wednesday and tried to chase the elephant away by bursting crackers. However, it refused to budge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-elephants-found-dead-in-mm-hills-823052.html
08-04-2020||State||No shortage of ventilators, says Sudhakar||Dismissing speculations over shortage of ventilators, Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said the state government is well prepared to fight against COVID-19 and "there is no shortage of ventilators". He said the government has given orders for supply of over 1,000 ventilators from various companies, of which over 200 have already reached some of the hospitals at the districts with a high number of COVID-19 cases. The data available with the Health and Medical Education Departments shows that 734 ventilators are available in the state now. Sudhakar said, "It is not true that all COVID-19 patients need ventilator and public need not panic about it. There is no shortage of ventilators in the state." "After a recent video conference with a few companies that manufacture ventilators, we have ordered for 1,000 units and all these will be distributed to the district hospitals in the state to fight against COVID-19. The basic models will be given to hospitals which have smaller facilities and the high-end ones will be given to the bigger hospitals," he added. The Medical Education Department officials said that not just government hospitals, even private medical colleges and hospitals have joined hands with the government to treat COVID-19 patients and they will be provided with the ventilators to ensure that patients get treatment in time. Meanwhile, some companies, which have got orders for manufacturing ventilators, are facing a shortage of raw material due to the closure of borders and ban on shipping. "Of the given 1,000 orders, we have received over 200 ventilators and installed all of them where there is a need," the officials said. They even mentioned that some companies have come forward for the supply of ventilators voluntarily and the services will be utilised whenever needed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-shortage-of-ventilators-says-sudhakar-823054.html
08-04-2020||State||Lockdown triggers tomato price crash, Kolar farmers left in the lurch||Prices of tomatoes have crashed due to lockdown and decrease in demand in the wake of COVID-19 scare. Farmers are finding it difficult to transport their produce to the markets due to non-availability of vehicles. Transportation of tomatoes to neighbouring districts and states has virtually come to standstill. Kolar district is the largest grower of tomatoes. According to the agriculture department data, the crop is cultivated in over 9,000 acres of land in the district. The Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) yard records tomato transactions worth Rs 350 crore per annum. About 200 truckloads of tomatoes are sent to neighbouring districts and Kerala, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharastra daily. The tomatoes grown in Kolar district are also exported to China, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. The tomatoes are harvested in the district is between April and October. Prices of tomatoes were skyrocketing in February due to heavy demand from other states. After the lockdown was imposed, buyers in other states haven’t visited the district to buy tomatoes. The daily arrival of tomatoes till March 23 was about 2,619 quintals and one quintal of produce fetched Rs 1,133. However, the price dipped drastically March 24 and tomato is now trading at Rs 133 per quintal. Farmers and merchants are unable to get vehicles transport tomatoes from fields to markets and then to other districts and states. According to farmers, these factors have forced them to halt the harvesting. They have chosen to leave the produce in the plants itself.  There are about 150 merchants and 500 labourers in the APMC and their livelihood is now iat stake.  “Farmers have stopped the harvest as merchants hesitate to buy tomatoes considering lack of goods vehicles,” Srinivas, a farmer from Muduvatti said. Srinath, a merchant in APMC said,” Merchants have stopped buying tomatoes from farmers as owners of goods vehicles demand exorbitant money to transport tomatoes.” According to Ravi Kumar, assistant director, APMC, Kolar, demand for tomatoes has come down all over the country due to lockdown. Farmers are suffering as they are unable to send tomatoes to neighbouring states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lockdown-triggers-tomato-price-crash-kolar-farmers-left-in-the-lurch-823055.html
08-04-2020||State||Prolonged dry spell ups demand for neera||The ban on sale of liquor due the lockdown clamped to mitigate the virus spread has upped the demand for neera, the fresh sap of young coconut flowers, in several parts of Karnataka. Neera is selling like hot cakes during lockdown, at the farm belonging national-award winning farmer S C Veerabhadrappa at B G Kere village in Molkalmuru taluk, Chitradurga district. Neera is a healthy drink rich in Vitamin C. It rich in sugar, essential elements such as Nitrogen, Phosphorus, Potassium and magnesium, micro-nutrients, minerals and good source of ascorbic acid. However, despite promotions and publicity campaigns, neera failed to attract the people. But with the total prohibition of alcohol following the lockdown, the demand for neera has more than doubled in the last two weeks. The progressive farmer has started selling neera, in two shifts, at the shed erected outside his Vasundhara Sasyakshetra farm on Bengaluru-Ballari highway. People from the district and beyond queue up to buy neera. A 200 ml pouch of neera is sold at Rs 50. Veerabhadrappa told DH, "We are extracting neera scientifically from 40 coconut trees for the past three years. We then process it and store it in ice chambers. Neera will turn into toddy with 4%, if we allow it to ferment. We sell only neera, not toddy." Also, we won't allow people, alcohol addicts in particular, to misuse neera. We give just two bottles of neera to each person for consumption there and then, and don't give it in parcel, he said. On sudden surge in demand, the progressive farmer said, "May be people are consuming neera more to lower the risk of infection as it is a healthy and nutritious drink. And the prolonged dry spell may have forced more number of alcohol addicts turn to neera. But we don't allow the addicts to misuse neera as we don't sell fermented one."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/prolonged-dry-spell-ups-demand-for-neera-823056.html
08-04-2020||State||SWR runs 2 specials for staffers on Hubballi-Harihar route||The South Western Railway (SWR) is running two special trains between Hubballi and Harihar for the travel of its employees to work every day. One of the trains, with two bogies and an engine, leaves Hubballi at 6.30 am and reaches Harihar at 9 am, covering a distance of 131 km. In the return direction, the train leaves Harihar at 6.15 pm and reaches Hubballi at 8.45 pm. About 70 employees – station masters, pointsmen, engineers and gangmen -  travel on these trains daily boarding and deboarding at Kundgol, Savanur, Haveri, Ranebennur and other stations (a total of 12) on the way. The running of the two trains requires 2,000 litres of diesel, costing Rs 1.4 lakh for the Railways each day. Ten litres of diesel is consumed each time a train halts and restarts. The train has to halt even if there is one staffer boarding or deboarding. The employees, who usually travel in passenger trains by showing their passes, had been using private vehicles after the lockdown was announced on March 24. But the police used to stop them midway and create problems, despite showing the identity cards. Special trains started running after the matter was brought to the notice of the higher authorities. Initially, the special train service started between Bengaluru and Sampige via Tumakuru. The Hubballi-Harihar service started on March 31. The Railways spent Rs 11 lakh on diesel for the Hubballi-Harihar service between March 31 and April 7. A total of 35 trains ran on the stretch daily before the lockdown came into effect. Presently, five to six goods trains ply on this stretch daily. Railways staffers say they have to be on duty every day, irrespective of the number of trains running.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/swr-runs-2-specials-for-staffers-on-hubballi-harihar-route-823057.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt launches COVID-19 dashboard to track patients||Launching the website at the Covid-19 war room in BBMP, Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said geofencing had been embedded into the dashboard and thereby the government can track the people under quarantine. "Even if a person moves about 100 meters from his house, we will get to know about the person’s location and health official will detain them," Dr Sudhakar explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-launches-covid-19-dashboard-to-track-patients-822711.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: Police seize ambulance carrying 20 labourers||The police seized an ambulance ferrying 20 labourers including eight children from Mangaluru to Vijayapura at Balehonnur check-post in Chikkamagaluru district on Wednesday. All the labourers, children and two drivers of the ambulance are now quarantined at NR Pura after they underwent a health checkup at primary health centre. It was said that ambulance from Davangere had reached Mangaluru with a patient for treatment. While returning,  the driver had come in contact with the stranded labourers and agreed to take them to Vijayapura. According to labourers, the driver had asked Rs 1500 per person for ferrying them to their native.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-police-seize-ambulance-carrying-20-labourers-822838.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Gauribidanur man tests positive for COVID-19||A man tested positive for novel coronavirus in the district on Wednesday. With this, the number of COVID-19 positive patients went upto 11. The 23-year-old woman, testing positive for the virus, attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Market in Delhi between March 13 and 15. He is being treated at an isolation ward in the district hospital in Chikkaballapur. His mother, friend, elder sister, her husband and their two children have been kept under quarantine. The health department disinfected surroundings of the house where he stayed. The officials are now tracing people who came in contact with them. The first positive case was reported on March 21, while the second and the third ones on March 23 and 24. The trio had returned from Mecca. The 70-year-old woman, a native of Hindpur in Andhra Pradesh, had come to Gauribidanur to see his son. She was hospitalised following illness and was later shifted to Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD) in Bengaluru. She died on March 24 due to co-morbid conditions. She too had COVID-19. Six people, who came in contact with these people, also tested positive. Meanwhile, the 65-year-old man from Gauribidanur, who tested positive for the virus, was discharged after treatment at RGICD. Meanwhile, the police have tightened lock down guidelines to prevent movement of the people on roads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gauribidanur-man-tests-positive-for-covid-19-822891.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19 positive man travels in Kolar, raises concerns||The movement of a COVID-19 positive person in different parts of the district has raised concerns. It is said that the man from Bayalu Narasapur in Bengaluru rural district, who tested positive, visited many parts of the district. “The district administration is verifying travel history of a man from Bayalu Narasapur. It is shocking,” said Excise and district in-charge minister H Nagesh. He is one of 34 people from the district who reportedly attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi between March 13 and 15. After he was returned to his native place, his throat swabs and blood samples were sent to a laboratory for a report. The investigation reports indicated that he had COVID-19. At present, he is undergoing treatment at an isolation ward at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, Bengaluru . A probe has revealed that he visited Vemagal, Narasapur, Kyalnur and surrounding villages for religious activities. He also stayed at mosques in these places. The health department officials are now tracing people who came in contact with him. So far, Kolar district has not reported any COVID-19 cases. With his visits coming to light, it is now suspected that some people in the district could be suffering from COVID-19. A group of 18 people who visited Kamasamudra Gollahalli, Kamasamudra, Nadampalli, Kongarahalli Thoppanahalli and Bheemaganahalli tested negative for the virus. Two others who had come in contact with these people also tested negative. Ten people from Jammu and Kashmir who visited a mosque at Prashanthnagar, 11 from Gujarat who visited Malur and 6 people from Vatrakunte who visited Bangarpet and Nagamangala also tested negative. As a precautionary measure, the district administration has kept 47 people under quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-positive-man-travels-in-kolar-raises-concerns-822892.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sriramulu suggests for lockdown relaxation at non-affected districts||Health Minister B Sriramulu opined continuation of lockdown in COVID-19 affected districts in the State after April 14. The Minister was speaking to reporters after discussion with the officials, here, on Wednesday. He said, as many as 18 districts were affected in the state. The state government has taken all the measures to combat COVID-19.  According to him, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has extended lockdown till April 30. It is better to relax lockdown at non-affected districts in the state, he opined and said, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will take a final call over it. There is a cabinet and task force meeting on Thursday. The CM will get the opinion of the experts and the leaders, the Minister said. Kalaburgi, Bidar, Bengaluru, Mysuru have declared as red zones and a few cases are recovering. Of 181 COVID-19 cases reported in the State, more than 20 cases recovered, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sriramulu-suggests-for-lockdown-relaxation-at-non-affected-districts-822893.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka for lifting lock-down in coronavirus-free districts, legislators to face 30% salary cut: CM B S Yediyurappa||The Karnataka government is in favour of lifting the coronavirus lockdown in districts which remained free of the virus infection, subject to approval from the Centre, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Wednesday. Noting that the state's revenue collections have stopped, he said the legislators would take a 30 per cent salary cut and only important budget proposals would be implemented. In an interview to PTI here, he also said the state intended to relax liquor sales, stopped since the 21-day lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19, after April 14 in a bid to increase state revenues. According to officials, there were no COVID-19 cases in 12 districts of the total 30 districts in the state. As on Wednesday, there were 181 COVID-19 cases in the state, including five deaths and 28 discharges. "If the Prime Minister suggests to states to take decision (on lock-down) based on the situation in their respective states, my position is to take a call (on roll-back) in districts free from COVID-19," Yediyurappa said. "This is to allow people to go about their business and move about within the district and not from one district to another, after April 14, after taking the approval of the Prime Minister," he said. The government has a fear that if the lockdown was lifted in districts where there were high number of COVID-19 cases, it would spread on a large scale, the Chief Minister said. You just cant even imagine, Yediyurappa remarked on the economic impact of the lockdown on the state's finances, saying the government was now not in a position to implement the budget proposals, barring the important measures. Yediyurappa said all kinds of revenue collections have completely stopped following the lockdown, adding, he was discussing with experts and Cabinet colleagues on a road-map for the state to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on economy. The government would take up only those proposals which were "necessary and inevitable", he said. "Other things, we have to stop for the next 5-6 months. Its inevitable. There is shortage of funds at the central and state levels." The Chief Minister said implementation of the lockdown in the state has been to the tune of 85-90 per cent. On resumimg liquor sales, he said the government wanted to relax it to help increase revenue collection. "Its (also) difficult to control those who are habituated to liquor, Yediyurappa remarked. He said since Bengaluru was deserted now following the lockdown, instructions have been issued to take up road works in the city in a day or two. On the move for cut in salary of legislators, Yediyurappa said a meeting of the Cabinet has been convened for Thursday, where the formal decision for 30 per cent reduction would be taken. Asked if government employees would also take salary cut, the Chief Minister said: We have not given a thought. Lets see, we will discuss in the Cabinet depending on the situation. This month we have given salary to government employees, coming month what situation we face, lets wait and see." Karnataka Congress on Tuesday vehemently opposed any possible move to cut salaries of government employees. Yediyurappa had earlier indicated such a course given the state's precarious financial condition following the lockdown due to coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-for-lifting-lock-down-in-coronavirus-free-districts-legislators-to-face-30-salary-cut-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-822904.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 800 Tablighi Jamaat members under mandatory quarantine in Karnataka: CM||More than 1,300 people from the state had attended the congregation of the jamaat in Delhi last month and information regarding all of them had been collected, he said in an interview to PTI. Tablighi Jamaat congregation held at Nizamuddin in Delhi has turned out to be the hotbed of COVID-19 spread in the country with several people who attended it and their contacts testing positive for coronavirus. "...276 Tablighi Jamaat workers have been identified in Bengaluru and have been kept in quarantine...482 Jamaat workers have been identified in different parts of Karnataka; total 808 Tablighi Jamaat workers have mandatorily been kept in quarantine in the state" Yediyurappa said. He said 581 other jamaat workers now in other states have been identified and the respective states informed about them. Besides, as many as 57 Tablighi Jamaat workers belonging to foreign countries have travelled to various parts of Karnataka such as Bidar, Belagavi, Tumakuru and Bengaluru, they have been identified and quarantined, he added. FIRs have been registered against them with a direction to blacklist them for violating visa norms. "Twenty are from Indonesia, one the United Kingdom, four from South Africa, three from Gambia, 19 from Kyrgyzstan, one USA, one France, one Kenya and seven from Bangladesh," he said. The Chief Minister reiterated that no one should target any particular community for the spread of virus. "No one should do it (blame), we are taking actions against certain people, booking cases (against those evading tests and spreading virus), unnecessarily making such comments will lead to relationship getting spoiled, don't give opportunity to it. This is my request". Yediyurappa was responding to comments by certain sections, including his party members, targeting a particular community, despite his warning that action would be taken against those blaming an entire community for isolated incidents. Stating that his government was working beyond its strength to stop the spread of COVID-19in the state, the Chief Minister said, We have taken strong measures to implement the lockdown. "We have seized 28,000 vehicles in the state, in Bengaluru alone 18,000 vehicles, 1,670 people were arrested, 1091 FIR has been booked, Rs 40 lakh fine has been collected". Regarding medical equipment, he said, whether it is Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Kits or N95 masks or triple layer masks or rapid COVID-19 test kits, we have given orders for it, we have sufficient stock also. Highlighting measures taken by his government for poor, daily wage workers and needy like supply of food and food grains, deposits into bank accounts of construction labourers among other things. Yediyurappa said many big organisations, NGOs and industrialists have come forward to help. Asked whether there was fear of COVID-19 entering third stage (community transmission), he said, "we are discussing with experts... as of now it is under control in our state, but most experts believe that it may increase in April end and May first week. We are keeping watch." He also said things were not completely in government's hand and people should cooperate by maintaining social distance and staying at home. "This is the only medicine," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-800-tablighi-jamaat-members-under-mandatory-quarantine-in-karnataka-cm-822934.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre releases Ra 1536 crore to Karnataka as GST compensation||The Centre has released Rs 1,536.82 crore to Karanataka as compensation for loss of revenue in GST collection. As per the order issued by the Ministry of Finance, this money is being released to the state to compensate for the loss of revenue for the month of October and November 2019 on account of implementation of the GST.  Under GST law, states were guaranteed to be paid for any loss of revenue in the first five years of the GST implementation, which came into force from July 1, 2017. The Centre is releasing the GST compensation to states to help them to mobilise resources to fight against COVID-19. According to sources, the finance ministry is also looking at the pending dues of states for December and January which could be released soon in phases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-releases-ra-1536-crore-to-karnataka-as-gst-compensation-822977.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Canadian national en route to KIA stopped at checkpoint in Kolar||Checkpoint staff at Nangali village in Kolar district stopped a Canadian national who was on his way to Kempegowda International Airport, Bengaluru, on Wednesday. Remy, a Canadian national, was riding a bike from Chennai in Tamil Nadu to the airport as the Canadian government had arranged facility so that he could return to Cananda. The checkpoint staff provided the information to deputy commissioner. Discussions were held with the immigrant staff and then permission was granted to him to proceed further. Meanwhile, the district administration has learnt that the man suffering from COVID-19 stayed at Narasapur for over one hour. About 15 members of two families who came in contact with him have been advised home quarantine. Their throat swabs and blood samples have been sent to laboratory for testing. The district administration official displayed notices on the doors of the two houses announcing home quarantine. The police and health department officials have been asked to be present near the house. There are reports that these 15 people came in contact with others in the neighbourhood. The police are tracing those people. Additional measures have been implemented at industrial areas in Vemagal and Narasapur. After the news of the movement of the man was spread, people voluntarily began guarding entry points at these villages to prevent movement of strangers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/canadian-national-en-route-to-kia-stopped-at-checkpoint-in-kolar-822988.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Gujarat to get Karnataka fodder||Farmers in Gujarat will get fodder from Karnataka as the railways on Wednesday ran a special train to carry “bhoosa” (fodder and husk) from Haveri. The South Western Railways said 14 wagons carrying the material left Haveri to Ranoli in Gujarat. “This is an important agricultural material used specifically to feed domesticated livestock and is required to maintain the supply of milk and dairy products during this lockdown period,” it said. The fodder was booked by Gujarat Ambuja Exports from Shiggon Taluk which is 45 km from Haveri Station to Ranoli in Vadodara, Gujarat. SWR is committed to ensuring food and essential commodities to meet the requirements of citizens and Railway in view of Lockdown has made parcel van easily available for quick mass transportation to any part of the country. Government agencies, NGOs, traders can contact Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Bengaluru, Mysuru and Hubballi to avail the service of parcel vans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gujarat-to-get-karnataka-fodder-822995.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Opposition guns for action against Yetnal, Renukacharya||The Congress and JD(S) on Wednesday mounted pressure on Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to act against BJP lawmakers Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and MP Renukacharya, who allegedly called for "shooting dead" Muslims who do not quarantine themselves after attending the Tablighi Jamaat convention. "By targeting minorities, Yatnal and Renukacharya are projecting them as repsonsible for the coronavirus. To say that they should be shot dead is inflammatory and it is punishable under law. They should be booked and arrested," Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said.  Meanwhile, JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy pointed out that many media houses were also adding to the chaos. "Despite the CM's warning, many media houses are engaged in fanning communal frenzy. In such an unprecedented national health emergency, communal hatred can not only to derail government's efforts to restore normalcy but also lead to communal unrest. I appeal to Yediyirappa to immediately issue executive orders to the police to file suo motu FIRs against those who incite communal hatred in print, TV and social media," he said, adding that the CM should order his party colleagues to not air communally-sensitive opinions. Meanwhile, former minister B K Chanrashekar lamented that BJP leaders were openly abusive of Congress president Sonia Gandhi.  Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J P Nadda have been openly abusive of Sonia Gandhi for her observations following the Congress Working Committee meeting on the COVID-19 pandemic, Chandrashekar said. "Nadda has been personally derogatory," he said. "Mr Shah's vocabulary is dedicated to running down any kind of opposition to government on any matter" he added. However, Chandrashekar welcomed PM Modi's outreach with Opposition leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/opposition-guns-for-action-against-yetnal-renukacharya-823046.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Six new cases takes Karnataka coronavirus tally to 181; Three more discharged||Six new positive cases were reported from Karnataka on Wednesday, taking the COVID-19 tally tally to 181. So far, 28 patients, including three on Wednesday, have been discharged from hospitals following their recovery. Also, Patient 102 has been weaned off the ventilator. "The private hospital in Kalaburagi where Patient 177, a 65-year-old man, the fifth COVID-19 fatality in Karnataka was admitted to, has been sealed and a notice has been sent. They are being charged for medical negligence amounting to a criminal offense. The medical staff of the hospital has been quarantined. The deceased's call records are being vetted to trace more contacts. So far, 20 primary contacts have been identified," said Minister S Suresh Kumar, Karnataka's spokesperson for COVID-19. He was admitted on April 4 to the private hospital with COVID-19 symptoms but was sent to a designated COVID-19 government hospital only after three days. "I appeal to all private hospitals to send COVID-19 suspected patients to the designated government hospitals immediately. Please do not keep them for three to four days," Kumar said. Out of the six cases reported on Wednesday, P-176 is a 26-year-old woman from Bhatkal, Uttara Kananda, with a severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). She is a contact of a Dubai returnee. Patient 177 and P-178 are from Kalaburagi. Patient 177, a 65-year-old man had SARI and died on Tuesday. Patient 178 is the 72-year-old mother of P-175. Patient 179 is a 35-year-old man from Mandya, a contact of P-134 and P-138. Patient 180 is a 23-year-old man from Chikkaballapur with a travel history to Delhi while P-181 is a 27-year-old woman from Bengaluru, also with a travel history to Delhi. Insurance for health workers Meanwhile, Kumar directed all hospitals to communicate to healthcare workers in the local language through SMS, WhatsApp and email that they have been included in the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package, an insurance scheme for health workers fighting COVID-19. There are two forms under it. One is for a personal accident insurance claim form for loss of life due to COVID-19, and the second form is for accidental loss of life on account of COVID-19 related duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/six-new-cases-takes-karnataka-coronavirus-tally-to-181-three-more-discharged-823051.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Cabinet to decide on extending lockdown today: Ashoka||Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that a decision on whether the lockdown should be continued or not in Karnataka after April 14 would be taken in the Cabinet meeting to be held on Thursday. Speaking to reporters here on Wednesday, the minister said the state government had already conveyed its stand on the lockdown to the Centre. The Cabinet meeting on Thursday will analyse the current situation in the state and take a suitable decision. Several other states have already decided on the pay cut of government employees. This issue will also be discussed in the meeting, he added. "I have issued orders to pay old-age and widow pension of two months. The Revenue department has modified the software to enable this," he said. The district administration has taken all measures to combat the spread of COVID-19 as Mandya recorded four positive cases, as on Wednesday, he said. In Mysuru, Health Minister B Sriramulu expressed support for the relaxation of the lockdown in the districts which are not affected by COVID-19 after April 14. Speaking to reporters after a discussion with officials, Sriramulu said 18 districts are affected by the deadly disease in the state.  According to him, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has extended lockdown till April 30. "It is better to relax lockdown in non-affected districts. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will take a final call on it," he said. He said the Cabinet and the task force meetings will be held on Thursday. The chief minister will get the opinion of experts and leaders, he said.  Kalaburagi, Bidar, Bengaluru and Mysuru are declared red zones and some patients are recovering. Out of 181 COVID-19 cases reported in the state, more than 20 cases have recovered, he said. The minister said that Jubilant Generics in Nanjangud from where 24 COVID-19 positive cases had been reported, will remain closed the crisis subsides. According to the minister, few persons from Australia and Japan had visited the company. The authorities have inspected a container transported from China. However, the exact source will be ascertained following investigation, Sriramulu said. Sriramulu said, the authorities have served a notice to the owner of the company and suitable action will be initiated, if the company has violated any law or guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cabinet-to-decide-on-extending-lockdown-today-ashoka-823053.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Property tax rebate deadline extended May 31 owing to coronavirus lockdown||The government has extended the 5% rebate on property tax till May 31 in all the urban local bodies, except the BBMP, in view of the COVID-19 lockdown. The previous deadline was April 1. In a circular issued to deputy commissioners and heads of urban local bodies, the Directorate of Municipal Administration said that several urban local bodies had sought for extension of the deadline. The municipalities and corporations had cited the restrictions placed on the people's movement over COVID-19 for the extension. "There are chances that people will come in crowds to pay the property tax and avail of the rebate," the circular said, adding that any crowding should be avoided in the present situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/property-tax-rebate-deadline-extended-may-31-owing-to-coronavirus-lockdown-823060.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Help reaches Devadasis’ doorsteps in Koppal||A DH report on Devadasi families, especially women struggling to make ends meet in the wake of the lockdown, has caught the attention of the Karnataka Legal Services Authority and the BJP Yuva Morcha, who swiftly swung into action to ensure help reaches the needy. Taking cognisance of the report, representatives of the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Koppal, went along with a team of government officials to check the ground reality and compiled a report, as per the directions of the executive chairman of Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KLSA) Justice Aravind Kumar. The report, submitted by T Srinivas, member secretary, DLSA, noted that there were 108 Devadasis residing in a colony, 3 km from Hiresindogi village in Koppal district. After listening to the issues faced by the community, the team ensured that the district administration provided supplies to those in need. The report stated that while many had collected rations three days ago, some could not owing to lack of transportation facility. They also had a problem as the authorities asked for the one-time password to collect ration, but they did not have mobile phones. The report said that direction was given to the fair price shop owner to supply rations to the houses of the Devadasis. “By the intervention of the KSLA, Bengaluru and DSLA, Koppal, the problem of rations was resolved. Further, considering the genuine problem in respect of transportation, I have directed the officials concerned to open a sub-branch shop at Devadasi colony itself for supplying rations to them,” the report said. According to Laxman Badali, Deputy Director, Department of Social Welfare, Koppal, the officials supplied essential items like sugar, salt, dal, turmeric and soap, ensuring that there was no shortage of supplies to any family. The report also caught the attention of BJP Yuva Morcha general secretary B Y Vijayendra, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s son. “I read the DH report and asked a team of Yuva Morcha to visit the place and take stock of their problems,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/help-reaches-devadasis-doorsteps-in-koppal-823062.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Education dept rules out holding SSLC, II PU exams in April||No examination will be conducted for students from Class 10 to engineering in the month of April even if the lockdown is lifted after April 14, sources in the Primary and Secondary Education department told DH According to the sources, “Even if the government lifts lockdown after April 14, we will not conduct SSLC exams or hold exam for the remaining one subject of II PUC in April.” Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, during a programme organised by one of the private media houses, allaying the fears of the students and parents, said, “The students and parents need not worry. We will not conduct any exams in April.” From SSLC to engineering, several key examinations have been postponed due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown.  The Department of Primary and Secondary Education had earlier said that the dates for SSLC exams and the last paper for II PU exam would be announced after April 14. However, now according to official sources, “It is risky to conduct any examinations at least till mid May.” “The minister will convene a meeting with the department officials and other experts from the field and take decision on how to help students to cope with this situation, and also to take a decision on conducting examinations that have been postponed,” said an official source. “As lakhs of students have registered for board examination and for other university-level examinations, we need to ensure necessary safety measures in place to conduct the exams and for that we need time,” added official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/education-dept-rules-out-holding-sslc-ii-pu-exams-in-april-823064.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No schools till May 31, IT firms can open conditionally: Expert panel||An expert committee, led by cardiologist Dr Devi Shetty, has recommended continuation of lockdown measures in Covid-19 hotspots and closure of educational institutions till May 31, while allowing IT companies to resume operations with 50% manpower.  While seeking curbs on unnecessary movement of people, the committee has recommended suspension of air-conditioned bus and metro services till April 30. It has also recommended an odd-even formula for movement of private vehicles.  The committee submitted its report to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa ahead of an emergency Cabinet meeting scheduled on Thursday, during which a lockdown exit strategy is expected to be discussed.  “The government will act after reviewing the Centre’s guidelines and the committee’s recommendations,” Yediyurappa said in a statement. The committee, which was formed to suggest an exit strategy plan, has favoured enforcement of the lockdown in every area or locality where Covid-19 cases are reported. It also asked the government to “exercise caution for the next six months” and continue enforcing social distancing in public places. “IT/BT companies, essential government offices and factories can function with 50% staff,” the committee said. “All schools and colleges must be closed till May 31 and online training should be encouraged.”  Shops that do not have air conditioning can be opened, the committee said and that inter-state borders should be opened only for transport of essential goods. Inter-state rail services and flights must not start for now, the government has been advised.  The committee noted that rapid test kits will arrive in sufficient numbers after April 12, which will help effectively ramp up testing and quarantining in the state. “Doctors, nurses and other health personnel treating Covid-19 cases must be given appropriate safety gear,” the committee said. “As far as possible, non-Covid patients should be subjected to teleconsultation in private hospitals.”  In his interview to DH, Yediyrappa said the government was keen on relaxing lockdown measures in districts where no Covid-19 cases have been reported.  Meanwhile, Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar has asked all administrative departments to give him a list of ten things each of them will do if the lockdown is relaxed after April 14. According to sources, the Cabinet is likely to decide on slashing 30% salary of legislators for use towards Covid-19 relief, formation of district-level task forces to enforce lockdown among other things.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-schools-till-may-31-it-firms-can-open-conditionally-expert-panel-823065.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Muslim vendors barred after social media misinformation||Triggered by misinformation campaigns on social media, several localities -- especially in Dakshina Kannada district -- have barred the entry of Muslim vendors. Authorities have blamed this on the rampant misuse of social media, targeting the Muslim community over COVID-19, and have assured strict measures against the practice. According to complaints registered in the coastal district, notices were put up in some localities dominated by the majority community barring entry of Muslim vendors. One of the notices at Krishnanagara in Thokkottu near Mangaluru, read, “In the interest of the public, until coronavirus is completely contained, there is no entry for any Muslim vendor to our locality.” Similar notices were put up in other parts of the district. B M Laxmi Prasad, superintendent of police, Dakshina Kannada district, said such notices cropped up after several messages targeting a community for spreading COVID-19, were shared widely on WhatsApp and other social media platforms. “Now, it has stopped completely. The district police have also issued public notices not to share such messages,” he said. Apart from a complaint filed by the district police, multiple complaints have also been filed by Mangaluru city police over the disparity. According to Zainuddin, a resident of BC Road, after the Nizamuddin cluster was highlighted prominently, several derogatory memes started cropping up. “Though such differentiation exists to an extent due to communalisation, such open notices calling for a boycott are new. They are rampant on social media,” he said. Iqbal from Puttur said that several memes equating Muslims as ‘corona carriers’ were spread over the past 10 days. Congress’ Shivajinagar MLA Rizwan Arshad alleged that such cases were not restricted to Dakshina Kannada alone. “There has been a similar incident near Bannur in Mysuru district and a couple of villages in Bagalkot district,” he said, adding that he has written to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to take action. Stringent action should be initiated against those involved in spreading provocative videos and messages meant to demonise a particular community, Arshad stated in his letter to the CM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/muslim-vendors-barred-after-social-media-misinformation-823066.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM calls up nurse, hails her hard work||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday called up a Belagavi-based nurse Sunanda, after he was moved by images of her three-year-old daughter crying for her to come home.  Sugandha Korepura, who is on Covid-19 duty, has not gone home for 15 days, according to the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO).  She is attached to the Covid-19 ward of the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences. On Tuesday, a video of her little girl crying, calling for her to return home, went viral. In the video, Sunanda is seen teary-eyed and gesturing at the child.  “You are struggling, working very hard without even seeing your own children. I saw it on TV. Please cooperate. You will have better opportunities in the future. I’ll look out for you. God bless you, and I hope your hard work does you well,” Yediyurappa told Sugandha over the phone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-calls-up-nurse-hails-her-hard-work-823067.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||20 bound for Vijayapura in ambulance quarantined||The police seized an ambulance ferrying 20 labourers, including eight children, from Mangaluru to Vijayapura at Balehonnur checkpost in the district on Wednesday.  All the labourers and two drivers of the ambulance are now quarantined at NR Pura after they underwent a health check-up at the primary health centre.  It is said that the ambulance from Davangere had travelled to Mangaluru, with a patient for treatment. While returning, the stranded labourers requested the driver to take them to Vijayapura and he agreed. According to the labourers, the driver asked them to pay Rs 1,500 per head to take them to Vijayapura.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/20-bound-for-vijayapura-in-ambulance-quarantined-823068.html
08-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 positive man travelled in Kolar villages||The movement of a Covid-19 positive person in different parts of the district has raised concerns. It is said that the man from Bayalu Narasapur in Bengaluru rural district, who tested positive, visited many parts of the district. “The district administration is verifying travel history of a man from Bayalu Narasapur. It is shocking,” said Excise and district in-charge ministerH Nagesh. He is one of 34 people from the district who reportedly attended the Tablighi  Jamaat  congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi between March 13 and 15. After he returned to his native place, his throat swabs and blood samples were sent to a laboratory for a report. The investigation reports indicated that he had Covid-19. At present, he is undergoing treatment at an isolation ward at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, Bengaluru . A probe revealed that he visited Vemagal, Narasapur, Kyalnur and surrounding villages for religious activities. He also stayed at mosques in these places. The health department officials are now tracing people who came in contact with him. So far, Kolar district has not reported any Covid-19 cases.  As a precautionary measure, the district administration has kept 47 people under quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-positive-man-travelled-in-kolar-villages-823069.html
08-04-2020||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray takes expert help for effective COVID-19 awareness campaign||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has come up with an awareness campaign with the help of creative content developers to disseminate information in an effective way about steps to be taken by people to stay protected during the coronavirus outbreak. Since the viral disease has become a pandemic, it is vital for people to stay at home, self-quarantine and practice social distancing. To convey this message in an effective manner, the chief minister, who is an alumnus of the Sir J J Institute of Applied Arts, took the help of communication and designing expert Bhupal Ramnathkar in developing the awareness campaign, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said in a statement. Ramnathkar had also studied at the same institute. Thackeray and Ramnathkar tapped the advertising, communication and design professionals produced by the institute and crowd-sourced a creative product from across the pool of artistic talent. Soon, other creative people from various art colleges also lent their talent pool to the resources, the CMO said. Messages designed to make people aware about coronavirus and how to stay protected against it were then circulated on various social media platforms. "A constant stream of highly effective messages flooded the social media networks. These messages were created by highly talented and experienced members of the advertising and design elite who know exactly how a message must be conveyed," the CMO said. Talented people from across the nation and even internationally-acclaimed designers have joined the campaign, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-takes-expert-help-for-effective-covid-19-awareness-campaign-822741.html
08-04-2020||West||Leopard attacks on humans, livestock not common, says new study||A new study has found that leopard attacks on humans were not common and livestock losses were much less than one would expect, especially considering the complete dependency of leopards on domestic animals as prey. The study looked into the losses that leopards cause to human life and property in Akole tehsil of Ahmednagar district western Maharashtra. At the time of the study, Akole town had a human population of about 20,000, while the average population density was 266 people per sq km, and average livestock density of Ahmednagar was 162 per sq km. The researchers included Dr Vidya Athreya (Wildlife Conservation Society – India), Dr Kavita Isvaran (Centre for Ecological Sciences), Morten Odden (Inland Norway University of Applied Sciences), Dr John DC Linnell (Norwegian Institute for Nature Research), Aritra Kshettry (Wildlife Conservation Society – India), Dr Jagdish Krishnaswamy (Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology & the Environment), and Ullas K Karanth (Centre for Wildlife Studies). It is the final of a series of papers that emerged from this study site where a combination of methods including interviews, camera trapping and GPS-collaring were used to transform the way we understand leopard ecology in human dominated landscapes. Diseases and natural causes contributed more to livestock mortality than predation by leopards. The impact of predators was, thus, unexpectedly low considering the density of humans, their livestock and leopards in the region. It was also found that ineffective night-time livestock protection and the presence of domestic dogs increased the probability of leopard predation on livestock. Given that protection of livestock by humans is very important in reducing losses, proactive measures such as effective livestock sheds would be more effective than reactive measures such as translocation of leopards. The authors finally discussed the usage of the word ‘conflict’ and argue that the word be used with a lot of care as it blames the species involved when in reality, livestock losses could occur because humans are not focussing on keeping the livestock secure and away from the reach of the predators that share space with humans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/leopard-attacks-on-humans-livestock-not-common-says-new-study-822756.html
08-04-2020||West||Mumbai: Two new COVID-19 cases in Dharavi; slum area tally rises to 9||Two more persons tested positive for coronavirus in Dharavi area on Wednesday, taking the total number of such cases in the densely-populated slum area of Mumbai to nine, a civic official said. Among the new patients are a 25-year-old man from Mukund Nagar locality and a 35-year-old man from Dhanwada chawl, he said. The patient from Mukund Nagar was a high risk contact of a 49-year-old man, who earlier tested positive for coronavirus, and was kept at a quarantine facility, he said. "Contact tracing is underway in Dhanwada chawl (where another new case has been reported)," the official said, adding they are going to seal the area as per the protocol. Dharavi is one of the biggest slums in Asia where nearly 15 lakh people live in small shanties, making it one of the most congested areas of the metropolis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-two-new-covid-19-cases-in-dharavi-slum-area-tally-rises-to-9-822759.html
08-04-2020||West||Maharashtra coronavirus tally jumps to 1,078; 60 new cases||Sixty new coronavirus cases were reported in Maharashtra on Wednesday, taking the toll number of such cases in the state to 1,078, a health official said. Among the new cases, 44 have been found in Mumbai, nine in Pune, four in Nagpur, and one each in Ahmednagar, Akola and Buldhana, he said. We received reports of 60 people testing positive for coronavirus today. The Maharashtra tally is now 1,078, said the official. The state has so far reported 64 deaths due to the viral disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-coronavirus-tally-jumps-to-1078-60-new-cases-822764.html
08-04-2020||West||Four new COVID-19 cases in Gujarat; state tally goes up to 179||Four new coronavirus cases were detected in Gujarat on Wednesday, taking the total number of such cases in the state to 179, a health official said. Two of the new cases were reported from Bhavnagar and one each was reported from Surat and Vadodara, Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi told reporters. Of the total 179 cases, 83 have been reported from Ahmedabad, she said. So far, 16 patients have died in the state and 25 discharged after recovery, the official said. Out of 138 active cases, two patients are on ventilator support and their condition is critical, she said. "It is a conscious decision to carry out intensive testing in cluster areas. We conducted 932 tests in the last 24 hours, of which 14 have come out positive, and results of 231 are expected today," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-new-covid-19-cases-in-gujarat-state-tally-goes-up-to-179-822767.html
08-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Thane mayor asks TMC to procure rapid testing kits||In light of the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra's Thane city, mayor Naresh Mhaske directed the civic authorities to procure rapid testing kits. In an official letter circulated to the media, the mayor cited that there was a steady rise in the number of suspected coronavirus patients in the city. Mhaske asked Thane municipal commissioner Vijay Singhal to procure rapid testing kits to speed up the process of identifying positive cases. He also pointed out that some companies in Thane and neighbouring Mumbai were manufacturing kits approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research and additional equipment can be procured from them. In another letter, the mayor also asked the civic chief to provide high-quality PPE kits and masks to hospital staff, including doctors, nurses and other workers in the Thane Municipal Corporation's health department. As many as 21 positive cases of coronavirus have been reported in Thane so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-thane-mayor-asks-tmc-to-procure-rapid-testing-kits-822799.html
08-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: 12 morning walkers arrested for violating lockdown  ||Twelve people from Navi Mumbai township were arrested on Wednesday for going out on morning walk in violation of the lockdown guidelines, police said. These people were spotted by police on roads in Navi Mumbai's Panvel area near here early in the morning.  "We arrested 12 morning walkers from various locations, including the Thane Naka," senior police inspector Ajay Kumar Landge said. They were booked under Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and later released on bail, the official said. "From today onwards, retail outlets of Big Bazaar, Reliance Mart, and fruit, vegetable, fish and mutton shops, and restaurants accepting takeaway orders here will remain open till 5 pm while chemist shops and Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs) will function as usual," he said. People have been strictly advised to stay at home, but despite that if anyone is found roaming outside, action will be taken against that person, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-12-morning-walkers-arrested-for-violating-lockdown-822800.html
08-04-2020||West||Pune-based FastSense develops rapid coronavirus test kits||A Pune-based startup, FastSense Diagnostics, has developed rapid diagnostic kits for screening of COVID-19. FastSense Diagnostics, incorporated in 2018 for developing innovative products for rapid disease diagnosis, is funded by the Department of Science and Technology (DST). It is now developing two modules for detection of COVID-19. "The major challenges of testing for COVID-19 are speed, cost, accuracy and accessibility at the point-of-care or use. Several startups have developed rather creative and innovative ways to address these needs. DST is supporting the most promising of these to facilitate their development to commercialisation chain if found suitable on technical grounds,” Prof Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, DST,  said in a press statement. In the lines of their existing universal platform “Omni-Sens” for early detection and screening of complex diseases i.e. cancers, liver ailments and neonatal sepsis, the company has proposed a technology CovE-Sens specifically for COVID-19. A patent has been filed for CovE-Sens which would provide a rapid, point of care detection along with screening and confirmatory test as well with ease of operation. The company plans to roll out two products --- a modified polymerase chain reaction (PCR) based detection kit for confirmatory analysis in lesser time compared to existing detection methods (approximately 50 samples can be tested in an hour) and a portable chip-based module for rapid screening of target population based on the on-chip sensing technology that would provide on the spot results in less than 15 minutes per sample. The sample size for confirmatory tests can also be increased in the future to 100 samples/ hour. The point of care detection kits of FastSense Diagnostics that can provide on the spot detection rapidly and without highly trained technicians could boost India’s testing efforts in the fight against COVID-19. The two proposed modules can be deployed at any real locations and hotspots like airports, densely populated areas, hospitals where screening of population can be done to prevent corona spread to healthy individuals and data can be generated with ease in less than an hour. The company is working on the cost to make it more affordable. The team is also planning to collaborate with the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for which formal approval is under process for performance evaluation. They are also in touch with existing market players for scaling up and large-scale deployment of the device. The team working on this comprises experts in virology, molecular biology and bioinstrumentation that can deliver the prototype in 8 to 10 weeks.The company also has few in-house facilities to scale up the production for deployment. Besides, preventing further spread of the disease during the current pandemic, the portable rapid diagnostic kit can also prevent future relapse by regular monitoring.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-based-fastsense-develops-rapid-coronavirus-test-kits-822805.html
08-04-2020||West||India's financial hub Mumbai set to extend coronavirus lockdown: Sources||India's financial hub Mumbai is set to extend lockdown measures until at least April 30 as authorities race to expand testing to stem the spread of coronavirus cases in the city, three senior officials said. A 21-day nationwide lockdown that Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared in late March to fight the epidemic is officially set to end on April 14. But Mumbai, with a population of more than 20 million, has become India's coronavirus epicentre. The metropolis and its suburbs have reported 782 positive cases and 50 deaths, the latest health bulletin said on Wednesday.  "In Mumbai cases are rising too fast. In just 24 hours 100 cases were reported on Tuesday," said a senior state government official, adding that the trend was alarming and an extension of the lockdown for at least another two weeks was necessary to stop the virus from spreading in one of the world's most densely populated cities. The Mumbai municipal authority and the state government in the western state of Maharashtra, of which Mumbai is the capital, both declined to comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indias-financial-hub-mumbai-set-to-extend-coronavirus-lockdown-sources-822810.html
08-04-2020||West||Centre can consider partial lockdown relaxation: Sharad Pawar tells PM Modi||Stating that the fight against the coronavirus pandemic will be a long one which will have a bearing on the Indian economy, NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday asked the Centre to start considering measures to restore the financial health of the country. During the meeting of leaders of various parties with Prime Minister Narendra Modi via video conference on Wednesday, Pawar also suggested about relaxing the ongoing lockdown in certain areas after ensuring there is no compromise on health and lives of the people. "The fight against COVID-19 pandemic will be long-running. This may have a bearing on the world and Indian economy. There is a need to take appropriate steps. In all, the Centre should mull steps to uplift the economy now on," Pawar told Modi, according to his Facebook post. Calling for focussing on boosting the revenue of states, Pawar, whose party shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra, demanded the release of GST compensation to respective state governments. Requesting the Centre to slash non-plan expenditure, Pawar asked the government to consider delaying construction of the new 'Sansad Bhavan' (Parliament Building). Observing that industries and farmers are hit hard by the coronavirus crisis, Pawar asked the PM to ensure relief for these sections. Pawar also said that "it is being heard" that governors in some states are directly issuing orders to the executive. He said governors should first consult with respective chief ministers and chief secretaries to ensure that there are no two power centres working simultaneously. Apropos to the last month's religious meeting organised by Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi's Nizamuddin, which turned out to be a major source of coronavirus infection in the country, Pawar cautioned against blaming a particular community for the infection spread. "It is not right to blame any community or charge it with spreading the disease," he said, adding that the focus should now be on containing the spread of the disease. The former Union agriculture minister further asked the Centre to take care of those who do not possess Aadhaar or ration cards and have failed to get food during the ongoing crisis. He also called for dealing sternly with the forces which are trying to communalise the situation and pitching one community against another through the media and social media. "The media too should take care that there is no divide caused between communities by repeating reports of a particular incident," he added. The Prime Minister in the meeting with floor leaders of the opposition and other parties in Parliament discussed the situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic and the government's efforts to contain the fast-spreading virus in the country. Modi interacted with 18 leaders from different parties. Most of them were from opposition parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-can-consider-partial-lockdown-relaxation-sharad-pawar-tells-pm-modi-822910.html
08-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Tablighi returnees from Delhi are like human bombs, says Devendra Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday called the Tablighi Jamaat members who had attended the religious congregation in Nizamuddin last month as "human bombs" who can potentially spread infection among large population. The former chief minister also demanded that such attendees be tracked and screened. Issuing a video message after meeting Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Fadnavis said, "The coronavirus infected people who have come from the congregation at the Nizamuddin in New Delhi are a kind of human bombs. They can cause infection in the largescale population. "It is imperative to trace, track and treat these people," he said. According to government, coronavirus positive cases jumped across the country, after many Tablighis travelled back to their respective states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-tablighi-returnees-from-delhi-are-like-human-bombs-says-devendra-fadnavis-822969.html
08-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: 50% of COVID-19 patients found in 4 civic wards in Mumbai||Nearly 50 per cent of the total 590 COVID-19 patients found so far in Mumbai, which has emerged as one of the hotspots of coronavirus spread not only in Maharashtra but also across the country, are from four of the total 24 administrative wards of the civic body. The latest infographic released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday suggests that 282 of the 590 positive cases were detected in D, E, G-South and K- West wards. Coronavirus has so far claimed 40 lives in the metropolis. The latest BMC data highlights that the highest number of 133 positive cases in the city are from G-South ward, which witnessed almost 71 per cent rise in the COVID-19 cases on a single day (on April 7) as there were only 78 cases till April 6. The G-South ward includes areas like Haji Ali, Mahalaxmi Racecourse, Worli, Lower Parel, Currey Road, Elphinstone Road and Sat Rasta. Most part of this ward fall under Maharashtra Tourism Minister Aditya Thackeray's Worli Assembly constituency. Majority of COVID-19 cases in G-South ward have been found in Elphinstone Road area and Worli Koliwada, which is why hundreds of residents there have been quarantined or admitted to isolation wards in hospitals. The BMC infographic also points out that the G-South ward is followed by D, E and K-West ward, where 59, 46 and 43 COVID-19 patients have been found so respectively. Three of these wards are in south central Mumbai, while the K-West ward is located in Western suburban areas like Andheri and Vile Parle. According to the data, four other wards- H-East, P- North, K-East and M-West- have 33, 32, 27 and 23 COVID-19 patients respectively. The data suggests that all these eight wards have 397 of the total 590 COVID-19 patients, which comes to around 67 per cent of the total cases in the city. The infographic also points out that A, B and C wards in South Mumbai and T ward in North East Mumbai have less than seven cases each, while B ward has the lowest five COVID-19 cases. The Centre has declared Mumbai as one of the hotspots of COVID-19 in the country and various measures have been taken by the authorities to contain the spread of the virus in the densely populated slums. According to BMC release, the civic body has created as many as 241 containment zones in the city, where at least one or more positive or suspected case of COVID-19 found. Restrictions have been put on the movement of people in these zones to avoid spread of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-50-of-covid-19-patients-found-in-4-civic-wards-in-mumbai-822983.html
08-04-2020||West||PPE kits, N-95 masks to be certified by Haffkine in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday announced that Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits and N-95 masks made by private firms can not be sold unless certified by the state-run Haffkine Biopharmaceuticals Corporation. PPE kits (which include protective garments, goggles and other things) and N-95 masks are meant to be used by healthcare professionals, especially while dealing with contagious diseases such as coronavirus infection. The directive was issued after some manufacturers/suppliers showed willingness to sell PPE kits and N-95 masks. "The decision to make certification by Haffkine was taken to maintain quality as we are dealing with a highly contagious disease. Substandard equipment can increase the chances of medical staff contracting the infection," said a government official. "It has been decided that state health officials will get only certified equipment. Anyone found to be supplying or selling substandard kits or masks will face legal action," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ppe-kits-n-95-masks-to-be-certified-by-haffkine-in-maharashtra-822991.html
08-04-2020||West||Sewing needle found in Asiatic lioness's stomach in Gujarat||The forest officer on Wednesday removed a sewing needle from an Asiatic lioness after a surgery conducted by doctors of Junagadh veterinary college. Forest officials said that few days back the lioness was spotted in Bhavnagar range forest with abnormal behaviour. Forest officer said that the lioness was found the wild cat was suffering from "anorexia and frequent unproductive vomition. They said that the lioness was not able to eat or move naturally. The forest guards who spotted them took the wild cat to Sakkarbag Zoo veterinary hospital and was examined.  Officials said that "after a thorough examination of oral cavity and external body surface, we suspected it to be a case of foreign body ingestion. We have taken thoracic and abdominal x-ray and found a radio-opaque linear body inside the stomach."  A release issued by the forest department stated that the doctors tried to find out the object through endoscopy and tried to remove it but couldn't do it since the object had "pierced the stomach wall and protruding into the peritoneum." Officials said they were left with no other option but perform surgery on the lioness.  "Our team with the help of doctors of Junagadh veterinary college undertook the operation and removed the object which was found to be a long sewing needle," said D T Vasavada, chief conservator of forests, Junagadh circle.  Five lionesses deliver 17 cubs in a week  Meanwhile, at Sakkarbag zoo, a lioness gave birth to six cubs on Wednesday, while another one delivered two cubs. Vasavada said that in the past eight days five lionesses have given birth to a total of 17 cubs and they all are healthy. He added said that giving birth to six cubs by a single lioness is a rare occurrence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sewing-needle-found-in-asiatic-lionesss-stomach-in-gujarat-822994.html
08-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Maharashtra ordnance factory manufactures ventilators||The ordnance factory at Ambernath in Maharashtra's Thane district has started manufacturing ventilators and can churn out around 2,000 machines in a month for the COVID-19 pandemic, an official said on Wednesday. These low-cost ventilators are portable and can run on battery for around three hours, he said. The factory is manufacturing a low-cost, portable ventilators and efforts are being made to automate the Ambu bag, general manager of the ordnance factory Rajeev Kumar said. "If positive cases increase, we may need such ventilators. We have ensured that three important parameters of ventilators, including breath per minute, tidal volume and inspiration-expiration ratio, are controlled," he said. The machines will come with rechargeable batteries, which can last for up to three hours, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-ordnance-factory-manufactures-ventilators-823005.html
08-04-2020||West||Coronavirus infection in dead toddler in Gujarat a mystery||The father breaks down continuously on phone while describing how two Maulavis (priests) buried his only son wrapped in "plastic sheets". "I couldn't even see his face for one last time. They didn't allow me to touch my only child," says 24 years old father of the 14-month-old boy, the youngest COVID19 patient, who died on Tuesday evening at Jamnagar hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-infection-in-dead-toddler-in-gujarat-a-mystery-823016.html
