09-04-2020||Davangere||Karnataka: BJP MP's daughter recovers from coronavirus, says yoga, pranayama helped her||"I was there in the hospital for 14 days. I used to do Yoga and Pranayama. It helps a lot. Everyone should start doing it now," said Ashwini G S, daughter of Davangere MP G M Siddeshwara. In a video message that went viral on Thursday, she said coronavirus was "not something to be feared and yoga, pranayama and a strong mental state are the key to defeat the pandemic." Ashwini tested positive for COVID-19 after she had returned from Guyana last month. She was admitted to the SS Hospital in Davangere where she was quarantined for 14 days. "Throughout my stay in the hospital I did not have any symptom of coronavirus. I neither sneezed, nor coughed or had a running nose. There was no fever either," Ashwini said. However, she kept herself physically and mentally fit. "Maintain social distancing, be aware of dos and don'ts and stay safe," the MP's daughter said. The AYUSH Ministry's protocol has outlined measures to build a strong immune system and it included consuming warm water, practising yogasana, pranayama and meditation for 30 minutes every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/karnataka-bjp-mps-daughter-recovers-from-coronavirus-says-yoga-pranayama-helped-her-823413.html
09-04-2020||First Edit||Coronavirus: Tablighi Jammat members, come out, time’s up||It is imperative that members of the Tablighi Jamaat (TJ), who participated in the March 13-15 mass event at the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi, present themselves before health authorities immediately. Several state governments have issued orders to the TJ event participants to identify themselves and undergo screening for coronavirus infection. Their failure to do so could result in grave charges being brought against them and severe punishment. Several of them have already tested positive for coronavirus and are receiving medical treatment. Others are in quarantine facilities. It is worrying that several participants seem to have gone into hiding after the event. Maulana Ameer Saad Kadhalvi, the TJ chief, had himself remained elusive till earlier this week. He has been traced now and although his lawyer claims he was self-quarantining, the responsible thing to do would have been to inform authorities of his location. Of particular concern are those TJ members who moved to various parts of the country after the Delhi event. Police are trying to trace them but have not been able to locate all of them. Ignorance and fear could be driving many TJ members to hide. Many of them have grown up believing that faith alone is enough to protect them from disease and do not see a need to seek modern medical treatment. Others fear that if they identify themselves, they will be subjected to social ostracism and harassment by police. Their fears are not without basis. Still, this is not reason enough for them to be in hiding. Many of them may be infected and need treatment, for their own sake and that of those sheltering them. At a time when India and the world are battling a serious crisis, irresponsible conduct is unacceptable. There have been reports of TJ members misbehaving in hospitals. If these reports are true, then such behaviour must immediately stop. However, it must also be noted that some of these reports have been found to be untrue. Authorities of AIIMS Raipur, for instance, have said that reports of such behaviour by TJ members at that hospital are false. Such rumours are clearly aimed at maligning TJ members and Muslims in general. This must stop as well. Many in the Muslim community are upset with the irresponsible conduct of some TJ members. Several Islamic scholars are urging those in hiding to identify themselves and seek treatment. Community leaders should reach out to TJ members and those sheltering them and prevail on them to present themselves before authorities. The larger fight against coronavirus depends on their responsible conduct.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/coronavirus-tablighi-jammat-members-come-out-time-s-up-823466.html
09-04-2020||In Perspective||COVID-19: Diabetics, take extra care||Diabetes increases vulnerability to COVID-19, and the risk is higher among the elderly.  Due to COVID-19, we are observing more deaths among older people and among those with other underlying diseases, or co-morbidities, such as diabetes, hypertension, heart and kidney diseases. It’s the lack of immunity in people with co-morbidities that is the main cause for the higher death rates among them. Immunity is the body’s ability to resist the entry of diseases caused by bacteria or viruses or to counteract and neutralise disease-causing pathogens that enter the body. The immune system has the ability to identify the nature of the invading pathogen and decide on what type of fighting cells to deploy to fight the invading organism or virus.   Immune cells are located in various organs of the human body and are capable of engulfing the invading organisms. There are two types of immunity: one is innate or natural immunity; the other is acquired immunity (apart from herd immunity). Whenever there is an invasion by a bacteria or virus, both innate and acquired immune systems interact with each other and bind to the fighting cells to drive away the invaders. This process is called immune response. Successful immune defence requires activation, regulation and resolution of the immune response. As one’s age advances, biochemical events lead to characteristic cell changes and their death in a programmed way. This is called Apoptosis. It is a continuous process and leads to immune deficiency due to a lack of fighter cells in older people, which makes them more susceptible to invading viruses like COVID-19. This is the reason why so many older people afflicted by COVID-19 have lost lives around the world. Diabetes turns out to be an immune deficiency condition if the blood glucose levels are not kept under control for many years. Such a ‘hyperglycemic’ state impairs overall immunity through different mechanisms. There are two main reasons why diabetics and older people are more vulnerable to COVID-19: One, dysfunction of the immune system caused by the constant hyperglycaemia makes diabetics more susceptible to COVID-19 and further fails to control the spread of invading pathogens to various organs of the human body; two, poorly controlled long-standing diabetes damages blood vessels in the human body and thus the circulatory system. Blood has a healing effect, provided it reaches the site of infection, but damaged blood vessels prevent that. These two factors predispose the diabetic population to the easy entry of coronavirus and to its lethal effects. The immune system is complex. Here is a list of 15 immunity boosting foods, which are important to strengthen people’s immune system and improve their ability to fight COVID-19 infection. These foods do not guarantee that you will not contract COVID-19, neither are they cures against it. But there is nothing more important than eating a healthy, balanced diet to maintain the immune system in a fighting fit condition in all age groups. Younger people should also know what weakens our immune system: processed foods/packed foods; high-calorie foods; soda and other packed beverages; sedentary life style; stress; nicotine; and alcohol abuse. If you are a diabetic… Here’s how to prepare yourself in these times of COVID-19:  Remember, diabetes is a tricky disease and could lead to complications, but staying informed, being prepared makes all the difference. (The writer is a diabetologist based in Mysuru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/covid-19-diabetics-take-extra-care-823099.html
09-04-2020||In Perspective||Rabi wheat is ready. Is government?||With the dark clouds of coronavirus spreading thick and fast, for governments in the southern states, it is a blessing in disguise that they do not have to procure any significant quantities of food grains from the ongoing rabi crop. But in other states, for instance, Punjab and Haryana, about 12.9 and 9.32 million metric tons of wheat were supposed to be procured by their government agencies, respectively, for redistribution across the country. The economic value of this procurement at Minimum Support Price (MSP) as declared by the Government of India (@Rs 1,925/quintal), would be Rs 2,488.41 crore and 1,794.10 crore, respectively, and ought to have started from the middle of March. But the pandemic has upset this process and has left farming communities and the state and central governments in a fix. Having learnt hard lessons from the Bengal famine of the 1940s, the Government of India established the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to procure the food grains from surplus states and to redistribute them to deficit states elsewhere. Procurement of food grains through FCI has the broad objectives of ensuring MSP to the farmers and ensuring the availability of food grains to the weaker sections at affordable prices. Besides, it enables the government to keep food grain prices under check. FCI has adopted both centralised and decentralised procurement systems, based on the quantity of food grains production in a particular state. In the centralised system, the FCI on its own or through a state’s agencies procures food grains and moves surplus food grains, if any, after releasing that state’s share from the central pool for its Public Distribution System. On the other hand, in the decentralised procurement system (DCP), state government agencies procure food grains and hand over the surplus to FCI for the central pool. It is the responsibility of FCI to ensure proper storage of the food grains and distribute them across the country as per demand. Accordingly, the FCI has created huge storage space by itself and has also enabled state and private agencies to create significant storage space through incentives such as subsidies under the Rural Godown Scheme. Punjab and Haryana, under the DCP system, contribute the major share of the central pool. By adopting a successful cropping pattern of rice during kharif and wheat during the rabi season, Punjab and Haryana have emerged as major growers and contributors to the central pool. During the current rabi season, Punjab and Haryana are supposed to supply 12.9 and 9.32 million metric tons of wheat, or more than two-thirds of the central pool. In the normal course of events, wheat harvesting would have started from the third week of March onwards and every single grain that was brought to the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) yard by the farmers would have been purchased by government agencies at MSP. However, the catastrophic disruption caused by the coronavirus pandemic has pushed this system into disarray. Because of the lockdown, the Punjab and Haryana governments have declared that they would start procurement from April 15 and April 20, respectively. But, with each passing day since mid-March, the farming community’s problems have been mounting. They cannot leave the crop ready to be harvested in the field, waiting for the government to start its procurement. On the other hand, if the farmer proceeds to harvest the crop, he faces the problem of where to store it until the government starts procurement. The acute shortage of agricultural labour -- in the normal course, they would have come from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar -- poses a serious problem for government agencies in starting procurement from the middle of April. Indeed, if the lockdown is extended beyond mid-April, as seems likely at this point in time, it will be a nightmare for the farming community. Following are some suggestions for state agencies to help the farming community by undertaking procurement and also to ensure continued food security for the country. Prevention measures should be top priority: State procurement agencies should take the responsibility of disinfecting the market areas and providing suitable masks to every person involved, such as department personnel, farmers, labourers, transporters, etc. Establishing new but smaller APMC yards: To prevent bottlenecks, every existing APMC yard should be restructured in such a manner that they can operate from different places and help in the prevention of the spread of the virus. Keeping the possibility of extension of the lockdown and a further delay in the start of government procurement, in a worst-case scenario, Identify all available storage space in every godown in the state and allocate the space to farmers in such a manner that the closest village gets priority of storage space. Maximum utilization of railway network: With the central government providing three months of rations through the Public Distribution System, dispatch the current year’s produce directly to beneficiary states, instead of the usual practice of releasing old stock. This would reduce the risk of virus spread. This has the benefits of quick transfer to needy states, consequent distribution of food grains to needy people and using the railway network efficiently. Store all the produce from farmers under the Cover and Plinth (CAP) method to overcome the storage area shortage. No doubt, the coronavirus pandemic is teaching lessons to every sector. It is the responsibility of every affected organisation to revise its standard operating procedure and its preparedness levels and ensure that it is in a position to fulfill its mandate in the direst of circumstances. (The writer is with KSNDMC)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/rabi-wheat-is-ready-is-government-823463.html
09-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||80-yr-old COVID-19 patient in Karnataka's Gadag dies||As per Wednesday's daily bulletin of the state, there was only one COVID-19 patient in the district and 10 COVID-19 suspects had been isolated in the district. She is the 166th COVID-19 case in the state. The woman is survived by her daughter-in-law and her two grandchildren. She is suspected to have contracted the infection at a family gathering on March 23. "Since the lockdown happened after that her family met at SM Krishna Nagar. Along with three of her family members and 40 people in the neighbourhood in Ranganwadi, we sent throat swab samples of all for testing on April 4. Their samples came back negative on April 6th, but her sample came back positive," the DHO said. Since she had arthritis problem, she would not move about much, he added. After she passed away at around 12.30 pm, she was cremated at around 10.30 am, the DHO said. She was first taken to a private doctor on March 30 with cold, cough and fever. She was referred to GIMS only on April 4, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/80-yr-old-covid-19-patient-in-karnatakas-gadag-dies-823171.html
09-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Excise dept produces sanitisers to cater to demand ||The Excise department has ventured into production of sanitisers in distilleries due to acute shortage of the same, owing to increase in COVID-19 cases. The department has been making sanitisers in Sarvada Distilleries in Udupi and supplying it across the district, along with Dakshina Kannada district, since a fortnight. Realising the shortage of sanitisers in the state, the department commissioner had issued an order to produce the sanitisers in all the distilleries. Accordingly, the production for the first time in state begun at Sarvada Distilleries in Udupi. Availing special permission on March 20 and 22, the department had initially produced 300 litres of sanitisers. Of which, 293 litres were supplied to the district administration free of charge. Following a demand from the Dakshina Kannada district administration, the permit was obtained from Drugs Controller to manufacture the sanitisers. In the first phase, 1,800 litres of sanitisers were supplied to Dakshina Kannada. When the demand increased, an additional 900 litres were supplied on Wednesday, Excise department Deputy Commissioner D Nagesh Kumar said. “Udupi district received 1,643.76 litres of sanitisers. Though we can charge up to Rs 187.50 for 375 ml bottle, we have been selling the same for Rs 80,” the officer added. As per the guidelines of World Health Organisation (WHO), a sanitiser should have 70% of alcohol content in it to destroy the virus.  “We are using 80% of alcohol and the sanitiser is effective,” Kumar expalined.  “There is no problem in availing spirit from distilleries. However, there is shortage of supply of glycerine and hydrogen peroxide. The required raw materials are procured from Dakshina Kannada. If we get the raw materials and the needed staff, then we can meet the demands,” Kumar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/excise-dept-produces-sanitisers-to-cater-to-demand-823311.html
09-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||TSCL uses geo-mapping for monitoring, containment of coronavirus||The Command and Control centre being managed by the Tumakuru Smart City Limited (TSCL) is playing a major role in preventing the spread of COVID-19.  As of now, all the people in home quarantine have been geo-mapped; especially those who have travelled abroad and come back and those who have come in primary contact with those infected with the virus.  The details of the quarantined people have been formed into GIS layers to facilitate the management of a case that tests positive for the virus.    The geo-mapping is being done on the health condition and the number of days spent in quarantine. A colour code is being used to identify the case status.  Yellow is for 1-14 days of quarantine. Orange for 15-28 days. Brown is for end of quarantine. Blue is for unable to detect status. And red for those who test positive and are being treated in isolation. Green who those who test positive and recover.   Using the GIS, it is convenient to isolate the person who tests positive and contain the spread of the infection. With this software, it is also convenient to determine the people who have come into primary contact with the Coronavirus positive person. The GIS covers both private and government hospitals across the district.  TSCL Managing Director T Bhoobalan said that the Command and Control center is playing a pivotal role in the monitoring and containment of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tscl-uses-geo-mapping-for-monitoring-containment-of-coronavirus-823314.html
09-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||YSV Datta to hold fast on April 10||"Owing to the wrong policy of the government, the poor are left hungry. To overcome the guilty conscience, I have decided to hold a one-day fast from 6 am to 6 pm on April 10," said former MLA Y S V Datta. Speaking to reporters, he said the fasting will be held in the house of Savithramma, at fifth cross road, Shankarapura in Chikkamagaluru. Leaders Jameel Ahmmed and K T Radhakrishna will join me.  "I appeal to all those who believe in Gandhi and Ambedkar's ideologies to hold a hunger strike on April 10. The hunger strike should be held without affecting the lockdown by maintaining norms of social distancing and wearing mask at home,” he added. Owing to the lockdown, several labourers are in distress. Many stranded and migrant labourers are unable to go back to their native place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ysv-datta-to-hold-fast-on-april-10-823358.html
09-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Groceries provided to tribal families in Dubare||Forest Department officials provided groceries to the tribal families residing in Dubare elephant camp on Thursday. Following the lockdown, the families of mahouts and kavadis in the elephant camp were in distress. Madikeri DCF Prabhakar distributed groceries to 60 families. The food kit comprises of rice, lentils, onions, potatoes, edible oil and salt. The official requested the people not to step out of their homes and to maintain social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/groceries-provided-to-tribal-families-in-dubare-823393.html
09-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Govt committed to tackle coronavirus: Somanna||District In-charge Minister V Somanna said that the state government has taken all measures to tackle COVID-19 and legal action will be initiated against the authorities of Nanjangud-based Jubilant Generics, which is related to 26 COVID-19 positive cases. The minister was speaking to reporters, at the government guesthouse, here. He said Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar and Superintendent of Police (SP) C B Ryshyanth have taken all measures to contain COVID-19. “The SP has served a legal notice to the authorities and investigation is underway about the outbreak of COVID-19. We have discussed the issue at the Cabinet meeting and have brought Jubilant Company issue to the notice of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa,” Somanna said. Somanna said that the authorities have been distributing ration to card holders at their doorsteps and all 100% beneficiaries will receive ration in another three days. “A few people in the city have not applied for ration cards. I have directed the authorities to identify such families and distribute ration,” he said. The district has a total of 1,011 fair price shops and there are 7.61 lakh card holders. The authorities have distributed ration to 68% of the families, he said. Somanna said that CM Yediyurappa will decide on continuing lockdown on April 11. “The ministers have expressed their opinion about the lockdown in the Cabinet meeting on Thursday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will discuss with chief ministers of all states on April 11 through video conference. Yediyurappa will take a final call, as per the directions of the PM, Somanna said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-committed-to-tackle-coronavirus-somanna-823428.html
09-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mandya reports first coronavirus case related to Nanjangud-based Jubilant Life Sciences||The fifth coronavirus case in Mandya district is the first case related to Nanjangud-based Jubilant Life Sciences. He is designated as P185 by the State Health Department, a 32-year-old man. An employee of Jubilant Life Sciences P185 is a resident of Swarnasandra, in Mandya city. Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh said that the victim is a microbiologist in the quality control team of the company. “When the infection started spreading among employees of Jubilant Life Sciences, P185 was identified as a primary contact, screened at the company and was advised home quarantine,” he said. “P185 returned home in Mandya, from the company, on his two-wheeler on March 26. On March 30, he was shifted to the public quarantine facility, established by the Health Department. He did not show any symptoms of COVID-19 infection. However, before discharging him, his throat swab and blood samples was sent for testing on April 7. At present, he is being treated at the Isolation Ward in the hospital of Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences,” Dr Venkatesh said. The DC said that the victim used to commute to his company by bus and might have come in contact with many people. “He used to travel up to Mysuru, from Mandya Bus Stand in KSRTC buses. From Mysuru, he used to commute in his company shuttle. His primary contacts, his family members, parents, younger sister and his niece have been subject to home quarantine,” he said. The DC said, “Already an high-alert has been sounded in Mandya city, in the wake of the confirmed COVID-19 cases. Now, parts of Swarnasandra have been declared as Containment Zone and there were be complete lockdown in Wards 30 and 31 under Mandya City Muncipal Council.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-reports-first-coronavirus-case-related-to-nanjangud-based-jubilant-life-sciences-823430.html
09-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kalaburagi DC orders closure of two hospitals over negligence||Deputy Commissioner B Sharat on Thursday ordered the closure of Star and Bahmani hospitals, citing negligence in alerting the authorities about the suspected COVID-19 patients. Warning the private hospitals of stern action if they fail to inform about the patients with COVID-19 symptoms, he said after treating the patients at private hospitals for some days, the patients were being referred to ESIC hospital only after their health condition worsened. “The staff of Star and Bahamani hospitals have treated patients with COVID-19 symptoms but they did not alert the competent authorities about the same.  The staff of Bahmani Hospital have been quarantined, heexplained. Assault bid on Asha workers The deputy commissioner said an assault attempt has been made on Asha workers.” Stern action will be taken against the accused. As per the government order, the Asha workers are visiting houses for health check up. Hence, the people should extend their cooperation to them,” he appealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kalaburagi-dc-orders-closure-of-two-hospitals-over-negligence-823460.html
09-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Fears over progression of coronavirus allayed||The district administration on Thursday allayed the fears that novel coronavirus infection could have reached the third stage after the second death reported in the city by tracing the travel history of the 65-year-old fruit vendor who died of COVID-19 on Tuesday night. Deputy Commissioner B Sharat categorically said, “We are tracing the travel history and primary contacts of the positive cases. There is no need for the people to panic". According to a reliable source, the COVID-19 victim had been to Pune recently to meet his daughter. But neither the victim nor his family members had alerted the district administration after his return. The death occurred due to the negligence as the patient was treated in a private hospital until his health condition worsened. He was shifted to ESIC Hospital at the eleventh hour. But he breathed his last after failing to respond to the treatment, the source said. The results of the 57-year-old hardware businessman’s tests, which came positive, had the district administration on tenterhooks as he had neither the travel history nor had he returned from the religious congregation. However, the authorities eventually traced how he and his 72-year-old mother were infected with the deadly virus, the source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fears-over-progression-of-coronavirus-allayed-823461.html
09-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Opposition guns for action against Yatnal, Renukacharya||The Congress and JD(S) on Wednesday mounted pressure on Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to act against BJP lawmakers Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and MP Renukacharya, who allegedly called for “shooting dead” Muslims who do not quarantine themselves after attending the Tablighi Jamaat convention. “By targeting minorities, Yatnal and Renukacharya are projecting them as repsonsible for the coronavirus. To say that they should be shot dead is inflammatory and it is punishable under law. They should be booked and arrested,” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said.  Meanwhile, JD(S) leader HD Kumaraswamy pointed out that many media houses were also adding to the chaos. “Despite the CM’s warning, many media houses are engaged in fanning communal frenzy. In such an unprecedented national health emergency, communal hatred can not only to derail government’s efforts to restore normalcy but also lead to communal unrest. I appeal to Yediyurappa to immediately issue executive orders to the police to file suo motu FIRs against those who incite communal hatred in print, TV and social media,” he said, adding that the CM should order his party colleagues to not air communally-sensitive opinions. Meanwhile, former minister B K Chanrashekar lamented that BJP leaders were openly abusive of Congress president Sonia Gandhi.  Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J P Nadda have been openly abusive of Sonia Gandhi for her observations following the Congress Working Committee meeting on the Covid-19 pandemic, Chandrashekar said. “Nadda has been personally derogatory,” he said. “Mr Shah’s vocabulary is dedicated to running down any kind of opposition to government on any matter” he added. However, Chandrashekar welcomed PM Modi’s outreach with Opposition leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/opposition-guns-for-action-against-yatnal-renukacharya-823120.html
09-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Make separate arrangements for outside state farmers: MP||MP S Muniswamy has advised the administrative body of sericulture market here to make separate arrangements for sericulture farmers from outside states visiting the market. He was speaking after inaugurating the disinfection tunnel at the market here. “Merchants and farmers should ensure social distancing at public places. Instead of farmers approaching reelers, the reelers should themselves approach farmers to procure silkworm cocoons,” he said. Some farmers raised objections for the MP’s suggestion. They said that the reelers quoted less price if they were to approach farmers. They also delayed payments. Measures should be taken to prevent arrivals of silkworm cocoons from other states. Responding to the demand, MLA K Srinivas Gowda said, “There should not be discrimination among farmers. Arrivals from other farmers should not be prevented. That would make them block produces from Kolar farmers. Separate rooms should be provided for farmers from other states.” Farmers’ leader Afsar requested the MP and the MLA to initiate measures to release Rs 9 crore savings amount in the state sericulture board as merchants were not procuring reels in Bengaluru.   He  said, “Transactions have been halted due to lock down which has affected farmers. Government  has relaxed norms. The reelers quoting less prices should be blacklisted. The reelers should inform the officials while buying silkworm cocoons from farmers.” He said that the people should not venture outside without valid reasons in the wake of Covid-19. Sericulture department deputy director M K Prabhakar said that there was a facility to buy silkworm cocoons directly from farmers in markets in the district. Farmers and merchants should ensure social distancing. Sericulture department assistant director Manjunath and the market assistant director Reddy Lakshmi were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/make-separate-arrangements-for-outside-state-farmers-mp-823280.html
09-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Civic body wokers' role in city's hygiene hailed||Urban Development Cell Planning director Rangaswamy on Thursday termed efforts of civic body workers in converting Kolar as garbage free city as decisive. He was speaking at a meeting of civic bodyworkers about garbage problem in the city. "The poura karmikas should pay attention to cleanliness in the city. They should also focus on their personal hygiene," he said. Rangaswamy called upon the poura karmikas to strictly follow Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government. "City will be clean and healthy only if the poura karmikas are healthy. They should always wear gloves and clean hands using sanitise frequently," he added. The City Municipal Council (CMC) staff should wear masks. Wet and dry garbage should be separated near houses. Awareness should be created about dry and wet wastes. There is problem of land to dispose the garbage. The CMC will soon identity the land for the same, he said. He advised the workers to cover themselves under health insurance scheme. The workers should be more responsible till Covid-19 comes under control. The workers said they faced lack of basic amenities in discharging their duties. As hotels have been shut down, food should be distributed to the workers. Gunny bags, tricycles and push carts should be distributed. CMC commissioner Srikanth, assistant executive engineer Ramamurthy and manager Manjunath were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/civic-body-wokers-role-in-citys-hygiene-hailed-823362.html
09-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Gauribidanur reports 12th coronavirus case||The number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district went upto 12 with one more person testing positive in Gauribidanur on Thursday. The person was in touch with novel coronavirus infected patients. He is being treated at an isolation ward, according to officials. "Eight COVID-19 positive persons, who are being treated, are recovering. Six of them are likely to be discharged in a couple of days," deputy commissioner R Latha said. Three others have fully recovered now. About 61 people from the district attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi between March 13 and 15. While one of them tested positive for the vurus, the remaining 60 tested negative, the deputy commissioner added. "About 31 people had come in contact with the 61 people. Twenty of them tested negative. Investigation results of throat swabs and blood samples of the 11 others are likely to be received on Friday," she said. A person, who tested positive for COVID-19 in Hindupr in Andhra Pradesh, died. The victim's son, a physiotherapist, treated 8 persons in the district. All 8 of them tested negative, Latha added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/gauribidanur-reports-12th-coronavirus-case-823398.html
09-04-2020||Main Article||Jacinda Ardern’s shining example in leadership||The public health crisis caused by COVID-19 has brought into sharp focus the vital importance of leadership. The conflicting statements by different ministers in Karnataka highlights the confusion at the highest levels of administration in managing a crisis. That the chief minister should intervene and entrust a minister not concerned with health to brief the media is a sad commentary on the state of affairs in what is considered a progressive state. The present situation is, of course, unprecedented and each nation has devised its own strategy to tackle the dreaded virus. However, the one essential requirement to deal with and overcome any crisis is effective leadership, be it at the local, state, national or global level. In this context, the leadership displayed by New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has been exemplary. In the space of a few months, she was confronted with three grave situations -- a mass shooting by an extremist in two mosques in Christchurch killing 51 people on March 15, 2019; a deadly volcano that erupted on December 9, 2019; and a global virus in early 2020. How Ardern dealt with the shooting incident in particular is worth recalling. At the time the shooting took place, she was travelling in a van to visit a school in the town of New Plymouth. As soon as she was informed about the incident, what she did was something unusual for a prime minister. She did not give instructions to any of her ministers or officers to go to the spot and deal with the situation. She asked the van to be turned back, drove to the nearest police station, and closeted herself in a room with an aide. In between calls apprising her of the developing situation, she scribbled her thoughts on a piece of paper. After an hour, she rushed to a rural hotel and with a makeshift arrangement for a broadcast, the young prime minister delivered her message to the people of her country. Ardern later recalled: “I just remember feeling this overwhelming sense of, here are people who have made New Zealand their home. Regardless of whether someone had been in New Zealand for a generation or whether they moved here a year ago, this was their home, and they should have been safe and they should have been able to worship here, and that was when I wrote down those words: they are us.” She further demonstrated her feelings by wearing a scarf and visiting a mosque, reassuring the Muslims in her country that she was one among them. Ardern then exhibited another trait of her strong character and conviction. She refused to reveal the name of the shooter which, of course, surprised and perhaps angered the media, making sure that the wrath of the people was not let loose, leading to further violence. Next, she called for a meeting of heads of key European states and technology companies like Facebook and YouTube and sought their cooperation to prevent the spread of extremism and hatred online. On December 9, New Zealand witnessed the eruption of a volcano in White Island, a tourist spot, killing nine people and injuring about 30. Ardern reached out to the affected families saying she knew “there will be a huge amount of concern and anxiety for those loved ones at the island at that time” and assured them of quick rescue and relief operations. In dealing with coronavirus, when the cases of infection started rising in her country, Ardern declared a lockdown, with a 48-hour notice before it took effect, saying that a pandemic required “a significant and coordinated response by and across central and local governments” and for citizens to minimise their contact by self-isolation. The police and civil defence personnel were adequately empowered to ensure public safety and to regulate the flow of food, fuel and essential supplies. We cannot, of course, compare a small country like New Zealand with a large and diverse country with myriad problems like India. But the way its prime minister responded to crisis situations holds out lessons in leadership. In an interview to Time magazine, Ardern aptly summed up what leaders can do in times of trouble: “When voters feel powerless and disenfranchised, we can either stoke it with fear and blame, or we can respond to it by taking some responsibility and giving some hope that our democratic institutions, our politicians, actually do something about what they’re feeling.” By providing a type of leadership that combined strength, inclusivity and compassion, Ardern, prime minister of a tiny island nation, became an international celebrity and a model for leaders elsewhere. Sadly, some of our politicians, instead of taking responsibility, indulge in blame games. Considering the enormity and scale of the problems we are facing today, it must be said that most leaders and the people of India at large have responded with courage and fortitude. In any large country, leadership has to operate at different levels -- national, regional and local. India was one of the first countries to recognise the dangers of COVID-19 and set in motion preventive measures to control the situation, with clear directions from the Centre to the states and a task force to coordinate the pandemic related activities of various agencies. The briefing on the evolving situation is, however, done by an official of the Union health ministry. In Karnataka, the responsibility of coordination and monitoring was entrusted to a task force comprising four ministers – the ministers for health, medical education, home and a deputy chief minister dealing with higher education. Different ministers gave out their own statements, instead of leaving the job to one spokesperson, who should have been the secretary of the Health department. Thus, communication on a matter relating to facts and situational analysis turned into a political exercise. In unusual times like lockdowns, when a multiplicity of operations are involved at different levels, it is the duty of the top leadership to ensure solidarity and teamwork. The Karnataka government would do well to merge the departments of Health and Medical Education to provide unity of command. The two were actually part of one department years ago when I was health secretary of the state. When we are talking about integrated health systems, we cannot have a fragmented administrative system. (The writer is a former Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/jacinda-ardern-s-shining-example-in-leadership-823097.html
09-04-2020||Main Article||Secularism in the age of coronavirus||All is not well with India. COVID-19 is not the only affliction haunting us. Tablighi Jamaat’s suicidal recalcitrance in the face of a calamity is only symptomatic. Society and polity haven’t been well either. Democracy and secularism are in doldrums. In the majoritarian narrative, secularism is derided as ‘sickularism’. Earlier, it was criticised as ‘pseudo-secularism’. But then calling it so placed the responsibility of establishing genuine secularism on its critics. So, they coined the deprecatory ‘sickularism’. In the minoritarian discourse, too, secularism was seen as little more than veiled majoritarianism. Thus, there has been a fall in the stock of this political ethic because of the cynicism with which it has been practised. This has led some in the minoritarian section to feign a righteous indignation, and call for the formal renunciation of secularism and establishment of Hindu Rashtra so that the present apprehensions could be laid to rest, and the position of religious minorities could be redefined once and for all. They hope that safeguards and rights guaranteed to them will not only remain as they are but will be better recognised and respected. Insofar as making India a Hindu Rashtra is concerned, isn’t it already one? With 80% of its population being Hindu, it couldn’t be anything but a Hindu country. No one appreciated this fact better than the Muslim rulers who gave it the name Hindustan, the land of Hindus. It remains the Urdu word for India. Only recently, the majoritarians, waking up to the ideological possibility of its semantics, have begun to prefer this usage over the Sanskritic, Bharat. Hindustan and Hindu Rashtra, being semantically same, should not connote different political meanings, either. If Hindu Rashtra portends a diminished position for Muslims, coinage of a new terminology may be in order since its opprobrious usage doesn’t warm the hearts of those who take pride in being Hindu. To an ordinary Hindu, Hindu Rashtra would seem as normal as an Islamic country to an ordinary Muslim. Nation-state is a polity constructed by the group which identifies itself as homogenous in such ways as are important to its members. Most nations have done so on linguistic-cultural bases. India, being a land of diversity, had to come up with a broader and more embracing definition. And it did by defining Indians in an overarching geographical term as sons and daughters of the soil. The Vishnu Purana says: Uttaram Yath Samudrasya Himadrechaiva Dakshinam Varsham Tat Bharata Nama Bharati Yathra Santati (The country that lies to the north of the ocean and south of the Himalayas is Bharat and the people who live there are Bhartis) As regards religion, India’s practical wisdom has been succinctly summarized in Rig Veda’s Ekam Sath, Viprah Bahudha Vadanti (Truth is one, the wise perceive it differently,” or God is one, the wise call him by different names). These civilisational maxims when read into a modern polity became secularism. So, to say that secularism is extraneous to our socio-political ethic is incorrect. Our secularism is not a borrowed principle. We were a secular polity before the Constitution came into force in 1950, we were so during British rule and before that, too. Enshrining the principle explicitly in the Constitution, as was done by inserting the word ‘Secular’ in the Preamble in 1976, was merely an affirmation of a civilisational value aimed at removing any ambiguity about it. Some ambiguity was, however, bound to creep in as the social outlook had not secularised in keeping with the demands of a modern and democratic polity. Right and wrong were still decided by what was good in religion rather than what would benefit the people. That welfare of the people should be the touchstone of right religious conduct is still a distant dream. In this regard, the Muslim community fared worse than their Hindu counterparts. They were barely touched by the process of social reform and religious reformulation that the Hindus went through. Thus, with an unreformed society and un-reconstructed religious thought, they were ill-equipped to embrace modernity, and couldn’t develop the necessary tools to engage with it. That reflected in how they apprehended and responded to the national movement, which was premised on democracy. It meant the rule of majority, with guarantees for minorities. All individuals were equal but not all communities. The State had to reflect the society. It was going to carry every aura and aroma of the country. Naturally, the dominant flavour would be the majority’s. Such a possibility was anathema to a political theory that could not develop beyond Darul Harb (Abode of war) and Darul Islam (Abode of Islam) dualism. Darul Masawat (Abode of equality), the concept befitting a secular democracy, could not be conceived. This deficiency kept the Muslims caught in the time warp of ruler-subject binary, disabling them from appreciating an egalitarian political system. The politics of separation emerged from this matrix. The country was partitioned in two and the Muslim community in three. Indian Muslims came to be sheltered in the secular democratic system that they had earlier scoffed at. Tragically, this cynicism didn’t end with Partition. The Muslim contribution to secularism has since gone little beyond highlighting the shortcomings in its practice by the State and polity. All this while they themselves remained an insulated lot who kept secularisation at bay and continued with separatism under the new name of identity politics. On the other side, among the majority, a matching pattern emerged that was proportionately bigger in magnitude and thus more serious in repercussions. It brought into question the very idea of secularism as perceived and practised in India. This situation has led, ironically, to an opinion among the traditional Muslim leadership, the upper echelons of ulema and the practitioners of identity politics, that repudiation of secularism and formal establishment of Hindu Rashtra may be good for Muslims insofar as what they call ‘fake secularism’ will end, and with it the atmosphere of uncertainty for them. They hope that under the new dispensation they will continue to enjoy the same civic and political rights, and will, additionally, acquire the autonomy to manage their own community. This is what they always wanted. With the end of constitutional secularism in India, the process of secularisation of the Muslim community, exceedingly slow as it is, will end forever. They will become ever more insular, ghettoised and obsessed with religion and identity. At long last, their leadership will have a “state within a state” to rule. The dissolution of the Ottoman Empire, at the end of World War I, put paid to reforms and instituted revivalism. Reforms could never be revived. History may repeat itself. Post-Secular India will be heaven for the ulema and their modern mutants. They will be the slumlords of the Muslim ghetto. (Najmul Hoda is an IPS officer. Views are personal)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/secularism-in-the-age-of-coronavirus-823464.html
09-04-2020||Mysuru||Three more persons test positive for COVID-19 in Mysuru||According to the communication of the State Health Department, two victims of Mysuru have been designated as P183, a 55-year-old man, father of earlier victim P 104, a 27-year-old man; and P184, father of P159, a 32-year-old woman. Both P104 and P159 are employees of Jubilant Life Sciences. The victim of Mandya is designated as P185, a 32-year-old man, who was a co-passenger of P78, also an employee of Jubilant Life Sciences. The first case in Mysuru was confirmed on March 21. He is a man in his mid-30s, a resident of Mysuru city, who had travelled from Dubai to Bengaluru via Goa. He went to KR Hospital and got himself admitted on March 20. He underwent treatment and was discharged on April 7. He is on an extended home quarantine at his native in Kollegal taluk of Chamarajanagar district. The second case was confirmed on March 23. It is a man in his mid-40s from Kerala, who had travelled from Dubai. He arrived in KIA from Dubai on March 22 and took a taxi to Mysuru. He too admitted himself for treatment at KR Hospital.  The third case, the first person related to Jubilant Life Sciences, was confirmed on March 26, a 35-year-old man, a resident of Mysuru city, who had no travel history. Again five persons of the same company were tested positive on March 28. While four of them are residents of Nanjangud town, one is a resident of Mysuru city. On March 30, four more confirmed cases also belonged to the same company. Two more positive patients were declared on March 31. Five more tested positive on April 1. Again on April 2, two persons tested positive. On April 4, seven persons were tested positive. While five were residents of Delhi, the remaining two were employees of Jubilant Life Sciences. On April 6, a total of seven positive cases were confirmed. Among them, three have a history of travel to Delhi, one patient is Dubai-returned, while another patient is a brother of patient 104 (P104). Another victim is an employee of Jubilant Life Sciences. It has to be recalled that the first three cases were confirmed in Mandya on April 7. One more COVID-19 positive case was confirmed on April 8. All the first four victims are residents of Malavalli town and were in contact with patients P134, P135, P136, P137, and P138, all members of Tablighi Jamaat and residents of Delhi, who are being treated in Mysuru. The earlier victims are designated as P171, 32 years, P172, 36 years, P173, 65 years and P179,  35 years, all men. All four victims are part of the seven-member group, who had participated in a spiritual gathering at the Tablighi Jamaat Mosque at Nizamuddin in Delhi from February 5 to 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/three-more-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mysuru-823210.html
09-04-2020||Mysuru||Rs 500 deposited to each of 3.68 lakh Jan Dhan accounts in Mysuru District||The Union Government has credited the first instalment of Rs 500 to 3.68 lakh Jan Dhan bank accounts in Mysuru District as on Thursday. The government has announced funds as part of a relief package in view of the lockdown due to COVID-19. The Finance Ministry had announced that an ex-gratia payment of Rs 500 would be credited to Jan Dhan account holders for three months, including April. According to authorities, the first instalment of Rs 500, to each of 3,68,000 accounts, has been credited. The accounts will be credited with Rs 1,000 in two more instalments. The scheme was launched to lend a helping hand to the needy and poor people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/rs-500-deposited-to-each-of-368-lakh-jan-dhan-accounts-in-mysuru-district-823307.html
09-04-2020||Mysuru||Three more coronavirus-positive cases reported in Mysuru region||Three more coronavirus cases have been confirmed in Mysuru region, on Thursday, taking the number of victims to 37 in Mysuru district and five in Mandya district. All three new cases are related to the Nanjangud-based Jubilant Life Sciences, though indirectly. Among the total of 42 cases in the region, 26 persons are related to Jubilant Life Science. Fourteen of them are related to the Tablighi Jamaat. According to the communication of the State Health Department, two persons of Mysuru have been designated as P183, a 55-year-old man, father of earlier victim P 104, a 27-year-old man; and P184, father of P159, a 32-year-old woman. Both P104 and P159 are employees of Jubilant Life Sciences. The person of Mandya is designated as P185, a 32-year-old man, also an employee of Jubilant Life Sciences. He is a resident of Swarnasandra in Mandya city. Mysuru The first case in Mysuru was confirmed on March 21. He is a man in his mid-30s, a resident of Mysuru city, who had travelled from Dubai to Bengaluru via Goa. He went to KR Hospital and got himself admitted on March 20. He underwent treatment and was discharged on April 7. He is on an extended home quarantine at his native in Kollegal taluk of Chamarajanagar district. The second case was confirmed on March 23. He is a man in his mid-40s from Kerala, who had travelled from Dubai. He arrived at KIA from Dubai on March 22 and took a taxi to Mysuru. He too admitted himself for treatment at KR Hospital. The third case, the first person related to Jubilant Life Sciences, was confirmed on March 26, a 35-year-old man, a resident of Mysuru city, who had no travel history. Again five persons of the same company were tested positive on March 28. While four of them are residents of Nanjangud town, one is a resident of Mysuru city. On March 30, four more confirmed cases also belonged to the same company. Two more positive patients were declared on March 31. Five more tested positive on April 1. Again on April 2, two persons were tested positive. On April 4, seven persons were tested positive. While five were residents of Delhi, the remaining two were employees of Jubilant Life Sciences. On April 6, a total of seven positive cases were confirmed. Among them, three have a history of travel to Delhi, one patient is Dubai-returned, while another patient is a brother of patient 104 (P104). Another victim is an employee of Jubilant Life Sciences. Mandya It has to be recalled that the first three cases were confirmed in Mandya on April 7. One more COVID positive case has been confirmed on April 8. All the first four victims are residents of Malavalli town and were in contact with patients P134, P135, P136, P137, and P138, all Tablighi Jamaat members and residents of Delhi, who are being treated in Mysuru. The earlier victims are designated as P171, 32 years; P172, 36 years; P173, 65 years and P179, 35 years, all men. All four victims are part of the seven-member group, who had participated in a spiritual gathering at the Tablighi Jamaat Mosque at Nizamuddin in Delhi from February 5 to 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/three-more-coronavirus-positive-cases-reported-in-mysuru-region-823436.html
09-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 09, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.  Stay healthy, stay safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-09-2020-edition-823104.html
09-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 9||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 6,654 as of April 9.     States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 223 Jharkhand: 1 Andhra Pradesh: 4 Haryana: 3 Rajasthan: 6 Uttar Pradesh: 5 Telangana: 11 Madhya Pradesh: 24 Karnataka: 6 Delhi: 12 Maharashtra: 97 Odisha 1 Punjab: 8 Bihar: 1 Gujarat: 18 West Bengal: 9 Himachal Pradesh: 2 Tamil Nadu: 8 Jammu and Kashmir: 4 Kerala: 3 Coronavirus in India: States/UTs with confirmed positive cases (Details are updated as we receive information) Kerala: 357 Punjab: 130 Delhi: 720 Jammu and Kashmir: 184 Ladakh: 14 Rajasthan: 430 Uttar Pradesh: 410 Maharashtra: 1,364 Karnataka: 197 Tamil Nadu: 834 Telangana: 471 Haryana: 169 Andhra Pradesh: 348 Himachal Pradesh: 28 Gujarat: 262 Uttarakhand: 35 Odisha: 44 West Bengal: 103 Chandigarh: 18 Chhattisgarh: 18 Madhya Pradesh: 397 Bihar: 51 Puducherry: 6 Manipur: 2 Mizoram: 1 Goa: 7 Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 11 Jharkhand: 13 Assam: 28 Arunachal Pradesh: 1 Tripura: 1 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 473 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-9-823105.html
09-04-2020||National||Woman gives birth to girl in police van amid coronavirus lockdown||A woman gave birth to a girl in a police van in south Delhi's Kidwai Nagar on Wednesday while she was being taken to a hospital, police said. The police received a call from the woman's family, informing them that they urgently needed an ambulance for her. The woman lived in a labour camp in Kidwai Nagar, the police said.  Four police personnel, including a woman constable, picked up the 28-year-old pregnant woman in an ERV (Emergency Response Vehicle) and headed towards the Safdarjung Hospital, a senior police official said. On the way, the woman gave birth to a girl inside the van, he added. The woman and the baby were then shifted to the Safdarjung Hospital, the police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-gives-birth-to-girl-in-police-van-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-823113.html
09-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: India tightens control over COVID-19 hotspots||In Pune, the government has sealed off the crowded central part of the city and launched massive door-to-door surveillance across a 35 sq km area looking for patients with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension and people with travel history to COVID-19 affected regions. A similar exercise was underway in Kondhwa locality of the city. Uttar Pradesh government announced the complete shutdown of affected areas across 15 districts including Noida, Ghaziabad, Agra, Meerut, Lucknow and Varanasi barring movement of people outside their homes. At a meeting chaired by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, it was decided that there will be 100% home delivery of essential items and no shops —either grocery or vegetable markets — will be opened to ensure that social distancing is maintained at the fullest. “We have taken this decision as we observed a drop in the caseload in areas where such a sealing was imposed,” Awanish Awasthi, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) told reporters in Lucknow. In Delhi, at least 20 hotspots have been identified, including South Moti Bagh, Dilshad Garden and Nizamuddin and put under strict controls to prevent the spread of the virus. “Total 20 hotspots have been identified in Delhi, nobody will be allowed to enter or exit from these areas,” Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said. “As cases are increasing, our response has also been stepped up in a commensurate manner,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Union Health Ministry told reporters here. India witnessed a jump of 853 confirmed cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of patients to 5,274. On the brighter side, 402 patients have recovered and discharged from the hospital. In Maharashtra, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray urged people to wear facial masks while stepping out of their homes. Wearing masks has been made compulsory in Mumbai and non-compliance could attract penal action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-tightens-control-over-covid-19-hotspots-823122.html
09-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Impact: Face masks mandatory in Pune district||With the number of coronavirus cases in Pune nearing 200, wearing a face mask has been made mandatory in public places, a senior official said on Wednesday. Masks are necessary for preventing the spread of the virus, said district collector Naval Kishore Ram. "Therefore, we have ordered people and government employees to use masks in public places," he said. Joint Commissioner of Police Ravindra Shisve said action will be taken under the Epidemic Diseases Act if a person is seen on the streets without a mask.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-impact-face-masks-mandatory-in-pune-district-823126.html
09-04-2020||National||India considers narrowing lockdown to coronavirus hotspots||India is considering plans to seal off coronavirus hotspots in Delhi, Mumbai and parts of the south while easing restrictions elsewhere as a way out of a three-week lockdown that has caused deep economic distress, officials said on Wednesday. The sweeping clampdown in the country of 1.3 billion people to prevent an epidemic of COVID-19, the respiratory disease caused by the virus, ends on April 14 and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is to decide this week whether to extend it. He told a conference of political leaders on Wednesday that several state governments had asked for an extension of the lockdown to cope with the outbreak. But he also said that India was facing serious economic challenges, according to a statement issued by his office. Scenes of poor migrant workers and their families walking long distances on empty highways to their homes in the countryside after losing their jobs have increased pressure on Modi to reopen parts of Asia's third largest economy. More than 80% of confirmed COVID-19 cases in India, the world's second most populous country, have been traced to 62 districts representing less than 10% of India's landmass, according to government data. These are concentrated in the western state of Maharashtra, home to financial capital Mumbai, the capital Delhi and the southern states of Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Kerala. Many parts of the country have not reported a single case. Such a skewed geographical spread strengthens the case for a more targeted approach under which the affected area and its neighbouring district would be cordoned off, health officials said. "To manage coronavirus, we are working on a cluster containment strategy," said Health Ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal, leading the effort to tackle the outbreak. BHILWARA MODEL He said such measures were already in place in east Delhi, in Agra, site of the famed Taj Mahal monument, and in the textile town of Bhilwara in the western state of Rajasthan which has become a test case for a more targeted fight against COVID-19. Under the "Bhilwara model", which was adopted last month soon after about 30 people tested positive in the first big wave of infections, the town and its surrounding villages were sealed off with a virtual curfew in place. People were not allowed even to step out of their homes to get essential stocks or medicines, instead they were asked to call helpline numbers for delivery of staples to their homes. "It is a lockdown, within a lockdown," said district information officer Gouri Kant. The government of Uttar Pradesh, India's most populous state, said 15 districts which had each recorded six or more cases of COVID-19 would be cordoned off beginning Wednesday night as it steps up the fight to stem the infections.  "There will be no movement in these areas and government will ensure the supply of essentials," additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthy said. The Delhi state government said late on Wednesday it was making it compulsory for people to wear masks if they step out of their homes, and 20 areas in the city would be cordoned off. So far, India has registered 5,274 COVID-19 infections of whom 149 have died, government data showed on Wednesday. The small numbers, in comparison to large countries such as the United States, Italy and China, have prompted questions from Modi's critics about whether India has gone too far in shutting down its economy, throwing millions of those who depend on pay by the day out of work and onto the brink of poverty. However, health experts say India needs to ramp up testing for infections to help ensure it has a grasp on how widespread the coronavirus is, and that a lockdown alone is no solution. India's Supreme Court said on Wednesday COVID-19 tests should be conducted free at all government and private laboratories. So far, only government labs were conducting free tests, while the private labs had been allowed to charge a fixed rate of 4,500 Indian rupees. "The private hospitals including laboratories have an important role to play … by extending philanthropic services in the hour of national crisis," the court said, ruling on a public interest litigation. It was not immediately clear how and if the government would reimburse private sector's costs. A senior government official, aware of internal discussions on the lockdown, said parts of the country that had not reported a single case of the coronavirus and where people were not in quarantine could lift the curbs. "There are proposals that are on the table, if there is a partial lifting it will be done on the basis of safety assessment," the official said. But it was unlikely that schools, colleges, rail travel and religious gatherings would be allowed anywhere in the country, the official said. Following are government figures on the spread of the coronavirus in South Asia: * India has 5,274 cases, including 149 deaths * Pakistan has 4,072 cases, including 58 deaths * Afghanistan has 444 cases, including 14 deaths * Sri Lanka has 189 cases, including 7 deaths * Bangladesh has 218 cases, including 20 deaths * Maldives has 19 cases and no deaths * Nepal has nine cases and no deaths * Bhutan has five cases and no deaths||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-considers-narrowing-lockdown-to-coronavirus-hotspots-823137.html
09-04-2020||National||Thirty fresh cases of coronavirus in Rajasthan||Rajasthan recorded 30 more cases of coronavirus on Thursday, taking the state's tally to 413, an official said. The virus has so far claimed six lives in the state. However, officials maintain that deaths occurred due to co-morbidity -- more than one illness or disease occurring in one person at the same time. "Thirty new cases have come up today in seven districts of Rajasthan. All have travel and contact history," Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said. He said the total number of coronavirus positive cases in the state has risen to 413. Seven cases each have been reported in Jhalawar, Tonk and Jhunjhunu besides five in Jaisalmer, two in Banswara and one each in Barmer and Jodhpur. Entire state is under lockdown from March 22 and massive survey and screening is underway to trace the contagion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/thirty-fresh-cases-of-coronavirus-in-rajasthan-823143.html
09-04-2020||National||Man tests positive for coronavirus in Chhattisgarh; state tally 11||A 52-year-old man tested positive for coronavirus in Chhattisgarh's Korba district, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in the state to 11, officials said on Thursday. The man had come in contact with 16 Tablighi Jamaat members who were staying at a mosque in Purani Basti area of Katghora town, he said. A 16-year-old boy from among these Islamic organisation members earlier tested positive for coronavirus on April 4, and was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Raipur, he said. "The 52-year-old man had taken part in a namaaz (prayer) with these Tablighi Jamaat members in the mosque and lives in the same locality," he said. Korba Collector Kiran Kaushal said samples of 52 people who had come in contact with these Tablighi Jamaat members were collected for testing, of which one came out positive on Wednesday night. The patient was shifted to AIIMS Raipur in the wee hours of Thursday, she said. The Katghora town has been put under complete lockdown and its border has been sealed as a precautionary measure, she said. Family members of the infected person along with other 234 families living in the area have been kept under quarantine, she added. With this, total three COVID-19 cases have been detected in Korba district so far. So far, nine out of the total 11 patients in the state have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the disease, another official said. A religious congregation organised by Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month has emerged as one of the COVID-19 hotspots in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-in-chhattisgarh-state-tally-11-823145.html
09-04-2020||National||Plea filed in Supreme Court to nationalise private healthcare to cater to COVID-19 patients||The right to get medical treatment is a part of the right to life as defined and provided for in the Article 21 of the Constitution, he pointed out. 'If allowed, it would benefit the citizens of India and will relieve them from insurmountable hardships," the petitioner added. In India, for decades the public health sector has remained in shambles due to low budgetary allowances. India chose to spend only 1.6%, i.e. Rs 67,489 crore of its total estimated budget expenditure on public health which is not only very low in comparison to the average global public health expenditure but is also minuscule even in comparison to the expenditure of low-income countries, he said.  Since "a majority of Indians are not able to approach the private healthcare providers and the charges by them are prohibitive in nature. In this dire situation, it becomes the primary duty of the State to take control, temporarily nationalise all these private health care institutes and make them available at the service of the common man, free of cost, and provide quality treatment and care," his plea stated. The petitioner also pointed out that the private health care, ranked as one of the best in the country, is lying vacant and unutilised due to the ban on commercial flights, though it catered to about five lakh foreigners in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-supreme-court-to-nationalise-private-healthcare-to-cater-to-covid-19-patients-823152.html
09-04-2020||National||Jharkhand sees first coronavirus death||A 72-year-old man died of coronavirus in Bokaro district, the first COVID-19 death reported in Jharkhand, a health official said on Thursday. The patient died on Wednesday night, Bokaro District Chief Medical Officer Ashok Kumar Pathak said. The man was kept in the isolation ward of a hospital after he showed symptoms of the virus on April 5. He was later tested positive for COVID-19, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jharkhand-sees-first-coronavirus-death-823153.html
09-04-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: How is India testing for coronavirus?||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast gives you a bird’s-eye view of the COVID-19 situation. In this episode we take a closer look at India’s testing scenario, with Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi correspondent for Deccan Herald. We also have L Subramani talking to Nidhi Goel, an activist who works for the visually challenged, and DH Fact Check by Akash Sriram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-how-is-india-testing-for-coronavirus-823158.html
09-04-2020||National||Man assaults two women doctors in Delhi after accusing them of spreading coronavirus||In yet another incident of healthcare professionals facing assault over COVID-19, two women doctors of capital's Safdarjung Hospital have been attacked by a 42-year-old man, accusing them of spreading the virus infection. The incident took place in Gautam Nagar of South Delhi, which is near the hospital, where the doctors, who are sisters stay, at around 9.20 PM on Wednesday and the alleged attacker has been arrested. The two doctors had come out of their rented accommodation to buy fruits when the incident took place. As soon as they reached the fruit stall, the man identified as Sanjeev Sharma told them that they should not be out on streets and asked them to stay away. He said they were not allowed to come to public places and it was because of doctors, COVID-19 is spreading. According to Safdarjung Hospital Resident Doctors Association president Dr Manish, the two doctors when tried to reason with him, he told them that they were bringing problems to the locality and slapped them. "He also hit them on their neck and twisted their hands when questioned," he said.  Police said the man began making remarks against the doctors and the need for social distancing as they approached the fruit stall. He also accused them of spreading the infection in residential areas. Later, police arrested the accused and a case under Sections 323 (hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 354 (assault or intent to outrage the modesty of woman), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 509 (words, gestures used to outrage the modesty of woman) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against him. Police said the doctors who were attacked were not on COVID-19 duty. Assuring doctors and nurses that strict action will be taken against offenders, Delhi Police spokesperson M S Randhawa said they have reviewed the security of various hospitals in the capital, including in AIIMS and Safdarjung Hospital. Healthcare professionals in Delhi and elsewhere have been complaining that they were facing harassment with house owners asking them to vacate their rented accommodation besides, facing harassment from locals. The Centre and state governments had issued appeals to citizens not to harass healthcare professionals, who are on the frontline in the fight against COVID-19. Earlier this month, doctors in Telangana were attacked following the death of a coronavirus patient, while two female doctors and civil authorities, who went to a locality in Indore for COVID-19 screening, were attacked. Doctors have demanded deployment of paramilitary forces in hospitals, while Delhi government has sought police deployment in hospitals and quarantine centres to tackle unruly situations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-assaults-two-women-doctors-in-delhi-after-accusing-them-of-spreading-coronavirus-823162.html
09-04-2020||National||Minimal impact on students' job offers, summer internships amid COVID-19 crisis: IIM-C||At a time when most business schools of the country are finding it difficult to safeguard students' placements and summer internships in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, the Indian Institute of Management-Calcutta claimed to have weathered the blow with minimal rescinding of job offers. Out of the 442 students successfully placed in 2020 with close to 10 per cent rise in pay packet over 2019, only six offers have been revoked by a recruiter amid the coronavirus outbreak. "Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the global headquarter of one recruiter has rescinded six job offers. Another recruiter has taken the internal business decision to postpone the joining date from May to July," IIM-C Placement Committee Chairperson, Abhishek Goel, told PTI. One startup has communicated business difficulties, but "our latest information is that its job offers to our students are firm", he claimed. Apart from these, almost all recruiters are moving ahead as per their hiring plans, Goel said, adding, some have already enabled virtual joining. Joining typically takes place between April and August depending on a recruiters hiring plan. "Given the quality of recruiters, the impact on IIM-C students is negligible, but the situation for other management schools of the country is not that comfortable," an official of a recruitment agency said. IIM-C Director Anju Seth said the institution has taken a host of measures in view of the coronavirus crisis, including changing the academic calendar for various programs. "We have also expedited successful transition to new models of online teaching in our programs. We are watching the emergent situation closely and are ready with action plans for various scenarios to facilitate effective outcomes," Seth said. IIM-C took a policy decision to allow a mix of virtual and on-field modes of internship to allow digital onboarding of students, due to the lockdown, she said. Four recruiters have so far rescinded their summer internship offers owing to the changed business scenario, affecting 12 students out of 480. "Nine of these students have already been provided with new internships. The institute is making all efforts for the remaining three students to find an alternate opportunity," Goel said. Several recruiters made alternate arrangements to start the internship as per their original commitment via digital media, leveraging their IT capabilities. Some others deferred the joining dates to April 13 or April 20 to deal with emerging challenges of the lockdown. At this time, 90 per cent of the employers are expected to start their internships by April 20. While almost all recruiters are giving their promised stipend to the students, two have asked for a cut in it, officials said. In the summer placements, finance and consulting firms accounted for 43.2 per cent of the offers with several firms also opening international roles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minimal-impact-on-students-job-offers-summer-internships-amid-covid-19-crisis-iim-c-823163.html
09-04-2020||National||Tamilnadu, Uttarakhand emerging as hotspots for pangolin trafficking in India, researchers warn||As pangolins come under the scanner as potential intermediate hosts of the novel coronavirus transferred from bats to humans, Indian wildlife conservationists warn that the states of Tamilnadu and Uttarakhand are emerging as the hotspots for the poaching of the endangered scaly anteater mammal. A recent study, published in the journal Cell, had placed pangolins as a natural reservoir of coronaviruses similar to SARS-CoV-2, the one behind the COVID-19 pandemic. Another recent study had identified the presence of SARS-CoV-2 like viruses in Malayan pangolins smuggled into China to be sold in wet markets. In these markets, pangolins find demand both in food and traditional medicine, making them the most-commonly trafficked mammal. "The discovery of multiple lineages of pangolin coronavirus and their similarity to SARS-CoV-2 suggests that pangolins should be considered as possible hosts in the emergence of novel coronaviruses and should be removed from wet markets to prevent zoonotic transmission," said Ved Kumar, a former wildlife conservationist with Wildlife Institute of India (WII), and founder of Maaty Biodiversity Conservation & Societal Research Organization in Uttarakhand. Kumar told PTI that over the last decade, the demand for pangolin biological parts in China and other Southern Asian markets has increased due to their perceived medicinal properties, and value as a delicacy. "So the poaching graph of this species continuously increases," he said. In their study, published in the journal Forensic Science International: Reports, Kumar and his team described the hotspots for pangolin trafficking in India. Based on their research, Kumar said between 2003 and 2014, states in Northeast India like Assam, Manipur, and Meghalaya were the hotspots for pangolin poaching in the country, adding that trafficking of the animals is also increasing in other places. "Now the trends change as poachers move towards Southern and Northern India. In the current scenario, Tamilnadu and Uttarakhand are the hotspots of poaching," he said, adding that dense forests with open boundaries and low forest staffs are factors linked to increased poaching in a region. Based on earlier studies from 2011 to 2013, analysing 51 pangolin seizures reported all over India, the scientists said 42 of them were made from the North-eastern states of India. Assessing another report of more than 91 pangolin seizures, reported between 2009–2017, they said the states of Manipur and Tamilnadu have had the highest number of documented confiscations. The latest study by Kumar and his team indicated that between 2014 and 2018 most of the cases were reported from central, northern, and eastern Indian states where Maharashtra and Uttarakhand report the second highest position with 12 per cent of overall seizures. This study assessed the status of illegal trade of pangolin based on seizures reported from 2009 to 2018 in India using available data from print and electronic media. "Over the last decade 119 pangolin seizures were recorded and it is estimated that 7500 individuals perished in a decade. It is concluded that in India its north-eastern part is the hub of trade of pangolins," Kumar and his team noted in the study. According to the scientists, the poached animals are transported by traffickers into China and Myanmar through road and postal services. "Road transport, local taxi and postal service are the modes of trafficking. If we talking about Southern India, the traders purchase the pangolin body part from the local poachers, transport via road in trucks and other heavy vehicles by West Bengal to Assam, Nagaland, and transport into China via Myanmar," Kumar explained in an email. Asked about the reasons for the demand for the "shy and nocturnal" mammal, he said these are largely driven by myths about their healing properties. "People have myths that the pangolin's various body parts, especially their scales, and also its fetuses, blood, bones and claws have healing properties in traditional medicines," the wildlife conservationist said. Kumar clarified that there is no scientific proof for these beliefs, adding that some people also consume the animal as meat. "Their meat is considered a delicacy and high source of protein in restaurants, where its consumption is also a symbol of status," he added. As the "secretive and slow-moving" mammal continues to be killed and transported illegally, Kumar said the places from which they are removed may see changes in their ecology. "Ecologically pangolins are so important. In natural ecosystem it plays as a biological pest controller and soil caretakers. Due to their food preferences pangolin control the population of termites and ants in natural ecosystem," he said. Each year, Kumar said, a pangolin consumes about 70 million insects from the forest, making it safe for plant species. "Apart from that, their large and elongated claws make them capable of burrowing underground for shelter and to excavate termites and insects for food. In doing so the soil is mixed and aerated, improving the quality of the nutrients in the soil," he added. Since the major threat for the survival of pangolin is from local communities, Kumar said, an understanding of public perceptions and awareness on conservation of the mammal is important.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamilnadu-uttarakhand-emerging-as-hotspots-for-pangolin-trafficking-in-india-researchers-warn-823164.html
09-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Woman donates all her savings to PM CARES Fund||As the battle against the COVID-19 outbreak rages on, a woman in Uttarakhand donated all her personal savings of Rs 10 lakh to the PM CARES Fund to help the needy. Devki Bhandari, 60, handed a cheque to the authorities here on Wednesday. Touched by the gesture, Chief Minister Trivevdra Singh Rawat said she reminded him of mythological characters like Danveer Karna and Raja Bali, who were epitomes of generosity. "Despite being alone in this world, Devkiji looked upon entire India as her own family and presented before us an example worth emulating. She is an inspiration for all of us. The spirit of selfless service epitomized by Devkiji will give strength to the country's fight against coronavirus," he said. Bhandari lives in the Gauchar area of Chamoli district. Her husband died a few years ago. She has no children. Expressing his gratefulness, the chief minister said he was sure Bhandari's contribution would help the country overcome the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-woman-donates-all-her-savings-to-pm-cares-fund-823178.html
09-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Man commits suicide as he missed wife in lockdown||A man allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling of his room as he was missing his wife stuck at her parents' place due to the lockdown, police said. The incident took place in Radha Kund locality here on Wednesday, they said, adding the deceased has been identified as Rakesh Soni, 32. As per information, Soni's wife had gone to her parents' place and was stuck there due to the lockdown and he was missing her due to which he committed suicide, Inspector Alok Rao said. A probe is on in the mater, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-man-commits-suicide-as-he-missed-wife-in-lockdown-823182.html
09-04-2020||National||SC order for free COVID-19 test may hinder fight against coronavirus, say experts||A decision by the Supreme Court of India to make testing for coronavirus free places an unfair financial burden on medical firms and could see a reduction in testing, already among the world's lowest, said business leaders and health experts. The concern is that private medical firms, like many businesses in India are struggling financially, and could go under if they tested for free without financial assistance. Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, the executive chairperson of Biocon Limited, one of India's biggest biotech firms, said private institutions could not be expected to operate on credit. "Humanitarian in intent but impractical to implement - I fear testing will plummet," Shaw said on twitter on Thursday about the court judgement. "These are small businesses they're providing testing at cost and not profiteering. How will they pay their employees?" The top court, responding to a public interest petition, said on Wednesday private medical institutions should be playing a philanthropic role at a time of national crisis and it would not allow a situation where India's poor could not afford a test for the virus that is quickly spreading through the country. It said the issue of reimbursing these laboratories for running the hundreds of thousands of tests for novel coronavirus that the world's second most populous country urgently needs would be considered later on. India has 5,734 cases of coronavirus and 166 deaths from COVID-19, the respiratory disease caused by the virus, according to the ministry of health and family welfare, reflecting a jump of 460 cases over Wednesday. The numbers are small compared to the United States, Italy and Spain and one of the reasons is that the country is testing a narrow range of the population, doctors say. These include people who have travelled overseas, people in contact with them and are showing symptoms, health workers with symptoms, hospitalised patients with respiratory problems and those who came in contact with a confirmed patient. On Wednesday, 13,143 samples were tested nationwide, the government-run Indian Council of Medical Research said, well behind the 20,000 people South Korea has been testing each day from its far smaller population.   DERAILING EFFORTS To beef up the infrastructure for screening, the government approved 56 laboratories for testing in addition to 136 government-run labs and set a price cap of 4,500 Indian rupees ($59.13) for every test. The plan is to scale up to 20,000 tests in the next few days and eventually to 100,000 a day in the worse-case scenario. But the court decision threatens to derail the plan to widen testing, said Shamika Ravi, a former member of the Indian Prime Minister's Economic Advisory Council and a health specialist. "We are going to have fewer and fewer testing, and that is a very big problem right now because that is our single focus, to increase the testing capacity across the country." The health sector like others parts of the Indian economy is struggling and in no position to offer a free ride, she said. "There is a liquidity crunch in every business today, including diagnostics. People just don't have the liquidity to be able to undertake large, new exercises without any assurance," she said. Of growing worry is India's financial capital Mumbai, which has reported 857 cases, the highest in the country including from its slums where even health workers are reluctant to go. "We are seeing more medical staff either getting infected or just not showing up at work," said a city health inspector. Following are government figures on the spread of the coronavirus in South Asia:   * India has 5,734 cases, including 166 deaths * Pakistan has 4,072 cases, including 58 deaths * Afghanistan has 444 cases, including 14 deaths * Sri Lanka has 189 cases, including 7 deaths * Bangladesh has 218 cases, including 20 deaths * Maldives has 19 cases and no deaths * Nepal has nine cases and no deaths * Bhutan has five cases and no deaths||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-order-for-free-covid-19-test-may-hinder-fight-against-coronavirus-say-experts-823194.html
09-04-2020||National||Woman dies of COVID-19 in Jammu; toll rises to 4 in Jammu and Kashmir||A 61-year-old woman from Udhampur district succumbed to coronavirus at the Government Medical College hospital here on Wednesday, taking the death toll due to the infection to four in Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. This is the first death in the Jammu region of the union territory as all previous three deaths took place in Kashmir. Government spokesperson Rohit Kansal tweeted that she was reported to be bedridden and suffering from arthritis. Her contacts are being traced, he added. Officials said the woman was initially admitted to a hospital with symptoms of chest pain and fever earlier in the day. After investigation, she was found suffering from pneumonia and accordingly referred to the Jammu hospital where she was tested for coronavirus. About 1 pm, she was shifted to an isolation ward but her condition deteriorated and she breathed her last around 4 pm, the officials said. Jammu and Kashmir has so far reported 158 coronavirus cases, 33 of which were detected on Wednesday, the largest single day rise in the Union Territory, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-dies-of-covid-19-in-jammu-toll-rises-to-4-in-jammu-and-kashmir-823202.html
09-04-2020||National||Two fresh COVID-19 cases in Odisha, total count rises to 44||Two more COVID-19 cases were reported in Odisha on Thursday, taking the total number of people afflicted with the dreaded virus to 44 in the state so far, health department official said. A 51-year-old woman from Dhenkanal town tested positive for COVID-19 while an elderly man from West Bengal's Medinipur district was also diagnosed with the infection here, a senior official said. "Two new COVID-19 positive cases confirmed today," the Health and Family Welfare department tweeted. The 69-year-old man from West Bengal was brought to Bhubaneswar in an ambulance and admitted at a private hospital here, the official said. Earlier, 34 cases were reported from Khurda, three from Bhadrak and one each from Cuttack, Kendrapara, Kalahandi, Puri and Jajpur. Now Dhenkanal is added to the list of districts where COVID-19 cases were detected in the state. With COVID 19 cases rising steadily, the Odisha government on Thursday decided to extend the ongoing lockdown in the state till April 30 to effectively contain the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-odisha-total-count-rises-to-44-823208.html
09-04-2020||National||Brazilian President Bolsonaro thanks PM Narendra Modi for allowing export of raw materials to produce hydroxychloroquine||Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro has thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for facilitating the export of raw materials to Brazil for production of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, cited by many as a viable therapeutic solution to fight coronavirus infection. In an address to the nation on Wednesday, Bolsonaro said Brazil will receive ingredients from India for the production of hydroxychloroquine on Saturday. "We have more good news. As an outcome of my direct conversation with Prime Minister of India, we will receive, by Saturday, raw materials to continue our production of hydroxychloroquine so that we can treat patients of COVID-19 as well as of lupus, malaria, and arthritis," he said. "I thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the people of India for such timely help to the people of Brazil," the Brazilian leader said. Parts of the transcript of his speech were made available by a diplomat from the Latin American country. Modi and Bolsonaro had a telephonic conversation on April 4 during which the Brazilian leader requested Modi to allow export of the drug as well as raw materials for its production in Brazil. Separately, in a letter to Modi on Tuesday, Bolsonaro mentioned that two Brazilian laboratories, EMS and Apsen, have been importing raw materials from India for several years to produce hydroxychloroquine and that Brazil's internal supply of the drug depends on its production by the two firms. Bolsonaro requested Modi to ensure that Brazil gets the supply of the raw material ordered prior to the imposition of the ban on hydroxychloroquine. On March 25, India banned export of hydroxychloroquine in the midst of views in some quarters that the drug could be used to fight COVID-19. India is the largest exporter of the drug. The ban was partially lifted on Tuesday. In the letter to Modi, the Brazilian leader invoked ancient Indian epic, Ramayana, mentioning the story of how Lord Hanuman brought a holy medicine from the Himalayas to save the life of Laxmana.  Brazil, the largest country in Latin America, has recorded close to 14,000 coronavirus cases and over 660 deaths due to the infection. Globally, the virus has killed over 75,000 people and infected more than 13 lakh. Bolsonaro said Brazil hoped that the use of hydroxychloroquine would help in the treatment of coronavirus-infected people in his country. "Like many other countries, Brazil places hope in the use of hydroxychloroquine as an effective means to treat patients who have contracted COVID-19," the Brazilian leader wrote in the letter. He also referred to the partnership between the two countries in the pharmaceutical sector, adding that leading Brazilian pharmaceutical laboratories have a "solid and long" partnership with Indian laboratories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/brazilian-president-bolsonaro-thanks-pm-narendra-modi-for-allowing-export-of-raw-materials-to-produce-hydroxychloroquine-823211.html
09-04-2020||National||Cyber criminals turning gaze towards mobile phones as surge in usage during lockdown||The country's national cyber security agency has cautioned against threats to personal mobile phones from "spyware and ransomware" due to an increased usage of these Internet-enabled devices in the wake of restrictions on physical movement to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. The Computer Emergency Response Team of India (CERT-In), the federal agency to combat cyber attacks to guard the Indian cyber space, has issued a fresh advisory with over a dozen suggestions to keep personal mobile phones healthy and secure. "The current global health situation has seen changes to the way people accomplish their regular job, with an increasing number working from home instead of office. Cyber criminals are attempting to take advantage of the COVID-19 pandemic and are now turning their attention to mobile devices to spread malware, including spyware and ransomware," the agency said. Mobile devices and apps (applications) must be appropriately secured to prevent sensitive data from being lost or compromised, to reduce the risk of spreading viruses, and to mitigate other forms of abuse. A spyware steals sensitive personal data of a user while a ransomware takes control over login and other vital credentials of an individual and only releases them after money is paid to it through dubious online transactions. The agency suggested certain counter-measures and healthy practices: OS and apps update Mobile operating systems like Apple's iOS, Google's Android platform and Microsoft's Windows phone provide regular updates to users that resolve security vulnerabilities and other mobile security threats, as well as provide additional security and performance options and features to users, it said. The advisory also recommends keeping app software up to date.  Apps with out-of-date software may be at risk of exploitation of known vulnerabilities. Protect your mobile device from malware by installing app updates as they are released. Also, delete apps you don't use. For example, if you downloaded an app to help you plan a holiday and you don't need it anymore, get rid of it. That way you don't need to worry about updating it, it said. Installing Apps Reduce the risk of downloading potentially harmful apps by limiting your download sources to official app stores, such as your device's manufacturer or operating system app store.  Do not download from unknown sources or install untrusted enterprise certificates. Apps that are available from 3rd party sellers may not be legitimate and could contain malwares, it said. The agency had a special mention about social media apps like Twitter and FaceBook which are popular among users. Be cautious with signing into apps with social network accounts. Some apps are integrated with social network sites—in these cases, the app can collect information from your social network account and vice versa, it said.  Ensure you are comfortable with this type of information sharing before you sign into an app via your social network account. Phishing scams: Watch out for scams and phishing attempts on your phone, either by SMS or email. Be cautious about clicking on links or opening e-mail attachments from untrusted sources, as they may be from a fraudulent source masquerading as a friend or legitimate company, it said. Passwords Many apps request users to save the password in order to prevent them from repeatedly entering the login credentials. This is an unsafe practice, in an event of mobile theft, these passwords can be harvested to gain access to personal information, it said. Wi-Fi networks Public Wi-Fi networks present an opportunity for attackers to intercept sensitive information. When using a public or unsecured wireless connection, avoid using apps and websites that require personal information like a username and password. Additionally, turn off the Bluetooth setting on your devices when not in use.  Avoid jailbreaking or tampering with mobile device factory security settings as it makes the phone more susceptible to attacks, the advisory added. Also, be cautious while charging your phone and avoid connecting it to any computer or charging station that you do not control, such as a charging station at an airport terminal or a shared computer at a library. "Connecting a mobile device to a computer using a USB cable can allow software running on that computer to interact with the phone in ways you may not anticipate," it cautioned.  It reiterated the regular advise of keeping the phone locked and using multi-factor authentication for opening up the device and important apps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyber-criminals-turning-gaze-towards-mobile-phones-as-surge-in-usage-during-lockdown-823216.html
09-04-2020||National||CRPF ready to fight 'invisible, invasive' COVID-19: DG on valour day||In a communication to his troops on the occasion of the 'Valour day' of the force, CRPF Director General (DG) A P Maheshwari asked them to be strong and fit for serving the country during these tough times. "Dear friends, when going gets tough, the tough gets going. Toughness is our trademark..." "Today, the entire nation is facing a tough time due to COVID-19. I am happy that being tough yourself, you all have geared up to help people fight the invisible and invasive enemy," he said. The DG said "all programmes related to the day are for the time being suspended" in view of the viral outbreak. "However, we in our thoughts and ethos uphold the dignity of the day," he said. It was on April 9,1965 at Sardar Post in Gujarat that only two companies of CRPF heroes proved tough enough for a full brigade of Pakistani army, making them bite the dust, Maheshwari said.  "We are and will always be proud of their valour and sacrifice for the motherland," he said. President Ram Nath Kovind said the Central Reserve Police Force men, who were killed in action, wrote a "golden history" on this day with their extraordinary bravery, patriotism and sacrifice. He also paid his tributes to the martyrs in a message issued over Twitter. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also lauded the bravery of the force. "The courage of @crpfindia is widely known. On CRPF Valour Day today, I salute this brave force and remember the bravery of our CRPF personnel in Gujarat's Sardar Patel Post in 1965. The sacrifices of the brave martyrs will never be forgotten," the PM tweeted.   Union home minister Amit Shah wished the force, saying a small contingent of the force created history by defeating the invading enemy army that was several times larger than them. "Congratulations to everyone and salute to our brave martyrs of CRPF. 'Shaurya divas' is a symbol of indomitable courage, valour and sacrifice," Shah said on Twitter. The fight-back by the force, which was posted for border guarding duties that time, is mentioned as one of the glorious chapters in military history of the nation when only two companies (about 150 personnel) of the force stood their ground and repulsed the Pakistani attack.  The force was tasked to secure Sardar post seeing the aggressive posturing of the other side and the location was at a flat area which was tactically disadvantageous.  On the intervening night of 8-9 April (1965), 3,500 men of 51st Infantry Brigade of Pakistan and comprising 18 Punjab battalion, 8 Frontier Rifles and 6 Baluch battalion stealthily launched simultaneous assault on the Sardar and Tak Posts under an operation codenamed "Desert Hawk".  The fight lasted 12 hours during which the enemy made three attempts to overrun the post but was repulsed with heavy casualties by some dare-devil action by the paramilitary men. The retaliation by the CRPF men saw the numerically and armament superior Pakistan retreating the areas and leaving behind 34 bodies of their soldiers including two officers. Four Pakistani soldiers were taken as hostages while six CRPF men made the supreme sacrifice and the post was saved.   The about 3.25 lakh personnel strong force remembers its martyrs by observing 'Valour day; on April 9 every year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-ready-to-fight-invisible-invasive-covid-19-dg-on-valour-day-823231.html
09-04-2020||National||Major Indian cities make mask-wearing compulsory amid coronavirusvirus fears||Hundreds of millions of people in India, including in its two largest cities, were ordered Wednesday to wear face masks or coverings amid a nationwide lockdown to combat the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Residents in the capital New Delhi and financial hub Mumbai, which have a combined population of almost 40 million, as well as in the most-populous state Uttar Pradesh where 200 million live, will have to cover their faces in public spaces. "Wearing of facial masks can reduce the spread of coronavirus substantially," Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said late Wednesday. "Therefore, it has been decided that facial masks will be compulsory for anyone stepping out of their house." With masks running short around the world, however, one official told AFP that "face cover will be a more appropriate word". "Gamcha (a type of cotton cloth) or any cotton cloth which can cover your mouth can also be used," the official, Mrityunjay Kumar, media adviser with UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, said. The health ministry on the weekend advised all residents in the nation of 1.3 billion people to cover their noses and mouths with homemade reusable face covers. It also released instructions online on how people could make their own masks. The new rules came as India's official number of cases rose above 6,100, including 186 deaths. Experts said authorities need to test more to determine how widely the highly infectious disease has spread in the world's second-most populous country. The nationwide lockdown was imposed from March 25 for 21 days, with residents permitted to leave their homes only for essential services such as buying groceries and medicine. But the number of cases has continued to rise, with officials blaming a large religious gathering in March where thousands of people congregated for at least 30 percent of patients. On Wednesday numerous neighbourhoods and hotspots in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi were set to be sealed off, with locals barred from leaving their homes and authorities promising to deliver food and other essential items to their doorsteps. The drastic move came amid growing debate about whether the lockdown due to be lifted on April 15 should be extended. Some states and territories, including Maharashtra, where Mumbai is the capital, Tamil Nadu, and Delhi have reported significantly higher numbers of infections compared to others. The shutdown has badly hit rural migrant workers in the cities, leaving them jobless with hundreds of thousands trying to return to their villages, many on foot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/major-indian-cities-make-mask-wearing-compulsory-amid-coronavirusvirus-fears-823237.html
09-04-2020||National||Delhi HC suspends summer break to make up work loss due to coronavirus||The Delhi High court Thursday decided to suspend its summer vacation this year, slated from June 1 to 30, to make up for the loss of working hours due to the coronavirus pandemic lockdown. The high court has also cancelled the summer break of subordinate courts in June this year. The decision was taken at a meeting by Delhi High Court Chief Justice D N Patel and other judges considering the severe hardship and difficulties being faced by litigants on account of the lockdown and consequent suspension of functioning of the courts that are currently hearing matters of extreme urgency only through video conferencing. The high court has been hearing only urgent matters since March 16. Besides, all the interim orders passed by it and the trial courts earlier, which were to expire by March 16 or there after, have already been extended till May 15. The high court resolved Thursday that the courts shall continue functioning during the entire vacation month of June 2020.  "This decision has been taken by the Full Court on April 9, to make up for the loss of court working hours and to ensure restoration of normalcy in the functioning of the courts at the earliest," said a statement issued by the high court. The resolution said, “Since during the period of suspension of work, the hearing is limited to the matters of extremely urgent nature or urgent nature, there is negligible fresh filing of cases, lesser disposal and corresponding escalation in arrears, resulting in extreme hardship to litigants." It said the September 16, 2019 notification, which had declared the period of the summer vacations for the high court and trial courts here in June this year, is modified. The resolution said it is hoped and expected that members of the Bar shall extend their full cooperation in making the functioning of the courts meaningful and purposeful during the month of June 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-suspends-summer-break-to-make-up-work-loss-due-to-coronavirus-823238.html
09-04-2020||National||India and Pakistan locked in cross-border fighting amid coronavirus crisis||Indian and Pakistani troops in disputed Kashmir are engaged in their most frequent cross-border fighting of at least two years, official data shows, even as both nuclear-armed rivals battle surging coronavirus outbreaks. Kashmir has long been a flashpoint between the neighbours but tension was renewed after New Delhi withdrew the autonomy of the Himalayan region last August and split it into federally-administered territories. Both countries claim the region in full, but rule only parts, and often accuse each other of breaching a 2003 ceasefire pact by shelling and firing across the Line of Control (LoC), an informal border in Kashmir, and of killing dozens every year. Indian Army data reviewed by Reuters shows 411 ceasefire violations by Pakistan's military in March, the highest number in a single month since at least 2018. That compares with 267 violations in March last year recorded by the Indian Army. "(The) Pakistan Army never initiates ceasefire violations along LoC, but it has always responded befittingly to Indian Army’s unprovoked firing," said Major-General Babar Iftikhar, of the public relations wing of the Pakistan Army. Iftikhar said Pakistan's military had recorded 705 ceasefire violations by the Indian Army since the beginning of the year. The Indian Army data showed 1,197 Pakistani violations during the same period. Reuters is not in a position to independently verify the competing claims. Four Indian army officials said the heightened border activity was a cover to help militants from Pakistan-backed groups infiltrate into Indian Kashmir, as some troops help to run health camps and hand out food in the battle on the virus. "The increase in ceasefire violations is an indication that Pakistan is trying to push militants into the Kashmir valley," said one of the officials, who all sought anonymity because they were not authorised to speak to media. India has 5,734 infections, including 166 deaths, while Pakistan has reported 4,072 cases and 58 deaths, with the military of each helping its government's efforts against the virus. As summer approaches, infiltration into Kashmir typically picks up. An Indian security official said between 250 and 300 militants were estimated to be ready to cross over from Pakistan, citing intelligence reports. "This is the time when our (border) fence is the weakest," with damage caused by winter snows, said the official, who sought anonymity. On Monday, the Indian Army said in a statement it killed five Pakistan-backed militants at the LoC during a firefight in heavy snow, with five of its special forces soldiers also killed. Pakistan denies giving material support to militants in Kashmir but says it provides moral and diplomatic backing for the self-determination of Kashmiri people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-and-pakistan-locked-in-cross-border-fighting-amid-coronavirus-crisis-823244.html
09-04-2020||National||A 'moving village' stops: Rambo Circus faces heat amid coronavirus outbreak||An empty tent is a circus group’s worst nightmare but the nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus has compounded the problems of an already struggling business, says Sujit Dilip, the proprietor of Rambo Circus, who had to put out an appeal for help. Dilip said he was initially "embarrassed" to ask for help but decided to reach out to public as they were grounded in Airoli, Navi Mumbai from March 13, when the state and later the nation announced the lockdown due to the pandemic. With no shows possible and the responsibility of around 80 artistes and 20 animals, Dilip said they were staring at an uncertain future as the pandemic has taken away their chance to earn money during the peak summer season. "We were about to start our circus when the CM announced the lockdown from March 13 and we had to close. It'll take at least three-four months for the situation to settle down but by then monsoon will start and it'll be a bad time for us again," Dilip told PTI in an interview. Circuses in the country, Dilip said, have two primary seasons: the summers and Diwali. Last year, Rambo Circus braved the Aurangabad floods—which damaged their tents and lights—faced heavy rainfall in Pune and finally arrived in the suburban Malad here during Diwali to make up for the losses. "I had to sell off my flat to bail out the circus. But even the festive period earning was hit. So we finally decided to focus on the summer of 2020. Who would've thought this would happen?" he wondered. The staff of 80, residing in a gated wall compound venue, includes two families with small children—who don't perform—25 women and as many men. There are 17 dogs, including seven who are under retirement and one pony. Then there is the support staff: animal keepers, cooks, electricians, designers and tent makers. In the initial phase of the lockdown, those hailing from nearby towns in the state headed home. Others, who had to risk crossing state borders amid the pandemic, chose to stay back, Dilip said. "Indian circus is like a moving village. We are like vagabonds. Every 45 days, we change our location. But where can we go today? There are no trucks available, everything's shut. It's wise to stay here and wait for permission. It's the safest to stay inside," he said. As soon as the word spread on WhatsApp that the Rambo Circus was feeling the heat of the lockdown, many admirers and longtime well wishers of these artistes offered help, Dilip said. "For the staff, circus is the home. 'Jeena yahan marna yahan.' They can't go anywhere else... But right now, we all are so happy. The artistes always felt they're the neglected part of the society. But today for the first time we are feeling proud that so many people are thinking about us." In a day, Rambo Circus requires at least 55 kg rice for its staff and animals, and a ration of such magnitude was impossible for them to procure. Dilip, who has been looking after the circus for over 25 years now, was stunned by the offers of help via social media. A cancer trust contributed Rs 50,000, while a government servant donated her pension of Rs 30,000 to the circus, he said. Politicians too stepped in, Dilip said, with Cabinet Minister Chhagan Bhujbal providing them with ration, Shiv Sena leader Vijay Chougule pitching in to help and even the Thane deputy collector reaching out, asking if they needed animal food. The local municipality is providing the artistes with food packets and drinking water every day. "The circus would have just died had people not helped, if the NGOs, government wouldn't have come forward." With no possibility of any shows for at least four months, the challenge now is to raise funds to pay the staff their salaries. A fan from Bengaluru suggested Rambo Circus should set up a donation fund on crowdfunding platform Ketto, co-founded by actor Kunal Kapoor. "We then drew a budget of Rs 8.5 lakh for the salary and food of our staff for two months. "Once the target is achieved, we will get the money and then distribute it among them. Some have their families in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha. I need to give them money so that they can help their families back home." So far, Rambo Circus has raised over Rs 5 lakh, with even actor-filmmaker Renuka Shahane donating for them. "I've never seen an entire community taking care of us. This can only happen in India. We have spread happiness to so many people over the years. I think now they are giving us back. In cash, kind and smiles," Dilip said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-moving-village-stops-rambo-circus-faces-heat-amid-coronavirus-outbreak-823246.html
09-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Indians in Wuhan advise social distancing as only measure amid COVID-19 pandemics||A few daring Indians, who remained in Wuhan where the novel coronavirus first emerged and then became a global pandemic, have a word of advice for their compatriots back home: follow the strict lockdown and self-isolation measures to arrest the spread of the deadly disease. Speaking to PTI, the Indian nationals in Wuhan said they were very happy that their 76-day suffering due to the strict lockdown came to an end on Wednesday when the authorities lifted the restrictions in the central Chinese city of 11 million people. "For over 73 days, I stayed put in my room, stepped out to my lab close by with permission. Today I struggle to speak properly because I have not spoken much all these weeks as there is no one to speak because everyone stayed indoors," said Arunjith T Sathrajith, a hydrobiolgist working in Wuhan. India evacuated about 700 Indians and foreigners through two special Air India flights, but Arunjith, who is from Kerala, decided to stay in Wuhan and brave it all because he felt "escaping" from a troubled place was not the ideal thing for "Indians to do". He is one of the few Indians who chose to stay back in Wuhan, a city of 11 million people and the epicentre of the pandemic. He also thought his return to Kerala could endanger his parents and in-laws, all over 50 years, besides his wife and child. A microbiologist-turned-hydrobiologist who is taking part in a research project in the central Chinese city, he said India had done the right thing to go for a nationwide lockdown, but the major problem for the country could surface when the monsoon season arises as people's immunity levels go down. That is the time virus could turn virulent, Arunjith said. If there is any lesson Wuhan offers, it is the strict lockdown and people's participation in self-isolation campaign, he said. Another Indian scientist who also stayed put in Wuhan fully agreed with Arunjith. "For about 72 days I have shut myself in my room. My neighbour has three very young children. I have not seen them coming out of their flat even once. "Today I am happy and relieved I survived but still not willing to venture out because I could run into virus carriers," the scientist, who preferred to remain anonymous, told PTI over phone. He advising Indians to strictly follow the lockdown. The scientist said a lockdown of Wuhan a few days before could have helped prevent the virus from spreading like wildfire. He preferred to remain in Wuhan and declined the Indian embassy's offer because he was concerned about his family back home. "Considering the hospitality I enjoyed, I was confident I would be taken care of by my employer and local friends and they did," he said. Arunjith said he and his fellow researchers began hearing about the spread of a vicious virus in Wuhan from the second week of December and things progressively began deteriorating with fear spreading among people as they began wearing masks. But even after the lifting of the lockdown in Wuhan, still not many people are stepping out as there is lingering fear about the asymptomatic cases. Asymptomatic coronavirus cases are those who test positive but do not show any symptoms and have the potential to cause sporadic clusters of infections. Both agreed that it is very difficult for detecting the virus and its virulence in December and early January until many people started contracting it. "It is not easy to understand this virus. And it is not going to be easy to understand it until they trace the zero case which is extremely difficult. Chinese took time to act because they had no idea about it early and when they learnt about it, they acted swiftly," the scientist said. Arunjith, who travelled in China extensively especially in rural areas pursuing his research, said he suspects that the virus was passed from animal to human considering the habits among some of the communities in rural areas to eat wild animal delicacies. Wild animals sold in the Huanan Seafood Market are believed to be the source of the novel coronavirus pandemic that has claimed more than 88,500 lives worldwide so far and infected nearly 1.5 million people. The Huanan market was closed after the virus outbreak in China in December last year. Hubei has so far reported 67,803 confirmed COVID-19 cases in total, including 50,008 in Wuhan. The death toll due to the coronavirus in China has risen to 3,335 and the overall cases have reached 81,865 in the country. In India, 166 people have died and the number of cases has gone up to 5,734 till Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry. Globally, over 88,500 have died and there are nearly 1.5 million cases of COVID-19 infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-indians-in-wuhan-advise-social-distancing-as-only-measure-amid-covid-19-pandemics-823255.html
09-04-2020||National||We shall win this together: PM Narendra Modi to US President Donald Trump on coronavirus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said India will do everything possible to help humanity's fight against COVID-19, responding to US President Donald Trump thanking him for allowing the export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ). HCQ is deemed as a possible cure for the deadly coronavirus. "We shall win this together," Modi said, responding to a tweet by President Trump. "Fully agree with you President @realDonaldTrump. Times like these bring friends closer," he said, adding that the India-US partnership is "stronger than ever". India shall do everything possible to help humanity's fight against COVID-19. "India shall do everything possible to help humanity's fight against COVID-19," the prime minster said. Earlier, in a tweet, President Trump had thanked India and the Indian people for the decision on HCQ, saying it would not be forgotten. "Thank you Prime Minister @NarendraModi for your strong leadership in helping not just India, but humanity, in this fight," he had said. President Trump and Prime Minister Modi spoke over the phone last week. During the call, Trump had requested Modi to lift the hold on the American order of hydroxychloroquine, of which India is a major producer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-shall-win-this-together-pm-narendra-modi-to-us-president-donald-trump-on-coronavirus-823258.html
09-04-2020||National||Indian Railways starts mass production of sanitisers, face masks||As part of its effort to fight against the coronavirus pandemic, Indian Railways has started mass production of hand sanitisers and masks So far, various workshops of national transporter have produced 40,000 litres of hand sanitiser and 6 lakh reusable face masks. Some portion of masks and hand sanitiser will be supplied to railway field staff and railway hospitals. The railway will give two face masks each to every field staff including contract employees as well, the national transporter said in a statement. The railways also counselled its staff on the usage of masks and hand sanitisers. Besides, it is also making arrangements for staff to frequently hand wash during on duty and off duty, said an official un the national transporter. The railways already deployed over 2,500 doctors and 35,000 paramedical staff to fight against COVID-19 patients. The national transporter already converted 3500 coaches as isolation ward and soon it will reach its target to 5000 coaches said an official in the railways. Also, Indian Railways has received the DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation) approval for producing PPEs (Personal Protection Equipment) as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-starts-mass-production-of-sanitisers-face-masks-823262.html
09-04-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh: 62-year-old doctor dies from coronavirus in Indore||Indore's chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Dr Praveen Jadia, said that the victim, who was a general physician, breathed his last at a private hospital in the morning. "It appears that he had come in contact with a coronavirus patient during treatment. We are trying to trace the source of infection," he said. This is probably the first case of a doctor succumbing to coronavirus infection in Madhya Pradesh. The government-run MGM College here had on Wednesday night issued a list of COVID-10 patients, in which the doctor's name had figured. He had symptoms of coronavirus, but the authorities are yet to trace the COVID-19 patient he had come in contact with, officials said. Meanwhile, a purported video is doing rounds in social media in which the doctor is seen sitting with his family members and claiming that he is completely healthy.   As per the latest figures provided by the state health department, so far 213 people have tested positive for coronavirus in Indore district, which has emerged as the coronavirus infection hotspot in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-62-year-old-doctor-dies-from-coronavirus-in-indore-823268.html
09-04-2020||National||Private security agencies assist Puducherry Police in fight against COVID-19||Police in the tiny Union Territory of Puducherry will now be assisted by private security guards in enforcing the lockdown and ensuring people maintain social distancing in public places as part of their organisation’s social responsibility. The shortage of manpower prevents the police force from reaching “many points” and the Puducherry Police has asked private security guards to join them as “force multipliers” to break the COVID-19 transmission chain. The appeal has been sent to over 90 security agencies that function out of the Union Territory – several of them have already heeded to the request.  On Thursday, Puducherry Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi took to Twitter to announce that the UT’s police force have inducted the private security agencies to play their role in “Collaborative and Partnership Policing strategy.”  She also posted a video of a police officer briefing a group of guards on how they can be helpful in the fight against Covid-19.  The private security guards will cover the stretch of 100 metres from their workplace, most of them still stand guard outside private establishments, and will inform police of any incident from Thursday, officials said. The security guards will be trained by local police on assisting them in ensuring social distancing in public places and enforcing the lockdown, which is likely to be extended beyond April 14. “Private security guards have some basic understanding of policing and security protocol. They will be helpful to the police in ensuring that the lockdown is enforced effectively. We have been taking the help of several agencies in Puducherry to supplement our efforts. Private security guards have joined us now,” Surendra Singh Yadav, Inspector General of Police, Puducherry, told DH. A circular issued by Director General of Police (DGP) Balaji Srivastava said the guards should utilise the police station-level WhatsApp groups to communicate with beat officers and others using videos and photos. Private security guards will be very helpful to the police since they know the geography of the area very well and can act swiftly, Yadav added. He said the guards will be “invaluable” to the police force in the enforcement of the lockdown and for ensuring social distancing to “break the chain of transmission.” The guards have asked to ensure that markings are made outside markets, ATMs, banks and other establishments to ensure social distancing. Yadav also added that the security agencies have been asked to ensure they get their emoluments on time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-security-agencies-assist-puducherry-police-in-fight-against-covid-19-823283.html
09-04-2020||National||Centre approves Rs 15,000 crore COVID-19 emergency response package for states, UTs||Centre on Thursday unveiled a Rs 15,000 crore special package to help states and union territories to beef up healthcare systems and prepare them for future disease outbreaks, even as COVID-19 claimed 17 more lives taking the death toll to 166. The ‘COVID-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package’ was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 when he announced the 21-day national lock down to arrest the spread of the respiratory disease caused by a virus. The 100% centrally funded package will be implemented in three phases up to March 2024 and is aimed at beefing up national and state health systems, procurement of essential medical equipment and drugs, strengthening of surveillance including setting up of laboratories and bio-security preparedness with a view to make India ready to take on future disease outbreaks. Of the Rs 15,000 crores set aside, Rs 7774 crore will be utilised for immediate COVID-19 Emergency Response, while the balance will be for medium-term support over the next four years under a mission mode approach. The first phase of the package would cover setting up of dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, isolation wards, ICUs with ventilators and oxygen supply in hospitals. It would also include “procurement of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) and ventilators over and above what is being procured and supplied by the government of India.” Besides, the Centre also plans to strengthen pandemic research and multi-sector national institutions and platforms for One Health, community engagement and risk communication and implementation, management, capacity building, monitoring and evaluation component. The Centre has also placed orders for supply of 1.7 crore PPEs with 30 domestic manufacturers and also initiated the process to acquiring 49,000 ventilators. In a letter to chief secretaries of states, Vandana Gurnani, Additional Secretary in the Health Ministry and Mission Director of the National Health Mission, said the ministry was releasing funds under the immediate response of this package for- your- states/UT under National Health Mission for implementation of phase 1 up to June 2020 During  Phase-1, the states would also be strengthening identified laboratories and carry out expansion of diagnostics capacities, including procurement of diagnostic equipment, testing kits and other reagents and mobility support for sample transport, disinfection of hospitals, government ambulances, information education and surveillance activities.   In a letter to the addichief secretaries, principal secretaries and commissioners(Health) of all states and UTs, the Health Ministry said the 100 per cent centrally funded package will be implemented in three phases from January 2020 to March 2024. "With the objectives of emergency COVID-19 response, strengthening national and state health systems to support prevention and preparedness, procurement of essential medical equipment, consumables and drugs, strengthening of surveillance activities, including setting up of laboratories and bio-security preparedness," the letter said. According to the letter, the Union Health Ministry is releasing funds for states and Union territories under the National Health Mission for implementation of phase 1 up to June 2020. "The key activities to be implemented under Phase 1 include support to states and UTs for development of dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, isolation blocks, ICUs with ventilators oxygen supply in hospitals, strengthening of laboratories, hiring of additional human resources and incentives to human resource and community health volunteers," the letter added. It also includes strengthening of identified laboratories and expansion of diagnostic capacities and mobility support for sample transport. The ministry has also asked states and UTs to use the funds for the procurement of personal protective equipment, N-95 masks and ventilators over and above what is being procured and supplied by the central government. The activities to be undertaken also include disinfection of hospitals, government offices, public utilities and ambulances, the letter said.   The project will be implemented in three phases during the period January 2020 to March 2024 -- Phase 1 from January to June 2020, phase 2 from July to March 2021 and phase 3 from April 2021 to March 2024. The death toll due to novel coronavirus rose to 166 and the number of cases climbed to 5,734 in the country on Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of deaths announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-approves-rs-15000-crore-covid-19-emergency-response-package-for-states-uts-823291.html
09-04-2020||National||Centre not to release pending funds for MPLADS||After suspending MPLADS for next two years, the Central Government has now further tightened the scheme by deciding not to release further funds for sanctioned work in 2019-20, putting the fate of several ongoing projects in trouble. Also, MPs who have allocated money for COVID-19-related activities in 2020-21 fiscal will have to find money for this from the funds already available and which lawmakers feel will further put stress on projects they had undertaken early in the previous fiscal. The government, earlier this week, had announced suspension of the MP Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) – Rs five crore per year available for each MP for carrying out local area development – for next two fiscals that could save an expenditure of Rs 79,000 crore to help resource-crunched Centre to take up COVID-19 activities. This had invited criticism from a large section of MPs. According to a circular issued on Wednesday, the Centre has now further tightened the scheme by deciding that there will be "no further release of instalments" of MPLADS for 2020-21 and 2021-22 into the accounts of nodal district authorities. Several MPs claimed the government is yet to release the funds for 2019-20 and now they see their projects in trouble. The circular said the projects are sanctioned and awarded by district authorities under MPLADS and they will have to complete it "within the existing available funds", as "no more funds will be released for these works" in the two fiscals. The MPs are allowed to recommend change in priority of their recommendations. On MPs' pledge to COVID-19 related purchases and projects, the circular said they could carry out those but for this, no new funds will be released. Expenditure for this will have to be met from the already available funds with the district authorities by "re-prioritising or cancelling the earlier recommended work". "What happens to the work we have already commissioned earlier? Some of this may not be completed. Several local projects will be stopped. Some projects could take more than a year to complete. This is an ill-thought out circular," CPI(M)'s Rajya Sabha MP KK Ragesh told DH. Another senior MP said he has already committed Rs 1.35 crore for purchasing Personal Protection Equipment and ventilators among others for which an order has been placed. "We will have to pay when these are delivered. The government has not released Rs five crore available for 2019-20. At present, the district authorities have Rs five crore allocated in Rs 2018-19 for which work has been allocated. Now, some of those projects will face trouble as money has to be paid for COVID-19 related purchases from available funds," he said. MPs alleged that the Centre does not have a holistic idea about the emerging situation, as the pointed out that within two weeks of allowing lawmakers to use MPLADS for COVID-19 purchases, it has altogether suspended the scheme for two years. Sources said the government is also planning to direct district administrations not to give administrative sanction for any new project whose proposals it had received in the previous fiscal. No official order has been issued in this regard so far. As per the procedure, the district administration gives administration sanction to projects recommended by MPs if they follow the guidelines issued for MPLADS project. Once administrative sanction is cleared, the project has to get technical sanction which will culminate in tender and allocation of work. MPs are also concerned that the onus of completing projects and making the payments may land on state governments’ shoulders in case of non-availability of funds. "Many times, work on certain projects start even before the money is transferred to district authorities. Now, those who have taken the contract for the work will have to be paid their dues once they submit the bills. If the district authorities do not have money to pay and if the contractor takes them to court, the state will have to end up paying the money. It will be further burden on states, which are facing resource crunch because of the COVID-19 situation," an MP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-not-to-release-pending-funds-for-mplads-823301.html
09-04-2020||National||Youth beaten up, female doctors attacked in Delhi on pretext of coronavirus||The pandemic coronavirus appears to be rupturing the social fabric in the national capital -- a 22-year-old youth who returned from a Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Madhya Pradesh was beaten up in north Delhi, while two woman doctors were attacked by a man while buying fruits. In both cases, the victims were accused of trying to spread COVID-19. While the youth was accused being part of a conspiracy to spread COVID-19, the women doctors faced the brunt of a 42-year-old man who slapped them and twisted their hands after yelling at them that they should not be out on streets. Dilshad Ali was beaten up in Bawana on Sunday soon after he returned home from Bhopal where he had gone 45 days ago to attend a gathering of Tablighi Jamaat, which is now in the eye of a storm following its mid-march meeting in Delhi leading a surge in COVID-19 cases. Ali was first stopped by authorities near Azadpur vegetable market and sent home after a medical examination cleared him. As he reached his home in Bawana, rumours started spreading that he was part of a conspiracy to spread COVID-19 in the village. This led to the attack on him on Sunday, following which police rushed him to a hospital. Three persons -- Naveen, Prashant and Pramod -- were arrested on charges of wrongful restraint, assault and criminal intimidation. Police said Ali has been admitted to Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narain hospital as a COVID-19 suspect. "He is fine and being kept in COVID-19 isolation centre. As per information, there are no COVID-19 symptoms to date. The investigation officer had a telephonic conversation with him on Thursday morning in which he stated that he is fine," police said dismissing rumours emerged that he breathed his last. In another incident on Wednesday night, two women doctors, who are sisters, of capital's Safdarjung Hospital were attacked by a 42-year-old man, accusing them of spreading the virus infection. The incident took place in Gautam Nagar of South Delhi, where the doctors stay, at around 9.20 PM on Wednesday when they came out of their rented accommodation to buy fruits. The man identified as Sanjeev Sharma told them that they should not be out on the streets and asked them to stay away. He said they were not allowed to come to public places and it was because of doctors, COVID-19 is spreading. According to Safdarjung Hospital Resident Doctors Association president Dr Manish, the two doctors tried to reason with him, he told them that they were bringing problems to the locality and slapped them. "He also hit them on their neck and twisted their hands when questioned," he said. Police said the man began making remarks against the doctors and the need of social distancing as they approached the fruit stall. He also accused them of spreading the infection in residential areas. Later, police arrested the accused and a case under Sections 323 (hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 354 (assault or intent to outrage the modesty of a woman), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 509 (words, gestures used to outrage the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against him. Police said the doctors who were attacked were not on COVID-19 duty. Assuring doctors and nurses that strict action will be taken against offenders, Delhi Police spokesperson M S Randhawa said they have reviewed the security of various hospitals in the capital, including in AIIMS and Safdarjung Hospital. Healthcare professionals in Delhi and elsewhere have been complaining that they were facing harassment with house owners asking them to vacate their rented accommodation besides facing harassment from locals. The Centre and state governments had issued appeals to citizens not to harass healthcare professionals, who are on the frontline in the fight against COVID-19. Earlier this month, doctors in Telangana were attacked following the death of a COVID-19 patient while two woman doctors and civil authorities who went to a locality in Indore for COVID-19 screening were attacked. Doctors have demanded deployment of paramilitary forces in hospitals while the Delhi government has sought police deployment in hospitals and quarantine centres to tackle unruly situations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youth-beaten-up-female-doctors-attacked-in-delhi-on-pretext-of-coronavirus-823304.html
09-04-2020||National||Home Ministry's control room to help stranded people due to COVID-19 pandemic resolves 300 cases in a day||The control room set up the Union Home ministry to help people stranded due to the lockdown has been able to resolve 300 cases on a single day, an official said on Thursday. Addressing a press conference, Home Ministry Joint Secretary Punya Salila Srivastava said state governments are adopting various methods to solve problems of people stranded during lockdown. "The Home Ministry's control room solved 300 problems on Wednesday. The helpline for North Eastern region is also providing services smoothly," she said. She said the states are adopting various measures like using helplines, apps, setting up relief camps, shelters and food camps to help stranded people. The government has announced a nationwide 21-day lockdown on March 24 to contain the spread of coronavirus, asserting social distancing is possibly the only way to prevent people from contracting the deadly virus. The number of COVID-19 cases climbed to 5,734 in the country on Thursday while the death toll rose to 166, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-ministrys-control-room-to-help-stranded-people-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-resolves-300-cases-in-a-day-823317.html
09-04-2020||National||Operation SHIELD: Delhi's containment strategy for COVID-19 hotspots||Three more persons died and 51 people were tested positive for COVID-19 in the national capital on Thursday even as Delhi government unveiled 'Operation SHIELD', the strategy adopted in around 25 COVID-19 hotspots in the national capital where containment operations have started. With Thursday's figures, the toll in the capital has risen to 12 and the total number of cases to 720, including 430 that is linked to Tablighi Jamaat. While 26 people, including five who were discharged on Thursday, are out of hospital, there are 682 people with virus infection are still in hospitals. The authorities are also yet to ascertain the contact history of 41 people who have tested positive. The authorities also released 254 people from quarantine centres, after testing negative for COVID-19 on the completion of 14 days institutional quarantine while 24 people with symptoms were shifted to hospitals from the facility. A day after Delhi government sealed around 25 hotspots, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also unveiled the government's containment strategy 'Operation SHIELD'. He said Operation SHIELD -- Sealing, Home Quarantine, Isolation and Tracing, Essential supply of commodities, Local sanitisation and Door to door health check up -- is part of his government's efforts to contain COVID-19 and protect citizens. "I appeal to all living in the containment areas to cooperate with the Delhi government's Operation SHIELD. These are strict measures but are necessary to protect you and others from COVID-19," he said. The decision to seal the localities came after more cases were reported from particular localities, he said. Along with sealing, he said containment measures also include home quarantine, which is necessary to ensure that there is no spread of the virus infection. The affected persons will be isolated while efforts will be immediately put to trace his contacts. During the containment period, no one will be allowed to go out or enter the locality and supply of essential goods will be done at door step. Municipal authorities will ensure local sanitisation while door to door check up will also be conducted to ensure that all those who could possibly infected are traced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/operation-shield-delhis-containment-strategy-for-covid-19-hotspots-823331.html
09-04-2020||National||Delhi violence: High Court directs authorities to expeditiously conduct DNA test on charred body||The Delhi High Court has directed the authorities to expeditiously conduct DNA testing of a man, who was allegedly shot and burnt in the northeast Delhi violence, to confirm his identity. Justice Vibhu Bakhru, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, also asked the authorities to communicate the result of DNA testing to the victim's family on or before April 18. The court was hearing a petition by the daughter of 58-year-old Anwar Kassar, a resident of Shiv Vihar, saying that her father was shot and burnt during the violence that erupted on February 23 in northeast Delhi related to anti-CAA protests. She said in the plea that she has identified the charred body of her father but as it was in a burnt condition, DNA matching has to be done to confirm its identity and the test has not been conducted yet. She sought direction to the authorities to expeditiously conclude the DNA matching test and furnish the results in a time bound manner. The court was informed by the counsel for Delhi government that priority was being accorded to the victims of the recent violence and the DNA matching of the body identified by the petitioner would be done by April 16 as it is already underway. The plea claimed that the DNA samples were collected on February 29, and the police finally sent the samples for testing on March 16. In February, clashes broke out in northeast Delhi between the groups supporting and opposing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-violence-high-court-directs-authorities-to-expeditiously-conduct-dna-test-on-charred-body-823337.html
09-04-2020||National||Moily asks government to revive lapsed public health emergency to tackle coronavirus||Moily made the suggestion in a note attached to his letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "While I welcome some of the measures you have taken to combat COVID-19, I strongly feel some more measures should have been taken," Moily said in his letter to Modi. The former Union minister is part of the Congress task force set up last month to intensify efforts to deal with the COVID-19 situation in states in which it is the ruling party. Besides Moily, the task force also includes P Chidambaram, Jairam Ramesh and Tamradhwaj Sahu. In the note attached to his letter to Modi, the Moily said the coronavirus pandemic has resulted in serious crisis both in the health and economic sectors. "Crisis management is a governance issue that is more vital and complex and it is now in the core of India’s administrative system. The system requires innovative thinking and fundamental changes in order to quicken the emergency response of administration," he said. The UPA-I contemplated a Public Health Emergency Bill which was introduced as the Public Health (Prevention, Control and Management of Epidemics, Bio-terrorism and Disasters) Bill in 2017, he said. The new legislation gave powers to the Centre and the state governments, but this did not see the light of day and lapsed. The draft bill clearly talks about the quarantining of suspects, isolation of the infected and empowers the Centre to direct states and districts or local bodies as well as assuming of certain powers bestowed to the states if it is in public interest. "It is unfortunate that NDA failed to understand the foresight of the then government," he said.   "I think it is the right time for the government to review the status of the Public Health (Prevention, Control and Management of Epidemics, Bio-terrorism and Disasters) Bill and promulgate the ordinance to meet the present crisis," Moily said in the note. The bill was to provide for the prevention, control and management of epidemics, public health consequences of disasters, acts of bio terrorism or threats thereof and for matters connected therewith, he said. Moily also asserted that healthcare measures should not take priority over economic measures and both should be given equal priority. "If healthcare measures are the only priority, then there would not be a healthy economy for the people to thrive in. The financial and medical emergencies will have to go hand in hand," he said. "We should learn from past mistakes like demonetisation, hasty GST, merger of PSU banks and squeezing of bank loans to correct the wrongs," he said. Moily said the government should immediately prepare an action plan both for the medical and financial emergencies and implement the recommendations made in the third report on crisis management by the second Administrative Reforms Commission headed by him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/moily-asks-government-to-revive-lapsed-public-health-emergency-to-tackle-coronavirus-823338.html
09-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Assam to release over 70,000 persons after 14-days quarantine||More than 70,000 persons having travel history, who were put into quarantine, either at home or in government centres across Assam will be released on Friday (April 10). Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday (April 9) said these persons, who came back from the rest of the country after March 28, would complete 14-days of quarantine on Friday. "Our doctors and other medical staff have started tests and necessary screening of all these people. If they don't show any symptom of COVID-19, they will be allowed to go back to their homes," he said. The daily health bulletin of National Health Mission, Assam released on Wednesday (April 8) evening said a total of 78, 946 persons, who returned from other COVID-19 affected states were put into observation at homes or in quarantine centres.  Assam has reported 28 COVID-19 positive cases so far, of which 26 are related to the Nizamuddin congregation. There has been no new case in the past 48-hours but the state government is very cautious about those who came back from other states.  Hundreds were stopped at the Assam-Bengal check gates at Srirampur and Boxirhat in western Assam and were put into quarantine centres for 14-days.  Sarma said the state government is planning to bring all who are stuck in the rest of the country and are willing to come back. "They will also be put into 14-days quarantine as a precautionary measure, even if they already completed quarantine there. What if they get infected on their way home?" Sarma noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-assam-to-release-over-70000-persons-after-14-days-quarantine-823344.html
09-04-2020||National||India will do what it can, Modi says after Trump thanks him for HCQ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and United States President Donald Trump sought to move on from the hitch over the Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and reaffirm India-America partnership in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. Trump said that the US would not forget that India had relaxed the ban on the export of HCQ to enable it to procure the drug for the treatment of the COVID-19 infected Americans. “Extraordinary times require even closer cooperation between friends. Thank you India and the Indian people for the decision on HCQ. Will not be forgotten!” Trump posted on Twitter, a day after the Modi Government in New Delhi decided to relax the ban it had earlier imposed on the export of the drug. “Thank you Prime Minister @NarendraModi for your strong leadership in helping not just India, but humanity, in this fight!” added the US President, who had earlier warned of “retaliation” to step up pressure on New Delhi to relax the ban. Modi replied to Trump stating that India would do whatever it could to contribute to the efforts to contain the pandemic. “Fully agree with you President @realDonaldTrump. Times like these bring friends closer. The India-US partnership is stronger than ever,” tweeted the Prime Minister, adding: “India shall do everything possible to help humanity's fight against COVID-19. We shall win this together.” The HCQ, an anti-malaria drug, has been recommended for the treatment of COVID-19 patients, not only in India and the United States but also in many other countries around the world. The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) of the Government of India had banned the export of the anti-malaria drug on April 4 “without any exception”. This had created a roadblock for the US and the other countries to procure the drug from India. Trump had on Sunday called Modi and requested him to relax the ban so that the US could procure the drug from India. He subtly stepped up pressure on New Delhi late on Monday and warned of “retaliation” if the US was not allowed to import the drug from India. Just hours after Trump talked tough on New Delhi’s ban on the export of the HCQ, the Modi Government early on Tuesday announced that India would allow export of the drug to its neighbours in South Asia as well as some other worst COVID-19 affected countries. It hinted that the US would be among the countries, which would be allowed to procure the drug from India. The Congress and other opposition parties criticized the Modi Government for its decision to allow export of the HCQ to the US instead of strongly responding to the American President’s warning about “retaliation”. The government, however, said that it had decided to allow export of the drug only after ensuring availability of it in adequate quantities in the country to meet domestic requirements in the event of a rapid surge in the number of the people infected by the COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-do-what-it-can-modi-says-after-trump-thanks-him-for-hcq-823352.html
09-04-2020||National||Yet to decide on resuming operations post-coronavirus lockdown: Railways||The railways is waiting for the government decision on resuming the operation of the passenger trains, said a  senior official in Railways. However, IRCTC which operates three passeners train already suspended advance ticket reservation booking till April 30. Though IRCTC's decision to suspend the booking of its three trains raised speculation that the railways unlikely to resume its operation after April 14 deadline of lockdown, officials in Rail Bhavan are waiting for the government decision. "Ministry of Railways has not issued any protocol regarding passenger travel during post lockdown period, as has been incorrectly reported in some media reports As and when a decision is taken, all stakeholders would be intimated. Please do not be guided by any misleading report," Railway Ministry tweeted. The railway ministry clarification came following the media reports that the railways will follow certain protocal  before allowing the passenger to board the trains once its resume operation.Separately, the government asked railways  to be in touch with state governments about requirement of trains to transport labours to help farmers in view of starting  rabi crop harvesting season in many states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yet-to-decide-on-resuming-operations-post-coronavirus-lockdown-railways-823355.html
09-04-2020||National||Sufficient fertiliser availabile in the country - Gowda||The government will ensure that sufficient quantity of fertiliser is available across the country including Karnataka during coming Kharif season, Union fertiliser Minister D V Sadananda Gowda said on Thursday. The government is committed to supply adequate quantity of fertilisers to farmers on time. Department of fertilisers is closely monitoring the production, movement & availability of fertilisers, and is in regular touch with State Governments and Ministry of Railways, said Gowda. "As far as Karnataka is concerned, there is no shortage of seeds, fertilisers and pesticides in the State. We are working in close coordination with the Karnataka Government on this matter. As of now, the State has stock of 7.3 lakh tons against monthly requirement of 2.57 lakh tonns,Gowda said. All fertiliser plants across the country including National fertilisers Limited opeating in full capacity said the Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sufficient-fertiliser-availabile-in-the-country-gowda-823378.html
09-04-2020||National||DCGI nod awaited for plasma therapy to treat severely ill COVID-19 patients: ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Thursday said that it was finalising the protocol for convalescent plasma therapy for the treatment of severely ill COVID-19 patients. A pilot trial of convalescent plasma therapy in 10 severe COVID-19 patients has shown it may be safe and a promising therapeutic option for severe infections. “We are in the process of finalising the protocol for convalescent plasma therapy. Then we will have to take approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) before conducting any clinical trial,” Manoj Murhekar, Director, National Institute of Epidemiology, told reporters here on Thursday. The therapy involves transfusion of plasma donated by a person recovered from COVID-19 to a severely ill patients. Scientists in Wuhan saw improvement in severely ill patients within three days of transfusion of convalescent plasma. Murhekar also said that the therapy will not be used for all patients, but only for severe cases such as those on ventilator support. He said that many countries have found it successful in limited clinical trials. “It is only for severe patients who are on ventilators and not for patients with less severity,” Murhekar said. Kerala government had sought permission to use the convalescent plasma therapy on an experimental basis on severely ill patients. Murhekar said the ICMR had tested 1.3 lakh samples so far of which 5734 have tested positive. “The rate of positive cases ranged between 3% and 5% in the last one-and-a-half months. It has not increased substantially,” Murhekar said. Besides, two Council of Scientific and Industrial Research labs – Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology in Hyderabad and Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology in New Delhi – have started working on genomic sequencing to understand the evolution of the COVID-19 virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-nod-awaited-for-plasma-therapy-to-treat-severely-ill-covid-19-patients-icmr-823380.html
09-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Special flight to repatriate Swiss, European nationals from Mumbai, Delhi||Swiss airlines on Thursday operated a special flight from Zurich to Mumbai and New Delhi to repatriate Swiss and European nationals stranded in India due to cancellation of commercial international flights in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. The special flight, a wide-bodied A330 aircraft, is scheduled to depart from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai on Thursday at 9.45 pm local time and reach Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi shortly past midnight. The return flight, LX147 from Delhi to Zurich, is scheduled to depart at 1.35 am in the small hours of Friday carrying Swiss and other European nationals home at a time when no international flights are operating to and from India due to the global air traffic lockdown. “We are tasked with the duty and privilege to bring people back to their homes in this time of unprecedented global crisis. We are thankful to be able to help the government officials in India and Switzerland with this special flight,” George Ettiyil, Senior Director Sales South Asia – Lufthansa Group, said. SWISS, the airline of Switzerland, serves over 100 destinations in 45 countries worldwide from Zurich and Geneva and carrying some 19 million passengers a year with its fleet of around 90 aircraft. Since March 14, Lufthansa Group airlines – SWISS, Austrian Airlines, Lufthansa, and Eurowings – have flown around 220 special flights back to the home countries of Germany, Austria, Switzerland, and Belgium, involving more than 40,000 holiday makers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-special-flight-to-repatriate-swiss-european-nationals-from-mumbai-delhi-823386.html
09-04-2020||National||India assures support to Uganda to fight coronavirus||India on Thursday assured Uganda that it would extend all possible support to Kampala in its efforts to control the spread of the novel coronavirus.   The assurance was given when Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke with Ugandan President Yoweri Kaguta Museveni.  The two leaders discussed the health and economic challenges arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic, an official statement said.  "The prime minister assured President Museveni that India stands in solidarity with its friends in Africa during the present health crisis, and would extend all possible support to the Ugandan government's efforts to control the spread of the virus in its territory," it said. Modi expressed his appreciation for the goodwill and care extended to the Indian diaspora in Uganda by the government and society, including during the present situation.   Modi warmly recalled his visit to Uganda in July 2018, and touched on the special nature of India-Uganda ties.   Both leaders hoped that the world would soon prevail over the challenge of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-assures-support-to-uganda-to-fight-coronavirus-823389.html
09-04-2020||National||Health Ministry stresses on rational use of PPEs, says India has sufficient stock amid coronavirus||Thed Union Health Ministry on Thursday stressed on the rational use of personal protective equipment (PPE) by healthcare workers treating coronavirus patients amid concerns over their dwindling numbers in the country. Joint Secretary at the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said there is no need to panic as India has sufficient stocks of PPEs and the government is making all efforts to augment their supply further. Addressing a daily briefing at 4 pm to provide updates on the COVID-19 situation, he said that 20 domestic manufacturing companies of PPEs have been developed. "Orders for 1.7 crore PPEs have already been placed with them and supply has already begun," Agarwal said. Since Wednesday, 540 cases of the coronavirus infection and 17 deaths have been reported, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in India to 5,734 and death toll to 166, he said. Over the availability of PPEs, he said, "No needs to believe any rumour or have any fear regarding the availability of such items. Our guidelines state that not only PPEs should be made available, but they should be used rationally on the basis of risk profile." He underlined the usage of PPEs on the basis of the three defined zones --low risk, moderate risk and high risk -- and said all the components of PPEs like masks, coveralls, boots, goggles and gloves among others should be used in high risk areas like emergency, mortuary or in laboratories collecting samples. "It (PPE) should be used as per requirement, and as I have told you, I can use four N-95 masks within a day, or I can use just one within a day. While the central government is augmenting supplies to the states, we are also requesting them to use them rationally," he said. Orders for 49,000 ventilators have been placed, Agarwal said. Speaking about the initiatives taken by the government, he said the Health Ministry has formed 10 high-level multi-disciplinary central teams and they have sent to nine states to support them with the containment plans, hospital management and ventilator management. The nine states are Bihar, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telengana and Uttar Pradesh.  Agarwal said that the Group of Ministers meeting chaired by the health minister reviewed the current status and actions for prevention and management of coronavirus. They focused on containment measures and setting up of dedicated hospitals for COVID -19 in the states during their discussions.They also discussed on the strategy for increasing lab testing in hotspots and cluster areas.  According to an ICMR official, 1,30,000 samples have been tested for coronavirus so far in the country out of which 5,734 have tested positive. "If we see the positivity rate ranged between 3 to 5 per cent in the last one and half months and it has not increased substantially," he said. The ICMR official further said that India is in the final stages of finalising protocol for conducting clinical trial on convalescent plasma therapy. They will also have to take approval from DCG before conducting the trial. The official said the therapy is not currently used or prescribed for patients and as of now it will be used only in clinical trials. The therapy, he said, has been successful in limited clinical trials in some countries on severely ill patients. Convalescent Plasma therapy is a process in which blood plasma from a patient who has recovered from COVID-19 is infused into a critically ill patient so that the specific antibodies present in the blood of the recovered person can help fight the infection. The official also said that the Indian Railways has produced about six lakh reusable face masks and over 4,000 litres of hand sanitiser. It has also converted 3,250 coaches into COVID-19 isolation units with beds and a total of 5,000 coaches are to be converted, Agarwal said. The joint secretary said that the Centre has approved the "India COVID-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package" for significant investments to the tune of Rs 15,000 crore.The funds sanctioned will be utilized for immediate COVID-19 Emergency Response (amount of Rs 7,774 crore) and rest for medium-term support (1-4 years) to be provided under mission-mode approach.          The key objectives of the package include mounting emergency response to slow and limit the disease in India through the development of diagnostics and COVID-19 dedicated treatment facilities, centralized procurement of essential medical equipment and drugs, strengthen and build resilient national and state health systems to support preparedness for future disease outbreaks, setting up of laboratories and bolstering surveillance activities, Agarwal said. The project will be implemented in three phases during the period January 2020 to March 2024. Phase 1 from January to June 2020, phase 2 from July to March 2021 and phase 3 from April 2021 to March 2024.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-stresses-on-rational-use-of-ppes-says-india-has-sufficient-stock-amid-coronavirus-823392.html
09-04-2020||National||Central Railway: Silent warriors ensure smooth transport of essential goods during COVID-19||Freight movement is being closely monitored by officials at a very senior level as the nation’s supply is depending on it. The Central Railway is working overtime to ensure that freight movement is seamless.  Many of its staff who are silently working during the difficult times presently understand and continue bravely under difficult circumstances. V.M Rajan, Chief Yard Master, Kalyan Goods Yard is one such silent warrior who played an important role to run goods trains during lockdown due to COVID-19. He managed to run 311 goods trains by judiciously arranging goods drivers, guards, and other staff available at his command to cater strategic movement of essential commodities.  He also managed to run the goods train even though, the availability of working staff is limited due to the non-availability of transportation and social issues.  Apart from this, he has also managed to run 4 dedicated parcel services between Kalyan-Sankrail, Kalyan-Changsari, Kalyan-Hazrat Nizamuddin and Haridwar-Kalyan to supply essential medicines, sanitizer, gloves, masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-railway-silent-warriors-ensure-smooth-transport-of-essential-goods-during-covid-19-823394.html
09-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Radio listenership increases by 23 per cent : Study||In a bid to beat the lockdown boredom, more and more people are tuning in to radio for information and entertainment with a latest study saying that the time spent on the audio medium has increased by 23 per cent to 2.36 hours everyday, second only to television. The study, commissioned by the Association of Radio Operators for India (AROI), also said radio industry has witnessed a listenership of 51 million people, which is nearly as much as television''s reach of 56 million and social media''s reach of 57 million. India is under a 21-day nationwide lockdown since March 25 to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. "Radio has always been a constant companion to everyone, both in good and tough times. It is one medium that has a pan-India reach right from the grassroot level to the metros," AROI said in a statement. According to the study done by the AZ Research across a sample size of 3,300 people, 82 per cent people have been tuning in to radio during COVID-19, with FM channels emerging as the second most credible source of information for the masses.  As per the research, radio has a credibility score of 6.27, second only to the internet which is at 6.44, while TV has a score of 5.74.  Radio’s at home listenership has jumped by 22 per cent to 86 per cent from 64 per cent.  "The time that people spend listening to radio has increased by 23 per cent to 2.36 hours everyday during the lockdown, second only to television," the study said. Anuradha Prasad, AROI president, said, "it is very encouraging to note that Radio is evolving as one of the most preferred and most credible source of infotainment. We are now almost catching up on TV in terms of audience, the rise of 23 per cent in total time spent per person on radio is phenomenal." CEO of BigFM Abraham Thomas said, the findings are in line with his company's expectations as there was a sizeable increase in the response and engagement levels to the content since the outbreak of this pandemic. "Radio has led by example during this time and the feeling of knowing that you’re making a difference in the lives of our listeners is truly amazing," he added. Ashit Kukian, CEO Radio City, said that since its inception, radio has maintained its widespread reach and due to its ease of accessibility, it has turned out to be one of the most accessed mediums.  "With these latest findings, it yet again proves that radio is one of those mediums which has the power to create awareness on local and national issues," he said. Harshad Jain, CEO – Radio and Entertainment, HT Media Ltd and Next Mediaworks Ltd.--  said as the COVID-19 pandemic takes over the world, the role of entertainment mediums become all the more crucial. Radio being a critical medium has the dual responsibility of not only entertaining the listeners, but also ensuring that correct and genuine information reaches the country’s citizens, Jain said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-radio-listenership-increases-by-23-per-cent-study-823395.html
09-04-2020||National||Indian Navy distribute food to migrant workers||In order to provide assistance to those in need during the COVID-19 lockdown in Mumbai, the Indian Navy has provided ration packets consisting basic food items to the State Government authorities for distribution amongst stranded migrant labourers. The office of the District Collector for Mumbai City had requested Indian Navy assistance to provide relief to the large number of migrant labourers who are stranded in the lockdown.  Acting on the request, the Western Naval Command promptly arranged around 250 ration packets on 4 April. The packets contained adequate quantities of food items and these were handed over to the local authorities near Musafir Khana market and at the Collector Office near Asiatic Library. Distribution points were set up at Cuffe Parade and Kalbadevi. On 8 April, an additional 500 ration packets were provided to the local authorities and also distributed amongst the stranded construction workers at the Kamathipura area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-distribute-food-to-migrant-workers-823405.html
09-04-2020||National||Amid lockdown, Naxalites gun down gangster in Bihar||Though complete lockdown has been enforced in Bihar, armed Naxalites on Wednesday night gunned down a dreaded gangster Ramanand Yadav, his relative and a close associate in the hour-long gunbattle. The incident, which left five others injured, took place when armed Naxalites, owing alliance to the banned outfit CPI (Maoist), gheraoed Ramanand and his men on the border of Khagaria-Saharsa district. The gangster, who was wanted by the Bihar Police in connection with more than a dozen cases of kidnapping, loot and murder in five districts – Saharsa, Madhubani, Darbhanga, Samastipur and Khagaria, had gone to Khagaria to attend the last rites of his brother-in-law. Ramanand, who had a running feud with the Naxalites of the area, was being closely tracked by the outlawed outfit throughout Wednesday. While returning from the funeral, he was gheraoed by the Naxalites, who were in the police uniform. Before the gangster and his men could react, a gunfight ensued in which Ramanand, his nephew and a close associate were killed in the intermittent firing. The Naxalites escaped from the place of occurrence under the cover of darkness. It was the same diara (riverine belt) area near Khagaria where Ramanand had given the Special Task Force (STF) of Bihar Police a slip when they trapped him a month back.  “However, on April 8 evening, the Naxalites were sharper than the cops and targeted the gangster with clinical precision,” said a source in Khagaria.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-lockdown-naxalites-gun-down-gangster-in-bihar-823410.html
09-04-2020||National||Surveillance beefed up to contain coronavirus spread as death toll crosses 200, positive cases above 6,600||From making masks mandatory to restricting movement of people in areas identified as COVID-19 hotspots, authorities across several states on Thursday beefed up surveillance and enforcement measures to contain the deadly virus outbreak as the nationwide tally of confirmed cases crossed 6,600 with at least 225 dead. The Centre also announced a Rs 15,000 crore "India COVID-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package", while Odisha became the first state to extend the lockdown further till April 30 and also announced closure of schools till June 17. Several other states including Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Chhattisgarh said they will take a final decision in the coming days on whether to extend or not the 21-day nationwide lockdown, which entered its 16th day. Fresh cases were reported from Gujarat, Bihar, Odisha, Karnataka, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Jammu & Kashmir, Rajasthan and West Bengal, among other places, while Maharashtra saw its tally of confirmed infections crossing 1,300 with at least 97 deaths. A PTI tally of numbers reported by various states and union territories at 9 PM showed as many as 6,624 people having contracted the virus and at least 225 losing their lives so far. Nearly 600 have so far been cured and discharged. However, the Union Home Ministry's evening update said 169 people have died across the country with 5,865 total cases so far. The ministry said 591 new cases and 20 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours. According to ICMR, nearly 1.3 lakh samples have been tested for coronavirus so far in the country and the rate of those confirming positive has ranged between 3-5 per cent in the last one and half months without showing any substantial increase. Of the 20 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, in the Health Ministry tally, eight were from Maharashtra, three each from Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, two from Jammu and Kashmir and one each from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, as per the Ministry. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of COVID-19 deaths at 97, followed by 30 in Madhya Pradesh. Gujarat, Delhi and Telangana have so far reported their death tolls in low double digits, while Jharkhand reported its first COVID-19 death on Thursday. The Union Health Ministry also stressed on the rational use of personal protective equipments (PPEs) by healthcare workers treating coronavirus patients amid concerns over their dwindling numbers in the country. Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said there is no need to panic as India has sufficient stocks of PPEs and the government is making all efforts to augment their supply further. At his daily briefing on the COVID-19 situation, he said orders for 1.7 crore PPEs have already been placed with domestic manufacturers and supply has already begun. He also said PPEs should be used rationally on the basis of risk profile. Orders for 49,000 ventilators have been placed too, Agarwal said. Speaking about various initiatives taken by the government, Agarwal said the Health Ministry has formed 10 high-level multi-disciplinary central teams and they have been sent to nine states to support them with the containment plans, hospital management and ventilator management. These are Bihar, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telengana and Uttar Pradesh. According to ICMR, India is also in the final stages of finalising protocol for conducting clinical trial on convalescent plasma therapy -- a process in which blood plasma from a patient who has recovered from COVID-19 is infused into a critically ill patient so that the specific antibodies present in the blood of the recovered person can help fight the infection. Amid rising numbers across states, authorities announced strict measures to enforce the lockdown and further restrictions including complete sealing of areas identified as hotspots of the virus spread. After extending the lockdown for two more weeks, Odisha government also promulgated an ordinance with provision of imprisonment up to two years for those who violate the epidemic regulations. Rajasthan made it mandatory for people to wear masks in urban areas and mandis, while the same was made compulsory for everyone stepping out in Madhya Pradesh as also for people in various cities of Mahrashtra besides Mumbai. Delhi and Uttar Pradesh had announced similar measures on Wednesday. Also, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh expanded the list of containment zones that would be sealed off completely, after similar steps taken by Delhi and Uttar Pradesh a day before. The Maharashtra government is also mulling complete shutdown in certain areas, including of markets. The state saw the total number of people having tested positive reach 1,364 -- the highest in the country. Tamil Nadu came a distant second at 834, followed by 720 in Delhi as on Thursday evening. Telangana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have reported over 400 cases each, followed by Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh among other states. In Karnataka, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said all his cabinet colleagues are of unanimous opinion to extend the lockdown for about 15 days after April 14, and a final decision in this regard will be taken after consulting the Prime Minister. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to interact with all chief ministers on Saturday to discuss the way forward in the COVID-19 fight, including the lockdown. A committee of health experts tasked with devising an exit strategy for coronavirus lockdown in Karnataka have recommended its continuation in "hotspots" along with some relaxations. It has advocated restrictions on public transport to continue for some more time, an odd-even formula for private vehicles and factories being allowed to function with 50 per cent staff, among other measures. In Jharkhand, Chief Minister Hemant Soren said lifting the lockdown is a "big challenge" and must be given a considered thought. In an interview to PTI, he said the spread of the coronavirus has been kept in check in his state, but things could change if a large number of people return to the state from other parts of the country. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami said a decision on extending the lockdown will be taken after getting expert advice and taking into account the increase in the number of coronavirus positive cases. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said he would take a decision only after consulting the state cabinet on April 12. In Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal warned of strict action against those misbehaving with healthcare personnel in the city in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The came a day after two women resident doctors of Safdarjung Hospital were assaulted following rumours that they are "spreading COVID-19" in the Gautam Nagar area. The pandemic has also seen a sharp rise in hate crimes. A Maharashtra cyber police official said they have noted an increase in fake news, hate and communal content over coronavirus on social media in the last few days. The state cyber police have registered 132 cases till Wednesday in connection with fake news, rumours and hate speeches on social media since the lockdown. As the pandemic and the ongoing lockdown continued to weigh heavily on economic activities, the Reserve Bank expressed hope that recent monetary and fiscal measures will mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on domestic demand and spur growth once the normalcy is restored. In its Monetary Policy Report, the RBI said the lockdown following the outbreak of COVID-19 and expected contraction in global outlook would weigh heavily on the growth outlook. Bank of America Securities said in a report that the Centre may soon announce another fiscal package which should be almost similar to the Rs 1.75 lakh crore stimulus announced last month. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) projected that the year 2020 could see the worst global economic fallout since the Great Depression in the 1930s with over 170 countries expected to experience negative per capita income growth due to the raging coronavirus pandemic. More than 15 lakh have tested positive worldwide since the deadly virus first emerged in China last December, while nearly 87,000 have lost lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/surveillance-beefed-up-to-contain-coronavirus-spread-as-death-toll-crosses-200-positive-cases-above-6600-823411.html
09-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Tata Sky, Airtel DTH to air HRD Ministry's educational Swayam Prabha channels during lockdown||Tata Sky and Airtel DTH will air three educational Swayam Prabha channels run by the HRD Ministry during the COVID-19 lockdown, according to Union Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank'. "To enable learners to continue their education and learning even sitting at home in this difficult situation arisen due to unfortunate outbreak of COVID-19, Tata Sky and Airtel DTH operators were requested to air some SWAYAM PRABHA channels on their DTH platform and they have agreed to do so," Nishank said. SWAYAM PRABHA is a group of 32 DTH channels providing quality educational curriculum-based course contents covering diverse disciplines such as arts, science, commerce, performing arts, social sciences and humanities subjects, engineering, technology, medicine and agriculture to all teachers, students and citizens across the country interested in lifelong learning. These channels were earlier available only on DD-DTH, Dish TV and Jio TV App.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-tata-sky-airtel-dth-to-air-hrd-ministrys-educational-swayam-prabha-channels-during-lockdown-823415.html
09-04-2020||National||BCG offers protection from coronavirus, suggests new study||A nearly 100-year-old vaccine against tuberculosis appears to have imparted some kind of protection against COVID-19 with two studies demonstrating that nations with a BCG vaccination programme report nearly ten times less number of pandemic patients as well as deaths. Most of the European countries including Italy, Spain and France, as well as the USA do not offer BCG as a part of their national immunization schemes. They are now among the worst affected with thousands of deaths."Over the preceding 15 days, the incidence of COVID-19 was 38.4 per million in countries with BCG  vaccination compared to 358.4 per million in the absence of such a programme. The death rate was 4.28 per million in countries with BCG programmes compared to 40 per million in countries," says a study released by four researchers from the USA and Europe on March 27. "We found that over the 15 days period that we looked at (March 9-24) incidence and mortality from COVID-19 was almost 10 times lower in countries that had a BCG vaccination programme in place,"  Ashish M Kamat, a researcher at M D Anderson Cancer Centre at University of Texas and one of the coauthors of the study told DH. Similar conclusions were drawn by a second study conducted by the scientists at the New York Institute of Technology. The researchers argued that the difference in the pandemic pattern in different countries might be partially explained by BCG vaccination."We found that countries without universal policies of BCG vaccination (Italy, the Netherlands, USA) have been more severely affected compared to countries with universal and long standing BCG policies," the New York researchers noted. Countries that have a late start of universal BCG policy (Iran that began in 1984) had high mortality, consistent with the idea that BCG protects the vaccinated elderly population. "It is very evident that there is an inverse relationship between BCG vaccination and the incidence of COVID-19. The best example is Spain, where there is no mass vaccination and now has high incidence and mortality. But the neighboring Portugal, which is BCG vaccinated witnesses far less incidence and mortality," commented immunologist Gobardhan Das, a professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University who works on BCG vaccine but not associated with either of the two studies mentioned above. Brazil and Japan too were mass immunized with BCG and had far less incidence and mortality than that of the USA, Spain, and many  other European countries, he said. While China with a universal BCG policy since the 1950s  may be cited as an aberration to the hypothesis, the New York researchers offer an explanation."During the Cultural Revolution (1966-1976), TB prevention and treatment agencies were disbanded and weakened. We speculate that this could have created a pool of potential hosts that would be affected by and spread COVID-19," they reported. None of the two studies have been published in a peer-reviewed journal but shared among the academic community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bcg-offers-protection-from-coronavirus-suggests-new-study-823424.html
09-04-2020||National||India, Russia agree to cooperate with each other, share medical supplies to deal with coronavirus||India and Russia on Thursday deliberated on the fast evolving global situation arising out of the coronavirus crisis and decided to help each other in facilitating any requirement of medicines and medical equipment to deal with the pandemic. The decision was taken during a telephonic conversation between Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov, government sources said. The two sides also shared their respective domestic response strategies to deal with the pandemic which has claimed lives of over 88,000 people and infected around 15 lakh in close to 190 countries. Russia has reported over 10,000 cases of the infection and 76 deaths while the number positive cases of the virus in India is over 5,730 with 166 deaths. Morgulov thanked Shringla for facilitating the evacuation of Russia nationals stranded in India. Shringla is understood to have enquired about well-being of around 15,000 Indian students studying in Russia. "The two sides exchanged notes on the evolving situation relating to spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and the respective national efforts by both the countries to combat and contain it," said a source. It is not clear whether Russia is among growing number of countries seeking supply of hydroxychloroquine to treat the coronavirus infected people. India is supplying hydroxychloroquine to the US and several other countries hit hard by the pandemic. The drug has been cited by many as a viable therapeutic solution to fight coronavirus infection. The sources said both sides decided to remain in close touch with regard to the COVID-19 situation as well as on key bilateral and multilateral matters. On preparations for annual summits of key groupings, the BRICS and the SCO, Morgulov conveyed to Shringla that various preparatory meetings are being organised through video conferencing. At present, Russia is holding chair of both the groupings. The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) is considered a powerful grouping, representing around 42 per cent of the world's population and 20 per cent of the global GDP. The members of the SCO are Russia, China, Kyrgyz Republic, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, India and Pakistan. The BRICS (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) is also an influential bloc which represents over 3.6 billion people, or half of the world population and have a combined GDP of USD 16.6 trillion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-russia-agree-to-cooperate-with-each-other-share-medical-supplies-to-deal-with-coronavirus-823433.html
09-04-2020||National||India slams China over comments on Jammu and Kashmir||India on Thursday strongly rejected remarks on Jammu and Kashmir by a spokesperson of China's permanent mission to the United Nations, asserting that the union territory "has been, is and shall continue" to be its integral part. Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava said India expects China to refrain from commenting on the country's internal affairs and respect its sovereignty and territorial integrity. He said India also expects China to recognise and condemn the scourge of cross-border terrorism that affects the lives of the people of India, including in Jammu and Kashmir. The spokesperson of China's permanent mission in the UN said the Kashmir issue remained high on the UN Security Council's agenda and China is very closely monitoring the current situation in occupied Kashmir. At present, China is holding presidency of the UNSC. The official also reportedly said that the Kashmir issue is a dispute left from history and should be properly and peacefully resolved. "We reject the reference to Jammu and Kashmir in a statement made by the spokesperson of the Permanent Mission of the People's Republic of China to the United Nations," Srivastava said. He was responding to a query on the remarks by the Chinese spokesperson. "China is well aware of India's consistent position on this issue. The Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir has been, is and shall continue to be an integral part of India. Issues related to J and K are internal matter to India," he said. "It is, therefore, our expectation that other countries, including China, would refrain from commenting on matters that are internal affairs of India and respect India's sovereignty and territorial integrity," he said. China has been critical of India's reorganisation of J-K, and has particularly criticised New Delhi for making Ladakh a union territory. China lays claim over several parts of Ladakh. China has unsuccessfully attempted to raise the issue in the UN after India announced its decision in August last year to withdraw Jammu and Kashmir's special status and bifurcate the state into two union territories. In August, China pushed for a UNSC meeting on Kashmir after India's decision. However, the attempt was foiled by other member-states of the powerful body. India's decisions on Kashmir had also cast a shadow over Chinese President Xi Jinping's visit to India in October last year for the second informal summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. However, notwithstanding the acrimony over the issue between the two countries, Modi and Xi held "successful" talks in Mamallapuram in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-slams-china-over-comments-on-jammu-and-kashmir-823439.html
09-04-2020||National||Actual coronavirus cases at least four times the reported count: Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw||The actual COVID-19 positive cases in the country will be at least four times the reported count, biotech entrepreneur Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw said on Thursday, citing large number of people under quarantine without being tested. Pitching for random testing, she also wanted making wearing of face masks mandatory in public space. The country's death toll due to the COVID-19 rose to 166 and the number of cases to 5,734 in the country, according to the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. A total of 1,30,000 samples had been tested for COVID-19 so far. "I am sure the number (of positive cases) is much larger. It has to be much larger. If you look at the numbers in quarantine itself who have not been tested, I would say at least four times that number it will be, minimum," Mazumdar- Shaw told PTI. Testing only those with symptoms is not such a great idea. A lot of asymptomatic people are also positive. It's also important to do some amount of random testing in the clusters. You need to do lot more testing. The more you test, the more positives you get. Only redeeming feature is that the number of those getting into ICU or dying is not huge, she said. The Chairman and Managing Director of Biocon Ltd said she personally believes that schools and colleges - high risk areas where the virus can easily spread - should be shut till June end. Social distancing has to be continued, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/actual-coronavirus-cases-at-least-four-times-the-reported-count-kiran-mazumdar-shaw-823446.html
09-04-2020||National Politics||Condemnation of Jamaat's proclivities muted: Manish Tewari||Tewari also went to the extent of disagreeing with his colleague and former party general secretary Shakeel Ahmed, who latched on to a tweet of Tewari quoting a minister from Punjab region of Pakistan as saying that Tablighi Jamaat has spread maximum Corona in Punjab of Pakistan. “It means Tablighi Jamaat is doing Corona Jehad even in Pakistan,” Ahmed said sarcastically. Tewari retorted by saying that what it means is that some people also need to use their brains (matlab hai bhai ki kuch logon ko Apni Akal Istemal Karne Ki Zaroorat Hai). “Forget Permissions, what about Common-sense? Is Tableghi Jamat disconnected from the world around? Why the congregation ?&some of us should start calling out what is wrong & not wallow in victimhood,” he said responding to Ahmed’s tweet. Tewari rued that the “condemnation of proclivities of Tablighi Jamat by progressives was muted” in India while “reaction against them was stronger in Pakistan & Islamic Nations.” He said if mainstream Muslims do not speak strongly against such incidents then it gives bigots a chance to equate Tablighi Jamaat with all Muslims. Earlier tweeting a video clip, Tewari had said, “I think Tablighi Jamaat needed to be careful not only in India but across the world. Listen to the Health Minister of Punjab (Pakistan)how they account for a bulk of cases in Pakistan. There comes a time when you call a spade a spade. You strengthen bigots by not speaking up. “ As Tewari’s remarks kicked up a storm of reactions, the Congress leader replying to a tweet said, “one act of obtuseness sets back years of sustained effort to keep the syncretic spirit of this nation alive & kicking. It plays into the hands of bigots who want to communalise everything including virus by labelling it as CoronaJihad.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/condemnation-of-jamaats-proclivities-muted-manish-tewari-823379.html
09-04-2020||National Politics||CM Chouhan blames Tablighi Jamaat for COVID-19 spread in Madhya Pradesh||Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday squarely blamed the Tablighi Jamaat for spread of the COVID-19 in Madhya Pradesh, saying health and police personnel contacted the infection in the process of identifying and carrying the Jamaat attendees to hospitals. Personnel of the two crucial government departments account for bulk of the COVID-19 positive patients. Number of infection cases went up to 407 in the state by Thursday afternoon and the death toll has gone up to 33. The pandemic is spreading in small towns of the state after having infected a large number of patients in big towns such as Bhopal and Indore. Over two dozen cases were detected in smaller town in the last two days. According to the chief minister, the carriers of the virus to these towns were Jamat members who had returned from Nizamuddin two weeks ago. He warned that hidden Jamaat members to come out for screening, otherwise strict action will be taken against them. Owing to detection of fresh cases in adjoining districts, three big cities Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain have been completely sealed. Indore recorded six deaths on Wednesday and 40 more cases, taking the number of patients to 213.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cm-chouhan-blames-tablighi-jamaat-for-covid-19-spread-in-madhya-pradesh-823383.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Impact: Here is the full list of areas sealed in Delhi||The Delhi government on Wednesday named 20 coronavirus hotspots - mostly small pockets of settlements and apartment complexes - and sealed these areas. The AAP government further made it compulsory for people to wear face masks when stepping outdoors to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. Later in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called the pandemic a "social emergency" hinting at an extension of the nation-wide 21-day lockdown. As the national capital reported 93 new cases taking the total number of infections to 669, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal held an emergency meeting with senior ministers and top officials of the Delhi government Wednesday evening and took a series of decisions to check the spread of the virus. In a tweet that followed the meeting, he said, “Wearing of facial masks can reduce the spread of coronavirus substantially. Therefore, it has been decided that facial masks will be compulsory for anyone stepping out of their house. Cloth mask shall be eligible too.” According to the government, the 20 hotspots include parts of Sangam Vihar, Malviya Nagar and Jahangir Puri that have been notified as "containment areas". Here are the hotspots that are now closed in Delhi:   1. Entire affected street near Gandhi Park, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi2. Entire affected street of Gali No 6, L 1 Sangam Vihar, New Delhi.3. Shahjahanabad society, plot no 1, Sector 11, Dwarka.4. Deenpur (Dinpur) Village.5.Markaz Masjid and Nizamuddin Basti.6. Nizamuddin West (G and D block) areas.7. B Block Jhangirpuri.8. H. No 141 to H. No 180, Gali No. 14, Kalyanpuri Delhi9. Mansara Apartments, Vasundhara Enclave, Delhi10. 3 Galis of Khichirpur including Gali containing H. No. 5/387 Khichirpur Delhi11. Gali No 9, Pandav Nagar, Delhi 110092.12. Vardhaman Apartments, Mayur Vihar, Phase I, Extension, Delhi13. Mayurdhwaj Apartments, I P Extension, Patparganj, Delhi14. Gali no. 4, from H. No. J- 3/115  ( Nagar Dairy) to H. No. J- 3/108( towards Anar wali Masjid Chowk), Kishan Kunj Extension, Delhi15. Gali No. 4, from H. No J- 3/101 to H. No. J - 3/107 Krishan Kunj Extension Delhi.16. Gali No. 5, A Block ( From H No. A- 176 to A-189), WestVinod NagarDelhi 110092.17. J & K, L and H pockets Dilshad Garden18. G, H, J, Blocks old Seemapuri19. F- 70 to 90 block Dilshad Colony20. Pratap Khand, Jhilmil Colony. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia also announced saying, "Nobody will be allowed to enter or exit from these areas” and the government will ensure delivery of essential items there." Government sources said some more areas are likely to be sealed on Thursday and that the measure will remain in force till the situation improves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-impact-here-is-the-full-list-of-areas-sealed-in-delhi-823115.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Why Delhi’s tony Bengali Market was sealed||For mouth-watering 'golgappas' and north Indian street food, people throng Bengali Market in Tansen Marg of Lutyen's Delhi, barely a kilometre from Connaught Place and two from Parliament House. But on Wednesday, this tiny market founded in 1930 was cordoned off and sealed as police patrolled the tony locality, after a COVID-19 surveillance team found 35 workers staying in a small room in one of the landmark pastry shops of the capital, throwing all advise on social distancing and caution to the wind. Two among them were "febrile" or showing symptoms of fever Now, the residents in the locality are confined to their homes and not allowed to move out, as the owner of the pastry shop that sees huge footfall on a normal day is claimed to have turned a blind eye towards his workers. All started with a surveillance team of New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) along with police carried out intensive house to house survey in Bengali Market after three persons living in the locality tested positive for COVID-19 with an aim to find people with 'influenza like illness/fever'. During the exercise, 325 houses and two markets in Bengali Market, which was founded by a businessman Bengali Mal Lohia, were surveyed and around 2,000 people screened. It was during this exercise that they found two workers who were very unwell living in "unhygienic" conditions in 'Bengali Pastry Shop'. To the utter shock of the team, they found another 35 people staying in the same shop "within the small space", attracting the "potential threat" of the spread of Covid-19 and the owner of the shop not taking any steps to provide facilities for his workers. "The act on the part of the owner of M/s Bengali Pastry Shop...is not only highly irresponsible and contrary to the various provisions of Disaster Management Act 2005 read with Epidemic Disease Act 1897 and regulations made thereunder besides against the penal provision of Indian Penal Code," wrote New Delhi District Magistrate Tanvi Garg in her order. In a statement, Bengali Pastry Shop said it has been "implicated by the media for giving shelter to 35 staff members" belonging to three different establishments. "Widespread defamation has naturally followed. "The people who were living with us were taking shelter in our establishment as they could not go back to their respective home-towns due to the immediate lockdown carried out in the country," it said on Twitter, claiming media reports were "incorrect". Soon after the incident came to light, Garg ordered that the locality be sanitised the entire area under the containment plan to prevent "further spread" of COVID-19 in the adjoining areas of Bengali Market, whose links to the state of West Bengal is only in its name.On her orders, police immediately cordoned off the area to "prevent the movement of persons out of the vicinity of Bengali Market" and initiated action against the owner of the pastry shop. While the two who were unwell were shifted to a hospital for COVID-19 testing, the 35 others were shifted to a shelter home. Civil and police authorities have now been instructed "not to allow" residents in the area to move out of their houses and to ensure door to door supply of essential commodities in the locality in coordination with market associations or by any appropriate mechanism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-why-delhi-s-tony-bengali-market-was-sealed-823109.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||3-year-old girl allegedly raped in Jammu and Kashmir's Ramban by neighbour||A three-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her neighbour while she was playing outside her house in Ramban district of Jammu and Kashmir, a police officer said on Wednesday. The accused, Pawan Singh (18), was arrested and a case under relevant sections of law including POCSO Act was registered against him, the official said. He said the girl was playing in the courtyard of her house when Singh took her to his room and allegedly raped her. The cries of the girl attracted the attention of her mother who rushed to the spot but the accused fled the scene, the officer said, adding police after receiving the complaint from the parents arrested the accused. The medical examination of the girl was conducted and further investigation is on, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-year-old-girl-allegedly-raped-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-ramban-by-neighbour-823123.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||3 Tablighi Jamaat members test positive for COVID-19 in UP's Muzaffarnagar||Three members of the Tablighi Jamaat tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar on Wednesday. According to Chief Medical Officer Praveen Chopra, they had taken samples of 27 members of the Jamaat, three of which were found infected with the infection. He said the Jamaat members had already been quarantined. He said, meanwhile, a woman from the district tested positive for the virus in Noida. Precautionary measures have been taken after receiving reports of the four cases, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-tablighi-jamaat-members-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-ups-muzaffarnagar-823129.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Fire breaks out at Lucknow hospital, none hurt||A fire broke out on the second floor of the trauma centre at Lucknow's King George's Medical University late in the night Fire tenders were rushed to the spot to douse the flames, police said. No patient was injured in the incident as they were promptly shifted to a safer place, an official said. Additional Chief Secretary Home Awanish Awasthi said the fire was caused by a short-circuit. It was promptly controlled and no patient was affected, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-at-lucknow-hospital-none-hurt-823130.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Case filed against those who participated in Jaish militant’s funeral||Taking cognizance of violating the COVID-19 protocols, Jammu and Kashmir Police on Wednesday evening registered a case against unknown people who participated in the funeral of slain Jaish-e-Mohammad commander in Sopore area of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district. The Jaish commander Sajad Nawab Dar was killed in an encounter with security forces on Wednesday at Arampora, Sopore, 52 kms from here. In a statement, a police spokesperson said an FIR under relevant sections has been registered against the persons who gathered at the funeral of the Jaish commander for violating the COVID-19 protocols and government advisories regarding the social gathering. “Case under FIR number 70/2020 US 188 IPC has been registered and the investigation is set into motion. Defaulters will be dealt strictly as per law,” he said and added that the legal heirs of the slain militant had given in writing that they would adhere to social distancing when the body was handed over to them after completing medico-legal formalities. Reports said hundreds of people had assembled for the funeral of the slain militant despite lockdown and section 144, which prohibits assembly of more than four persons, at any place. Large crowds attending the funeral of slain militants in Kashmir has been a concern for security agencies for the last several years. In the recent year despite the restrictions, thousands of people joined the funerals of the fallen militants. “The massive gatherings at funerals of killed local militants post 2016 unrest is a serious concern that has to be addressed. These gatherings romanticise and glamourise the militants and boost militancy,” an intelligence report in 2018 had stated. “The funerals of killed militants have become a fertile ground for recruiters," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-case-filed-against-those-who-participated-in-jaish-militant-s-funeral-823156.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||J&K records fourth coronavirus death||Jammu and Kashmir reported fourth COVID-19 death as a sexagenarian woman who died after she was tested positive for the deadly coronavirus. “61-year-old female patient from Udhampur passed away at GMC Jammu; tested positive for Corona; reported being suffering from Arthritis and bedridden. Contacts being traced (sic),” J&K government spokesman Rohit Kansal, tweeted. The family has been told to follow the protocol for the cremation of her body. The woman is the first COVID-19 death in the Jammu region while three deaths have been reported so-far from the Valley. The death of the woman comes hours after Jammu and Kashmir witnessed 33 positive COVID-19 cases within a span of 24 hours. With this, the total number of positive cases has gone up to 158 out of which four have died while six patients have recovered. According to the government media bulletin, a total of 40,336 travelers and persons in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance. Health officials say the number of cases was likely to rise as details regarding test results of samples collected in other labs were awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-records-fourth-coronavirus-death-823157.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Head constable posted in Delhi airport tests positive for COVID-19||A Delhi Police personnel posted at the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGI) has tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total number of policemen contracting the virus infection to two. The head constable, who has tested positive, is posted with the Foreign Regional Registration Office (FFRO) in the Terminal-3 of IGI airport, which deals with both domestic and international passengers. It is suspected that he contracted the disease due to him coming in contact with international passengers. His test was conducted on Saturday at the Baba Sahib Ambedkar Medical College and Hospital and reports came on Wednesday following which he informed the authorities. He was shifted to Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital at around 7 pm, while his family has been placed under quarantine. A 49-year-old Assistant Sub-Inspector, Jeet Singh, has also been tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. The National capital has recorded 669 cases of COVID-19 till Wednesday evening besides nine deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/head-constable-posted-in-delhi-airport-tests-positive-for-covid-19-823160.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Police tighten vigil in COVID-19 hotspots in Lucknow||Police have stepped up vigil and barricades were erected in eight major and four minor COVID-19 hotspots in the Uttar Pradesh capital that have been completely sealed to check the spread of the deadly virus. Police teams are carrying out patrolling in these localities to ensure that nobody ventures out of their homes, Police Commissioner, Lucknow, Sujit Pandey said. "All the hotspots in the city are already barricaded and are being sealed completely till the morning of April 15. All establishments will be closed in these localities and the media's entry too will be restricted," he said. Only basic minimum supply of essential commodities will be maintained in these localities, Pandey said. He said fire brigade vehicles will sanitise these areas and only select cleaning staff will be allowed to enter the hotspots.  The eight major hotspots in the state capital included localities near eight mosques where Tablighi Jamaat members were found staying. The minor hotspots are in Vijay Khand and Gomti Nagar, where four members of a family including a two and a half years old child tested positive for COVID-19. A locality near Alina Enclave in Khurramnagar, where a local tested positive, has also been marked as minor hotspot. Another minor hotspot is in a locality in the Madiaon area after a man tested positive there. A locality near a clinic at Munshipulia, where a man infected with COVID-19 was treated for some time, has also been declared a hotspot. The Uttar Pradesh government had on Wednesday decided to completely seal off coronavirus hotspots in 15 districts to stop the spread of the infection, announcing curfew-like restrictions there. Officials had said the administration will ensure doorstep delivery of items like vegetables and milk in these clusters. Passes issued to allow essential movement are cancelled in these hotspots which will remain "sealed" up to April 15 morning, when the current three-week nationwide lockdown is scheduled to end, they had said. Uttar Pradesh has so far reported over 360 coronavirus cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-tighten-vigil-in-covid-19-hotspots-in-lucknow-823181.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||SC notice to Centre, J&K admin on plea for restoring 4G mobile internet||The Supreme Court, on Thursday, sought a response from the Jammu and Kashmir administration on a plea to restore 4G speed mobile internet data services in the Union Territory, necessary for doctors, patients and the general public to access information during the COVID-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices NV Ramana, R Subhash Reddy and BR Gavai issued the notice through email to standing counsel of Jammu and Kashmir and put a public interest litigation (PIL) by a group, 'Foundation for Media Professionals' for consideration, next week. During the brief hearing conducted through video conferencing, senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi and advocate Shadan Farasat contended that in view of the lockdown, it was very necessary to enhance technology and connectivity. Virtual classes for students can only be conducted through better technology and connectivity, they said. The plea had contended that people in Jammu and Kashmir were unable to access the latest information, guidelines, advisories, daily updates and restrictions on the COVID-19 pandemic. The PIL, filed by the group through its president and noted journalist Paranjoy Guna Thakurta earlier this month, said an effective and speedy internet was an indispensable tool in the struggle against COVID-19. The petitioner specifically challenged the March 26 order, restricting internet speed. It contended that not restoring mobile internet speed to 4G in Jammu and Kashmir, in line with the rest of the country and in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic, on the "vague" ground of national security was a violation of the fundamental rights of life, dignity, free speech and shows non-application of the mind. "The restriction in respect of mobile internet speeds effectively amounts to a targeted rollback of such rights in respects of the residents of Jammu and Kashmir," the petition filed by advocate Shadan Farasat, stated. It pointed out that internet in Jammu and Kashmir has been restricted for over seven months, following the abrogation of the special status for Kashmiri people under Article 370 on August 5, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-notice-to-centre-jk-admin-on-plea-for-restoring-4g-mobile-internet-823190.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||2 attendees of Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi booked for concealing travel history||Two persons who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin were booked for allegedly concealing travel history in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur district, officials said Thursday. Upon receiving information from the medical authority, Ramnagar, that two persons have concealed their travel history in order to evade necessary quarantine process, FIRs has been registered against them, they said. The duo had recently returned to Ramanagar with a travel history of Meerut, Uttar Pradesh, before attending the event at Nizammudin, the officials said. Both of them will be quarantined and further action shall be initiated after their quarantine period is over, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-attendees-of-tablighi-jamaat-meet-in-delhi-booked-for-concealing-travel-history-823198.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Two IPS officers test positive for coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh||After two IAS officers, two IPS officers have tested positive for coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh. One of the Indian Police Service officers is posted in Bhopal while the other is posted in Indore, a senior health official told PTI. Both have been put under quarantine, he added. Earlier, two IAS officers, including a senior woman official of the health department, had tested positive for coronavirus in the state. The death toll due to coronavirus in the state stands at 29, with 21 persons dying in Indore alone so far, besides five in Ujjain and one each in Bhopal, Khargone and Chhindwara, said health officials. With cases of infection being reported from two more districts Khandwa and Raisen - on Wednesday, the pandemic has now spread to 16 districts of Madhya Pradesh. Curfew was imposed in Khandwa town after a coronavirus positive case was found, the official added. Meanwhile, in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases from Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan ordered complete sealing of these three districts, officials said. FIRs should be registered if a person hides the fact that he or she has contracted virus or has symptoms, Chouhan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-ips-officers-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-madhya-pradesh-823236.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Strength of federalism has given major boost to fight against COVID-19: Hemant Soren||The strength of federalism has come to the fore in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic with many chief ministers coordinating with each other to help out people stranded outside their home states, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren said on Thursday. Soren said he spoke with chief ministers of various states, including Kerala, Maharashtra and Delhi, where people of Jharkhand were working and they promised all support. In an interview to PTI, he said based on the total calls received at the migrant helpline being run by the state's labour department, there are about 7 lakh Jharkhandis who are currently outside the state, Soren said lifting the lockdown is a "big challenge" and must be given a considered thought. Though the spread of the coronavirus has been kept in check in Jharkhand, things could change if a large number of people return to the state from various parts of the country, he said. "The prime minister (Narendra Modi) did not ask the states while imposing the lockdown and now he is asking states for suggestions to open the lockdown," he said. The nationwide lockdown was imposed from March 25 by the Centre to prevent the spread of the coronavirus that has claimed 166 lives and infected 5,734 people across the country. Soren said his government started work early and that had helped in keeping COVID-19 cases in check. "About two lakh people came into our state after the lockdown somehow, but we had put mechanisms in place to deal with the situation. Now details of 1.75 lakh out of those people are with us. Some people belong to Jharkhand, while others are from West Bengal and other states," he said. They are in home quarantine and information on them could be obtained as the committees were formed by the state government at the district, block, village and panchayat levels, Soren said. "We have also set up information centres. There is one for people within the state and the other is for people from our state stuck in other states," he said. The chief minister also said Jharkhand was largely dependent on the Centre for resources and would need a dedicated financial package to deal with the crisis. "Due to the imposition of the GST, the central government has already broken the back of states. We would need a dedicated package from the Centre. We would also need more health equipment," he said. Soren said the Centre had given about Rs 250 crore to Jharkhand from the package announced by it nationally and it also received some pending dues, but that is not enough. The Jharkhand chief minister also asserted that India's federalism had manifested itself during the COVID-19 crisis and many chief ministers were coordinating with each other. "In this time of crisis, the strength of the federal structure has come to the fore. I spoke personally with various CMs—Kerala (Pinarayi Vijayan), Maharashtra (Uddhav Thackeray) and Delhi (Arvind Kejriwal) —where our people are stuck," Soren said. "Based on total calls received in the Migrants Helpline control room, approximately 7 lakh of our people are outside the state. There are two nodal officers appointed for each state, they have also done good work. I would like to thank the CMs of other states who have helped our people," he said. Soren said the Kerala chief minister had even told him that people from Jharkhand will even be provided "chawal (rice) and dal" instead of South Indian food, but they must stay put. An example of cooperation among chief ministers was witnessed earlier this week when Soren asked Tamil Nadu Chief Minister E Palaniswami to act over the issue of about 200 women being forced to work at an apparel firm in Tamil Nadu. The Tamil Nadu chief minister ordered immediate action and the women were rescued. Asked about the impending decision on whether to open the lockdown at the end of the 21-day period, Soren said, "Opening of the lockdown is a big challenge. It needs to be assessed keeping in mind that social distancing and health services do not collapse." He said the lockdown has to be opened like shifting the gears of a car. "We are focusing on social security and the health sector. When the lockdown ends, our people stuck in various places where the effect of the coronavirus is high, like in Delhi, may return and if a coronavirus infected person comes in and goes to the villages, it can lead to spike in cases," he said. The medical facilities that the state has are very limited and it is dependent on assistance from the Centre, he said. "Till now we have demanded 1,500 ventilators but have got none. Similarly, there are just 8 testing machines, out of which only 4 are operational," Soren said, underlining the limited resources his state has in fighting the coronavirus crisis. Till now, at least 13 cases of COVID-19 have been reported in Jharkhand with one death. Asked about the state having a very low number of cases, he said Jharkhand has its advantages as well as disadvantages and while it is among the most backward states, it has hilly areas and settlements are scattered helping in the implementation of social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/strength-of-federalism-has-given-major-boost-to-fight-against-covid-19-hemant-soren-823240.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: 4 new COVID-19 cases detected in Madhya Pradesh's Khandwa; total cases rise to 5||With four more persons testing coronavirus positive, the numbers of COVID-19 patients in Khandwa district of Madhya Pradesh has gone up to five, said a senior official on Thursday. Four of the 17 persons staying together in a mosque here, tested positive for the infection, district collector Tanvi Sundriyal said. "These 17 persons had reached Khandwa from Belgaum (Karnataka) and stayed at the mosque after the lockdown was announced. After four of them tested positive, the number of COVID-19 patients in the district has gone up to five," she said. Earlier, a member of a family, which had returned from Jeddah (Saudi Arabia) on March 12, had tested positive on Wednesday night, Soundriyal said. "The family was quarantined, but they were asymptomatic. The samples of the family were taken after one of the members complained of fever. The person was found coronavirus positive in the report received on Wednesday night," she said. All the five patients in Khandwa have mild symptoms, so all were shifted to COVID-19 care centre, she added. Soundriyal said that survey teams have been formed for contact tracing. "These teams have started working from Thursday morning," she said. Meanwhile, another district administration official said that the four positive persons, part of group of 17 people, were staying in a mosque in Khadakpura area. Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr D S Chouhan said that a door-to-door survey have been launched in Khadakpura and Khansawali areas, where the cases were detected. Meanwhile, the district administration has imposed curfew in Khandwa from Wednesday midnight to curb the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-4-new-covid-19-cases-detected-in-madhya-pradeshs-khandwa-total-cases-rise-to-5-823242.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: No prayers in mosques, shrines on Shab-e-Baraat in Kashmir||No night prayers were held at any major mosque or shrine in Kashmir on Shab-e-Baraat (night of forgiveness) as people stayed indoors due to the lockdown to combat the coronavirus threat, officials said on Thursday. They said authorities, as well as religious organisations, had appealed to people not to observe the congregation prayers on the occasion and instead pray at homes. District Magistrate, Srinagar, Shahid Iqbal Choudhary had issued an order prohibiting all religious congregations and public movement on Shab-e-Barat in the city. The order issued under Section 144 of the CrPC stated that the decision to prohibit religious gatherings on the occasion was taken based on recommendations of concerned authorities and reports from the field besides taking into account the current precarious health situation due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Jammu and Kashmir's Grand Mufti Nisar-ul-Islam had urged people not to observe the congregational prayers on Shab-e-Baraat, which is observed by Muslims during the intervening night of 14 and 15 Sha'ban -- the 8th month of the Islamic calendar. However, low-key celebrations and prayers were held at some mosques in the Valley, but the gatherings were small and prayers short, the officials said. They said most people offered prayers at their homes to seek mercy and forgiveness from God. Every year, the biggest congregation on the occasion is held at the revered Hazratbal shrine on the banks of Dal Lake here, where thousands of devotees assemble. However, no such congregation was held this year there as the Jammu and Kashmir Muslim Wakf Board had last month announced the suspension of congregational as well as regular prayers in shrines and mosques affiliated to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-no-prayers-in-mosques-shrines-on-shab-e-baraat-in-kashmir-823253.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Govt to deposit Rs 1,000 in women PMJDY accounts in two instalments||Urging people not to believe rumours, the finance ministry on Thursday said Rs 500 has been deposited in each Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) account held by women for April and Rs 1,000 more will be given over the next two months in equal instalments. Meanwhile, state-owned SBI, which has the highest number of PMJDY accounts, asked the beneficiaries not to believe in rumours that the money will be taken away by the government if not withdrawn amid large numbers of people flocking banks. The Department of Financial Services (DFS) in a tweet said the government has deposited Rs 500 in the PMJDY accounts held by women for April and beneficiaries could withdraw it "any time". "This amount (Rs 500) has reached your bank account and you can withdraw it any time," it said, and added Rs 500 will also be deposited during May as well in June.     The DFS, in the finance ministry, also asked the beneficiaries not to believe in rumours and withdraw the amount from ATM, customer service point or banks as per their convenience. Of the total 38.08 crore accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), as many as 20.60 crore were held by women. As on April 1, the deposits in the PMJDY accounts stood at over Rs 1.19 lakh crore. State Bank of India (SBI) further said, "We would like to assure our customers that the funds in your account will not be blocked or returned to the government." The country's largest lender also asked the PMJDY account holders to withdraw money at their convenience anytime. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced this as part of the Rs 1.70-lakh crore relief package announced last month. The minister had said as many as 20.5 crore women Jan Dhan account holders will get Rs 500 per month for next three months to run their households, a move aimed at mitigating the hardships caused by the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-to-deposit-rs-1000-in-women-pmjdy-accounts-in-two-instalments-823261.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Mayawati seeks strict action against BJP MP for assaulting Dalit officer||BSP supremo Mayawati on Thursday demanded strict action against a BJP MP who had allegedly beaten up a Dalit officer, saying such behaviour was "shameful". Revenue officer Arvind Kumar was allegedly beaten by the BJP's Kannauj MP Subrat Pathak and his supporters on Tuesday. "Manhandling and misbehavior with a dalit 'tehsildar, who was discharging his duty honestly, by the BJP MP in Kannauj recently is very shameful," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. In a separate tweet she said, "It's saddening that instead of going to jail, this MP is roaming outside due to which dalit employees are agitated. In such circumstances, the chief minister should initiate strict action against this MP so that he does not repeat such an incident in the future."   "BSP demands strict action against the MP so that such behaviour is not meted out to any other Dalit employee in the state," she said. Kumar had alleged that Pathak was pressurising him to sanction some projects which flouted rules and when he refused, the leader verbally abused him on the phone and later arrived at his residence along with his supporters and beat him up. Pathak, however, said the official had failed to properly distribute food among the poor and also misbehaved with his supporters. "I was continuously getting complaints from the poor regarding distribution of food and when I took up the matter with him (Kumar) he reacted indecently," Pathak had said. The MP had also alleged that the Kumar misbehaved with his supporters and beat them up. A case has been registered against the MP under the SC/ST Act and other sections of the IPC and a probe is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-seeks-strict-action-against-bjp-mp-for-assaulting-dalit-officer-823269.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi HC and district courts to work during summer vacation to make up for loss||The Delhi High Court, on Thursday, decided to function during the summer vacation in the month of June to make up for the loss of working hours due to the lockdown imposed to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. The decision was taken by full court "in view of the severe hardship faced by the litigants due to the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic that has impaired the functioning of the courts". There is suspension of work at the moment due to the lockdown. The HC and Delhi district courts are only hearing matters of extremely urgent nature. Besides the High Court, the district courts, working under its administrative control, would also function during the entire vacation month of June. "This decision has been taken by the full court on April 9, 2020, to make up for the loss of court working hours and to ensure restoration of normalcy in the functioning of the courts at the earliest," a press statement said. It said Chief Justice DN Patel and other judges were mindful of the difficulties faced by litigants on account of the lockdown and consequent suspended functioning of the Delhi High Court and subordinate courts. “There is negligible fresh filing of cases, lesser disposal and corresponding escalation in arrears, resulting in extreme hardship to litigants," the resolution noted. The full court modified the previous resolution of September 16, 2019, which had declared June 1 to 30 as the summer vacation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-hc-and-district-courts-to-work-during-summer-vacation-to-make-up-for-loss-823270.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Caught in curfew, Himachal nomads start journey home||The Gaddis (nomads) of Himachal's Chamba areas have started returning to their native places after getting special permission from authorities amid curfew restrictions in the state to contain spread of coronavirus. The nomads were preparing to go to their homes when they received the new of lockdown and subsequent curfew on radio. Curfew has been imposed in Himachal Pradesh since March 24 to contain the spread of coronavirus The nomads said it was a horrible time but locals helped them with food, water and other items and when the state government lifted ban on their movement, they started their journey. Speaking to a group of reporters in Hamirpur, they said they had spent the last seven months in the hills of Dhaulgiri and other high hill areas of Shivalik mountain ranges of Hamirpur and Una districts. Accompanied by their livestock, they did not seem to be bothered about the threat of COVID-19 pandemic. Motu, one of the nomads, said that they were returning with a herd of about four hundred as against three hundreds that they had taken along with them at time of their journey to plains. The nomads have purchased land and built houses at Bada and Chhota Bhangal areas in Kangra's Baijnath subdivision and started cultivation to earn their livelihood. Motu said about 50 per cent of gaddis don't own livestock and work in fields About 3,000 nomads go to plains with their flock as during the winter their areas face acute shortage of pastures. The gaddis said, ”We have grazing rights in almost all parts of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh on the basis of old traditions.”  No one stops us from grazing the flock in their fields. At many places, people themselves offer them their fields and also provide them with food as a goodwill gesture, they added. “There is general belief among people that with the arrival of gaddis in their fields, their productions will increase and that they will not face any threat from evil forces, “ he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/caught-in-curfew-himachal-nomads-start-journey-home-823274.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||76-yr-old man dies due to coronavirus in Jodhpur, 47 more test positive for COVID-19 in Rajasthan||The 76-year-old man wasfied during a survey in Jodhpur, ACS (Medical and Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said. With this, the death toll due to novel coronavirus rose to seven in the state. Singh said 47 more people tested positive for coronavirus in Rajasthan. A doctor from Jodhpur who was engaged in a door-to-door survey also tested positive, he said. Of the new 47 cases, 11 are from Jaipur, seven each in Tonk, Jhalawar and Jhunjhunu, five in Jaisalmer, three in Jodhpur, two in Banswara and one in Barmer, the ACS said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/76-yr-old-man-dies-due-to-coronavirus-in-jodhpur-47-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-rajasthan-823275.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh tally of coronavirus positive cases mounts to 410||As many as 49 people tested positive for coronavirus infection in Uttar Pradesh in the past 24-hours taking the total number of cases in the state to 410. According to the official sources here on Thursday, 19 cases of coronavirus infection were reported from Agra, one of the districts with several hotspots. So far 84 COVID-19 cases have been reported from Agra. A government spokesman here said that of the total 410 infected patients, over 200 were members of Tableegh-e-Jamaat or were connected with it. He said that 40 districts in the state have been affected by coronavirus.   The spokesman said that around 7,500 samples have so far been tested of which 6,953 were found to be negative. As of now 31 people, who have contracted the infection, have fully recovered and discharged from the hospitals. UP government had on Wednesday completely sealed dozens of coronavirus hotspots in 15 districts in the state. Even the essential services were not operating in these hotspots. According to the sources, the state government would take a decision about extending the lockdown in consultation with the centre in the next few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-tally-of-coronavirus-positive-cases-mounts-to-410-823284.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Centre's lapses on checking global travel led to coronavirus spread in India: Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, on Thursday, accused the Modi government for the COVID-19 outbreak in the country, contending that things would not have come to such a pass had the Centre put stringent checks on international travellers. “The coronavirus would not have spread across the country if the Centre had screened international passengers properly and placed them under strict quarantine,” Baghel told reporters through video conferencing. He also accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of announcing the 21-day nationwide lockdown unilaterally, without consulting state governments and insisted that Chhattisgarh would decide on lifting \restrictions only after the Centre opened its cards. Chhattisgarh has 11 confirmed cases of COVID-19 of which nine had recovered and were discharged from hospital. Baghel said he had announced a curfew all across on March 18 when the first case of COVID-19 was reported positive in Chhattisgarh. He said the government had given orders to work from home on March 13 itself and had even asked government officials to come to office only when necessary. Baghel also hit out at the Central Government for allowing the Tablighi Jamaat event despite prohibitory orders. “If international passengers from hotspots have been stopped, the congregation could also not have happened. I am not giving a clean chit to any organisation,” he said. He claimed that the spread of the virus has been contained by quarantining all the international passengers and sealing off areas reporting COVID-19 cases. However, asymptomatic persons testing positive for the disease much after the life cycle of the virus was a worrying trend witnessed in Chhattisgarh. Regarding lifting of inter-state travel restrictions, the he said that he has written to the Prime Minister about it and it may come up during discussion on April 11. Baghel said there were no hotspots across Chhattisgarh as the state government had taken proactive steps to lockdown areas reporting positive cases and succeeded in preventing the spread of the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centres-lapses-on-checking-global-travel-led-to-coronavirus-spread-in-india-baghel-823286.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||With 14 more coronavirus positive cases, Jammu & Kashmir’s tally reaches 184||Jammu and Kashmir continued to witness a surge in coronavirus cases with 24 more persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in the Union Territory to 184. “24 more positive in Kashmir. Total 184. 32 in Jammu, 152 in Kashmir. All are contacts. A result of aggressive testing,” said the government spokesman, Rohit Kansal, on Twitter. On Wednesday, 33 positive cases were detected in J&K, highest ever since the pandemic gripped the Union Territory on March 18. Out of the total 184 positive cases, four patients have died while six have recovered. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest COVID-19 case density areas in the country which is nearly 15 cases per million of the population. The national average per million population so far is less than six. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions, the Valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak.   As the COVID-19 positive cases kept on soaring, authorities continued to declare red zones and seal those areas with all entries and exit points blocked. The sealing of the areas comes in the wake of their declaration as containment zones after several cases of COVID-19 affected persons were reported therefrom. Meanwhile, Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, Pandurang K Pole has directed deputy commissioners to track-down all absconding travelers on war footing basis in their respective areas and put them in administrative quarantine. The DCs were asked to strengthen their ground surveillance teams and trace the absconding recent travelers, of other states and abroad visitors, immediately and put them for proper screening and quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-14-more-coronavirus-positive-cases-jammu-kashmir-s-tally-reaches-184-823298.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Senior Congress leader Hazarilal Raghuwanshi dead||Senior Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh minister Hazarilal Raghuwanshi died on Thursday following a prolonged illness, family sources said. He was 93 and is survived by his wife, five sons and two daughters, they said. A native of Seoni Malwa town in Hoshangabad district, Raghuwanshi was a five-time MLA from the Assembly constituency and also served as a minister in various Congress-led governments in the state, the party sources said. The senior leader was elected as an MLA for the first time in 1977 and he also served as a deputy speaker in the state Assembly from 2003-2008. Former chief ministers Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh expressed their deep condolences over the veteran leader's death. Raghuwanshi's last rites will be performed on the banks of Narmada river near Seoni-Malwa on Friday, the sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-senior-congress-leader-hazarilal-raghuwanshi-dead-823299.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Will take strictest action against those misbehaving with healthcare personne amid coronavirus crisis: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday warned of strict action against those misbehaving with healthcare personnel in the city in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The warning comes a day after two women resident doctors of Safdarjung Hospital were assaulted following rumours that they are "spreading COVID-19" in the Gautam Nagar area. "The government will not tolerate this. We will take strictest action against those misbehaving with healthcare personnel," the chief minister said at an online briefing. "People involved in such crimes will not be spared," he added. Kejriwal said 21 areas had been identified as containment zones in the national capital and people were not being allowed to enter or exit these areas. According to him, the Delhi government was giving free rations to 71 lakh people in the city. "We understand that people are facing problems, but measures taken by authorities are necessary to contain coronavirus," the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-take-strictest-action-against-those-misbehaving-with-healthcare-personne-amid-coronavirus-crisis-arvind-kejriwal-823327.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||3,900 people detained for violating coronavirus lockdown orders: Delhi Police||As many as 190 cases were registered and 3,954 people detained in the national capital on Thursday for violating government orders during the lockdown imposed to control the spread of the coronavirus outbreak, police said. According to the data shared by the police, 190 cases were registered under section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code till 5 pm on Thursday. A total of 3,954 people have been detained under section 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers) and 481 vehicles have been impounded under section 66 of the Delhi Police Act, they stated. A total of 872 movement passes have been issued, police said. Since March 24, a total of 66,876 people have been detained so far for violating orders under section 65 of the Delhi Police Act The move comes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a complete lockdown across the country for 21 days, asserting social distancing is the only way out for the country in its decisive battle against the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3900-people-detained-for-violating-coronavirus-lockdown-orders-delhi-police-823367.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Don't mention Nizamuddin Markaz in bulletins on coronavirus: Delhi Minorities Commission to health department||The Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) has asked the city's health department to stop mentioning Nizamuddin Markaz in its daily bulletins on coronavirus cases. In a letter to the secretary, Delhi Health department, chairman of the Commission Zafarul Islam Khan asked the department to drop any mention of "religious undertones" in its daily bulletins. The daily bulletins update the number of fresh coronavirus cases and deaths due to the epidemic including figures of those who were evacuated from Tablighi Jamat Markaz after they were stranded there due to lockdown. As per the last updated bulletin on Wednesday, the total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi were 669 including 426 from the Markaz. "Such thoughtless classification is feeding into the Islamophobia agenda of the media and Hindutva forces and has been easily turned into a handle to attack Muslims across the country," Khan alleged in his letter. Muslims are being "attacked" in various areas, calls are being made for their "social boycott", and a boy was "lynched" in the northwest Delhi, he mentioned in his letter. The World Health Organisation(WHO) has taken cognisance of this phenomenon and its Emergency Programme Director Mike Ryan has said countries should not profile novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) cases in terms of religion or any other criteria, stated the letter. The Union health ministry too has said that despite all precautions, if anybody catches the infection, it is not their fault. Its advisory has requested citizens to "never spread names or identity" of those affected or under quarantine in their locality on the social media, Khan said in the letter. The letter requested to the  Health department to stop mention of any data which has religious undertones and which can be exploited for political or communal purposes by "vested interests".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-mention-nizamuddin-markaz-in-bulletins-on-coronavirus-delhi-minorities-commission-to-health-department-823381.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||People humiliating medical professionals should be named and shamed: Harsh Vardhan||People humiliating medical professionals, who are on the frontline of the battle against novel coronavirus, should be named and shamed, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday. Vardhan was delivering the keynote address at the 'Global Online Conference on COVID-19: Fall-out and Future' organised by The Times School of Media, which is part of the Bennett University. Vardhan's comments come in the backdrop of reports about health professionals coming under attack in various parts of the country. Vardhan, in his address, stressed that social distancing and lockdown are the most potent social vaccine at the moment to combat coronavirus. Vardhan, who is also the minister of Science and Technology said India is among the five-six countries which have isolated the virus and has proceeded towards the development of a vaccine. "We are part of the World Health Organisation solidarity trial where we are working on vaccine. All the scientific work that is related to management of COVID-19 pandemic is going on. "I strongly feel that social distancing and lockdown are the most potent social vaccine at the moment. As long as we do not have a vaccine, social distancing right now and lockdown remains the most potent social vaccine. This is a point that needs to be underlined right now," he said. The minister also thanked the medical professionals who have been on the frontline of fight against COVID-19 "despite all the possible risks of getting infected". "They are putting their heart and soul… Some cases appear where they are being humiliated or ostracized in the society due to one reason or the other. Every day we hear such information. "I think we have to name and shame such people… and stand with the medical professionals and ensure that such incidents do not happen in the society," he said. Stressing that India had begun preparations to tackle the virus right from the time China reported about it to the WHO, he said India has the lowest cases per million at 3.8 across the world and has a doubling rate of 4.58. The Union minister said a majority of districts in the country are still unaffected and asserted that there is a very aggressive containment strategy in place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/people-humiliating-medical-professionals-should-be-named-and-shamed-harsh-vardhan-823384.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Pakistan army violates ceasefire along LoC in Poonch of Jammu and Kashmir||Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire by resorting to small arms firing and mortar shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, officials said. The shelling from across the border started at 5.45 pm in Shahpur and Kirni sectors of the district, a Defence public relations officer (PRO) said. The Indian Army retaliated befittingly, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-poonch-of-jammu-and-kashmir-823402.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus cases rise to 410 in Uttar Pradesh||Four people have died in the state from the novel coronavirus till now. One death each has been reported from Meerut, Basti, Varanasi and Agra districts. The total number of cases on Wednesday was 361. Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said as many as 410 people have tested positive so far in 40 districts of the state. Of the total cases, 225 are linked to last month's Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi, he said, adding that a total of 31 people have recovered so far. Prasad said wearing masks while venturing out has been made mandatory in the state under the Epidemic Act. “Wearing mask has been made mandatory in the state. If any citizen has to go out of the house under special circumstances then it is compulsory for him to put a mask, in case of violation of the rule, strict action will be taken against such a person,” he said. A bulletin issued here said t19 fresh cases were reported from Agra, taking the total number of cases there to 83. Of the total cases in Agra, 43 are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat, it said. Gautam Budh Nagar district has 63 COVID-19 cases, Meerut (38), Lucknow (29), Ghaziabad (25), Saharanpur (20), Shamli (17), Firozabad (11) and Sitapur (10), the bulletin said. Kanpur and Varanasi have nine cases each; Bulandshahr and Basti eight cases each; Maharajganj, Pratapgarh and Bareilly six cases each; Ghazipur, Rampur and Baghpat five cases each; and Azamgarh, Hathras, Muzaffarnagar, Jaunpur and Lakhimpur Kheri four cases each, it said. There are three COVID-19 cases in Hapur; two each in Pilibhit , Banda, Mirzapur, Rae Bareli , Auraiya, Kaushambi, Mathura , Amroha and Hardoi; and one case each in Moradabad, Shahjahanpur, Barabanki, Bijnore, Prayagraj, Badaun, the bulletin said, Prasad said 9,441 isolation beds have been made available in the state so far and efforts are being made to increase this number. He said in small cities where there are no big hospitals, private hospitals will be notified for treatment of coronavirus positive cases for which their patients will be shifted elsewhere. So far, six private hospitals have been selected for this, Prasad said. Additional Chief Secretary , Home, Awanish Awasthi said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has instructed officers to ensure supply of basic amenities in sealed hotspots and proper review of these areas. He said Adityanath has given instructions to collect information about the number of houses and population of these hotspots. He has asked officials to ensure sanitisation on a daily basis with the help of fire tenders in hotspot areas. Apart from the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the hotspot areas, Adityanath has given instructions to senior officers to review the number of suspects and how many have been asked to remain in quarantine, Awasthi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-cases-rise-to-410-in-uttar-pradesh-823429.html
09-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Plea seeking protection of rights of sanitation workers filed in SC||A plea seeking to ensure protection of rights of 'safai karamcharis' (sanitation workers) during the nationwide lockdown in wake of COVID-19 outbreak has been filed in the Supreme Court. The petition by activist Harnam Singh sought COVID-19 Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) for sanitation workers within a period of 24 hours and provisions for testing the workers and their immediate family within 48 hours. "Safai Karamcharis/sanitation workers carry out the essential service of keeping every city, town and village clean, sweep the roads, carry waste of every household, clean sewers etc." the petition said. "In order to carry out the said work, these Safai Karamcharis/sanitation workers are not equipped with any COVID-19 protective gear/Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) to safeguard them from the highly infectious coronavirus," it said. Referring to a technical brief and an internal guidance issued by the World Health Organization (WHO), the PIL said that the organisation had stated that sanitation workers have to wear appropriate PPE which includes protective outerwear, gloves, boots, goggles or a face shield, and a mask while carrying out their duties. The plea contended that 'The Prohibition of Employment As Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Act 2013' makes it clear that cleaning of sewers or septic tanks without protective gear amounts to hazardous cleaning and attracts penal consequences. The Union Health Ministry on Thursday stressed on the rational use of PPE by healthcare workers treating coronavirus patients amid concerns over their dwindling numbers in the country. Joint Secretary at the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said there is no need to panic as India has sufficient stock of PPE and the government is making all efforts to augment their supply further. Addressing a daily briefing at 4 pm to provide updates on the COVID-19 situation, he said that 20 domestic manufacturing companies of PPE have been developed. "Orders for 1.7 crore PPE have already been placed with them and supply has already begun," Agarwal said. Since Wednesday, 540 cases of the coronavirus infection and 17 deaths have been reported, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in India to 5,734 and death toll to 166, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-plea-seeking-protection-of-rights-of-sanitation-workers-filed-in-sc-823452.html
09-04-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus: Imagine yourself as the leader of a liberal democracy, how would you decide to restart the economy?||By Mohamed A. El-ErianThe tentative optimism in parts of Europe and the U.S. about a turning point in the rate of coronavirus infection is encouraging more people to start thinking about how and when to restart economies. It is a crucial and complex issue involving an unusual range of risks, uncertainties, difficult judgments and trade-offs. I certainly don’t have an easy answer, and neither do people I talk to whom I respect greatly. With a view to generating ideas, how about collectively engaging in the following thought exercise? Imagine you, as the leader of a liberal democracy, have to make the decision based on the following conversation among three sets of experts — which, for simplicity, we will aggregate into a single expert each on health, the economy and social behavior. Health Expert:  I have good news. Because of our social-distancing policies, we are seeing a turn in the rate of infection of citizens. Social Behavior Expert:  That’s great news, especially as I hear that more people are starting to wonder whether the huge disruptions to virtually every aspect of their daily lives were worth it. Adjustment fatigue is really setting in. Economic Expert: It’s great news indeed. We need to urgently lift the sudden stop to economic activity. Unemployment is soaring. Even otherwise-viable businesses are facing bankruptcies. And our relief efforts are not just costing a lot, but they are less effective than we had hoped for because of the need for better delivery pipes. Can we start normalizing economic activity as soon as possible? Health Expert: Not so fast! Yes, we are doing better, but we are nowhere near out of the woods. Immunity is at least a year away, if not longer, be it through a vaccine or herd immunity. Our ability to treat the ill is still limited essentially to just keeping them alive and comfortable as they fight this dangerous virus. We don’t have proper drug treatments yet. And let’s not forget the difficulty we have in identifying the asymptomatic carriers of the virus. Without that, we can’t even think of effective tracking and tracing. If we lift social distancing now, we risk a dangerous relapse that will overwhelm our health system. Social Expert: Wow, that’s well said. We would also risk a general loss of trust in medical advice. The government would lose credibility. And the risk of social unrest would increase. Economic Expert: Yes, but if we continue with the sudden stop, we invite multiplying short- and longer-term problems. Our economy, indeed our society, is not wired for social distancing. We are inflicting real damage that risks undermining not just this generation but future ones. The longer we maintain this economic standstill, the more we risk turning an already unavoidable deep and sudden recession into a financial crisis and, with that combination, a multiyear depression. Social Expert: You have a point there. We are worried already about the risk of domestic violence and a deeper opioid crisis. Health Expert:  You all have valid points. But every day we gain is a big victory, and not just in terms of flattening the curve. We are also getting to know this terrible virus better, helping us in efforts to develop better treatments and vaccines. Our testing capabilities are increasing, as is the supply of personal protective equipment, ventilators and other crucial material. And let’s not forget about what we are learning from other countries that were hit before us, including on testing and post-crisis tracking. Time is in our favor. We are seeing an enormous effort by private industry, and not just pharma and tech. Social Expert: Tracking and testing? You mean this idea of a passport that would allow us to run a multi-track society, with one “safe” segment re-engaging in normal activities and another having to wait? This needs to come after we develop more buy-in for the intrusive method of granting and maintaining the passport, especially as we will have to do a lot of random testing and disseminate sensitive health information, not just about the coronavirus but also pre-existing conditions. It only works if we have broad-based buy-in and, even better, if there’s a bottom-up effort that we can capitalize on. We are not China. We are a liberal democracy with more respect for privacy and individual rights. And we also have to be honest about the need to address both conscious and unconscious biases that such selectivity brings out, even if it’s health based. Economic Expert: Can’t we at least start with partial reopenings. The answer to unusual risk and unsettling uncertainty is not paralysis. There is risk in whatever we do. I would opt for opening up parts of the economy before it’s too late to avoid the cure being worse than the disease. Health Expert: Yes, there are risks and uncertainties involved. And that’s exactly why we cannot afford a relapse and the spike in infections and deaths that would come with that. Social Expert: And if we reopen too early, households themselves may hesitate to re-engage in normal life. That would defeat the point of taking the risks in the first place. Now it’s up to you, the decision-maker. The best that these three experts can do is to offer you alternatives and to make explicit the trade-offs that come with them. And it’s far from perfect given that we are still operating in a fog-of-war context. There are likely to be unknown unknowns and, with that, a high risk of collateral damage and unintended consequences — whatever decision you make. Well, this is part of a generation-defining moment, and it’s your decision. What’s your call?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-imagine-yourself-as-the-leader-of-a-liberal-democracy-how-would-you-decide-to-restart-the-economy-823207.html
09-04-2020||Opinion||Gender analysis missing from India’s coronavirus strategy||The COVID–19 pandemic has upended the lives of millions of Indians with some sections of society much more disproportionately affected than others. While there is an increasing recognition of the hardship faced by migrant workers and labourers, not much has been discussed about the negative consequences of India’s pandemic strategy on women. To begin with, the government’s proposed lockdown plan as a pandemic control measure entails a clear gender dimension, where an increased domestic workload will be disproportionately borne by women. In India, predominant social norms and the existing structure of the workforce puts the responsibility of running the household on women, which includes the obligation of attending to and caring for each family member. Besides, women are also likely to be responsible for carrying out daily household chores such as mopping, dish washing and cleaning. The men given India’s patriarchal context, are not expected to perform any household tasks. As per the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), an Indian woman does nearly six hours of unpaid work each day in comparison to an Indian male who barely gives 51.8 minutes to such tasks. And with the new restrictions on movement, closures of schools and businesses, and with every member of the family being at home, the burden of this unpaid household work is bound to fall more heavily on women.  Domestic violence  In addition, based on the likelihood that the imposition of quarantine measures could increase the rates of substance abuse, heighten stress and anxiety, and aggravate financial difficulties -- all considered as major risk factors in intimate partner abuse -- there would be a natural escalation in gender based domestic violence also. This has already been witnessed in China as well as the US. And for India, where almost every third woman suffers from physical or sexual violence according to the National Family Health Survey-4, the lockdown definitely does not bring good news.  According to the data presented by the National Commission for Women, ever since the lockdown was announced, there has already been a surge in domestic violence complaints with 291 cases reported (from March 23) only through email. Nonetheless, the exact numbers still remain unknown and are likely to be much higher. Public health strategy Such issues also spill onto the healthcare sector. Due to the increasing number of COVID-19 patients, health-care workers -- particularly the nurses of whom approximately 88.9 per cent are women -- remain much more vulnerable to contracting the deadly virus. This is in addition to an already existing shortage of basic equipment for healthcare workers.  Similarly, mental health issues have also been forgotten in laying out India’s pandemic strategy. While social distancing measures could add another level of anxiety and depression for both women and men, a larger share of these women are anticipated to experience the negative impacts of the pandemic on their mental health with no resources that could help them. Indeed even normally, women are far more susceptible to developing depressive disorders as compared to men. According to WHO, depressive disorders account for close to 41.9 per cent of disability from neuropsychiatric disorders among women,  compared to 29.3% among men   The government should have established helplines, digital counselling sessions and proper medical assistance for women experiencing mental health issues in order to provide them with the support to deal with such tough times. Economic impact Due to the pandemic causing continual economic disruptions, informal and part-time jobs stand at the forefront of being suspended and in India women occupy a major chunk of these jobs. The Indian informal economy employs nearly 81 per cent of the country’s workforce according to the International Labour Organisation, and an overwhelming majority of working women in India are employed in this sector.   Likewise, since consumption patterns or the purchasing ability are likely to plummet during the crisis, exports and imports will also be affected leading to problems for women. For example, reports indicate that in 2008, 86 per cent of the total female workers were engaged in the exporting sector while the corresponding figure for the male workers was 73 per cent.   Moreover, jobs created during and after an economic crisis mostly target men, making it difficult for the women to spring back. Thus, more women are likely to be left jobless in the long-term, speeding up the already much visible decline in the female labour force participation. However, to tackle the financial difficulties, the government did announce a relief package aimed at shielding the poor, of which cash transfers worth Rs 500 will be provided to the Jan Dhan account-holding women over the next three months. This amount is rather pitiful, and is extremely inadequate given the magnitude of the problem and its impact on women.  Secondly, with its entire focus on women belonging to the lower strata, the government has forgotten about the middle-class women, who amid the cessation of economic activity are also likely to suffer as much as the poor. Lastly, the government has laid out no employment plan to assist women, who are either at the verge of or have already lost their jobs owing to the economic uncertainty.  Although, it is true that if purely seen as a physical illness, the deadly virus appears to affect women less severely than the men, but the pandemic, like any other crisis, has magnified all existing inequalities including gender disparity. Which is why the magnitude of this gender difference and its implications on the COVID-19 response must be studied with haste for India to tackle the situation more appropriately and efficiently.    (Akanksha Khullar is a researcher at the Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies, Delhi. She tweets at @akankshakhullar)  The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/gender-analysis-missing-from-india-s-coronavirus-strategy-823349.html
09-04-2020||Panorama||Building pandemic resilience in global supply chains||As I write this, the COVID-19 cases have risen to nearly 1.5 million worldwide. Outside the continuous updates about the numbers of people infected, inside the ICU, and deceased, the pandemic has shown the glaring deficiencies of our connected globalised civilisation. A study by Deloitte states that global automotive production went down by 40% in March 2020 as Hubei in China is the major supplier base for the industry; the global maritime traffic went down by 10% in February, compared to that in February 2019. While many have blamed the globalisation of supply chains in the last 30 years for this, very few have analysed how globalised we are. Just to put this in perspective, the same Deloitte report states that over 200 of the Fortune 500 companies have suppliers in the city of Wuhan, from where the virus originated; an Accenture study states that nearly 94% of Fortune 1000 companies have had supply chain disruptions due to COVID-19, leading to nearly 75% of the companies recalibrating their business outlook for the year to negative or strongly negative. The pandemic thus provides a unique case for understanding the global connectedness of supply chains through two dimensions – one is the lopsided nature of globalised supply chains originating from China and its manufacturing hubs; and the second, the high level of human mobility required to manage these globalised supply chains, all converging within a few industrial hubs in China. This lopsided nature of economic globalisation can be attributed to the fact that for most of the organisations or supply chains, globalisation has mostly happened due to cost-saving and profit optimisation efforts leading to outsourcing, ultimately being reflected as the concentration of global suppliers in one or fewer geographies or countries, that align their policies with the host-nation’s for cost-saving and profit optimisation. These supply chains are global but non-diversified, meaning that global supply chains that are geographically concentrated are profitable but not resilient. In the normal scenario, when faced by non-contagious disruptions, these supply chains create enough inventory-based buffer to function during the duration when production or supply is stalled, but they cannot function when the disruption is as global and as comprehensive as due to COVID-19. One unique dimension of this globalisation-led outsourcing and dispersal is its traditional resilience strategies, comprised of buyer-driven intra-organisation quality assurance mechanisms with total disregard to the geography or the context-based quality dimensions like personnel welfare, work-place context quality or government policies and regulations. Further, supply chain management research has itself been lopsided, where the dominant resilience-based research focuses only on intra-organisation strategies arising out of externalities. These strategies and mitigation plans rarely take account of government lockdowns or pandemics. The market-led management of supply chains from the resource efficiency and cost management perspectives also governed the supply chain management of essential items, including healthcare equipment and pharmaceuticals and made them vulnerable to pandemics like COVID-19, requiring government interventions, blocking the movement of these products outside their respective countries. Uniquely during the current pandemic, the supplier or the producer of most of these goods not only stopped producing them but also became their consumer, thereby creating a multifold demand-supply gap, as compared to during other pandemics. In such a lockdown scenario, most of the supply chain strategies across products did not take care of the fact that disruption of supply chains for essential healthcare items have a multiplier effect in terms of disruption to other supply chains, as these healthcare supply chains ensure the quality of life of the personnel employed in other supply chains. No academic research in supply chain resiliency strategies focused upon this multiplier effect of the adverse impact of one product category’s supply chain upon others. While organisations did not pay heed to the fact that standalone supply chain resiliency strategies can have little or no impact during global pandemics, at the macro-economic level, all trade ties did not take care of the fact that economic integration also leads to integrated disruptions and that the absence of multinational or multi-organisational resilience strategies amplifies local disruptions into global ones. It’s worth pondering then that given the fact that today global supply chains are at the forefront of all COVID-19 related debates and discussions, what’s the way out for them in the short and long-term? Outside the template-based solutions provided by management research, like assessing immediate risk impacts, understanding human resource, and regulatory impacts and finally evaluating and implementing alternatives and scenarios, organisations and nations need to look into more comprehensive measures in the long-run. Such resilience strategies should consider national and local level contexts, including vulnerability to government regulations and vulnerability of human resources to such externalities. Designed in consultation with multilateral organisations like WHO and WTO, these strategies should be designed to optimally geographically diversify supply chains for multiple products. Further, supply chains for essential products like healthcare and medical supplies should be pan-national and geographically dispersed to make them bi-directional. Bi-directional supply chains for these goods will allow mitigation of externalities when the producer or suppliers stop producing or supplying, as well as become buyers or consumers. Also, replication of these supply chains across regions (intra-country), countries (intra-continent) and across continents would be required. At the supply chain and production plant level, factories would require flexible designs to have cross-product production systems that can switch easily from, say, cars to ventilators, perfumes or breweries to sanitizers and disinfectants, and rubber and plastic manufacturing can be converted into units for surgical gloves, protective suits and masks, etc. Essentially, we need to understand that with a population base of nearly eight billion, there will always remain some probability of such pandemics and disruptions across continents. As an advanced civilisation, our success depends on remaining prepared to mitigate these disruptions to the best possible extent while also understanding the impossible nature of anticipating all such disruptions all the time. (The writer is Associate Professor, OP Jindal Global University, Sonepat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/building-pandemic-resilience-in-global-supply-chains-823103.html
09-04-2020||Right in the Middle||Learn before it is too late||The news of the demise of Mr S.C. Sharma, my teacher in class VII, immersed me down the memory lane of school days in the mid-1960s. As a teacher, when he invited some of us to speak on the day’s topic, ‘Tolerance’, one Dinesh raised his hand in willingness, as usual. Otherwise known for his kind and humane demeanor, that day the usual cold response of students infuriated him. He asked us to do the ‘Murga’ (rooster), a common form of corporal punishment in schools of Delhi those days. It was a strenuous feat, more so in movement, even for stout-bodied ruffians. After a few minutes, Sharma Sir took pity on us. He relented, made us comfortable, and emotionally impressed upon us, “Today I feel disgusted at your reluctance or hesitation in coming ahead and speak out, if only a few sentences. As you grow older, such opportunity shall be hard to come by, and you could be overcome by the vocal and dashing ones, losing your prospects to win.” As the years passed, I realised the significance of snatching one’s turn and boldly advancing one’s viewpoint during job interviews, group discussions, meetings and negotiations.  It is ironic that we often awake to precepts in mature years by which time we have already lost significantly, like the proverb we were taught in cursive at pre-primary level, “A stitch in time saves nine”. It is this revelation that imparts uniqueness to the teacher-disciple relationship that is ever so sustaining. Extending his jurisdiction beyond delivery, content or skills, a model teacher inculcates values with positive implications. “Those who educate children well are more to be honoured than they who produce them; for the parents only gave them life, teachers the art of living well,” said Aristotle.  The elderly, with their own foibles and eccentricities, are not foolproof. So the convocation message by Acharya in Traitreya Upnishad enjoins the graduating students to espouse only his virtues, and not the vices (Yanyasmakam sucharitani, taani twayopasyani, no itrani). Life is not long enough to learn only from one’s own experience; wise are those who learn from their own follies, the wiser learn from those of others with minimal loss of time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/learn-before-it-is-too-late-823100.html
09-04-2020||Right in the Middle||Mugs, anyone?||As I look at our collection of mugs, I realise that even if I was to drink tea or coffee all day long, I would not be able to give every mug its chance. We collect mugs of every shape and size. Each has a story to tell. An old friend from Leeds told me that whenever she offers a cup of tea to a guest, she also offers them the choice of their mug. She gave me one with “Pride and Prejudice” written on it and I confess that I am both proud of owning it and prejudiced against offering it to anyone else. Another favourite of mine is one which says, “To the best sister in the world.” I drink from that on days when I need a pick-me-up! Recently two young ladies came to visit me and when I brought out three mugs on a tray and held it out, one of them asked, “Is there a favourite one of yours to avoid?” That is the voice of a mug lover!  My neighbour has a few mugs she treasures. Each time she hands over one of them to a visitor, she is on tenterhooks till the tea is drunk and all is well with the mug. Alas, I was not so lucky with a favoured mug. It chipped at the lip and sits there looking forlorn. But all is not lost. Chipped and handle-less mugs can be used as toothbrush holders, pencil and pen receptacles and even as plant holders.  Recently we have plunged into creating messages on mugs for every occasion and for every person. I decided to mark our daughter’s wedding anniversary by giving her and her husband mugs with half a message on each. Seen together it would be complete. For another daughter, we decided to play it safe with the Renoir and Buddha designed mugs. The beautiful mugs are decorating the top of their bookshelf. My husband got a Van Gogh mug from the Metropolitan Museum as a gift for our son. Since he is attached to his own mug, we wondered....But next morning, lo! It was sitting smugly in the dishwasher. The young men at the store where we go to get these fanciful mugs created, were at first intrigued and are now delighted. When I got one for my sister with her and her darling grandson, they nodded approvingly. Sometimes I wonder if they will start providing other customers with an album of mug-ideas much like our cake- shop does!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/mugs-anyone-823467.html
09-04-2020||Second Edit||All stimulus, no lockdown yet, Abe?||After weeks of inaction, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has finally announced measures to stem the spread of coronavirus and help the Japanese economy weather the crisis. He has declared a state of emergency covering Tokyo and six other prefectures. This is aimed at helping local governments press people to stay at home with a view to encouraging social distancing. Additionally, the government has announced a $990-billion stimulus package, a whopping 20% of Japan’s GDP. Japan has been relatively fortunate so far; just 3,654 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the country. However, the situation is changing for the worse and rapidly. Over the past week, the number of confirmed cases has more than doubled. Health professionals have been pointing out that underlying Japan’s relatively small number of COVID-19 cases is its extremely restricted testing strategy. Just 40,000 of its 127 million-strong population have been tested so far. Consequently, only the tip of the coronavirus iceberg has been visible. This lulled the Abe government into a false belief that the situation was under control. Not only did the Abe government err in avoiding mass testing but also, it has resisted imposing lockdowns. The sudden and sharp rise in the number of COVID-19 cases indicates that the Abe government was wrong. Many are criticising Abe’s declaration of a state of emergency as inadequate as it does not provide for lockdowns or punishment for non-compliance. Achieving social distancing will hinge on the Japanese tradition of respect for authority. Will this alone be enough to persuade people to stay indoors? Abe’s stimulus package has signalled that Japan has the economic resources and the will to soften the blow of the coronavirus on its economy. However, his failure to take early and robust action to prevent the virus’ spread could extract a heavy price in terms of human lives. Across the world, coronavirus has been brutal in its impact on the elderly. Over 28% of Japan’s population falls in this category. It can expect a large number of coronavirus infections and fatalities in the coming weeks. Abe would have been hoping that a grand Olympics-2020 would be the crowning glory of his prime ministerial term. That hope has been put on hold with the Games being deferred to next year. His mishandling of quarantine facilities on board the cruise liner Diamond Princess, when it was docked at Yokohoma for a month, drew criticism worldwide. Should he fail to provide Japan with the resolute leadership it needs to ride out the pandemic, his political legacy could be seriously tarnished.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/all-stimulus-no-lockdown-yet-abe-823098.html
09-04-2020||Second Edit||Coronavirus: Misinformation pandemic continues unabated||There is a flood of misinformation coursing through social media about the COVID-19 situation in the country and various matters which have a bearing on it. A lot of it is outright falsehood, selective and distorted data, exaggeration and misinterpretation, deliberately posted by vested interests and spread by others who may or may not believe in the content. Much of it is communal and is intended to spread suspicion and hatred. The Tablighi Jamaat episode in Delhi created a scare about the spread of the virus and that is real. But it has been used by some to demonise the entire Muslim community and to show its members as distributors of death and disease. There are also calls for social boycott. There are actually posts from both sides which are directed against each other, levelling charges and purveying unverified and unverifiable information. Motivated campaigns are on. The authorities need to act tough and take strong steps against misinformation and hatemongering, fake news, false propaganda and violation of privacy on social media. Users of the media should also be cautious and discriminating, should exercise good sense and judgement and guard against being used in motivated campaigns. Unfortunately, even some regular media channels are parties to such campaigns. These campaigns may lead to further polarisation of society on communal lines. This is not only a dangerous prospect in itself but can also adversely affect the fight against coronavirus, which calls for unity of purpose and action by all sections of society. Other kinds of wrong and misleading information are also in free circulation. Ever since coronavirus started being talked about, there have been a spate of incorrect posts about its origin and nature and about many untested methods of treatment and cure. Even responsible persons in power have spread such misinformation. Such statements, advice and prescriptions based on superstitions and unscientific thinking can also make the fight against the virus more difficult and do harm. While misinformation is plenty and varied on many forums, there is a lack of reliable information about the actual situation in the country. The government has not been earnest and forthcoming in sharing information with the media, and it has even blamed it for some problems of its own creation, like the panic exodus of migrant workers from many cities when the lockdown started. The government even wanted the media not to publish anything related to the coronavirus situation without ascertaining the veracity of the matter with the official machinery. It is strange that it is largely unconcerned about the disinformation in the social media even as it wants to control the flow of information in the media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/coronavirus-misinformation-pandemic-continues-unabated-823465.html
09-04-2020||South||Kerala: Officials warn against discrimination of doctors, nurses treating COVID-19 cases||In a case of discrimination against personnel involved in treating COVID-19 patients, a government doctor was asked to vacate his premises by a resident association in Ernakulam district, prompting authorities to warn of strict action against those indulging in such acts. Referring to the incident, Ernakulam District Collector S Suhas said strong action under Indian Epidemic Disease Act 1897 would be initiated against those who discriminate against the healthcare personnel, including doctors and nurses. Noting that the World Health Organiation (WHO) has characterised COVID-19 as a pandemic, the district collector, in a circular, said the administration has taken steps to ensure the service of health professionals including doctors and nurses to prevent its spread in the district. It would ensure the security of the doctors, nurses and other health professionals serving the nation by saving the people from the deadly virus, he said. The district collector termed as "uncivilised" the incident in which the resident association asked the doctor to leave the place. Condemning the incident, the administration said the doctor was working in the field taking all necessary precautions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-officials-warn-against-discrimination-of-doctors-nurses-treating-covid-19-cases-823116.html
09-04-2020||South||COVID-19: Consider a larger fund pie to Tamil Nadu, HC tells Centre||Expressing concern over the Centre allocating Tamil Nadu only Rs 510 crore so far to fight coronavirus, the Madras High Court on Wednesday directed it to consider increasing the state's share. Taking a serious view of violation of the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, the court also directed the state police to arrest those flouting the orders and seize their vehicles. A bench comprising Justices N Kirubakaran and R Hemalatha, hearing a PIL, observed that the quantum allocated to Tamil Nadu was lower than the apportionment to states that have lesser COVID-19 cases. Impleading the Union Home Ministry as a respondent, the bench in its interim order said out of 5,194 people infected by coronavirus (in the country), as on date Tamil Nadu stands second with 690 patients, while Maharashtra stands first with 1,018 patients.  However, with regard to the release of Disaster Risk Management Fund, the Home Ministry has released only 510 crores which in the opinion of this court was not adequate, whereas, the states which have got lesser number of virus infected patients have been allotted more fund, it said. "This Court is not against the allotment of more fund to the other states, but concerned about Tamil Nadu getting lesser amount of fund. Therefore, the Central Government may positively consider increasing the amount," the bench said. A city-based NGO, India Awake for Transparency, filed the public interest litigation petition seeking a direction to the Tamil Nadu government to ensure 100 per cent testing of all people who have been exempted from the lockdown. Pointing out to the significance of social distancing and appealing to people to stay indoors, the court directed the Additional Advocate General Aravind Pandiyan to file a status report. Also, the bench directed the state government to arrest motorists as well as seize their vehicles -two wheelers or four wheelers- when used in violation of curbs under Section 144 CrPC and if anybody comes out of their houses beyond 1 pm. The state government has allowed functioning of groceries and other outlets vending essentials to be open only upto 1 pm in a bid to curb movement of people. The bench directed Police authorities to enquire and inform the employers of the violators (government or private sector) about the violations by their employees and posted the matter for further hearing after two weeks. While referring to daily wagers, migrant workers and platform dwellers who are without food and shelter, the bench in its order said the authorities are directed to verify the persons who are without food and shelter and provide them by having community kitchens." Stressing that the pandemic was spreading like a wild fire, the the court also appealed to those who had travelled abroad recently and their family members and friends to subject themselves voluntarily for testing and getting quarantined as it would help curbing the dispersion of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-consider-a-larger-fund-pie-to-tamil-nadu-hc-tells-centre-823121.html
09-04-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh govt-owned AMTZ rolls out rapid COVID-19 test kits||Rapid testing kits began rolling out from the state-run Andhra Pradesh Medi-Tech Zone (AMTZ) as demand for these grew exponentially consequent to the spread of the novel coronavirus in the country, the state government said on Wednesday. Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy formally launched the kits at his camp office on Wednesday. AMTZ is an enterprise under the Andhra Pradesh government, dedicated for medical device manufacturing and the Indian Council of Medical Research has recently approved the kits to be manufactured at the zone in Visakhapatnam. Special Chief Secretary (Industries and Commerce) Rajat Bhargava handed over the first set of 1,000 rapid testing kits, manufactured at the AMTZ, to his counterpart in the health department K S Jawahar Reddy in the presence of the Chief Minister and Industries Minister M Goutham Reddy. Later, the Industries Minister told reporters that the AMTZ started manufacturing 2,000 testing kits per day and it would soon be scaled up to 25,000 units a week from next month. The Minister said about 20 tests could be carried out with each kit daily and would cost Rs 1,200 for the government. DNA, RNA, PCR tests could also be performed using these kits and the result obtained in 55 minutes. From April 15, for the first time in the country, assembling of ventilators would also commence at the AMTZ, with an initial capacity of 3,000 per month. It would later be increased to 5,000 a month, Goutham Reddy added. The Central government has already placed an order for 3,500 ventilators, the Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-govt-owned-amtz-rolls-out-rapid-covid-19-test-kits-823124.html
09-04-2020||South||Hyderabad: 12 containment clusters set up to combat COVID-19||As part of measures to combat COVID-19, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has set up 12 containment clusters in different areas of the city. So far, 89 positive cases of the virus have been registered, the corporation Commissioner D S Lokesh Kumar said on Wednesday. He said as per the instructions of the government, GHMC officials and staff are working in coordination with the police, revenue and health department personnel. The Commissioner said the 12 centres have been set up in these areas where 89 coronavirus positive cases have been registered, an official press release said. He said special attention was being given to sanitation and spraying of disinfectant in the clusters and added that a team consisting of Health and GHMC officials was going to each and every household to identifythose who are symptomatic and getting them tested. In the identified clusters, public movements is monitored and barricading is done to keep check on public movement, he said.  Barricading and bandobast would continue till some stipulated period, he said. Out of the 593 people (from the city) who returned from Delhi after attending the Tablighi Jamat religious meetingthere, 63 tested positive for the virus. Those who are tested and found positive for the virus are shifted to government isolation centres, he said. To avoid hardships of the public, 330 mobile Rythu Bazaars are supplying vegetables in their localities, he said. Lokesh Kumar further said precautionary steps have been taken for the safety of sanitation workers and masks supplied to them. "Sixty thousand reusable cloth masks are getting ready which are stitched by women members of Self-help Groups (SHGs). Already 30,000 cloth masks are ready and in a span of four days the remaining masks will get ready, the GHMC Commissioner said. An order has been placed to supply health kits consisting ofgloves, mask, soap, shoes and other required material and these kits would be distributed among workers in a week, he said. Wearing masks and gloves will be made mandatory. In view of lockdown for the convenience of workers 34 busses have been arranged, he said. Around 4,500-4,800 metric tonnes of garbage are collected and sent to dumpyards to maintain cleanliness in the city, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-12-containment-clusters-set-up-to-combat-covid-19-823127.html
09-04-2020||South||Semester exams will be rescheduled: Anna University||Anna University here on Thursday announced that the end-semester examinations of April-May for affiliated colleges will be held after the end of the lockdown period. The varsity, a premier institution in Tamil Nadu said the end-semester exams, including special examinations for students who have exhausted the maximum period of study will be rescheduled for the affiliated institutions in view of the lockdown. In a release here, the varsity's Controller of Examinations said "the revised time-table for the said examinations of April/May 2020 will be published afresh after the lockdown."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/semester-exams-will-be-rescheduled-anna-university-823209.html
09-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Telangana govt bans spitting in public places||Spitting in public places and institutions has been banned in Telangana in the backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic with the state government saying such acts poses a serious threat of leading to spread of infections. "In the interest of public health and safety, the spitting of paan/any chewable tobacco or non-tobacco product, sputum etc, in public places & institutions is hereby BANNED with immediate effect," a notification said. The COVID-19 pandemic has brought to the fore the importance of hygiene and cleanliness in both personal as well as public spheres, the April 6 notification issued by the Health, Medical and Family Welfare department said. "It is of utmost need to impose restrictions on unhealthy practices that may potentially lead to spread of such viruses and other infections," it said. The habit of public spitting poses a serious threat of leading to the spread of such infections, the notification added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-telangana-govt-bans-spitting-in-public-places-823233.html
09-04-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown hits aquaculture sector in Andhra Pradesh||The ongoing lockdown on account of COVID-19 could not have come at a worse time for the aquaculture sector that earns million of dollars through export of shrimp. At the peak of the season, the lockdown has pushed the sector into jeopardy, with farmers, industrialists and exporters each facing their set of problems and an uncertain future as shrimp is seen as a luxury product. Ready-to-harvest shrimp worth over Rs 1,200 crore is now lying in the ponds predominantly in East and West Godavari districts of Andhra Pradesh. The shrimp processing units in the state are not functioning to their capacity due to acute shortage of manpower even as the Marine Products Export Development Authority said it would invoke Clause 43 of the MPEDA Rules, 1972, and de-register the licences if processing of the produce was not done. Exporters are advised to remain supportive to the farmers in these difficult times so that they continue to engage in shrimp farming, which is the principal commodity of marine products exported from the country in terms of value, MPEDA secretary B Sreekumar told the processors and exporters. In the absence of export orders and little scope for processing, farmers fear their produce would only perish. Though China, one of the major markets for Indian shrimp, relaxed the restrictions for import, the exporters are unable to take full advantage of it as the processing is not happening adequately. In the last one week, close to 3,000 tonne of shrimp was shipped to China. Andhra Pradesh has a 50.41 per cent share in the country in shrimp production and earns close to 53 per cent of the overall revenue. In 2019-20, shrimp production in Andhra Pradesh was around four lakh tonnes and about 2.55 lakh tonnes of it was exported between April and December 2019, according to the state government data. That fetched a revenue of Rs 13,960 crore to the aquaculture sector. Exports had stalled since the outbreak of COVID--19 in China and the lockdown in various countries only aggravated the crisis, at a time when the Indian exporters were readying to ship the produce at the end of January- February slack period. Shrimp from Andhra is exported mainly to EU countries and the USA, apart from China. The aquaculture sector, which is linked to the international market, is now at a standstill. Exports to China and the USA have just re-started and our government is able to sort the problems out by taking up the issue with the Centre, state Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Minister Mopidevi Venkata Ramana said. The state has 72 units processing seafood but they are not functioning even to one-third of their installed capacity. Essentially, a lot of manual labour is involved after the shrimp is harvested and before it is processed. Over 50 per cent of the workers are migrants and because of the lockdown they went away to their respective states, P Ramachandra Raju, an exporter, said. The local workers were not coming to work because of the restrictions imposed by their respective village heads to check the spread of the pandemic. In East Godavari district, for instance, of the total 11,000 workers only about 2,000 were attending duty, that too after persuasion by the government authorities, according to Agriculture Minister K Kanna Babu. The state government has taken a pro-farmer stand and been focusing on getting the aqua produce harvested and purchased by the industry. The processors and exporters, however, are in a predicament. Most of the containers that set sail with shrimp in early March, days before the lockdown, were stranded either at sea or in the port of arrival. At the same time, the shrimp market overseas has also shrunk because of the lockdown, leaving little scope for further export. Farmers want us to buy the stock even through deferred payment but the uncertainty in the export market will only be detrimental to the entire sector in the prevailing scenario, an exporter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-hits-aquaculture-sector-in-andhra-pradesh-823279.html
09-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Kerala police launch mobile sanitisation bus||After a Walk-in Sample Kiosk for easy COVID-19 sample collection, Kerala has come up with another innovative idea of a sanitisation bus. The Kerala Police launched the sanitisation bus for disinfecting police personnel on duty. Modeled on the lines of sanitisaion tunnels being set up at various places, one needs to enter the bus through the rear door and exit through the front door and he would be sanitised. Kerala state police chief Loknath Behera said that the bus would roam around for disinfecting police personnel on duty, especially at coronavirus prone areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-kerala-police-launch-mobile-sanitisation-bus-823303.html
09-04-2020||South||As coronavirus spreads, restrictions get stringent in Tamil Nadu||Despite Tamil Nadu standing at the second position in the number of COVID-19 patients in the country at 738, people in almost all parts of the state do come out on a daily basis. To curb people’s movement, district administrations have imposed stringent restrictions and are adopting innovative methods to restrain people from stepping out of their homes. In Vellore, 140 kms from here, district collector A Shanmuga Sundaram has announced provision shops and supermarkets would function only on three days a week and that too only four hours a day, while asking all meat shops to close for the entire period of lockdown. Tamil Nadu has so far reported 738 COVID-19 cases and Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has warned that the state could enter the third stage of the disease, which is community transmission. The Salem district administration has also decided to allow people to step out of their homes and take their two-wheelers only once in five days. The Salem City Police has chosen four colours of paint and will use them on the mudguards and tyres of the vehicle for identification. “On Friday we will use yellow colour, red on Saturday, blue on Sunday and brown on Monday. People who stepped out of their homes on Friday can come to markets next only on Tuesday and not before that. The colour of paint that we apply on the mudguards and tyres will help us to find out when the person had step out last,” S Senthil, Deputy Commissioner (Crime and Traffic), said. The move was necessary, according to police officials, since people were stepping out every day on the “pretext” of buying essentials. The new restrictions have been communicated through people in the form of announcements via a microphone in their area and other mediums. “We ask people to buy essential food items for four to five days in one go. This way we can reduce crowding at markets and shops. If people don’t comply with the new rules, their vehicles will be seized and a case will be filed against them,” Senthil said. It is different in Vellore where the district collector has allowed departmental stores and supermarkets only for four hours on Sunday, Monday, and Thursday. “The decision has been taken to ensure that people stay indoors. People step out unnecessarily out of their homes and some tough decisions are needed to ensure compliance,” Shanmuga Sundaram said. However, milk shops would continue to function every day for four hours – 6 am to 8 am and 5 pm to 7 pm, while all meat shops have been asked to down their shutters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-coronavirus-spreads-restrictions-get-stringent-in-tamil-nadu-823321.html
09-04-2020||South||Kerala govt commences distribution of food kits for ration card holders amid coronavirus pandemic||Kerala government on Thursday began distribution of free food kits for the ration card holders. Food and Civil Supplies P Thilothaman inaugurated the distribution at Kottur area near here among the Scheduled Tribes community. Each kit, worth around Rs 1,000, contains 17 items including one kg sugar, 250 gm tea powder, one kg salt, green gram, half-a-litre cooking oil, two kg atta, one kg rava, one kg black channa, soaps etc among others. "The kit will be available only from the ration shops where the card is registered. There is no portability facility for this purpose," a senior official said. The state has already been giving the free ration through ration shops for everyone who holds an Aadhaar number. The free ration and the free kits will be ome delivered to those who are under home quarantine or to those houses where elderly people are staying. Earlier, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said that the free kit distribution will begin from April first week and the state government had allotted Rs 350 crore for the purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-commences-distribution-of-food-kits-for-ration-card-holders-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-823332.html
09-04-2020||South||Sanitation bus launched in Kerala to disinfect cops on lockdown duty||Kerala police on Thursday launched sanitation bus to disinfect police personnel who are on duty during the nation-wide lockdown to control the spread of coronavirus. State Police chief Lokanath Behera inaugurated the sanitising vehicle in the capital and said soon it will be expanded to other districts also. The bus is a mobile sanitising unit to disinfect the police personnel.   "The police officials can enter the bus through the back door and disinfectant will be sprayed after which the officer can come out through the front door," a senior police official told PTI. The mobile unit will travel to all places where police were deployed and disinfect them as they come into contact with the common people a lot on the road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sanitation-bus-launched-in-kerala-to-disinfect-cops-on-lockdown-duty-823335.html
09-04-2020||South||Kerala records higher recovery rate than positive ones for third consecutive day||Even as 12 more fresh coronavirus cases were reported in Kerala on Thursday, the state heaved a sigh of relief as the number of persons getting recovered was more than the new cases, for the third consecutive day. As many as 38 persons recovered in the last three days, while the number of fresh cases reported was only 30. With six US nationals being discharged from the Ernakulam medical college hospital on Thursday, all the eight coronavirus-infected foreign nationals in Kerala have recovered. While 11 of the 12 persons who were tested coronavirus-positive on Thursday were found to have got the infection through local contacts, and mostly from their own family members. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the people need to remain cautious until the state came out from COVID completely. Meanwhile, in order to tide over the financial crunches caused by COVID-19, Kerala has urged the Centre to grant permission for issuing Special Pandemic Relief Bond. The state also demanded that the borrowing limits of the state be increased to 5%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-records-higher-recovery-rate-than-positive-ones-for-third-consecutive-day-823340.html
09-04-2020||South||Kerala to try antibody from recovered patients for coronavirus treatment||Kerala is planning to commence antibody passive immunisation for COVID-19 treatment by using plasma from recovered patients, which has been reportedly tested effectively in China and the US. The Indian Council of Medical Research has already granted nod for a project proposed by Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) in Thiruvananthapuram and a nod from the Drugs Controller of India was awaited soon. SCTIMST director Dr. Asha Kishore told DH that already there were reports that the antibody passive immunisation was tried in China and US and it was found to be effective. As soon as the nod from the Drugs Controller of India and ethics committee was received, it could be initiated in Kerala also. Collecting antibodies from the blood of those who recovered from COVID-19 and using it to treat the infected patients is the basic principle of the treatment. Anti-bodies against Corona could be present in plasma of recovered persons. It would be tested on highly critical patients. Dr. Asha said that plasma would be collected from a person only the 14 days quarantine after recovering from COVID. Up to one litre plasma could be taken from a patient and only 250 ml is required for one patient. The antibody passive immunisation treatment used to be initiated in other viral infections also, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-try-antibody-from-recovered-patients-for-coronavirus-treatment-823348.html
09-04-2020||South||Summer showers surprise Chennai||While rains accompanied by thunderstorms hit the city, neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur and Kanchipuram witnessed heavy winds uprooting several trees. This is the first spell of summer showers in Chennai this season and people of this city welcomed it by posting pictures of rains and thunderstorms on social media. Most areas in the city witnessed an intense spell of rains giving much respite to them in times of summer. Weather bloggers, who predicted rains for the city, said they did not expect such an intense spell across the city on Thursday. Ennore on the outskirts of the city experienced hailstorms. “Spell coming to end, thank you nature for the surprise spell, though rains were expected, not so widespread and intense. It has been a while since hailstorm hit Chennai,” weather blogger Pradeep John wrote on his Facebook page.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/summer-showers-surprise-chennai-823359.html
09-04-2020||South||As Tamil Nadu reports sharp rise in cases, CM Palaniswami warns state could see phase III of COVID spread||Tamil Nadu on Thursday reported 96 new COVID-19 patients, including 84 from “one cluster”, even as Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said chances of the state entering the phase III of the disease though “efforts are being taken” to contain in the current phase II itself. The fresh numbers take the tally to 834, including 27 who have been discharged from hospitals and eight persons who have lost their lives. While 84 of the 96 patients who tested today belong to “one cluster”, an oblique reference to a religious congregation in Delhi, three have inter-state travel history and the remaining nine, including a doctor, have contact history. The doctor is working in a private hospital and is understood to have contracted the virus while treating a COVID-19 patient. Palaniswami told a press conference that COVID-19 was spreading day by day and the government can take a call on extending the lockdown only after consulting experts. “It is an infectious disease…right now, we are in stage-II. But there are chances of the state entering stage-III. However, efforts are on to contain it in stage-II itself,” he said. Phase II is local transmission stage and phase III is community transmission. The Chief Minister also said the testing would be ramped up from Friday as the state is likely to get the first set of rapid kits by Thursday night. He also added that the state has decided to purchase another 4 lakh rapid test kits that can produce results in half hour. Briefing reporters in the evening, Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said seven patients who are currently being treated for COVID-19 are critical and one of them are on ventilator.   Also, the state completed testing all 1,480 persons who attended a religious congregation in Delhi last month with 554 testing positive and swab samples of the remaining 926 persons rendering negative. As many as 188 contacts of the 554 positive patients from “one cluster” have also tested positive for the virus. “The number of people who attended the conference kept changing for the past one week. First, we had 1,100 people coming to us and getting tested. The numbers increased and it stands at 1,480 today,” the health secretary said. Tamil Nadu also increased the number of samples tested in 24 hours – it has tested over 1,100 samples in 24 hours, of which 485 are under process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-tamil-nadu-reports-sharp-rise-in-cases-cm-palaniswami-warns-state-could-see-phase-iii-of-covid-spread-823364.html
09-04-2020||South||Kerala considering airlifting option for patients in Kasargod||With patients from Kasargod still facing difficulties in getting medical care at Mangaluru, Kerala government is exploring option of swift transportation facilities for patients from Kasargod to hospitals in other districts with in Kerala. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that even air lifting option would be considered for critical patients. He also added that Kerala would not block any patients from other states who come down for expert treatment. While the distance from Kasargod to Mangaluru is around 55 kilometre, the distance from Kasargod to the neighbouring Kannur district in Kerala is around 90 kilometres. The number of specialty hospitals in Kannur is very few. Kozhikode, which is the next major city, is about 180 kilometre from Kasargod. Meanwhile, a 69-year old person hailing from Uppala in Kasargod, identified as Abdul Saleem, died on Tuesday allegedly after he was denied permission to go to Mangaluru for treatment on Monday night. Over ten persons who died in Kasargod over the last couple of weeks were allegedly denied permission to proceed to Mangaluru for medical care. Though four patients were allowed to go to Mangaluru on Tuesday and Wednesday, two of them returned citing improper care. One person was admitted there and another person returned after treatment, said local sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-considering-airlifting-option-for-patients-in-kasargod-823365.html
09-04-2020||South||Ratan Tata promises to "do utmost" to help Andhra Pradesh in coronavirus fight||Tata Trusts Chairman Ratan N Tata on Thursday wrote a letter to Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy promising to "do our utmost" to help the state in fighting COVID-19. "We are doing our best at the Tata Trusts and the Tata Group to address the needs of various states in their fight against the virus. "We are trying to meet, as best as we can, the needs of the various states and we are in the process of sourcing the necessary equipment and test kits for distribution," Ratan Tata said in the letter. He said the Tata Trusts would endeavour to meet the requirements of various states, including AP. "But, as you are aware, there is great pressure on the sourcing and the supply chain which we are trying to cope with. Nevertheless, I want to assure you that we will do our utmost to help you," Tata assured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ratan-tata-promises-to-do-utmost-to-help-andhra-pradesh-in-coronavirus-fight-823385.html
09-04-2020||South||COVID-19: Navy undertakes medical evacuation trials||The Indian Navy has undertaken medical evacuation trials, including the exercise of airlifting patients on Lakshadweep islands in the aftermath of novel coronavirus scare, a defence spokesman said here on Thursday. Lakshadweep MP Mohammad Faizal said some 3,000 people were home quarantined on the islands but not a single COVID-19 case has been reported so far. "So far, the islanders are safe. Some 3,000 people who came from outside the islands have been home quarantined for the last 16 days. No one has shown symptoms of the novel coronavirus," he told PTI. However, preparations have been made to ensure the safety of islanders in case if any coronavirus case is reported from Lakshadweep. Since the hospitals on the islands are not equipped to treat COVID-19 patients, an emergency evacuation plan has been prepared. According to the plan, if anyone in the island has contracted the virus, that person would be evacuated to the Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam, which has been converted into a COVID-19 hospital by the Kerala government, the MP said. In a press release, the Defence spokesman said the Southern Naval Command undertook medical evacuation trials on Wednesday. Trials for evacuation of patients were undertaken on board an Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH)and inside isolation capsule in Dornier aircraft, he said. A feasibility study was undertaken for in-house modification to isolate the cockpit and cabin area by installing polythene film screen to prevent any kind of contact with the patient. India's smallest Union Territory, Lakshadweep, comprises 36 islands. All islands are 220 to 440 km from the coastal city of Kochi in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-navy-undertakes-medical-evacuation-trials-823397.html
09-04-2020||South||Elephants heave a sigh of relief due to lockdown during temple festivals season in Kerala||If there is one section that is quite happy with the lockdown owing to COVID-19, it could be the 500 odd captive elephants of Kerala. March-April months used to be the peak season of temple festivals in Kerala and elephants are an integral part of the festival. Despite the scorching summer, elephants used to be paraded for kilometres, often flouting the animal welfare norms. Several incidents of elephants running amok, sometimes even claiming lives, used to be reported in Kerala during this season every year. However, owing to the lockdown about 1,000 temple festivals of Kerala had been called off. Thrissur Pooram, a major festival where around 30 odd elephants used to be paraded at a time in Thirssur, which is scheduled to be held on May 3, is also likely to be called off.Kerala Elephant Owners' Federation secretary K Sasikumar told DH that in Thrissur district alone 55 festivals had been called off in March alone. Altogether around 1,000 temple festivals in Kerala could have been put off this year. Animal rights activist V K Venkitachalam said that the lockdown indeed became a blessing for elephants as they got relieved from the extensive physical and mental torture during the festivals. Elephants were forced to remain standing and walking for hours with out giving adequate rest. Some popular elephants used to be transported extensively across the state during this season for festivals. It was the mental and physical torture that often result in the elephants running amok and risking lives. Festival seasons also used to be brisk business season for elephant owners. Charge for parading popular elephants would be around Rs.one lakh or more. Meanwhile, Rajesh Poduval, secretary of the Paramekavu Devaswom, one of the key stake holders of the Thrissur Pooram, said that even as the restrictions over Covid cast a shadow over this year's Thrissur Pooram, a final decision on whether to call off the event or not was yet to be taken. The last time Thrissur pooram was called off was in early 1960s following some dispute among the organisers. Thereafter, even as many restrictions came on parading elephants, Thrissur Pooram has been remaining unaffected owing to its popularity and even tourist attraction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/elephants-heave-a-sigh-of-relief-due-to-lockdown-during-temple-festivals-season-in-kerala-823420.html
09-04-2020||State||Karnataka reports one more COVID-19 death, toll in state rises to 6||An 80-year-old woman, who was diagnosed with coronavirus after developing severe respiratory problems died of cardiac arrest in Gadag district early on Thursday, taking the toll in Karnataka to six, district officials said. According to a senior official in that district, the patient was admitted to a designated hospital a few days ago with severe respiratory problems. On April 6, test reports confirmed that she was infected with COVID-19. At 12.55 am on Thursday she died of cardiac arrest." With this, the number of deaths caused by COVID-19 reached six in the state, whereas the total positive cases as on Wednesday evening stood at 181.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-one-more-covid-19-death-toll-in-state-rises-to-6-823148.html
09-04-2020||State||Karnataka to finalise lockdown exit strategy by April 13:||The Karnataka government is currently engaged in discussions with experts, specialists and other stakeholders to decide on its lockdown exit strategy and would take a final view by April 13, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said on Thursday. "Day after tomorrow we have a VC (videoconference) with the Prime Minister," said Sudhakar, who is in charge of all matters related to COVID-19, noted when asked about the States strategy. He said a task force of specialist doctors on Wednesday submitted its report to the government, giving its recommendations. "We are meeting a lot of stakeholders of the society taking their views," the Minister said, adding, the Cabinet would also hold discussions. "Finally, day after tomorrow, after discussing with the Prime Minister during the VC, the government will take a view on this by April 13 or so. As of now, we have not taken any view on it. We are studying all the reports," Sudhakar told PTI. The Minister observed that the COVID-19 cases were slowly spiking in India but not multiplying the way they have in some other countries like Italy, Spain and the United States as the government had declared 21-day national lockdown early and taken other strict measures. "Let's see for one week and see. We need to fight this out collectively and by strictly following the quarantine methods and social distancing," Sudhakar stressed. The Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had on Wednesday said his government was in favour of lifting lock-down in districts which remained free from COVID-19 after April 14 subject to approval from the Centre. "If the Prime Minister suggests to States to take the decision (on lock-down) based on the situation in their respective States, my position is to take a call (on rollback) in districts free from COVID-19," he had said. "This is to allow people to go about their business and move about within the district and not from one district to another, after April 14, after taking the approval of the Prime Minister." According to State officials, as many as 12 districts continue to remain free from COVID-19. The task force has recommended continuation of lockdown at "hot spots" beyond April 14. It has suggested that schools and colleges be shut till May 31, while non-air-conditioned shops can be opened. Also, IT/BT companies, government offices providing essential services and factories can function with 50 per cent staff, the task force said in its recommendations for the 15-day period after April 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-finalise-lockdown-exit-strategy-by-april-13-823161.html
09-04-2020||State||Karnataka health department backtracks on its earlier circular on masks||Backtracking on its earlier circular that not everyone needs to wear a mask, the Karnataka Health Department issued a fresh circular on Thursday that public should wear homemade masks whenever one comes into contact with a stranger. The masks should have two folds with three frills and four threads on the four corners to tie to the head. It can either be hand stitched or machine stitched, the circular said. "These masks can be reused by washing in hot water and ironing. In this context, it is desirable that every person should have a minimum of two masks," the circular said. "But in order to protect oneself from bacteria and viruses, a person has to use medically certified masks only," the circular said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-health-department-backtracks-on-its-earlier-circular-on-masks-823217.html
09-04-2020||State||Coronavirus: Expert committee in Karnataka for continuation of lockdown in hotspots with some relaxations||A committee of health experts tasked with devising an exit strategy for coronavirus lockdown in Karnataka has recommended for its continuation in "hotspots" along with some relaxations. In its recommendations submitted to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday, it has said schools and colleges should remain shut till May 31 and advocated restrictions on public transport to continue for some more time even as suggesting an odd-even formula for private vehicles. While non-air conditioned shops can be allowed to function and IT/BT companies, government offices providing essential services and factories can operate with 50 per cent staff, the committee said. The recommendations were for a period of next 15 days from April 14 after the current national lockdown, an official release said. The committee comprising among others Narayana Health founder-chairman Dr Devi Prasad Shetty, Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences director Dr C N Manjunath was set up for devising the exit strategy for the lockdown. According to a release from his office, the Chief Minister has said the government will take action after considering both central government guidelines and recommendations of the committee. While calling for maintaining utmost caution for the next six months, the committee has said that social distancing should be strictly followed. The recommendations include enforcing lockdown locally at places where cases have been reported after March 24. Calling for the closure of school and colleges until May 31, it says, online classes should be encouraged. Only goods carrying vehicles should be permitted at inter-state borders, the recommendations said, inter-state train and flight services should not be resumed for the time being. Urging for restrictions on the unnecessary movement of people, it said, AC buses and metro services should not be allowed to function till April 30, and for private vehicle movement odd-even formula can be adopted. By opening local shops for more time, care should be taken that they are not crowded, it added. Noting that protective equipment should be made available to doctors, nurses, and other paramedic staff, the release quoting committee recommendations said, after April 12 rapid test kits will be supplied following which quarantine and tests process will get a boost. It also said for non-coroovairus patients, private hospitals should provide teleconsultations to the extent possible. V||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-expert-committee-in-karnataka-for-continuation-of-lockdown-in-hotspots-with-some-relaxations-823245.html
09-04-2020||State||KSRTC converts scrap bus into sanitiser tunnel||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation is converting an old bus into a sanitiser bus in which mechanised devices spray a solution on personnel walking through, much like sanitiser tunnels installed in other places in Karnataka. KSRTC Managing Director Shivayogi C Kalasad visited Bangalore Central Division depots and divisional workshop where the sanitiser tunnel is being built out of a scrap bus. "The depot staff or passengers in bus stations should enter this bus before entering to depot or bus stations," the KSRTC said in a release. Kalsad said the bus should be replicated initiative in other divisions. “If the lockdown is lifted in any part of the districts, the divisional controllers should be ready to operate buses and it is mandatory that all the crew should wear masks,” he said. The KSRTC has said that divisional controllers should ensure the availability of masks and stitching of masks. Staff have been told to take care of their health with suitable precautions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ksrtc-converts-scrap-bus-into-sanitiser-tunnel-823248.html
09-04-2020||State||TSCL launches e-library for book lovers amid coronavirus lockdown||Because of the country-wide COVID-19 lockdown, Tumakuru Smart City Limited (TSCL) has launched a 'digital library' for people who are in the habit of going to the library every day to read newspapers and books. All one needs is a mobile phone or a computer with an Internet connection to access dozens of newspapers, journals and hundreds of books.  This e-library has the following sections: books, periodicals, newspapers, journals, general knowledge books. The collections have literature, textbooks and children's books. The collections have been catagorised on the basis of author and language.  Including mainstream and district papers, totally 33 Kannada newspapers can be accessed here apart from the day's editions of newspapers of the country's prominent languages.    As many as 24 English. 13 Kannada and eight Hindi periodicals are available. The topics covered include science, technology, geography, agriculture and economy. As many as 238 scholarly research-oriented journals are available here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tscl-launches-e-library-for-book-lovers-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-823315.html
09-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||10 new coronavirus cases reported in Karnataka, tally climbs to 191||An 80-year-old woman from Gadag district became the sixth COVID-19 fatality in Karnataka, where 10 new positive cases were confirmed, pushing the tally in the state to 191, the health department said on Thursday. The elderly woman died on April 8 in Gadag, the department said in its mid-day situation update. Confirming that her reports tested positive on April 7, officials had said, she had a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). The fresh cases have been reported in the state from last evening to this noon. Till date, 191 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed, which includes 6 deaths and 28 discharges, the update said. Among the 10 positive cases, eight are contacts of patients who have already tested positive- one each from Belagavi, Mandya and Chikkaballapura, two from Mysuru, and three from Bagalkote; while two from Bengaluru city are with a travel history to Delhi. Three cases from Bagalkote are children- two boys of 4 and 13 years of age, and the girls is 9 years old.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/10-new-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-karnataka-tally-climbs-to-191-823204.html
09-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka ministers bat for 15-day lockdown extension||Karnataka’s Cabinet ministers have sought to extend the lockdown, but a final decision will be taken after discussions with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said Thursday.  Yediyurappa, who chaired an emergency cabinet meeting, told reporters that his Cabinet colleagues are of the view that the lockdown should be extended by a fortnight considering the situation in the state. "We have also discussed relaxing norms at districts where COVID-19 cases are not reported. However, a final decision will be taken after PM reviewed the lockdown measures with chief ministers of all states on Friday," he said. On Wednesday, an expert committee submitted its report to the government recommending continuation of the lockdown in COVID-19 hotspots, while allowing relaxation in places where the virus did not pose a problem.   Karnataka has been under lockdown since March 24, a day before the national lockdown was announced. The state currently stood 13th in the country in terms of the number of cases. The first coronavirus death in India was reported at Kalaburagi. The Cabinet also promulgated three ordinances during the meeting. The first ordinance was for a 30 per cent deduction of salaries and allowances for all legislators for a year, amounting to Rs 15.36 crore. The amount will be transferred to CMs relief fund to fight the pandemic, Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said.  The second was permitting the deferment of GST remittals until June, while the third was regarding relaxations for farmers in few districts having cases under the provisions of Land Grabbing Act.  The state government will also distribute rations for two months to around 2.5 lakh people without ration cards, Madhuswamy added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-ministers-bat-for-15-day-lockdown-extension-823227.html
09-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: First Jubilant-related victim detected in Mandya||The fifth coronavirus victim in Mandya district is the first victim related to Nanjangud-based Jubilant Life Sciences. He is designated as P185 by the State Health Department, a 32-year-old man. An employee of Jubilant Life Sciences P185 is a resident of Swarnasandra, in Mandya city. Deputy Commissioner Dr. M V Venkatesh said the victim is a microbiologist in the quality control team of the company. “When the infection started spreading among employees of Jubilant Life Sciences, P185 was identified as a primary contact, screened at the company and was advised home quarantine,” he said. “P185 returned home in Mandya, from the company, on his two-wheeler on March 26. On March 30, he was shifted to the public quarantine facility, established by the Health Department. He did not show any symptoms of COVID-19 infection. However, before discharging him, his throat swab and blood samples were sent for testing on April 7. At present, he is being treated at the Isolation Ward in the hospital of Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences,” Dr. Venkatesh said. The DC said, the victim used to commute to his company by bus and might have come in contact with many people. “He used to travel up to Mysuru, from Mandya Bus Stand, in KSRTC buses. From Mysuru, he used to commute in his company shuttle. His primary contacts, his family members, parents, younger sister, and his niece have been subject to home quarantine,” he said. The DC said, already a high-alert has been sounded in Mandya city, in the wake of the confirmed COVID-19 cases. “Now, parts of Swarnasandra have been declared as Buffer Zone,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-first-jubilant-related-victim-detected-in-mandya-823271.html
09-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kateel opens BJP Karnataka COVID-19 helpline in Mangaluru||To help people of Karnataka during the lockdown, the state BJP launched a helpline ‘BJP Karnataka COVID-19’ with a common phone number 080-68324040. Speaking after launching the helpline in Mangaluru, State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel said that people seek help food packets, meals, health service, medicine, doctor and the like. “When the helpline receives a call, the information collected will be passed on to the district, taluk and then to the ward level of BJP units for taking action,” said Kateel. In addition, people can seek help by sending a message through WhatsApp number 8722557733 and through its Facebook account ‘BJP Karnataka SMIT Cell’ and twitter account ‘#BJPKarCOVIDHelp.’ A drive to prepare masks at home was also launched by the party on the occasion. Once the masks are ready, it will be distributed among the needy people. He said that BJP workers have been asked to make at least 100 people in each booth to contribute Rs 100 each to PM Cares Fund through BHIM App. No cash will be collected by the BJP workers, he clarified. Grocery kits In a separate programme, Mangaluru South MLA D Vedavyasa Kamath said that 10,000 grocery kits will be distributed among the needy in the Mangaluru South Assembly constituency. Already, a few kits have been distributed. Each kit will have 5-kg rice, tur dal, edible oil, sugar, toothpaste, soap, and pulses. About 50 volunteers are engaged in preparing the kit and distributing it among the needy. Further, 15000 masks will also be distributed within two days, said the MLA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kateel-opens-bjp-karnataka-covid-19-helpline-in-mangaluru-823387.html
09-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Three family members of Markaz returnee test positive for coronavirus in Belagavi||Father, mother, and brother of COVID-19 positive patient admitted to Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences District Hospital for treatment, have tested positive for the virus on Thursday (April 9). A total of 10 persons from the district have tested positive until now.  Patient No 128 aged 20 years from Hirebagewadi village in Belagavi taluk who had attended a religious gathering of Tablighi Jamaat at New Delhi from March 13 to 18, had tested positive on April 3 and has been admitted in the designated hospital for treatment.  His father identified as Patient No 182 aged 50 years, mother identified as Patient No 192 aged 40 years and brother identified as Patient No 193 aged 22 years who had come in his contact tested positive in the results made known on Thursday. They have been admitted to the designated hospital for treatment.  Earlier 7 had tested positive with containment zone and buffer zones being marked to prevent movement of people from the area at Camp in Belagavi, Hirebagewadi and Belagundi villages in Belagavi taluk and Kuduchi town in Raibag taluk. The number of positive patients for COVID-19 increased to 10 with Patient No 182, 192 and 193 tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/three-family-members-of-markaz-returnee-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-belagavi-823401.html
09-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka took just eight days to go from 100 cases to 197 coronavirus cases: Minister Suresh Kumar||"First COVID-19 case was reported on March 8th. 16 days later, 50 cases were reported. Another eight days later 100 cases were reported. Four days later 150 cases were reported, and another four days later 197 cases were reported. This is the arithmetic progression of cases we have seen in the state," Minister S Suresh Kumar said.  This is the second time when Karnataka has reported 16 cases in a single day. Karnataka has so far discharged 30 patients and six are dead. 161 people are isolated in various hospitals across the state for treatment. Considering the rapid spike in cases, asked if Karnataka wasn't testing enough, Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said, "We have tested more than 7,000 samples compared to Kerala which has reported more cases."   Secondary contacts will be tested henceforth So far only those secondary contacts with symptoms were tested. But henceforth, all secondary contacts of confirmed cases will be tested, Kumar said.  Those who wish to volunteer for COVID-19 duty can register on the government's dedicated website meant for COVID-19. The CM relief fund has so far received Rs. 127.3 crore.  As far as Tabhlighi Jamaat is concerned, out of 1,176 samples tested, 976 have turned out to be negative, 40 have tested positive and 160 are awaited.  So far the department, explicitly mentioned in its daily bulletin if a person with travel history to Delhi is a Tabhlighi Jamaat attendee or not but surprisingly on Thursday, three patients listed as ones with travel history to Delhi weren't disclosed as Jamaat attendees. Kumar later clarified that two people from Bengaluru -- a 19-year-old girl and a 27-year-old man, and one 27-year old man from Dharwad listed as those with travel history to Delhi are in fact Jamaat attendees. So far, 40 Jamaat attendees have tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-took-just-eight-days-to-go-from-100-cases-to-197-coronavirus-cases-minister-suresh-kumar-823427.html
09-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Relief Fund gets Rs 127 crore in ten days to fight coronavirus||The Chief Minister's Relief Fund (CMRF) has been able to aggregate funds to the tune of Rs 127.37 crore. According to the Chief Minister's Office (CMO), between March 27 and April 9, the relief fund was able to pool Rs 127.37 crores, out of which Rs 24.06 crore was received through cheques on Thursday alone. Yediyurappa has made personal appeals to donours to contribute to the relief fund and help combat the coronavirus pandemic. Yediyurappa himself has donated one year's salary (Rs 24.10 lakh) to the relief fund. Among some large donors included the Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Ltd (KPTCL) employees who have collectively donated a sum of Rs 18 crore.  By cutting 30 per cent salary of all MLAs, MLCs and ministers, the relief fund will get about Rs 15 crore to help fight COVID-19. Officials in the CMO said contributors were from all walks of life - private individuals to large companies. Funds were also donated from religious institutions, cooperative societies and various employee associations. Some of the private sector donours include Asian Paints (Rs 2 crore), Megha Infrastructure and Investment Ltd (Rs 2 crore), Toyota Industries Engine India (Rs 31 lakh), Xiaomi and JM Financial (Rs 25 lakh each), Toyota Kirloskar (Rs 23 lakh), Kennametal (Rs 15 lakh) and Brigade Enterprises (Rs 10 lakh) among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-relief-fund-gets-rs-127-crore-in-ten-days-to-fight-coronavirus-823438.html
09-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka Cabinet cuts 30% salary, allowances of MLAs, ministers||The Cabinet on Thursday decided to cut 30% salary and allowances of all MLAs, MLCs and ministers amounting to Rs 15.36 crore. In the emergency meeting, the Cabinet also took stock of measures to tackle drinking water shortage in drought-hit taluks and free ration for 2.50 lakh people without ration cards. According to Law Minister J C Madhuswamy, the Cabinet decided to promulgate three ordinances, the first allowing the government to divert 30% of salary and allowances of all legislators to fund the COVID-19 relief. "We have the consent of all political leaders for this," he said. The second ordinance allowed deferring of GST remittals until June. The third ordinance was regarding relaxations for farmers in a few districts where they face cases under the provisions of the Land Grabbing Act, Madhuswamy said. The state government will also distribute rations for two months to around 2.50 lakh people without ration cards, Madhuswamy said. "Even those whose applications for a ration card are pending will get ration," he said. "Those whose applications have been rejected will not be covered." Farmers who cultivated flowers (floriculture) are facing losses due to decline in demand. Measures are also being initiated to compensate them based on reports submitted by deputy commissioners, Madhuswamy said. With 49 taluks across 18 districts declared drought-hit, the government has released Rs 1 crore to each taluk to ensure drinking water supply in these districts. "In other taluks, there's a provision of Rs 25 lakh, which the Cabinet decided to increase to Rs 50 lakh," the law minister said.  Revenue Minister R Ashoka told reporters that tanker water was being supplied to 271 villages in the state. "We have taken measures to ensure that there is no shortage of fodder for cattle during the lockdown," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-cabinet-cuts-30-salary-allowances-of-mlas-ministers-823441.html
09-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM’s relief fund gets Rs 127 crore||The Chief Minister's Relief Fund (CMRF) has been able to aggregate funds to the tune of Rs 127.37 crore. According to the Chief Minister's Office (CMO), between March 27 and April 9, the relief fund was able to pool in Rs 127.37 crore, out of which Rs 24.06 crore was received through cheques on Thursday alone. Yediyurappa has made personal appeals to donors to contribute to the relief fund and help combat the Covid-19 pandemic. Yediyurappa himself has donated one year's salary (Rs 24.1 lakh) to the relief fund. Among some large donors are the Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited (KPTCL) employees, who have collectively donated a sum of Rs 18 crore. By cutting 30% salary of all MLAs, MLCs and ministers, the relief fund will get about Rs 15 crore. Officials in the CMO said contributors were from all walks of life - private individuals to large companies. Funds were also donated by religious institutions, cooperative societies and various employees associations. Some of the private sector donors include Asian Paints (Rs 2 crore), Megha Infrastructure and Investment Ltd (Rs 2 crore), Toyota Industries Engine India (Rs 31 lakh), Xiaomi and JM Financial (Rs 25 lakh each), Toyota Kirloskar (Rs 23 lakh), Kennametal (Rs 15 lakh) and Brigade Enterprises (Rs 10 lakh)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-s-relief-fund-gets-rs-127-crore-823442.html
09-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Random testing in coronavirus red zones from today||A month after reporting the first COVID-19 case and successfully completing the quarantine phase for all the international passengers who arrived in Bengaluru a fortnight ago, the state government has now decided to conduct random checks of people from the ‘red zone’ regions of the state from Friday. Aimed at containing the spread of the virus into the community level, the Health and Family Welfare department, along with the Medical Education department, has decided to conduct random checks on the local population especially those who have been working on the frontline of COVID-19 emergency, police personnel and media persons. Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar told DH that the random tests in red zone will begin from Friday. "The issue was discussed during the sub-committee meeting that was held on Thursday and we resolved to conduct random tests to curb spreading of COVID-19 at the community level."   Allaying the fears, the minister clarified that there is no dearth of COVID-19 testing kits in the state. "In fact, on Thursday we inaugurated the 16th lab in Karnataka," the minister said. He also added that tests will be conducted for all the primary and secondary contacts of the positive cases across Karnataka.  Red zones in Karnataka BBMP-Bengaluru Urban, Chikkaballapur, Mysuru, Dakshina Kannada, Bidar, Kalaburagi and Uttara Kannada.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/random-testing-in-coronavirus-red-zones-from-today-823443.html
09-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka took just 8 days to go from 100-197 cases: minister||Karnataka is just three cases short of 200 Covid-19 patients and the state took just eight days to reach 197 from 100, Minister S Suresh Kumar said on Thursday. "The first Covid-19 case was reported on March 8. Sixteen days later, the number was 50. Another eight days, it was 100. Four days later, the number grew to 150. After four days, it is 197. This is the arithmetic progression of cases we have seen in the state," Kumar said. This is the second time when Karnataka has reported 16 cases on a single day (Thursday). Karnataka has so far discharged 30 patients and six are dead. A total of 161 people are isolated in various hospitals across the state for treatment. Asked if Karnataka wasn't testing enough, Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said, "We have tested more than 7,000 samples, compared to Kerala which has reported more cases." So far, only those secondary contacts with symptoms were tested. But henceforth, all secondary contacts of confirmed cases will be tested, Kumar said. Those who wish to volunteer for Covid-19 duty can register on the government's dedicated website. The CM’s relief fund has so far received Rs 127.3 crore, the minister said. As far as Tabhlighi Jamaat is concerned, out of 1,176 samples tested, 976 have turned out to be negative, 40 have tested positive and results in 160 cases are awaited. So far, the department explicitly mentioned in its daily bulletin if a patient with travel history to Delhi is a Tabhlighi Jamaat attendee or not. But on Thursday, three patients listed as ones with travel history to Delhi weren't mentioned as Jamaat attendees. Kumar later clarified that two people from Bengaluru - a 19-year-old girl and a 27-year-old man - and one 27-year-old man from Dharwad listed as those with travel history to Delhi are Jamaat attendees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-took-just-8-days-to-go-from-100-197-cases-minister-823448.html
09-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Masking their own woes to make protective gear against coronavirus||They may be women discarded by their own near and dear ones. They may have taken shelter in a home for orphaned women run by the department of women and child development. But they have been silently contributing to a cause at the facility, named Shantidhama, housed in the Cantonment area of the city. The masks sewn by these women are used by the Asha and anganwadi workers as also the junior health assistants, who go door to door for survey of those suffering from symptoms of COVID-19. The women have already prepared 1,000 masks using raw materials supplied by the district administration. The masks have already been distributed among the personnel working to contain the spread of the virus in Ballari city, Hosapete and Siruguppa taluks. “A thin plastic film, elastic, sponge and formic acid are all that go into the manufacture of the masks. An order has been placed with these women for 5,000 masks by the district administration,” Nagaraj, the deputy director of the department of department of women and child development, told DH. The home for the women now has 100 residents. Of these, 25 are involved in the task of manufacturing the masks. It takes a minimum of 10 minutes to sew a mask and the women get Rs 4 for every mask they prepare, Nagaraj said. The district administration has imparted training to these women in the manufacture of masks, which is very essential for the ground workers involved in the work against COVID-19.   Shantidhama is ready to manufacture more masks if the demand increases, Nagaraj said. The masks are being supplied to the deputy commissioner’s office, from where they are sent to the needy areas, the officer said. Women involved in the work said that they feel a sense of fulfilment, to be contributing towards making the lives of people better when a pandemic of such a big scale has struck the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/masking-their-own-woes-to-make-protective-gear-against-coronavirus-823450.html
09-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Gadag patient succumbs to coronavirus||An 80-year-old woman from Gadag died due to COVID-19 at Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences on Wednesday night. Minister S Suresh Kumar said, "Patient 166, an elderly woman, has died in Gadag today. She had hypotension and died of cardiac arrest. She has been at Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences since April 4. She was confirmed positive on April 6. Samples from her 35 primary contacts and seven health workers – were tested and all the 42 have been reported negative. Another 11 primary contacts have been traced and swabs have been sent to labs. Reports are awaited." After she passed away at around 12.30 pm past midnight on Wednesday, she was cremated at around 10.30 am, the DHO said. She was first taken to a private doctor on March 30 with cold, cough and fever. She was referred to GIMS only on April 4, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gadag-patient-succumbs-to-coronavirus-823451.html
09-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Three kids of Bagalkot family contract coronavirus; Hubballi reports its first case||The COVID-19 cases continue to surge in the state as more number of infection reported from outside two hotspots - Bengaluru and Mysuru - on Thursday. Three children of a family in Bagalkot tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. All three, aged between 4 and 13, are relatives and primary contact of a woman who had tested positive for virus on Tuesday. Four-year-old son of the woman, her 13-year-old nephew and a nine-year-old niece contracted the disease. All four are the neighbours of a 75-year-old man who died due to COVID-19, last Friday. The swab samples of woman's husband, her brother-in-law and co-sister have returned negative. The children are being treated at the isolation ward of district hospital, sources said. 3 of Belagavi family infected The swab samples of three family members of a Tablighi Jamaat congregation attendee from Belagavi, who tested positive for COVID-19, have returned positive. Patient 128, aged 20 years from Hirebagewadi, had attended Jamaat event at Nizamuddin from March 13 to 18. His father, aged 50, mother and a sibling, have all contracted COVID-19. These three cases took Belagavi tally to 10. Meanwhile, Hubballi reported its first COVID-19 case on Thursday. A 27-year-old man from Mulla Oni in Kamaripet area, has tested positive for novel coronavirus. The man in question is a businessman and had travelled to Delhi, recently. His primary contacts and travel history are being ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/three-kids-of-bagalkot-family-contract-coronavirus-hubballi-reports-its-first-case-823453.html
09-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Belagavi reports 8th COVID-19 case as patient's father tests positive for coronavirus||His father, aged 50 years, identified as Patient No. 182 who had come in his contact tested positive in the results made known on Thursday. He too has been admitted in the designated hospital for treatment.   Earlier, seven had tested positive with containment zone and buffer zones being marked to prevent movement of people from the area at Camp in Belagavi, Hirebagewadi and Belagundi villages in Belagavi taluk and Kuduchi town in Raibag taluk. The number of positive patients for COVID-19 increased to eight with Patient No .182 testing positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/belagavi-reports-8th-covid-19-case-as-patients-father-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-823192.html
09-04-2020||West||COVID-19 cases rise to 383 in Rajasthan||Forty people tested positive for coronavirus in Rajasthan on Wednesday, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in the state to 383, an official said. The disease has claimed six lives in the state till now, but officials maintain that the deaths occurred due to comorbidity, which means more than one illness or disease occurring in a person at the same time. Out of the 40 new cases of the virus, 23 were from Jaipur. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the Rajasthan capital now stands at 129. "Forty new cases have come up today. One patient who tested positive today in Jaipur has no recent travel history," Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said. The 62-year-old patient, a resident of the city, was admitted at the SMS Hospital.  The patient has not given any recent travel or contact history. He is an employee of a private firm, the official said. Singh said the man was referred from Kawantia Hospital to the SMS Hospital. The rest of the people who tested COVID-19 positive either have links to Tablighi Jamaat congregation participants or had come in contact with positive cases with recent travel history, officials said.  The congregation took place in early March in Delhi's Nizamuddin area and several people who participated in the event got infected by the coronavirus. They travelled across the country after attending the congregation. Singh said intensive surveys are being conducted in Ramganj containment area. A total of 266 teams have visited 22,022 houses and identified 83 influenza like illness cases after surveying 1,16,773 people. "We will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that the situation in Ramganj improves," he said. Health Minister Raghu Sharma said according to the census, Ramganj will be divided into clusters and samples will be taken daily and their PCR testing will be done. This will allow accurate estimation of the number of corona infected people in the area, he said, adding that due to the dense population, ensuring social distancing in Ramganj is a difficult task.  The government is confident that in the coming days, the situation in Ramganj will improve, he added. Sharma that till now about 5.75 crore people across the state have been surveyed and screened and 45 people have tested negative after treatment while 42 of them have been discharged. Besides Jaipur, six cases were reported from Bikaner, five from Kota, three from Jhalawar and one each from Banswara, Jhunjhunu and Jodhpur.  Rajasthan is under lockdown from March 22 and massive surveys and screening is underway to trace COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-rise-to-383-in-rajasthan-823111.html
09-04-2020||West||Nasal gel to prevent COVID-19 to be made in IIT Bombay||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay is playing a lead role in the project initiated by the Department of Science and Technology (DST). The funding will help the team from the Department of Biosciences and Bioengineering, IIT Bombay develop a gel that can be applied to nasal passage, which is a major entry point of the coronavirus, according to a press statement. This solution is not only expected to protect the safety of health workers, but can also lead to reduction in community transmission of COVID-19, thereby helping disease management.Given the contagious nature of COVID-19, health providers, including doctors and nurses, are at maximum risk while taking care of COVID-19 patients, particularly asymptomatic ones who cannot be detected and pose a greater risk in spreading the disease. The team is planning a two-pronged approach to limit transmission of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, the causative agent of COVID-19. Primarily, since viruses replicate within host cells of the lungs, the first component of the strategy will be to inhibit the binding of viruses to host cells. While this is expected to reduce host cell infection, viruses will still remain active, therefore raising the need to inactivate them. Secondly, biological molecules would be incorporated, which would inactivate the trapped viruses in a manner similar to that of detergents. Upon completion, this approach will lead to development of gels that can be locally applied in the nasal cavity. "Our healthcare workers and others working in the front-line of the fight against the virus deserve a fool-proof, 200% protection. The nasal gel, being developed in conjunction with other protective measures, will provide a strong extra layer of defence," said Prof Sharma. Prof Kiran Kondabagil, Prof Rinti Banerjee, Prof Ashutosh Kumar and Prof Shamik Sen from the IIT Bombay will be part of this project. The team has expertise in the areas encompassing virology, structural biology, biophysics, biomaterials, and drug delivery and it is expected that the technology would be ready in about nine months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nasal-gel-to-prevent-covid-19-to-be-made-in-iit-bombay-823154.html
09-04-2020||West||Gujarat sees record 55 new COVID-19 cases in a day; tally jumps to 241||While giving the updates, principal secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi said that "Since Wednesday evening bulletin, we have recorded 55 positive cases in the state, out of which 50 are in Ahmedabad, while the rest are in Surat, Dahod, Anand and Chhota Udepur."  According to Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, the number of tests has increased in the past four days. It said that on April 4, it conducted 57 tests which rose to 840 on April 8. These tests are being conducted in all the 15 hotspot areas, which have been sealed as part of the cluster containment strategy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-sees-record-55-new-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-tally-jumps-to-241-823155.html
09-04-2020||West||Class X, XII textbooks now online in Maharashtra||To ensure that this year’s academic material reaches students of classes X and XII, Bal Bharati, the Maharashtra bureau for textbook publishing and curriculum research, has uploaded textbooks in PDF format for students. These can be download for free. In wake of the lockdown and indications that it may be extended, it was not possible for Bal Bharati to supply textbooks to the market. Moreover, the class XII syllabus has been revised from this year. The books would be available on www.ebalbharati.in Maharashtra School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad said: "In order to prevent loss to X and XII standard students in the situation arising out of the lockdown, the students will have their books available on the website in PDF form.” Vivek Gosavi, Director of Pune-based Bal Bharati, said: “We wanted to bring the textbooks in the market by the end of March. Because of the ongoing lockdown, we have decided to at least upload soft copies so that students don’t have to wait and can start studies.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/class-x-xii-textbooks-now-online-in-maharashtra-823177.html
09-04-2020||West||To fight coronavirus, Pradesh Congress forms COVID-19 task force in Maharashtra||As a part of this initiative, the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee has formed a task force and other sub-committees.  The task force will be under former CM and MLA Prithviraj Chavan and will have 18 other members with former MP Bhalchandra Mungekar as the coordinator.  The task force consists of MP Rajiv Satav, Mumbai Congress president Eknath Gaikwad, former Pradesh President Manikrao Thakre, MPCC working president Basavraj Patil, Muzzafar Hussain, former minister Naseem Khan, former union minister Vilas Muttemwar,  former president of the women's commission Sushiben Shah, former minister Chandrakant Handore, MLA Sangram Thopte and former minister Ranjeet Kamble, former MLA Kalyan Kale, Pradesh Congress general secretary Ganesh Patil, Maharashtra Pradesh Women Congress president Charulata Tokas, Youth Congress president Satyajeet Tambe. The national coordinator of the research wing of the AICC, Dr Amol Deshmukh is the secretary of the task force. Many sub-committees have been set up under this task force. A sub-committee to study the social and economic impact of the outbreak, a sub-committee on health, a sub-committee on monitoring the measures taken by the government and a media, social media and Helpline sub-committee will be operational.   MLA Amin Patel will head the sub-committee to study the social and economic impact of the outbreak. Dr Ratnakar Mahajan is the coordinator while Chitra Batham will be the secretary. The committee will study the social and economical impact of the outbreak of various sections of the society and will also suggest measures to be taken. Dr Ulhas Pawar, former MP, has been handed over the responsibility of heading the sub-committee for health. Former minister Dr Shobhatai Bacchav is the coordinator and Dr Manoj Raka will be the secretary. The committee will study the public health system in the state and will also suggest ways to improve the system and strengthen it. Former MP Rajni Patil will head the committee for suggesting government interventions. Mohan Joshi, general secretary of the Pradesh Congress and former MLA will be the coordinator.  Amar Khanapurkar has been appointed as the secretary of the committee. The sub-committee will keep a close watch on the government measures and whether they are being implemented properly.  The media, social media and Helpline sub-committee will be headed by MPCC GS and spokesperson Sachin Sawant. Abhjieet Sapkal has been appointed as the coordinator and Shrinivas Bikkad has been appointed as the secretary. There is already a separate media cell and this committee will work towards creating awareness and publicising the steps taken by the government and closely monitoring relief work. Also, the complaints and suggestions received by the helpdesk set up by the MPCC will also be looked into by this committee. The chairman of this committee will be a member of the task force to fight against coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/to-fight-coronavirus-pradesh-congress-forms-covid-19-task-force-in-maharashtra-823180.html
09-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: 4 held for assaulting cop amid Coronavirus lockdown||Four persons, including a vegetable vendor and his two sons, were arrested for allegedly assaulting a policeman at Murbad in Maharashtra's Thane district amid the COVID-19 lockdown, the police said on Thursday. The policeman, who was deployed at a junction in Saralgaon, spotted a crowd gathered at vegetable vendor Ramesh Shingole's shop on Wednesday, the station house officer of Murbad police station said. When the policeman requested him to shut the shop to prevent crowding, the vendor and his sons allegedly abused and attacked him, the official said, adding that the injured policeman was rushed to a government hospital. Shingole, his sons Dhanaji and Dighambar, and Sudham Gagde were arrested and charged under sections 353 (assault to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and other relevant provisions of the IPC and Disaster Management Act, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-4-held-for-assaulting-cop-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-823228.html
09-04-2020||West||Muslims help perform last rites of Hindu neighbour amid coronavirus lockdown||Members of the Muslim community helped in performing the last rites of their 68-year-old Hindu neighbour here in suburban Bandra after the latter's relatives could not reach his place due to the lockdown. The Muslim neighbours carried the body of Premchandra Buddhalal Mahavir, a resident of Gareeb Nagar locality of Bandra, on their shoulders to the cremation ground while chanting 'Ram naam satya hai'. Mahavir, belonging to a poor family from Rajasthan, died on Friday night following an illness. His son Mohan Mahavir subsequently informed their relatives and friends about the demise, but they could not come because of the lockdown enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus. "I could not contact my two elder brothers residing in Nalasopara area of neighbouring Palghar district. I informed about my father's death to my uncles in Rajasthan but they could not move out because of the lockdown," Mohan Mahavir told PTI. Later, their Muslim neighbours came forward and helped in perfoming the last rites on Saturday, he said. "My neighbours helped with death-related documentation and carried my father's body to the cremation ground. I am thankful to them for helping me in this situation," he said. Yusuf Siddique Sheikh, who attended the funeral, said, "We knew Premchandra Mahavir quite well. At such times, we should show humanity transcending religious barriers."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/muslims-help-perform-last-rites-of-hindu-neighbour-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-823235.html
09-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: Congress sets task force to help state govt to combat coronavirus||The Maharashtra unit of the Congress party on Thursday set up a COVID-19 task force under the leadership of former Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan to assist the state government in tackling the coronavirus outbreak. The task force comprises various sub-committees, which will study different aspects of the impact that the pandemic caused. State Congress president and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said the task force will work under former CM and MLA Prithviraj Chavan and will have 18 other members with former MP Bhalchandra Mungekar as the coordinator. Rajya Sabha MP Rajiv Satav, Mumbai Congress president Eknath Gaikwad, former state unit President Manikrao Thakre, MPCC working president Basavraj Patil, Muzzafar Hussain, former minister Naseem Khan, former union minister Vilas Muttemwar, former president of the state women's commission Sushiben Shah, former minister Chandrakant Handore, MLA Sangram Thopte and former minister Ranjeet Kamble, former MLA Kalyan Kale, MPCC general secretary Ganesh Patil and others are members of this task force. The national co-ordinator of the AICC research wing, Amol Deshmukh, is the secretary of the task force. Many sub-committees have been set up under this task force to study different aspects of the pandemic, like its the socio-economic impact. Another committee will study the public health system in the state and suggest ways to improve and strengthen it. Another committee will keep a close watch on the government measures and whether they are being implemented properly. A media, social media and helpline sub-committee has also been set up. This committee will work towards creating awareness and publicising the steps taken by the government and closely monitoring relief work. This panel will also look into the complaints and suggestions received by the helpdesk set up by the MPCC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-congress-sets-task-force-to-help-state-govt-to-combat-coronavirus-823239.html
09-04-2020||West||Coronavirus patient dies in Ahmedabad; Gujarat toll reaches 17||A 48-year-old man died of coronavirus in Ahmedabad, taking the death toll due to the disease in Gujarat to 17, an official said on Thursday. The man was also suffering from co-morbid conditions, including high blood pressure, principal secretary, (health) Jayanti Ravi said. He died in the morning at SVP Hospital in Ahmedabad. So far, 26 coronavirus patients have been discharged after recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-patient-dies-in-ahmedabad-gujarat-toll-reaches-17-823256.html
09-04-2020||West||Opposition slams Goa CM's community survey plan to contain coronavirus||Chief Minister Pramod Sawant's plan to conduct a Bhilwara model-like exhaustive community survey to collect data related to COVID-19, has been criticised by the Opposition in Goa, which has demanded more community testing and screening process to be put in place instead. Earlier this week, Sawant had proposed that the survey, expected to begin on April 13, would cover each and every household as well as industrial area and collect information to establish whether anyone who has entered Goa's borders since the global coronavirus outbreak began and record the presence of persons who are suffering from flu or other COVID-19 like symptoms. "This door-to-door survey appears to be a piecemeal approach of the Goa governent fraught with lot of transmission risks. It isn’t clear what is the government's exact action plan," Opposition MLA and president of the Goa Forward party Vijai Sardesai said. Sardesai called for a more comprehensive approach to the problem on the lines adopted by the Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi. "We as progressive and forward thinking Goans expect a comprehensive and concrete action plan like the one based on 5 Ts released by Delhi’s (Arvind) Kejriwal government, which is totally in line with the PCR (Preventive, Containement, and Remedial) measures suggested by GFP earlier," Sardesai said. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat too urged Sawant to reconsider the decision to start the community survey and urged the Chief Minister to provide PPEs and ventilators to hospitals instead. "I urge the Goa Chief Minister to reconsider the decision of a community survey and take proactive steps to start community testing and screening to control further spread of coronavirus. Give PPEs to all frontline workers and provide hospitals with ventilators, equipment and medicines," Kamat said. Reacting to the criticism Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that the survey plan had been put together by the state government's Directorate of Health Services and added that there was no political intent behind conducting the survey. "The survey will help us in the future, as far as collation of community data about COVID-19 is concerned. This survey is not a political decision, it is taken in consultation with our Health Department team," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/opposition-slams-goa-cms-community-survey-plan-to-contain-coronavirus-823272.html
09-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Salaries of Maharashtra MLAs, MLCs to be cut by 30% for one year||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Thursday decided to cut salaries of MLAs and MLCs by 30 per cent from this month till March next year in view of the state's economy bearing the brunt of the coronavirus crisis. The Cabinet meeting, chaired by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, also decided to set up two committees to recommend steps for the economic revival of the state. "A decision has been taken to deduct salaries of MLAs and MLCs by 30 per cent from April 2020 to March 2021," Pawar, who is also the state finance minister, said after the meeting. He said the Cabinet also decided to set up to committees that will recommend how to revive the economy. One of the committees will comprise economists, industrialists, retired bureaucrats and senior officials of the finance department, Pawar said. The second panel will include Ajit Pawar and senior ministers Jayant Patil, Balasaheb Thorat, Chhagan Bhujbal, Parab, Eknath Shinde and Ashok Chavan. It was also decided to celebrate the foundation day of Maharashtra on May 1 by only hoisting the national flag, he said, adding that no function or parade will be organised. Only guardian ministers of various districts, collectors and select prominent persons will attend the flag hoisting ceremonies across the state. During the Cabinet meeting, the ministers discussed strict implementation of the lockdown in view of the growing number of coronavirus cases, and increasing the capacity of provisionof food in shelter camps for migrant workers as well as the Shiv Bhojan canteens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-salaries-of-maharashtra-mlas-mlcs-to-be-cut-by-30-for-one-year-823290.html
09-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Maharashtra cabinet mulls complete shutdown in certain areas||The Maharashtra cabinet on Thursday expressed concern overcrowding in markets despite the lockdown enforced to facilitate social distancing and halt the spread of coronavirus and mulled if these places can be completely shut for some time in certain areas. In the cabinet meeting chaired by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, ministers discussed how people were still crowding markets despite repeated requests from the administration not to do so. The cabinet, which met for a second time this week, discussed the prevailing coronavirus situation in the state and steps being taken by the government to halt its spread. The ministers discussed if markets can be shut completely for a specific period to strictly implement social distancing. Asked about it, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat told reporters that a complete lockdown for some period of time is extremely necessary to contain the spread of the viral infection. "Crowds in markets need to be avoided. If a decision to shut markets is taken, such areas need to be finalised and crowds need to be stopped completely. "More cause of concern is places having high population density like Mumbai. The discussion pertained to Mumbai and its neighbouring areas," he said. Currently, people are allowed to step out of their homes to buy essential commodities and medicines. Minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said the cabinet decided that ministers and political party leaders will not speak on boom (mics) of news television channels as a precaution to avoid the spread of the disease. It was decided that sound bytes will be given through mobile phone videos, he said. With 1,297 COVID-19 cases so far, Maharashtra leads in the number of coronavirus patients in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-maharashtra-cabinet-mulls-complete-shutdown-in-certain-areas-823300.html
09-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Dharavi becomes a ticking time bomb||With three deaths and a dozen COVID-19 positive cases, Dharavi in Mumbai is emerging as a troubled hotspot of the pandemic crisis in India.  The mushrooming of cases has come as the worst nightmare that the Uddhav Thackeray-led government could think of.  As of now, according to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the total number of cases stands at 14. The three deaths are of a 56-year-old garment trader (Dr Baliga Nagar), a 64-year-old male (Social Nagar) and a 70-year-old woman (Kalyanwadi).    Over the last few days, public health minister Rajesh Tope and education minister Varsha Gaikwad, who is the MLA from Dharavi, are constantly reviewing the situation. "Dharavi has common sanitation facilities, we have to santise it. Besides, containment and quarantine is being done," said Gaikwad. The situation at Dharavi was also discussed in the Cabinet meeting presided over by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. According to Dharavi Redevelopment Committee president Rajendra Korde, Dharavi is a very congested area. "Six to eight persons stay in one room and hence, it is difficult to maintain social distancing. Some people have to be relocated for the time being," he said. Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Parveen Pardeshi said a new hospital, Sai Hospital, has been attached for COVID-19 positive cases from Dharavi. "We have to confine the problem," he said. The first patient, who died, had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi. On his return, he had visited local mosques as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-dharavi-becomes-a-ticking-time-bomb-823334.html
09-04-2020||West||Goa to use Ayurveda to boost immunity of patients of coronavirus||Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said Goa will be the first state to integrate allopathy and Ayurveda to treat COVID-19 patients and those who have been quarantined. Speaking to reporters here, he said the state government was integrating allopathy and Ayurveda to treat COVID-19 patients and those quarantined at different facilities in the state. "Goa will be the first state to use both these streams of medicine," he said, adding that although Ayurveda cannot cure COVID-19, it will certainly boost patients' immunity. The treatment will be administered in consultation with doctors who are dealing with COVID-19 patients, said the Chief Minister, who is also an Ayurveda practitioner. The coastal state has recorded seven COVID-19 cases so far, of which one patient has recovered from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-to-use-ayurveda-to-boost-immunity-of-patients-of-coronavirus-823368.html
09-04-2020||West||Uddhav Thackeray's name proposed for Council vacancy||With all elections postponed in the wake of pandemic COVID-19, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Wednesday passed a resolution urging governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to nominate chief minister Uddhav Thackeray as a member of the Maharashtra Legislative Council. A special Cabinet meeting presided over by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar passed the unanimous resolution of the three Maha Vikas Aghadi allies – Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress. Thackeray,  however,  was not present in the meeting, on grounds of propriety and political ethics, as his name was to be proposed for the nomination from the two vacant seats from the governor's quota. "The chief minister was not present at today’s cabinet meeting which was presided over by the deputy chief minister for the resolution to recommend  Thackeray's name for Council membership... this was to done to avoid any kind of Constitutional crisis at this stage," minority affairs minister and NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik said. Thackeray was sworn in the Maharashtra chief minister on November 28, 2018. Uddhav,  who is the unanimous leader of the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi government,  is not a legislator, and needs to get elected by May 28,  2020,  a period of six months. From the beginning, 59-year-old Uddhav had two options - either be  member or Assembly or Council.  Uddhav had preferred the route to Upper House. But,  now, there is a peculiar situation.  Because of pandemic COVID-19 outbreak and need for social distancing,  the Election Commission of India,  last week, deferred elections to nine seats of the Maharashtra Legislative Council.  Nine members of the Council,  for which the electoral college is Maharashtra Legislative Assembly,  are retiring on April 24, 2020. Two Council seats from the Governor's quota are vacant - as Ramrao Wadkute and Rahul Narvekar had resigned. There were speculations that  Thackeray may have to resign ahead of May 28 and sworn in again as the chief minister.  But, its a tricky process,  as in the event of resignation of the head of government,  the council-of-ministers is dissolved automatically. This has to be a smooth 24-hour operation,  as BJP will leave no stones unturned to topple the government.As per Article 164 (4) of the Constitution, a minister,  who is not a member of either Houses, will cease to be a minister,  on expiry of six months. However,  there are various interpretation and judgements on the article.  The MVA does not want to take bay chances of legal wrangles and Constitutional crisis and decided to get Thackeray elected from the governor's quota.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-thackerays-name-proposed-for-council-vacancy-823370.html
09-04-2020||West||Gujarat reports biggest increase in COVID-19 cases so far, tally spikes to 262||According to data released by the state health department Thursday evening, out of 76 cases, Ahmedabad reported 58 cases and a majority of them were detected from the residential societies which are already under cluster quarantine and have been sealed by the civic bodies. The fresh cases increased the total number of infected persons in Ahmedabad to 142, of which six have died. The total death toll in the state has also gone up to 17. Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi said "there is nothing to worry as the spike in the number of cases are a result of intense checking at hotspots of infection spread which we have identified and therefore, we believe that more cases will be detected in next one week. The situation is under control." She also claimed that the rise in the cases are also linked to Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi. "We are identifying each one of them and their contacts and are being tested," she added. The worst affected areas in Ahmedabad are located in walled city which are densely populated. The maximum cases on Thursday was reported from four residential societies which are closely located. Later in the day, municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra told reporters, "All cases were proactively detected by health teams as part of our strategy of intense surveillance and aggressive testing. We are chasing the virus." In a tweet, he also alleged that lot of people who were found infected were refusing to get admitted. On the other hand, in the past 24 hours, 1975 samples were collected, out of which 76 were found positive and result of 318 are still pending, the rest of them were negative. In Surat, three cases have been detected in which infected persons are said to be asymptomatic which has left the administration baffled. The other hotspots in the state are in Surat, Vadodara, Bhavnagar and Patan districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-reports-biggest-increase-in-covid-19-cases-so-far-tally-spikes-to-262-823391.html
09-04-2020||West||Maharashtra sees biggest jump in coronavirus deaths, cases||Maharashtra recorded the biggest jump in coronavirus casualties with 25 more deaths particularly in the Mumbai-Pune belt on Thursday even as source-tracing of infections became cumbersome.  The COVID-19 toll now stands at 97 - the highest in India. On Wednesday night,  the casualties stood at 72 and positive cases at 1,135. The progressive positive cases recorded on Thursday were 229 taking the total to 1,364.  Of this, 746, nearly 50 per cent are in Mumbai-MMR only. While nine deaths were recorded in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region, 14 deaths were recorded in Pune district.  Among the deceased in Mumbai is a 101-year-old person. Of the 25 deceased, 12 were senior citizens. In the Mumbai-Pune belt, several COVID-19 hotspots have emerged like Dharavi and Worli. At a cabinet meeting presided over by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, the government expressed serious concern over the trend of people crowding bazaars, shops and marts. The Uddhav Thackeray-government is contemplating that these places can be completely shut for some time in certain areas. State revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat told reporters that a complete lockdown for some period of time is extremely necessary to contain the spread of the viral infection. "Crowds in markets need to be avoided. If a decision to shut markets is taken, such areas need to be finalised and crowds need to be stopped completely," he said, adding that despite restrictions people are thronging in markets. Currently, people are allowed to step out of their homes to buy essential commodities and medicines.  Some districts,  have imposed restrictions on timings as well. "In the congested areas like Dharavi, besides local police,  SRPF has been called," public health minister Rajesh Tope said, adding that drones would be used for crowd monitoring and fire brigade would use power jets to sanitize public toilets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-biggest-jump-in-coronavirus-deaths-cases-823431.html
09-04-2020||West||Yes Bank scam linked Wadhawan family violate lockdown to travel to Mahabaleshwar||In what comes as a shocker, members of the Wadhawan family - that is linked to the Punjab & Maharashtra Co-operative Bank and Yes Bank scams,  were spotted in the famous hill station of Mahabaleshwar in Satara district. The 23 members of the family have now been sent to quarantine,  according to TV reports. The journey from Mumbai to Satara,  crossing four districts and several toll booths,  during the India lockdown has come as a surprise. The large family owns the troubled entities - HDIL real estate development company and DHFL financial management company. Meanwhile,  the state BJP has demanded a probe into the incident. "Wadhawan Brothers who are on Bail in DHFL/Yes Bank Fraud Case are given VVIP treatment/passes by Maharashtra government to travel from Mumbai to Mahabaleshwar in convoy," sais state BJP vice president Dr Kirit Somaiya. He has also asked Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to order an investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/yes-bank-scam-linked-wadhawan-family-violate-lockdown-to-travel-to-mahabaleshwar-823440.html
09-04-2020||West||Rising coronavirus tally worrisome; people defying lockdown: Rajesh Tope||Amid the growing COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra, health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday unveiled new measures like deployment of SRPF in Mumbai's congested areas and enlisting Fire Brigade to sanitise public toilets here to minimise chances of coronavirus contraction. He expressed concern over the number of COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra not coming down despite best efforts by authorities. As the state continued to lead the nationwide tally in positive coronavirus cases, Tope lamented that some people are defying the ongoing lockdown, enforced to halt the spread of COVID-19, on some pretext or the other. In a statement issued in the evening after a cabinet meeting, Tope said the state will open some closed schools and use them as temporary shelters for people living in highly congested areas as well for community kitchen for those who have lost jobs due to the lockdown. "These are the decisions we have taken in the state cabinet, he said. "Despite our efforts, the lockdown is being defied by people under various excuses. It is worrisome that the number of COVID-19 cases is not coming down. "We have decided to deploy additional staff from SRPF to strictly implement lockdown in the congested areas identified as containment zones," the minister said. "During my visits to densely populated areas such as Dharavi (Asias largest slum colony), I noticed that a large number of people are dependent on public toilets, spots from where infection can spread. "Their are some public toilets, where one seat is used by some 200 people during the day. The state government has decided to use Fire Brigades powerful jet spray to sanitise such public toilets every one hour. "It would minimise the chances of people transmitting the infection, he said. Tope said food will be supplied to the homes of daily wagers who are out of job currently. "Similarly, in high density areas, daily wagers, who had some small scale work at their homes, no longer have any source of income. "We will use community kitchens as well as local NGOs to cook and supply food to their doorstep every day, he said. "We have decided to covert school classrooms as temporary shelters for these people so that they can avoid crowding on roads and maintain social distancing strictly, the minister said. Commenting on use of rapid tests to detect coronavirus, he said, The Centres permission is awaited for rapid tests." The BMC has placed an order for one lakh testing kits, he said. "Once we get the permissions, blood samples will be taken from frontline workers such as doctors, nurses, health service providers and police officials to check whether they have developed anti-bodies in their system. This filtering will enable the state to decide on how to respond to the situation, the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rising-coronavirus-tally-worrisome-people-defying-lockdown-rajesh-tope-823454.html
