10-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||55-year-old man in Kalaburagi tests positive for COVID-19||||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/55-year-old-man-in-kalaburagi-tests-positive-for-covid-19-823654.html
10-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Provide food, water to stray animals hit by lockdown: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa to people||Voicing concern over the plight of stray animals struggling to find food due to COVID-19 lockdown, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday appealed to the people to feed those around their homes and also provide water. "Due to scorching heat of Sun and lockdown, cats, dogs and birds are suffering without water and food," he said in a tweet in Kannada, sharing a picture of him standing next to a cat drinking milk, apparently offered by him. "In cities, this situation is much serious. So I appeal to people that dogs and birds get food and water. #feedthehungers," he added. In another tweet in English, the senior BJP leader said "Please be kind and take some time off to feed stray animals and birds around your homes. Try providing them with water and leftovers so they're not parched and left hungry." Stray animals depend on wastes and leftovers from hotels and restaurants and have been hit by the lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus. Meanwhile, in another tweet on Chief Minister of Karnataka's official handle Yediyurappa said, the government has started "Dasoha"- a helpline 155214 to provide food for labourers affected by the lockdown, and it was providing help in a large scale. More than 100 staff were working, gathering information about those on need of help, and ensuring that food reaches to them, he said, adding more than 2 lakh food packets are distributed every day. Yediyurappa on Thursday had said all his cabinet colleagues are of the unanimous opinion that the 21-day lockdown be extended for about 15 days after April 14 to control the spread of COVID-19 and a final decision will be taken after consulting the Prime Minister on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/provide-food-water-to-stray-animals-hit-by-lockdown-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-to-people-823669.html
10-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Grocery stores selling cigarettes, gutka banned in Sira||Tahsildar Najeeda Zam Zam said that legal action would be initiated against grocery stores selling cigarettes, gutka, and pan masala.  It may be recalled that one person died of COVID-19 and his son tested positive for the virus a few weeks ago and Sira town has been declared a 'red zone'. Najeeda said that stores selling gutka, pan masala and cigarettes would be shut down permanently if they disobey the rule.  She noted that people were gathering in numbers to gamble in various parts of the taluk. In case people notice such nefarious activities, they have been asked to call 08135-275237 and 08135-275065.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/grocery-stores-selling-cigarettes-gutka-banned-in-sira-823737.html
10-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Somanna cancels tours, returns to Bengaluru||Housing Minister V Somanna, who was district in-charge, cancelled his tour programme and returned to Bengaluru as Coooperative Minister S T Somashekar was appointed as the new district in-charge on Thursday. Somanna visited Mysuru on Thursday morning and was supposed to visit Kodagu and was scheduled to tour Mysuru district for another two days. However, he returned soon after Somashekar was appointed as district in-charge. With the change in the district in-charge, BJP leaders are unhappy. A leader said Somanna must have been continued for a few more days. He should not have been changed during this crisis, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/somanna-cancels-tours-returns-to-bengaluru-823858.html
10-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||DC, team on toes; inspect containment zone in Mandya||After a Covid-19 case was traced at Swarnasandra in Mandya city, the district administration has further tightened the lockdown measures. All officials are on their toes, including DC M V Venkatesh and SP K Parashuram, supervising the security measures across the city. Three kilometres around Swarnasandra Layout has been declared as containment zone and barricades have been erected. Movement of people and vehicles has been totally banned. The City Municipal Council and the taluk administration have been supplying essential commodities to the residents here, free of cost. The Deputy Commissioner visited Swarnasandra on Friday and inspected the security measures. He interacted with the residents, who asked him to further tighten the lockdown. Voluntary organisations have been distributing fruits, vegetables, coconut and milk to the residents. Social distancing was followed sincerely. Around 5 kilometres have been declared as buffer zone. Health Department personnel and Asha workers are visiting houses for thermal screening. No one is allowed to venture on roads, except those visiting pharmacies or to buy essential items. He visited petrol bunks and informed to fill fuel only to vehicles of government and bank officials. Those who do not possess pass or identity cards should not be allowed to enter the bunks, he warned. Distribution of food packets to unorganised labourers, poor and destitutes continue in the district. Slum-dwellers were distributed free milk and essential items sufficient for 15 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dc-team-on-toes-inspect-containment-zone-in-mandya-823860.html
10-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||First patient related to Jubilant discharged||Covid survivor Patient 52 (P52), the second case to have been successfully treated and discharged in Mysuru, has appealed to the people to listen to the government authorities to combat coronavirus or Covid-19 pandemic. In a letter released through the district administration, the survivor, who has identified himself as a 35-year-old person, a resident of Mysuru, has thanked the government officials, doctors and all medical services staff, for taking good care of him. He was the first Covid case related to Nanjangud-based Jubilant Life Sciences. Out of the 42 persons, who have tested positive for Covid-19 in Mysuru, 31 are related, either directly of indirectly, to Jubilant Life Sciences. It has to be noted that even P52’s’s family members — his wife, his father and also father-in-law — are infected and are under treatment. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar has stated that P52 has been discharged on Friday, as per the protocol. “He was the first positive from Jubilant Generics plant. He is the second patient to be discharged in Mysuru. I thank all doctors, paramedics and supporting staff of Covid Hospital who ensured his recovery,” he has conveyed. P52 has said that he was suffering from fever for 10 days and consulted a doctor in a private clinic earlier. “On March 21, I went to Gopala Gowda Shanthaveri Memorial Hospital to consult an expert doctor and was admitted as in-patient. On March 25 night, I was shifted to KR Hospital of Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute. The doctors started treatment at KR Hospital on March 26. I was shifted to the district hospital on March 30. I was given good care and was cured over the period,” he has stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/first-patient-related-to-jubilant-discharged-823862.html
10-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Yoga Prana Vidya offers online sessions||With the lockdown, following the outbreak of Covid-19, yoga centres and pranic centres have introduced online courses and are temporarily offering free classes to support the practitioners. The new initiative has helped yoga and Yoga Prana Vidya enthusiasts to practice from their homes, which will help in strengthening the immune system and to have a peaceful and stress-free state during the lockdown, say professionals. Founder of Yoga Prana Vidya System N Jayachander Reddy, also Wing Commander of Indian Air Force, is leading regular Yoga Prana Vidya (YPV) sessions online. Reddy is conducting online sessions on his Facebook page: 7iShriNIReddy, thrice a day. Yoga Prana Vidya is an integrated holistic approach and strengthens the immune system in various ways. YPV techniques are simple and easy to use even for people who don’t have any background of meditation, pranayama and physical exercise, says Reddy. All sessions are open for public. “During the sessions, people will be taught about fruit diet and the right pattern of breathing, which increases the lung capacity, by following simple physical exercise. One can improve circulation and gain flexibility. One can generate good karma and do good through prayer and blessings to bring peace in and around them. Simple exercise helps in brain development, and stresses the importance and implication of forgiveness,” he said. Morning session starts at 7.15 am, with a simple set of physical exercises, special breathing techniques to enhance the capacity of lungs, followed by ‘forgiveness and planetary peace meditation’. It ends with simple physical body stretching exercises. The afternoon session, at 1 pm, starts with breathing practice to strengthen the respiratory system, followed by ‘The Great Invocation’ and the evening session at 6.30 pm for about 45 minutes. It begins with physical exercise, followed by ‘Meditation for Mercy and Compassion’ called ‘Metta Meditation’. Participants sharing their experiences have appreciated the online initiatives. In the state of uncertainty, fear and lockdown, this initiative is helping people to gain inner peace and maintain good health. H V Sushma, who has been practicing yoga online, said, “I used to go for regular classes. But, due to lockdown, I could not practice for two days. Without practicing yoga, I was feeling disturbed. Thus, I joined online course.” Most of these practices, like Super Brain Asana, Physical Exercises, Rhythmic Yogic Breathing, Forgiveness and Planetary Peace Meditation are available on YPVSadhanat Application, can be downloaded free on Google Play and Apple stores. They are available in six Indian languages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/yoga-prana-vidya-offers-online-sessions-823863.html
10-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Will focus on Covid-19, drinking water, farmers: Sudhakar||Expectations of Chikkaballapur district residents have doubled from the State government with Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar, who hails from Chikkaballapur, being appointed as district in-charge minister. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa appointed district in-charge ministers in September last year for the first time after assuming power in July. Sudhakar, who had to face by-election as he was disqualified, could not be given any role. Hence, deputy chief minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan was given the additional charge of Chikkaballapur district. Sudhakar had made several attempts to become a minister in the Coalition government led by H D Kumaraswamy. However, he was not inducted in the cabinet. Sudhakar was one of the architects who brought down Kumaraswamy government.  In the byoll, Sudhakar emerged victorious and became a minister. Yediyurappa allotted him the portfolio of Medical Education. Earlier, the portfolio was handled by Dr C N Ashwath Narayan. Though, he was the district in-charge minister for six months, Ashwath Narayan hardly conducted any meetings. He had chaired a meeting in October last year. He preferred to maintain distance as never conducted meetings since October last year. However, after criticism, he held a meeting with farmers on April 3. With Sudhakar becoming the district in-charge minister, residents here believe that it would further boost development process. The road for Sudhakar is not that smooth. The district is haunted by successive droughts. About 12 Covid-19 positive cases have been reported from the district. Many places are facing drinking water crisis, while prices of flowers, fruits and vegetables have come down. On these issues, he said,”I could concentrate only on my constituency so far. However, I will now focus on the district. My top priority is to contain Covid-19, ensure drinking water and protect interests of farmers.” “I am extremely happy to have been made Chikkaballapur district in charge minister. I will take everybody into confidence and discharge my duties,” he said. In the Kumaraswamy government, Gauribidanur MLA N H Shivashankar Reddy was Agriculture minister. He was also Chikkaballapur district in-charge minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/will-focus-on-covid-19-drinking-water-farmers-sudhakar-823760.html
10-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Coronavirus: ‘Supply personal safety kits to civic body workers’||Medical Education and district in-charge minister Dr K Sudhakar on Friday directed the district administration to supply masks, sanitiser, personal safety kits and food to poura karmikas working in rural areas. He chaired the progress review meeting at Zilla Panchayat auditorium here. “The officials should instruct the civic body workers to maintain their health and personal hygiene. Masks used by people should be disposed scientifically,” he said. The Minister received latest updates on COVID-19 in the district, drinking water crisis and drought relief works. Sudhakar directed the district-level officials to be on their toes to contain COVID-19 in the district and give top priority to supply clean drinking water in rural areas. “Gauribidanur, Chikkaballapur and Shidlaghatta taluks haven’t been declared as drought-hit. The State government granted Rs 25 lakh each to these taluks. A proposal was submitted to the government to grant Rs 1 crore each to the three taluks. The government has agreed to grant Rs 50 lakh each,” he said. Sudhakar directed deputy director of the Horticulture department to submit a detailed report regarding losses incurred by farmers due to COVID-19 and drought. “There should not be any problems in ensuring drinking water. Water form farmers’ borewells may be used for the purpose. Every water tanker should have GPS facility,” he said. The Minister directed the officials to distribute free rations through public distribution system. There were complaints that money was illegally taken from the public. Steps should be taken to cancel license of such outlets. Deputy commissioner R Latha, Zilla Panchayat president M  B Chikkanarasimahaiah, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Fouzia B Taranum, SP G K Mithun Kumar, additional deputy commissioner Arati Anand and assistant commissioner A N Raghunandan were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/coronavirus-supply-personal-safety-kits-to-civic-body-workers-823767.html
10-04-2020||Mysuru||Five more test positive for COVID-19 in Mysuru||With five more, including a 8-year-old, tested positive in Mysuru on Friday, COVID-19 cases increased to 41. All the new cases are the contacts of the positive cases reported from Nanjangud based Jubilant Generic company. As per the bulletin released by the government, the new cases are isolated at a designated hospital in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/five-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mysuru-823627.html
10-04-2020||National||Coronavirus cases cross 700 mark in Delhi as death toll rises to 12||The number of fatalities due to coronavirus reached 12 in the national capital on Thursday while the number of people infected with the virus crossed the 700 mark even as Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced 'Operation SHIELD' in 21 containment areas to curb the spread of COVID-19. Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal also directed officials to strictly implement the containment strategy in high risk zones. The chief minister also warned of strict action against those misbehaving with healthcare personnel in the city, a day after a 42-year-old man allegedly assaulted two women resident doctors of Safdarjung Hospital, accusing them of "spreading" COVID-19. The national capital reported 51 fresh cases – including a Delhi Police constable and two paramedic staff of the Sir Gangaram Hospital -- taking the number of COVID-19 positive cases to 720. Three more deaths were reported during the day, taking the toll to 12, according to the Delhi government authorities. Of the total cases, 430 are related to the religious congregation that took place in Tabighi Jamaat's Nizamuddin markaz (centre) in March, they said. Taking an objection to naming Nizamuddin Markaz in the health bulletins, the Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) has asked the city's health department to stop mentioning the centre in its daily briefs on coronavirus cases.  The development comes after a 22-year-old man, who had attended Tablighi Jamaat's congregation in Bhopal, was thrashed in northwest Delhi's Bawana earlier this week after being accused of spreading coronavirus in the village. The chief minister appealed to people living in containment areas to cooperate in implementing 'Operation SHIELD' and said these are strict measures but are necessary to protect them and others from COVID-19. Elaborating on 'Operation SHIELD' during an online briefing, Kejriwal said under the first 'S' of the operation, the government seals the area immediately and its surroundings after geographical marking following positive cases there. "In the next stage, we put people of sealed areas under home quarantine and then in the third stage, the process begins to isolate those who have symptoms of COVID-19 and trace their contacts," he said. About 'E' character of 'Operation SHIELD', Kejriwal explained that the government ensures home-delivery of essential items. "After this stage, the government sanitises such areas where one or two positive cases have been found. "Under 'D', checking of door-to-door houses is conducted to ascertain whether anybody in containment has cough or any other symptoms of COVID-19," the chief minister said. Throwing light on the economic impact of the lockdown on the state exchequer, he said the government has also cut expenses as tax collection is almost stopped. He added that everyone will also have to cut expenses at their level in view of the current situation. During a meeting with officials of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, health department, police and others, LG Baijal said capacity building of medical professionals along with all protective measures for clinical management should continue. According to a statement issued by the LG office, Baijal stressed "on containment action plan, sharing best practices and continued focus on contact tracing and tracking". "Strict geographical quarantine with preventive control, rigorous contact tracing and enhanced surveillance should be the priority at the moment," the statement quoting Baijal said. In Bengali Market in central Delhi, one of the COVID-19 hotspots declared by the government, an FIR was lodged against a pastry shop owner after 35 workers were found living in "unhygienic conditions" and not adhering to social distancing norms to contain the spread of coronavirus. In Mayur Vihar extension in east Delhi, which has large number of gated apartments, panic gripped residents where Vardhman apartment was sealed. A resident of Parwana apartments, a few blocks away from Vardhman apartments, said there is a sense of apprehension among people of the area. A resident of Samachar Apartments which is very close to Vardhman Apartments said a tent has been erected outside the building and there is heavy deployment of police personnel in the area. People in some localities started panicking over rumours of sealing being extended to their areas where suspected cases of coronavirus were reported. After a few suspected cases of coronavirus were reported near H Block of Lajpat Nagar-1 in south Delhi, all the shops near Krishna Market were asked to shut and the entire area was disinfected. An umbrella body of resident welfare associations in the city also urged authorities to interact with community leaders through video conferencing every day to share information, and note down grievances and anomalies, if any, in the implementation of the lockdown. Atul Goyal, the president of United Residents Joint Action (URJA), said it will only be proper and suitable if the district authorities disseminate or share information related to coronavirus and lockdown with community leaders and RWAs in each ward at the colony and block level every day. Meanwhile, as many as 190 cases were registered and 3,954 people detained in the national capital for violating government orders during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-cases-cross-700-mark-in-delhi-as-death-toll-rises-to-12-823475.html
10-04-2020||National||With 46 deaths, India has its worst single day since coronavirus outbreak||The COVID-19 outbreak seems to be worsening in parts of India as the country reported over 700 fresh cases and 46 deaths — both new highs since the pandemic began — on Thursday. The situation is particularly grim in Maharashtra, with the state reporting 25 more deaths on Thursday alone, the biggest spike so far in the state, taking the state’s death toll to 97 — the highest in India. Other states such as Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Delhi also saw a huge surge in cases. Tamil Nadu reported 96 new cases, including 84 from “one cluster”, even as Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami warned of the state entering phase-III of the disease, while Gujarat reported 76 cases, with 50% of them being detected in Ahmedabad city. In Delhi, three more persons died and 51 people tested positive for COVID-19. In Maharashtra, among the 25 deaths, nine were recorded in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region, while Pune district saw 14 deaths. Among the deceased in Mumbai was a 101-year-old person. Of the 25 deceased, 12 were senior citizens. The Mumbai-Pune belt was a cause for concern due to hotspots such as Dharavi and Worli. At a cabinet meeting presided over by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, the government expressed serious concern over the trend of people crowding bazaars and shops. The Uddhav Thackeray-government is contemplating of shutting down these places for some time in certain areas. State revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat told reporters that a complete lockdown for some period of time was extremely necessary to contain the outbreak. “Crowds in markets need to be avoided. If a decision to shut markets is taken, such areas need to be finalised and crowds need to be stopped completely,” he said, adding that despite restrictions people are thronging markets. Currently, people are allowed to step out of their homes to buy essential commodities and medicines. Some districts have imposed restrictions on timings as well. “In congested areas like Dharavi, besides local police, SRPF has been called,” public health minister Rajesh Tope said, adding that drones would be used for crowd monitoring and fire brigade would use power jets to sanitize public toilets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-46-deaths-india-has-its-worst-single-day-since-coronavirus-outbreak-823486.html
10-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 10, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.  Stay healthy, stay safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-10-2020-edition-823505.html
10-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 10||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly).  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 7,551 as of April 10. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 252 Andhra Pradesh: 4 Assam: 1 Bihar: 1 Delhi: 14 Gujarat: 19 Himachal Pradesh: 2 Haryana: 3 Jammu and Kashmir: 4 Jharkhand: 1 Karnataka: 6 Kerala: 3 Madhya Pradesh: 33 Maharashtra: 110 Odisha: 1 Punjab: 8 Rajasthan: 8 Tamil Nadu: 9 Telangana: 11 Uttar Pradesh: 5 West Bengal: 9 Coronavirus in India: States/UTs with confirmed positive cases (Details are updated as we receive information) Kerala: 357 Punjab: 151 Delhi: 903 Jammu and Kashmir: 207 Ladakh: 15 Rajasthan: 561 Uttar Pradesh: 431 Maharashtra: 1,574 Karnataka: 207 Tamil Nadu: 911 Telangana: 471 Haryana: 169 Andhra Pradesh: 381 Himachal Pradesh: 28 Gujarat: 378 Uttarakhand: 35 Odisha: 48 West Bengal: 128 Chandigarh: 19 Chhattisgarh: 18 Madhya Pradesh: 426 Bihar: 60 Puducherry: 6 Manipur: 2 Mizoram: 1 Goa: 7 Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 11 Jharkhand: 14 Assam: 29 Arunachal Pradesh: 1 Tripura: 2 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 504 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-10-823512.html
10-04-2020||National||India will do what it can to fight against COVID-19: Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and United States President Donald Trump sought to move on from the hitch over the Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) and reaffirm India-America partnership in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-do-what-it-can-to-fight-against-covid-19-narendra-modi-823513.html
10-04-2020||National||Chandigarh: Those found without face mask at public place to be arrested||Anybody found without a face mask at a public place will be arrested, the Chandigarh administration said in an order issued on Thursday. The UT administration on Tuesday had made it mandatory for people to wear masks in public places to check the spread of coronavirus. According to the order issued on Thursday evening, anybody found violating the instructions will be punishable under Section 188 of the IPC and the police authorities are empowered to immediately arrest the violators. According to the order, even those travelling in personal or office vehicles will have wear a face mask. It is mandatory to wear masks while working at a site, office or workplace, the order said, adding that no person will attend any meeting or gathering without wearing these. It shall be the responsibility of the employer to ensure that his employees wear three-ply masks or cloth without fail, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chandigarh-those-found-without-face-mask-at-public-place-to-be-arrested-823520.html
10-04-2020||National||More needs to be done for informal sector workers: Niti VC||Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar on Thursday said India's informal sector is too large and more needs to be done for workers employed in the segment, including giving them social security cover.               "We have too large informal sector (93 per cent of our workforce) in our economy where workers have no social security. This informality of our workforce has to be brought down.            " Time has come to do much more (for informal sector workers)  than just signing ILO treaties," he said at an event organised by Bennett University's Times School of Media.                       Citing the recent example of thousands of migrant workers trying to rush back home after the imposition of the coronavirus lockdown, Kumar said, "Otherwise, we won't be able to control migrant labour which went out of cities recently... Putting in place social and medical security net is critical for all of us."               Talking about medical education, the Niti Aayog vice chairman said India will have to devote a lot more resources for research in the field.                       "We need to get our act together... we need to revamp our public health system. We need to reduce cost of medical education. We don't need to over-specialise our medical professionals," Kumar emphasised.             "We have... neglected traditional medical disciplines like Ayurveda very very badly," he added.             Kumar also said he hopes there will be enough resources available with the public authorities to deal with emergency situations.             "For example, NDMA should have enough funds for this contingency...because disasters will happen, pandemic is a form of disaster and it needs much more bigger planning," he said.               Speaking at the event, former chief economic advisor Arvind Virmani said the economic effect of the current lockdown is at 2.8 per cent of GDP.           Former finance secretary Subhash Chandra Garg said sectors like mining, manufacturing, construction, infrastructure, travel and tourism are badly hit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-needs-to-be-done-for-informal-sector-workers-niti-vc-823522.html
10-04-2020||National||Muslim organisations, civic society members urge Amit Shah to stop 'harassment' of activists, students||Muslim organisations and civic society members on Thursday wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah urging him to stop the "harassment" of social activists and students by the Delhi Police during the ongoing lockdown. The letter claimed that there have been "a series of detentions and arrests" of social activists and student leaders by the Delhi Police. "Upon preliminary study, it appears that the police crackdown is directed against those involved in the peaceful anti-CAA-NRC movement, which was undertaken for the protection of our Constitution, democratic ethos and civil liberties," the letter said. "We have observed that highly respected social activists are being implicated in false cases related to the northeast Delhi riots of 2020," the letter said. A statement issued by Jamaat-e-Islami Hind mentioned names of Maulana Tauqeer Raza, president, Milli Ittehad Parishad, former MP Udit  Raj, Dr Zafarul Islam Khan, chairman of Delhi  Minorities Commission, Syed  Sadatullah  Hussaini, Ameer Jamaat e Islami Hind, among the signatories of the letter. The activists are being asked to go to police stations for questioning during the lockdown, claimed the letter. At this time, when the courts are partially working and communication is limited due to the lockdown, these steps tantamount to unnecessary "harassment" by the Delhi Police, the letter said. It is causing "immense anxiety" and difficulty to these law-abiding citizens who are currently engaged in social work and helping the poor and needy, it added. "We the undersigned appeal to you to direct the Delhi Police to refrain from harassing activists during the pandemic and the lockdown and targeting people from a particular community," it said. The Delhi Police has a reputation for being one of the best policing units in our country, they said hoping it will desist from any action that would harm its reputation and give scope for people to level accusations of bias and non-professional conduct on it. The signatories also included Ravi Nair, Maulana Asghar Ali Salfi Manzoor Alam, Uzma Naheed, Anil Chamadia, Labid Shafi and Siraj Sait.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslim-organisations-civic-society-members-urge-amit-shah-to-stop-harassment-of-activists-students-823526.html
10-04-2020||National||Delhi Police distributes 150 quintals of ration to 1,200 families||The Delhi Police distributed more than 150 quintals of ration to almost 1,200 families across the national capital, officials said on Thursday. The Delhi Police distributed relief material in association with #50MealPackChallenge, a youth-driven campaign aimed at providing support to the underprivileged, poor, migrant workers and daily wagers in the form of food grains and dry ration, they said. Police said distribution drives have been carrying out in the city since April 1 while adhering to social distancing norms and precautionary measures. More than 15,000 kilograms of relief material was received from the #50MealPackChallenge campaign and further material was being received through the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd, police said. The distribution drive was carried out in various parts of Delhi, including Burari, Narela, Bawana, Sarai Rohilla, Matiala, Shaheen Bagh and Mandawali area. These areas were selected on the basis of analysis of calls received at the Delhi Police helpline round-the-clock, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-distributes-150-quintals-of-ration-to-1200-families-823539.html
10-04-2020||National||What's basis for Ayurveda treatment on COVID-19 patients? GFP||Hours after Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant claimed that COVID-19 patients in the state were being treated with Ayurveda, Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai sough to know whether some kind of experiment was being done on the patients. The former minister sought to know what line of Ayurveda treatment was being administered to the COVID-19 patients in Goa. Sardesai tweeted, While I do acknowledge the benefits of #Ayurveda, Im forced to ask what treatment @goacm gave to #covid19 patients. "What scientific basis does this have? What medical study supports this? I some kind of experiment being done on #goemkars (Goans). "Does @visrane (Health minister Vishwajit Rane) endorse, approve this? Sawant had claimed the COVID-19 patients and suspects who are quarantined are being treated with Ayurveda and allopathy and added so far Goa was the only state to do so. Goa has six active COVID-19 patients who are undergoing treatment at a special hospital near here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whats-basis-for-ayurveda-treatment-on-covid-19-patients-gfp-823547.html
10-04-2020||National||65-yr-old woman dies of COVID-19 in Rajasthan||A 65-year-old woman who had tested positive for coronavirus died here, taking the toll in Rajasthan to eight, an official said. The woman was undergoing treatment at SMS Hospital for COVID-19, he said, adding she breathed her last Thursday evening. "The woman from Ramganj in Jaipur was admitted to SMS Hospital on Wednesday with complaint of respiratory distress pneumonia with co-morbidity hypertension. She had tested positive for COVID-19 and was on a ventilator," the official said. This is first death of a coronavirus patient in Ramganj and second in Jaipur. On Sunday, a man from Ghat Gate in the capital city had died of COVID-19. A total of 463 persons have been tested positive for coronavirus in the state so far and 168 of them are from Jaipur. The maximum number of cases in Jaipur are from Ramganj.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/65-yr-old-woman-dies-of-covid-19-in-rajasthan-823551.html
10-04-2020||National||IPS officer sent on compulsory leave over Wadhawans' travel||Maharashtra government on Friday sent a senior IPS officer on compulsory leave for allowing DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan to travel despite the ongoing lockdown, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said. The bureaucrat had issued a letter exempting the Wadhawans from the lockdown norms citing a family emergency. "As per discussion with Hon. CM, Mr Amitabh Gupta, Principal Secretary (special), has been sent on compulsory leave with immediate effect, till the pending of enquiry, which will be initiated against him," Deshmukh tweeted. The Wadhawans were detained at Mahabaleshwar in Maharashtra's Satara district on Thursday for violating prohibitory orders amid lockdown, police said. Police found 23 people including members of the Wadhawan family at their farmhouse, an official said. According to local police officials, the Wadhawan family along with others travelled from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar on Wednesday evening in their cars, even when both Pune and Satara districts are sealed amid ongoing lockdown for containing coronavirus. Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan are accused of Yes Bank and DHFL fraud cases. They were spotted at their `Diwan farm house' by civic authorities, officials said. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had recently issued summons to Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan in Yes Bank case and asked them to appear on March 17. The duo reportedly cited the pandemic and skipped the appearance, officials said. Meanwhile, opposition BJP has latched onto the issue. Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis wondered how could one vacation in Mahableshwar with official permission from the police when lockdown is in force. "No lockdowns for mighty and rich in Maharashtra?. One can spend holidays in Mahabaleshwar with official permission from police," the former chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ips-officer-sent-on-compulsory-leave-over-wadhawans-travel-823555.html
10-04-2020||National||Death toll due to coronavirus touches 199; cases climb to 6,412||The death toll due to the novel coronavirus rose to 199 and the number of cases to 6,412 in the country on Friday, according to the Union Health Ministry. While the number of active COVID-19 cases is 5,709, as many as 503 people were cured and discharged and one had migrated, it said. The ministry said at least 30 new deaths have been reported since Thursday evening. Twenty-five deaths were reported from Maharashtra, three from Delhi and one each from Gujarat and Jharkhand. Maharashtra has reported the most coronavirus deaths at 97, followed by Gujarat at 17, Madhya Pradesh 16 and Delhi 12. Punjab and Tamil Nadu have reported eight fatalities each while Telengana has reported seven deaths. West Bengal and Karnataka have registered five deaths each. Andhra Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttar Pradesh have reported four deaths each while Haryana and Rajasthan have recorded three deaths each. Two deaths have been reported from Kerala. Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Jharkhand reported one fatality each, according to the health ministry data. The 6,412 figure includes 71 foreign nationals. The death toll on Thursday evening was 169. However, a PTI tally of figures reported by various states as on Thursday late evening showed at least 6,640 cases and 227 deaths. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of cases announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states. According to the ministry's data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 1,364, followed by Tamil Nadu at 834 and Delhi with 720 cases. The cases have gone up to 463 in Rajasthan, while they have risen to 442 in Telengana Uttar Pradesh has 410 cases so far, followed by Kerala at 357 cases. Andhra Pradesh has reported 348 coronavirus cases Novel coronavirus cases have risen to 259 in Madhya Pradesh, 241 in Gujarat,  181 in Karnataka and 169 in Haryana. Jammu and Kashmir has 158 cases, West Bengal has 116 and Punjab has 101 positive patients so far. Odisha has reported 44 coronavirus cases. Thirty-nine people were infected with the virus in Bihar while Uttarakhand has 35 patients and Assam 29. Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh have 18 cases each while Ladakh has 15 and Jharkhand has 13 positive patients so far.  Eleven cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands while 10 were reported from Chhattisgarh. Goa has reported seven COVID-19 infections, followed by Puducherry at five cases. Manipur has two while Tripura, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported one case each. "State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation," the ministry said on its website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-due-to-coronavirus-touches-199-cases-climb-to-6412-823567.html
10-04-2020||National||India to export hydroxychloroquine only to foreign governments, not to private companies: Report||India will export anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, high in demand globally, only to foreign governments and not to private companies, as the product is under the prohibited or banned category of exports, sources said. Although exports of this medicine are completely banned, India has decided to export this anti-malarial drug in sync with its global commitment to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. "Hydroxychloroquine continues to be a prohibited item. Private-to-private company or a domestic exporter-to-foreign importer trade is a ban. The procedure, which the government is adopting, is to help countries which are in dire need or which are traditionally dependent on India for this medicine or friendly countries like Nepal, Sri Lanka, and Bhutan," the sources said. Explaining the procedure, they said countries that have to import hydroxychloroquine would have to route their application through the Ministry of External Affairs. The Department of Pharmaceuticals would assess the requirement sought by that country and see its impact on India's availability and without compromising on India's interests, it would recommend the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) to give a licence or go-ahead signal to customs authorities to release the consignment. DGFT is an arm of the commerce ministry that deals with export- and import-related issues. It is the agency that gives licence or permission or no-objection certificate for exports or imports. On March 25, India banned the export of hydroxychloroquine with some exceptions in the midst of views in some quarters that the drug could be used to fight COVID-19. On April 4, it completely banned the exports without any exception. In a telephonic conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week, US President Donald Trump had sought the supply of hydroxychloroquine to the US. Hydroxychloroquine is an old and inexpensive drug used to treat malaria. India is the largest producer and exporter of the drug globally. India is learnt to have received requests from over 20 countries including its immediate neighbours Sri Lanka and Nepal for the supply. The Indian pharmaceutical industry has stated that there is enough stock of hydroxychloroquine in the country, and drug firms are ready to ramp up the production to meet domestic as well as export requirements. India manufactures 70 per cent of the world's supply of hydroxychloroquine. Companies like Zydus Cadila and IPCA are the major manufacturers in the country, according to the Indian Pharmaceutical Alliance (IPA). Professor at Indian Institute of Foreign Trade (IIFT) Rakesh Mohan Joshi said India is the world's largest manufacturer and supplier accounting for about 70 per cent of the world's supplies. In the US market, India accounted for about 47 per cent supply of hydroxychloroquine in 2019, he said. Indian Drug Manufacturers' Association (IDMA) Executive Director Ashok Kumar Madan has said India currently has an annual installed capacity of around 40 tonnes of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) of hydroxychloroquine. With this capacity, "we can make around 200 million tablets of 200 mg," he has said. India exported hydroxychloroquine API worth USD 1.22 billion in April-January 2019-20. During the same period exports of formulations made from hydroxycholoroquine was at USD 5.50 billion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-export-hydroxychloroquine-only-to-foreign-governments-not-to-private-companies-report-823590.html
10-04-2020||National||Two more die due to coronavirus in Gujarat, toll reaches 19||Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi said that a 40-year-old died in Ahmedabad who was also suffering from kidney ailment while an 81-year-old died in Gandhinagar. Gandhinagar District Collector Kuldeep Arya told DH that the patient had contracted the virus from his relative who had a travel history of Dubai. He was among the first patients of the virus. The state capital, Gandhinagar has 14 COVID-19 patients.   Meanwhile, Ravi said that out of 46 new confirmed cases, 11 have been detected in Ahmedabad that includes a doctor from Bavla town of the district who was part of a government surveillance team involved in tracking the virus. Ravi said that a high-powered committee has decided that those COVID-19 patients aged above 85 years who are asymptomatic may not be hospitalised as they go into trauma. "The rise in new cases are as per our estimates since we have started intense testing in clusters. I can say that there is nothing to panic. Most of the new cases are reported from areas which are under cluster containment," she said.  Meanwhile, Bharuch district in south Gujarat reported its first four positive cases which have baffled the administration as the source of infection is not known. Ravi said that the Health Department has requested the Director General of Police to probe. Bharuch is the 18th district, of 33 in the state, where the coronavirus has spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-more-die-due-to-coronavirus-in-gujarat-toll-reaches-19-823591.html
10-04-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Mystery behind Karnataka’s COVID-19 scene||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-mystery-behind-karnataka-s-covid-19-scene-823592.html
10-04-2020||National||200 Indian American organisations support India's fight against coronavirus||Nearly 200 Indian-American organisations have praised the people of India for showing fortitude, discipline and social consciousness in their fight against the coronavirus pandemic that has wreaked havoc across the world and claimed over 95,000 lives. According to a running tally by Johns Hopkins University, there are over 1.6 million cases of the novel coronavirus and 95,000 deaths globally. In India, the death toll due to COVID-19 was 199 and the number of confirmed cases climbed to 6,412, according to the Health Ministry on Friday. In a message of solidarity, these Indian-American organisations, said they "salute the efforts" of all those individuals who along with international organisations; national governments; and private, public and social sector organisations are working tirelessly often at a huge personal risk to tackle this crisis and save precious human life. "We would especially like to commend the mammoth efforts of the Indian government and states working cohesively under the able leadership of Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi for the wide-ranging and timely measures to address this issue and to alleviate the inevitable hardship that they will endure during this time of lock-down," the message said. "We salute the citizens of India for your fortitude, patience, discipline, and social consciousness at this testing time," the Indian American organisations said in a message of solidarity and appeal from them. “We appeal to you all, sisters and brothers to continue to keep trust, keep strong, and follow the advice and guidance of Prime Minister Modi during these testing times,” they said in the message. "All of us in the USA and the rest of the world share in the suffering and stand united in our resolve to see the world through this crisis for a brighter and better tomorrow," the organisations said. The coronavirus pandemic has claimed over 16,000 lives and infected over 460,000 people in the US, devastating the country's economy and rendering a record 16 million workers jobless in just three weeks.  Of this, the New York metropolitan area, comprising the adjoining New Jersey and Connecticut, alone accounts for more than 9,000 and 220,000 cases respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/200-indian-american-organisations-support-indias-fight-against-coronavirus-823596.html
10-04-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to interact with CMs on Saturday; extension of lockdown on agenda||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers of all states on Saturday via video, where a call would be taken on whether the 21-day lockdown to check spread of coronavirus, ending next week, should be extended. The video conference comes amidst indications that the central government may extend the lockdown across the country beyond April 14 after several states have favoured the extension to contain the fast-spreading virus. Addressing floor leaders of various parties who have representation in Parliament, on Wednesday, Prime Minister Modi had made it clear that the lockdown cannot be lifted in one go on April 14, asserting that the priority of his government is to "save each and every life". According to an official statement, he said states, district administrations and experts have suggested extension of the lockdown to contain the spread of the virus. Odisha has taken a lead and has extended the lockdown till April 30.   "Prime Minister Modi made it clear that lockdown is not being lifted and also that the life pre-corona and post-corona will not be same," Biju Janata Dal leader Pinaki Misra had told PTI after Wednesday's interaction. This is for the second time the prime minister will interact with the chief ministers via video link after the lockdown was imposed. During his April 2 interaction with chief ministers, Modi had pitched for a "staggered" exit from the ongoing lockdown. Before the lockdown was announced on March 24, the prime minister had interacted with the chief ministers on March 20 to discuss means to check the spread of the deadly virus. According to a Health Ministry update this morning, the death toll due to COVID-19 has risen to 199 in India. The total number of coronavirus positive cases have climbed to 6,412.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-interact-with-cms-on-saturday-extension-of-lockdown-on-agenda-823597.html
10-04-2020||National||Fact-check: Newspaper clip claims Tablighi Jamaat’s Maulana Saad donated Rs 1 crore to PM-CARES fund to fight novel coronavirus||Importantly, the report is seen beside the news of Azim Premji foundation committing Rs 1,125 crore for tackling coronavirus. Twitter user Asgar Qureshi tweeted the clipping and said, “Maulana Saad had donated Rs 1 crore to the PM relief fund. (translated)”.     Alt News has received several requests on its official android application to fact-check the viral clipping.       The original copy of the newspaper is dated June 6, 2019.    In conclusion, a news clipping was manufactured to claim that Tablighi Jamaat Markaz chief Maulana Saad donated Rs 1 crore to Prime Minister Modi COVID-19 relief fund. This news clipping was later morphed into an older front-page of the newspaper The News Letter to inject credibility to the claim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-newspaper-clip-claims-tablighi-jamaat-s-maulana-saad-donated-rs-1-crore-to-pm-cares-fund-to-fight-novel-coronavirus-823598.html
10-04-2020||National||Citizens should remember fundamental duties amid pandemic: HC||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court said while the government machinery is expected to take effective measures to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic, citizens are also expected to remind themselves of their fundamental duties. Justice P B Varale on Wednesday was hearing a suo moto (on its own) petition on the difficulties faced by migrant workers, daily wagers and health workers amid the pandemic. The court in its order noted that the Union and state governments have been issuing notifications and guidelines asking people to avoid gatherings and congregations and maintain social distancing. "However, there are still some citizens who are committing breach of these directions and guidelines very casually and some citizens are even indulging in acts of disturbance of social and communal harmony," Justice Varale said. "In such a situation, in my opinion, this is right time to remind ourselves the fundamental duties of a citizen. Often, citizens show serious concern about their fundamental rights, but then forget the fundamental duties," the court said. The court observed that in the backdrop of this unforeseen situation, citizens should remember Article 51-A of the Constitution of India that refers to fundamental duties. "In this difficult time, we may remind ourselves that it is a fundamental duty of a citizen to promote harmony and spirit of common brotherhood amongst all the people of India and probably, this is an immediate need of the time," the court said. Aurangabad District Collector Uday Chaudhari had informed the court on Wednesday that all migrant workers, daily wagers and needy persons were provided meals, shelter and medicines. The bench directed the government and the civic body to also consider providing a link between the needy and charitable organisations that are willing to help out. The district administration may also consider establishing a link between farmers, who supply vegetables, fruits and food grains, and consumers, the court directed. On the issue of problems faced by health workers in their housing societies, the court was informed that the authorities were spreading awareness to ensure that doctors, nurses and other medical staff are not troubled. Justice Varale was also informed that the state government had sanctioned the purchase of 3,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and 50,000 hydroxychloroquine 400 mg tablets. All health workers are now equipped with PPE and there are as many as 919 kits available in reserve, the court was told. The court has posted the matter for further hearing on April 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/citizens-should-remember-fundamental-duties-amid-pandemic-hc-823603.html
10-04-2020||National||India ready to help in fight against COVID-19 pandemic: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday told Israel and Brazil that India is ready to do whatever is possible to help its friends in the fight against the novel coronavirus. Modi made the remarks after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro thanked New Delhi for allowing the export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine and the raw materials to produce it. The drug has been cited by many as a viable therapeutic solution to fight the coronavirus infection. We have to jointly fight this pandemic. India is ready to do whatever is possible to help our friends. "Thank you President @jairbolsonaro. The India-Brazil partnership is stronger than ever in these challenging times," Modi wrote on Twitter. India is committed to contribute to humanity's fight against this pandemic, he said. Modi was responding to a tweet by President Bolsonaro who thanked him for allowing shipment of raw material needed to produce hydroxychloroquine. In a tweet to Prime Minister Netanyahu, Modi said, "We have to jointly fight this pandemic. India is ready to do whatever is possible to help our friends." "Praying for the well-being and good health of the people of Israel," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-ready-to-help-in-fight-against-covid-19-pandemic-pm-narendra-modi-823605.html
10-04-2020||National||Man vs Machine, India's Sathiyan training with robot||Stuck indoors and without a training partner during India's COVID-19 lockdown, the country's top table tennis player G Sathiyan says he is staying sharp by practising with a robot. The governing International Table Tennis Federation has suspended all of its events and activities until June 30 and the three-week lockdown in force in India has disrupted the daily routines of athletes like Sathiyan. The robot, which Sathiyan imported from Germany, can launch up to 120 balls per minute from across the net with varying spin and speed. "The robot keeps me on my toes each day and I play with it for about one-and-half hours," the 27-year-old told Friday's Times of India newspaper. "With no practice partners available, this is the best I can do to keep myself in the game mode," said the world number 31, who is also an engineer. While the machine is no substitute for training with a real partner it can do some things better. "It can generate speeds and spin on the ball which no human can manage to," he added. "My receiving ability has improved and the flicks too have got better after playing with the robot."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-vs-machine-indias-sathiyan-training-with-robot-823621.html
10-04-2020||National||10 coronavirus patients from Delhi's Tabhighi Jamaat even in Andaman and Nicobar Islands recover||Ten persons, who tested positive for COVID-19 after returning from a religious congregation in Delhi last month, have recovered, officials said on Friday. All of them returned to Port Blair via Kolkata on March 24, they said. They have tested negative and will soon be shifted from the GB Pant Hospital, where they are undergoing treatment, to a quarantine facility before being discharged, a health official said. The quarantine facility has been set up at a hotel here, he said, adding that they will have to undergo isolation for another 14 days. After returning on two different flights, they were transported to the hospital directly from the airport as they showed coronavirus-like symptoms, and did not get in contact with locals, officials said. The state's lone COVID-19 patient at present, a woman in her 20s who tested positive earlier this week, is recovering well, officials said. The woman was on one of the planes that ferried some of the 10 other persons from Kolkata to Port Blair on March 24. She is also undergoing treatment at the G B Pant Hospital. Officials at the Union Territory, home to several vulnerable tribes, heaved a sigh of relief with the recoveries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-coronavirus-patients-from-delhis-tabhighi-jamaat-even-in-andaman-and-nicobar-islands-recover-823626.html
10-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: India in final stages of framing protocols for clinical trial of plasma therapy, says ICMR||India is in the final stages of framing a protocol for conducting a clinical trial for convalescent plasma therapy, which uses antibodies from the blood of cured patients, to treat severely-ill COVID-19 patients, a senior ICMR official said. Kerala is set to become the first state in the country to commence the therapy to treat that critically-ill on a trial basis. The ICMR is learnt to have given its nod to the state government for the first of its kind project, initiated by the prestigious Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), a top official had said. The ICMR official on Thursday said they would need approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) before embarking on any clinical trial using the therapy. He said that it is not currently used or prescribed for patients in India.  "We are in the final stages of making a protocol for convalescent plasma therapy and after that, we will need approval from the DCGI. As of now, it will be used only in clinical trials," he said, adding that the therapy was successful in limited clinical trials in some countries on patients who were in a severe condition or on ventilator support. The death toll due to the novel coronavirus rose to 199 and the number of cases climbed to 6,640 in the country on Friday, according to the Union Health Ministry. However, a PTI tally of figures reported by various states as on Thursday late evening showed at least 6624 cases and 227 deaths. There has been a difference in the Union Health Ministry figures compared to the number of cases announced by different states which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-in-final-stages-of-framing-protocols-for-clinical-trial-of-plasma-therapy-says-icmr-823633.html
10-04-2020||National||India should become self-reliant in medical equipment, devices: Kasturirangan||India needs to come out with a policy to make the country self-reliant in the field of medical equipment and devices drawing lessons from the battle against the COVID-19, eminent scientist K Kasturirangan said on Friday. The former chairman of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) lamented that the country was not producing even ten per cent of the medical equipment and devices it needed at any point in time. "These are not technologies which are so difficult that we cannot do. Simply because others are willing to come and sell us at attractive price-wise, we seem to have taken a policy where you choose the best of the system available, at best (lowest) cost," Kasturirangan told PTI. In the process of efforts to contain the coronovirus spread, India has learnt it needed to have a level of self-reliance in this area, he said. "It's not the question of getting it from outside, but there are areas in which we need to have a level self-reliance and I am sure the government is very much seized of this, they know what exactly they have gone though in the recent period," said Kasturirangan, who was a member of the now-defunct Planning Commission. He is confident that the government would consider framing a policy where, "we become more and more self-reliant in the area of medical devices, medical equipment, and other kinds of requirements that are applicable for health care- related issues." Speaking about the COVID-19 containment measures, the scientist said: Things are moving by God's grace; we should certainly move towards better times now with India's efforts which have been very, very laudable; not only India, the world has appreciated it". He said it's a creditable performance that India was able to keep the coronavirus spread within limits in a complex and plural society and there is no alarming situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-become-self-reliant-in-medical-equipment-devices-kasturirangan-823637.html
10-04-2020||National||After Trump's Hydroxychloroquine clamour, West Bengal planters hope for surge in quinine demand||US President Donald Trump's strong advocacy of Hydroxychloroquine for treating COVID-19 patients has rekindled hopes of cinchona planters of Darjeeling hills as the tree's bark is used for production of quinine, another frontline anti-malaria medicine. Beginning in 1862 in Darjeeling, cinchona plantations flourished over the next several decades in the verdant hills as Malaria sent chill down the spine of people in vast swathes of the country. And it still does. In 2016, over half of India's population (698 million) was at risk of contracting malaria, according to the World Malaria Report. The planters, however, started facing a crisis of sorts after introduction of synthetic-chemical production of quinine. "We are hopeful that due to increase in demand for anti-malaria drugs in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, cinchona plantation in Darjeeling will grow. We are hoping for good business after years of disappointment," Samuel Rai, director of Cinchona Plantations, West Bengal, told PTI. Pharmaceutical companies, however, still procure cinchona bark through e-auction, as it is in demand for making various medicinal drugs, he said, but admitted that the heydays of the plantations are over. So enthusiastic is President Trump about the usefulness of Hydroxychloroquine in the treatment of the pandemic, which holds his country in a vice-like grip, that he warned India, the world's largest producer of the generic drug, of retaliation if it does not lift the April 4 ban on export of the drug and supply it to the US. He has been consistently extolling the benefits of the drug in the treatment of COVID-19, calling it a "game changer" despite its unproven efficacy in mitigation of the pandemic that has killed over 87,000 people globally, infected more than 1.5 million, sealed off most of the world and eviscerated the planet's economy. India, which produces almost 70 per cent of the drug, relented and said it will be supplying the medicine to the neighbouring countries and also those that are badly affected by the pandemic. America tops the list of the countries ravaged by COVID-19 with more than 14,000 deaths reported so far. It has also begun clinical trial to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine for the treatment of adults hospitalized with coronavirus disease, according to the National Institutes of Health, which functions under the US Department of Health and Human Services. According to Rai, hydroxychloroquine is a synthetic molecule as it is derived from chloroquine, which is chemically processed quinine. Quinine derived from cinchona barks is natural, he said. Asked why he is bullish on doing good business, Rai said, "The surge in demand for anti-malaria medicines will boost natural production of quinine from cinchona barks." Quinine sulphate, produced from dry barks of cinchona, is actually the quinine drug needed to treat malaria patients. "Since the demand for anti-malaria drugs has increased, we have received queries from Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh for purchase of dry cinchona barks. We are hopeful that naturally derived quinine could be useful (in the treatment of COVID-19)," he said. Cinchona plantations are exclusive to Darjeeling and Kalimpong in the country, Rai said. According to him, production of quinine has stopped in West Bengal since the closure of factories in 2001 as they failed to comply with good manufacturing practices (GMP) norms. "We are hopeful that it will recommence very soon," he said. Kolkata-headquartered PSU company Bengal Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals managing director P M Chandraiah said it has a stock of maximum 10 lakh tablets of chloroquine phosphate (250 mg) which is used to treat the vector-borne disease. BPCL will not be able to supply more such drug due to shortage of key component and active pharmaceutical ingredient (API), he said. Zydus Cadilla, IPCA Laboratories, and Wallace Pharmaceuticals are the other manufacturers of the drug in India. Indian Pharmaceuticals Alliance secretary general Sudarshan Jain said that India has the capacity to quickly ramp up production of the drug should the need arise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-trumps-hydroxychloroquine-clamour-west-bengal-planters-hope-for-surge-in-quinine-demand-823650.html
10-04-2020||National||PIL filed in Supreme Court seeking universal house-to-house testing for coronavirus||It also sought a direction to the Centre and the states to transfer the money of the PM National Relief Fund and the PM-CARES Fund, and the CM-Relief Funds, to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) established under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.  Thus, this money could be used for combating Coronavirus and the procurement of testing kits, personal protective equipments (PPEs), creation and maintenance of quarantine centres, etc. The plea jointly filed by advocate Shashwat Anand and three others said the measure of social distancing and lockdown to avoid mass transmission and selective tests of suspected corona patients, without conducting mass tests, was like "fighting a fire blindfolded". This was "indispensable", otherwise the fight against COVID-19 pandemic would prove to be futile and cause "irreparable consequences and untold misery" to the public. "The exponential community spread of the most contagious and deadly coronavirus (COVID-19) cannot be put in check only by test of suspected persons, unless mass tests are carried out of public generally," their plea said. The petitioners said in view of crunch of financial resources, the mass house-to-house tests at the first place can be initiated at the COVID-19 hotspots, so as to avoid the spread of the disease from the limits of such place. It also questioned creation of separate public charitable trusts as PM-Cares Fund by the central and state government, contending this only tended to "maim, weaken and paralyse the Disaster Management Act, 2005". "Creation of non-statutory public charitable trust or fund by the Prime Minister and Chief Ministers, who are also concerned with promoting the statutory funds or trusts being the NDRF or SDRF, is arbitrary, inappropriate, uncalled for, unjustified and impermissible under the public policy and within the scheme of the 2005 Act," they contended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-supreme-court-seeking-universal-house-to-house-testing-for-coronavirus-823653.html
10-04-2020||National||PIL filed in SC for house-to-house testing for COVID-19||Amid growing coronavirus cases in the country, a PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court for a direction to the government to carry out universal house-to-house testing to trace people infected by COVID-19, to isolate and treat them. It also sought a direction to the Centre and the states to transfer the money of the PM National Relief Fund and the PM-Cares Fund and the CM-Relief Funds to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) established under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Thus, this money could be used for combating coronavirus and the procurement of testing kits, personal protective equipment (PPEs), creation and maintenance of quarantine centres, etc. The plea, jointly filed by advocate Shashwat Anand and three others, said the measure of social distancing and lockdown to avoid mass transmission and selective tests of suspected coronavirus patients, without conducting mass tests, was like "fighting a fire blindfolded". This was "indispensable", otherwise the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic would prove to be futile and cause "irreparable consequences and untold misery" to the public. "The exponential community spread of the most contagious and deadly coronavirus (COVID-19) cannot be put in check only by test of suspected persons, unless mass tests are carried out of public generally," their plea said. The petitioners said in view of crunch of financial resources, the mass house-to-house tests can first be initiated in COVID-19 hotspots so as to avoid the spread of the disease from the limits of such places. It also questioned creation of separate public charitable trusts as PM-Cares Fund by the central and state governments, contending this only tended to "maim, weaken and paralyse the Disaster Management Act 2005". "Creation of non-statutory public charitable trust or fund by the Prime Minister and chief ministers, who are also concerned with promoting the statutory funds or trusts being the NDRF or SDRF, is arbitrary, inappropriate, uncalled for, unjustified and impermissible under the public policy and within the scheme of the 2005 Act," they contended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-sc-for-house-to-house-testing-for-covid-19-823661.html
10-04-2020||National||PMO reviews efforts to check coronavirus spread||The production of personal protective equipment (PPE) is being ramped up, a meeting held by the Prime Minister's Office to review the efforts to tackle the spread of coronavirus was informed on Friday. Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister P K Mishra chaired the meeting of the empowered groups of officers set up to tackle the challenges arising out of COVID-19. The meeting reviewed and expressed satisfaction on the detailed testing protocol and procedure, under which 1,45,916 samples have been tested across the country till date. According to an official statement, the production of PPE is being ramped up and capacity building for healthcare personnel is being ensured. NGOs and civil society groups are also being mobilised, the meeting was informed. Mishra suggested that coordination with NGOs at the district level be done to avoid overlaps and ensure an efficacious utilisation of resources. The progress of the welfare measures rolled out through the economic relief package under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana was also reviewed, the statement said. Mishra underlined that data sanctity is important to ensure that the benefits of the welfare measures reach all the beneficiaries. On March 29, the government had constituted 11 empowered groups to suggest measures to ramp up the healthcare infrastructure, put the country's economy back on track and reduce the miseries of people as quickly as possible in the wake of the 21-day nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pmo-reviews-efforts-to-check-coronavirus-spread-823683.html
10-04-2020||National||ICMR suggests containment in 36 districts of 15 states after many with respiratory infection test coronavirus positive||About 40 per cent of COVID-19 cases with severe acute respiratory infection did not have any history of contact with infected persons or those with international travel history, and they were reported from 36 districts of 15 states, an ICMR study stated while recommending these places for priority containment measures. A total of 104 of the 5,911 patients with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) tested positive for COVID-19, out of which 40 cases did not report any history of contact with a known case or international travel, according to the study which was conducted from February 15 to April 2. The chances of getting infected among SARI patients increased from 0 per cent before March 14 to 2.6 per cent by April 2, the study which was released on Thursday said. Also, males accounted for higher number of COVID-19 cases and also patients aged above 50 years of age. According to the study, which has been published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research, a total of (104) 1.8 per cent of the 5,911 SARI patients tested were positive for COVID-19. These cases were reported from 52 districts in 20 states and union territories. "In all, 39.2 per cent COVID-19 cases did not report any history of contact with a known case or international travel," the study said while two per cent reported contact with a confirmed case and one per cent reported recent history of international travel. Data on exposure history was not available for 59 per cent cases. The ICMR in its study highlighted that COVID-19 containment activities need to be targeted in districts reporting positive cases among SARI patients and stated that intensifying sentinel surveillance for COVID-19 among SARI patients may be an efficient tool to effectively use resources towards containment and mitigation efforts, it said. Sentinel surveillance among SARI patients can help identify the spread and extent of transmission of COVID-19, the Indian Council of Medical Research said. The SARI surveillance was initiated in the early phase of the COVID-19 outbreak in India. In India, the initial COVID-19 testing strategy included people who had international travel history with symptoms, symptomatic contacts of laboratory-confirmed COVID-19 patients and symptomatic healthcare workers managing respiratory distress/SARI. In addition, to track the progression of the epidemic in the early phase, stored samples of SARI patients hospitalised since February 15 were also tested for COVID-19 under the Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory Network (VRDLN). As part of the study, SARI patients admitted at 41 sentinel sites from February 15 onwards were tested positive for COVID-19 by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. During the study, SARI patients were detected from eight districts in Maharashtra, six in West Bengal and five each in Tamil Nadu and Delhi. In 15 states, more than one per cent of SARI patients were COVID-19 positive. About a third of COVID-19 positive SARI cases did not have any history of contact with laboratory-confirmed case or international travel, and such cases were reported from 36 districts in 15 states. These districts need to be prioritised to target COVID-19 containment activities, the study stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-suggests-containment-in-36-districts-of-15-states-after-many-with-respiratory-infection-test-coronavirus-positive-823684.html
10-04-2020||National||About 250 Indians infected by coronavirus in Singapore: Indian High Commission||About 250 Indians, with nearly half of them staying in close contact in the dormitories for foreign workers, have tested positive for the coronavirus in Singapore, the Indian High Commission here said on Friday. Indian High Commissioner Jawed Ashraf told PTI that almost all of the Indians who have the disease are mostly stable or improving. He said that the about 250 Indian nationals, who are suffering from the disease, include some permanent residents. Of the infected Indians, nearly 50 per cent are from dormitories for foreign workers, which have emerged as the disease spreading points in the country. The first cases from the dormitories were reported on March 29, but the number of infections has climbed to 460, of which about 200 were confirmed on Thursday. As the country has ramped up aggressive testing in the dormitories, the numbers are expected to climb in the next few days. Minister for National Development Lawrence Wong, who co-chairs the COVID-19 task force, said coronavirus cases in the foreign worker dormitories will continue to rise in the coming days and perhaps even in the coming weeks or so. "But we do have a comprehensive strategy and measures are in place, and the agencies are now working round the clock to execute and implement them," The Straits Times quoted the Minister as saying on Friday. Noting that foreign workers will still be providing public services such as cleaning, Wong urged people not to be prejudiced against them. "It's not because of a foreign worker being inherently of higher risk - the risk of infection for the rest of us in the population is the same, regardless of nationality, regardless of race," he stressed. Singapore authorities are working to improve the living conditions in dormitories and relocating workers in other accommodations, including empty Housing Development Board flats and Army facilities, according to local media reports. Meanwhile, Indian High Commissioner Ashraf said that the post-mortem report of a 32-year-old Indian man, who died on April 8, confirmed that he passed away because of a heart condition and not due to the COVID-19 as reported earlier. The deceased was advised to stay at home after he underwent the coronavirus test on April 7. As the international flights are suspended due to the lockdown in India, it would be difficult to immediately send back the deceased's body, an informed source said, adding Singapore authorities are expected to speak to the deceased's family. Singapore reported 287 cases of coronavirus on Thursday, taking the total of 1,910. So far, the country has reported only 6 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/about-250-indians-infected-by-coronavirus-in-singapore-indian-high-commission-823687.html
10-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: NBFCs to face liquidity pressure on lack of clarity on RBI's moratorium, poor collection, says Crisil||Non-banking finance companies are likely to face liquidity challenges due to lack of clarity on the applicability of the Reserve Bank's moratorium on their bank loans and poor collection due to the nationwide lockdown, says a report. According to a report by rating agency Crisil, Non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) face a double whammy because they are offering moratorium to customers despite not getting one themselves from their lender-banks. "Given the challenges in access to fresh funding, and presuming nil collections, a number of NBFCs will face liquidity challenges if they do not get a moratorium on servicing their own bank loans and are forced to meet all debt obligations on time," rating agency's senior director Krishnan Sitaraman said in a report. In order to tide over any liquidity stress caused by the impact of coronavirus, RBI had announced a relief package which included a three-month moratorium on payment of all term loans outstanding as on March 1, 2020. NBFCs have sought clarity from RBI on applicability of moratorium and also on access to a formal liquidity window which may provide some structural liquidity support to them similar to that available for banks. It said almost three-fourths of NBFCs will have a liquidity cover of over three times to meet capital market debt obligations up to May 31, 2020, when the moratorium is slated to end, while only 3 per cent have less than one time liquidity cover. A liquidity cover of less than one time indicates inability to make debt repayments on time and in full without the benefit of collections, external support, or access to additional credit lines or funding. If there is no moratorium on bank debt, only 37 per cent of the Crisil-rated NBFCs will have a liquidity cover of more than three times for their total debt repayments up to May 31, 2020, while those with less than one time would increase to 11 per cent, the report said. "If business disruption continues beyond the moratorium period, considering debt repayments till June 30, 2020, almost a quarter of these NBFCs would have a liquidity cover of less than one time with debt obligations aggregating to Rs 1.75 lakh crore," it said. Raising fresh funds is critical for NBFCs because, unlike banks, they do not have access to systemic sources of liquidity and depend significantly on wholesale funding, the report said. In its COVID-19 Regulatory Package, RBI announced to conduct Rs one lakh crore of targeted long term repos operations (TLTRO). Bank have to deploy this liquidity in investment grade corporate bonds, commercial paper, and non-convertible debentures. However, only half of that is earmarked for primary issuances. The rating agency said only higher-rated NBFCs may end up benefiting from TLTRO. Mutual funds, a large investor base for higher-rated NBFCs, have been facing redemption pressure and therefore are unlikely to be a material source of fresh funding or refinancing for NBFCs, the report said. Securitisation, which many NBFCs were relying on so far, may also not see much transactions in the near term because of the moratorium, Crisil said. While larger and better-rated NBFCs may still be able to manage the situation, smaller or lower-rated NBFCs, which have significant dependence on bank funding, will find the going extremely tough, the rating agency said. Measures such as enhancement in bank lines, ad hoc or special Covid-19 credit lines from banks, would offer only a partial relief to the sector, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-nbfcs-to-face-liquidity-pressure-on-lack-of-clarity-on-rbis-moratorium-poor-collection-says-crisil-823692.html
10-04-2020||National||Waiver or moratorium? Parents confused about announcements on school fee relaxations amid coronavirus lockdown||To pay or not to pay, waiver or moratorium--parents of school children are confused with announcements of several state governments offering relaxations for school fees during the coronavirus lockdown period in the country. Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments have announced that schools should not pressurise parents to pay fees during the lockdown. However, there is no clarity among parents about whether no fees will be charged during the period or they will have to be paid later. According to various school authorities, some parents have assumed that there will be no fees for the period and numerous queries are being received by them about fee waivers. "There is no clarity. Schools are still charging miscellaneous fees like meal charges and transport charges. No body knows what has been waived and what is still there. When we reach out to schools they say its only a relaxation in the time and not the amount," Sandeep Makhija, a Gurgaon resident, told PTI. Similar concerns are being faced by Rajasthan's Preeti Vashishth, "The government circular says that schools should not take any advance fees during the period but there is no clarity on whether the fees will have to be paid later or not for the lockdown period". Rajneesh Kumar whose two kids study in a Noida school, said, "If the fees is anyway supposed to be paid then I would rather accommodate it in my budget now rather than facing a burden later. With the announcement it looked like a relief but I don't know if it actually is. Having clear instructions would have been helpful". According to representative of a leading private school in Gurgaon, parents are calling them with queries about why fees statements have been generated when there is a government order. "We explain to each of the parent that the fees has not been waived and only the deadlines have been relaxed. The teachers are working full time, regular classes are happening online, the staff needs to be paid salaries too," she said. Another school spokesperson in Gurgaon said, "We are not forcing the parents to pay right away, the deadlines have been extended already and a genuine case can be evaluated accordingly even later but we are advising parents that whoever can pay right now should pay. The fees cannot be waived off. Parents are calling with queries like while meal charges are being levied. We have a full fledged kitchen and team handling it. So will we not be paying them during the period as no meals are being cooked?" Both the schools did not wish to be identified. Noida's Kothari International School has waived day-boarding and transport fees for months of April and May. "The school continues to meet its commitments and responsibilities of salaries, housekeeping, security.... sanitation, tank cleaning, hardware, software, buses, networking, Wi-Fi, CCTV, up gradation of equipment, building repairs, sports equipment, estate maintenance and pest control. "While the school needs to continue to meet all these commitments, we fully understand that in the prevailing circumstances of the COVID-19 pandemic, restricted access to banks, general hardships of the self employed businesses and the slowdown in economy we would need to support our parent fraternity pro-actively and at the same time continue to meet the high quality standards of infrastructure, teaching and deliverables to our students as every year. We have waived transport and day boarding fees", the school said in a letter to parents. Punjab government, however, had on Thursday directed schools to release full salaries to staff and not to force parents for books, uniforms and transportation fees and said that no school can demand fees from students on the pretext of online teaching classes during lockdown period. While several parents have reached out to Delhi government seeking fees waiver during the period, no decision has been taken in this regard yet. "We have been getting messages from parents that fee during the lockdown should be waived but schools say that how will they give salaries, which is also a genuine concern. The government has actively worked for parents as far as the matters about fees is concerned but right now it is a tricky situation. If anybody has concrete suggestions about a balanced way out of the situation, we request to share it with us," Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had said last week in an online interaction with parents. The country is under a lockdown due to the COVID-19 situation. However, schools and colleges were closed a week before the lockdown was announced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/waiver-or-moratorium-parents-confused-about-announcements-on-school-fee-relaxations-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-823695.html
10-04-2020||National||Delhi airport evaluating consolidation of its terminals amid coronavirus lockdown||Delhi airport operator DIAL is assessing post-lockdown domestic air traffic demand along with the airlines and evaluating if consolidation of terminals is required, it said on Friday. Four days back, the Singapore government had announced that the Changi airport would close its Terminal 2 for 18 months from the beginning of next month, following a sharp drop in passenger traffic due to the novel coronavirus outbreak. Delhi airport has three terminals while Singapore's Changi has four. The GMR group-led Delhi Airport International Limited (DIAL) clarified in a statement that it had no immediate plans to defer any ongoing expansion works. "DIAL is assessing the quantum of domestic demand along with the airlines, once the suspension of operations is lifted. Various options, including the potential of consolidating terminal operations, are being evaluated depending on the airline requirements as well as government notifications/advisories that may be issued from time to time," the airport operator said in its statement. "Even during the ongoing suspension of commercial operations due to the lockdown, Delhi Airport continues to handle 25-30 operations per day - primarily cargo and evacuation flights. Also, as of now, there are no immediate plans to defer any ongoing expansion works," the DIAL added. India has imposed a 21-day lockdown till April 14 to curb the coronavirus outbreak. Consequently, all domestic and international commercial passenger flights have been suspended for the time period. However, cargo flights, offshore helicopter operations, medical evacuation flights and special flights permitted by Indian aviation regulator DGCA are permitted to operate during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-airport-evaluating-consolidation-of-its-terminals-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-823708.html
10-04-2020||National||Bhopal and Indore account for 80% of coronavirus cases in MP||COVID-19 has spread in 20 out of 51 districts in Madhya Pradesh even as Bhopal and Indore account for more than 80% of the total cases. As many as 46 towns have been identified as hotspots and have been sealed. Out of 451 infected cases reported in the state till Thursday night, Indore leads with 235 followed by Bhopal’s 109. Indore alone recorded 26 out of 36 deaths in the state so far. Till Friday afternoon,  no fresh case was reported, though test reports of many suspected cases are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhopal-and-indore-account-for-80-of-coronavirus-cases-in-mp-823709.html
10-04-2020||National||CJI to review functioning of apex court every 3-4 days, says SCBA Secy||Chief Justice S A Bobde will review the functioning of the apex court every three to four days in consultation with other judges and officials of health ministry in view of the nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus or COVID-19 pandemic, an office bearer of SCBA said. Advocate Ashok Arora, secretary of Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), said the demand from bar leaders and other bodies that summer vacation this year be preponed can wait for a while and till then status quo with regard to functioning is to be maintained. “I spoke to Chief Justice of India (CJI) on April 10 at 12 noon and was informed that he was going to review the situation after every 3/4 days after consulting the other Judges and health ministry. Till then status quo. So better, we wait for a while,” Arora said. Meanwhile, senior advocate Dinesh Goswami, has written to the CJI requesting suspension of summer vacation. He said the way COVID-19 cases are increasing in the country it is neither advisable nor prudent to start the normal working of either the Supreme Court, the High Courts or the sub-ordinate courts. At the same time, he said, because of all the courts remaining closed/ non-functioning/ partially functioning have left the courts burdened with heavy load of work. “It is therefore, in terms of the above situation, my humble request to the Chief Justice of India, head of the judiciary, that the lockdown maybe extended at least up to April 30 and it is also urged that the summer vacations of the educational institutions and all the courts all over the country including the Supreme Court of India may be suspended considering the present emergent epidemic situation," he said. The top court on March 23 virtually went into the lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus and had suspended for indefinite period the entry of advocates and other staff in the high security zone on the basis of their proximity cards. The top court, without specifying any date, had said that court will only sit to take up “extremely urgent matters” through video conferencing and had directed that the lawyers' chamber and offices in the premises of apex court will be closed till further orders. The CJI had on same day said that he would review the situation and take a call on a possible shut down or to advance the summer vacation this year, as demanded by the lawyers' organizations. The issue of shutting down the apex court's functioning and preponing of summer vacation has been raised by the SCBA president and the members of the SCAORA in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. On Thursday, the Delhi High court decided to suspend its summer vacation this year, slated from June 1 to 30, to make up for the loss of working hours due to the coronavirus pandemic lockdown. The high court also cancelled the summer break of subordinate courts in June this year. The decision was taken at a meeting by Delhi High Court Chief Justice D N Patel and other judges considering the severe hardship and difficulties being faced by litigants on account of the lockdown and consequent suspension of functioning of the courts that are currently hearing matters of extreme urgency only through video conferencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cji-to-review-functioning-of-apex-court-every-3-4-days-says-scba-secy-823710.html
10-04-2020||National||Ministry of Home Affairs seeks suggestions from state govt on extending COVID-19 lockdown||The Home Ministry has sought views of state governments on the 21-day lockdown including whether more categories of people and services need to be exempted, officials said on Friday, amidst indications of a possible two-week extension of the restrictions to curb the spread of coronavirus. In its communication, the Home Ministry informed the state governments and Union Territory administrations about the steps taken by the Centre for the strict implementation of the lockdown, announced on March 24. It also conveyed them about the people and services exempted from the purview of the lockdown.  The Home Ministry asked the state governments and UT administrations to inform it about different aspects of the lockdown and whether there are necessities to give exemptions to some more categories of people and services from the restrictions, a home ministry official said. A few state governments, including Bihar, wrote back to the home ministry. Among the suggestions of the state governments include allowing construction-related activities in rural areas. The central government, while imposing the lockdown, had announced that shops dealing in essential commodities, including the online platforms, will remain open, besides services like health, sanitation, police, media and bank. The Home Ministry had also asked states and union territories to ensure smooth harvesting and sowing operations, saying agricultural activities were exempted from the lockdown. It also allowed opening of shops of agriculture machinery, its spare parts, highway truck repair shops, preferably in petrol pumps, tea industry, including plantation with maximum of 50 per cent workers, during the lockdown period. Movements of essential and non-essential cargos were also allowed by the government. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with leaders of opposition political parties earlier this week, LoP in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad had said the PM told the meeting that he had received several requests for extension of the lockdown, but will take a call on it only after consulting experts and the chief ministers of various states. Azad had said around 80 per cent of the leaders from various political parties, who interacted with the prime minister through video-conferencing, favoured extending the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ministry-of-home-affairs-seeks-suggestions-from-state-govt-on-extending-covid-19-lockdown-823713.html
10-04-2020||National||Lockdown: NHRC asks Centre about arrangements made for mentally ill people in streets||The NHRC on Friday asked the Centre to inform it in two weeks the arrangements made for the mentally ill people roaming on streets during the nationwide lockdown. The National Human Rights Commission said in a statement it has taken cognisance of a complaint on the alleged violation of the human rights of the mentally ill people and asked the Union Home Ministry to respond within two weeks. The response shall include details of the steps taken or proposed to be taken by authorities to address the issue raised in the complaint, a senior official said. In the meantime Centre should issue directions to all states and union territories to ensure that persons with any kind of mental ailments are provided with proper counselling for necessary precautions from the virus and not deprived of basic amenities like food, shelter and medical care, the statement said. This is also to ensure that such people don't become easy carriers of coronavirus, who can then infect many others, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-nhrc-asks-centre-about-arrangements-made-for-mentally-ill-people-in-streets-823720.html
10-04-2020||National||Telangana Cabinet to meet on April 11 to discuss coronavirus situation||The Telangana Cabinet would meet here on Saturday to discuss the situation arising out of COVID-19 and the need to extend lockdown in the state among other issues. The meeting, to be chaired by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, is expected to discuss the state's economic situation and the future course of action, assistance given to the poor, procurement of agricultural produce, the losses suffered by farmers due to recent hailstorms and other issues, the sources added. The Chief Minister has already favoured extension of the nationwide lockdown beyond April 14, saying it is the only weapon to check the spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-cabinet-to-meet-on-april-11-to-discuss-coronavirus-situation-823723.html
10-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: As temples shut doors, priests in Uttar Pradesh's Neemsar reach out to needy with food||The country-wide lockdown has forced shut doors of temples in the pilgrim destination of Neemsar in UP's Sitapur district but on Tuesdays and Saturdays hundreds of needy line up to take packets of essentials being distributed by temple authorities. Though authorities at temples like the Hanuman Garhi are doing their bit to reach out to the poor in Neemsar also known as Naimisharnaya, about 90 km from here, the priests are themselves unsure of how to sustain themselves if the lockdown is not lifted on April 14. With a motto "Saksham hain to Seva karein" (Serve, if you have resources), the Mahant of the Hanuman temple Bajrang Das said the temple with its own resources is giving two kgs of wheat, lentils, mustard oil, spices in a packet to the needy. "We are also giving Rs 50 in cash to those coming for their daily expenses. On Tuesdays and Saturdays, people line up here and we distribute packets. With a word of mouth publicity 400-500 needy persons come here," the Mahant said. "We have arrangements till April 14 but after this period if the lockdown is not lifted we will see how we can continue with this. We pray to Lord Hanuman that situation due to coronavirus comes under control and the lockdown is lifted," he added. At Neemsar's Lalita Ashram also its head Lal Bihari Shastri is ensuring distribution of food packets to the needy. "We are hopeful the situation will come under control and the lockdown is lifted on April 14. Till then we are trying to provide whatever help we can to the people," he said. Rajnarain Pandey, Head Priest, Chakrateerth, which is the place in Neemsar where Lord Brahma's 'Chakra' cracked through the earth forming a large source of water (Chakra Kund) said, "This is for the first time such a silence is prevailing here. We are sure that the lockdown will be lifted next week. If not, the administration here will have to make arrangements for pandits and pandas here as they will be financially hit." "We are praying and God..that's what we know...He will certainly help us all," he added. Pradhan Acharya of Ashtkon temple Aarti Sumit Kumar, who is helping people with medicines and food, is also hopeful that the lockdown will be lifted. "We all are mentally prepared till April 14 but if the situation does not improve it will make life of priests here more difficult," he said. "Naimisharanya is the place wherever several sages have performed penance. It is believed that on visiting this sacred place, people obviate their sins. Our prayers from here will certainly work," Sumit said.  For Aaveg Mehrotra, who owns a hotel here, it is time to reach out to the needy. "We and others in the business are following  whatever instructions are coming from our PM and CM. Though my hotel is not running and like others I am suffering losses, I am ensuring payment to my staff and utilising them for cooking for the needy. We are trying to reach out to maximum people and give food packets to 300-400 people per day." "This is time to contribute to society. With God's grace, we hope all this will normalise and we will be back in business soon with return of devotees to Neemsar," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-as-temples-shut-doors-priests-in-uttar-pradeshs-neemsar-reach-out-to-needy-with-food-823724.html
10-04-2020||National||National Commission for Women launches WhatsApp number to report domestic violence during coronavirus lockdown||The National Commission for Women (NCW) launched a WhatsApp number --7217735372 – on Friday to report cases of domestic violence, which have seen a rise during the lockdown period. In a tweet, the NCW urged people to report such cases through messages on the number so that the agency can provide support and assistance to women in distress or experiencing domestic violence. The number has only been launched for the period of COVID-19 lockdown till normal offices resume, the NCW said. The announcement comes amid a rise in domestic violence cases due to the ongoing lockdown. It was found that many women who are victims of domestic violence are more vulnerable during the lockdown period. National Commission of Women Chairperson Rekha Sharma recently said domestic violence complaints have been increasing by the day since the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25, with 69 complaints received just through email. From March 24 till April 1, 257 complaints related to various offences against women were received. Of the 257, 69 complaints are related to domestic violence, the latest data released by the NCW showed. India is currently under the biggest lockdown with around 1.3 billion people asked to stay home in view of the coronavirus outbreak, which has claimed nearly 200 lives and infected more than 6,400 people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-commission-for-women-launches-whatsapp-number-to-report-domestic-violence-during-coronavirus-lockdown-823726.html
10-04-2020||National||Ensure no religious processions, gatherings take place during coronavirus lockdown: MHA to states||In a communication to states, the MHA said they should inform district authorities and field agencies that they should take all required precautionary and preventive measures for maintenance of law and order, peace and public tranquillity. Appropriate vigil on social media should also be maintained against circulation of any objectionable content during festival season, it said. It said the guidelines issued by the MHA should be brought to the attention of public authorities, social and religious organisation and citizens.   "For violation of any lockdown measure, action under the relevant penal provisions of the Disaster Management Act 2005 and Indian Penal Code should be taken by the law enforcing agencies," it said.   The guidelines for containment of COVID-19 clearly mention that no religious congregation will be permitted without any exception and all social/ cultural/ religious functions/ gatherings shall be barred.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-no-religious-processions-gatherings-take-place-during-coronavirus-lockdown-mha-to-states-823730.html
10-04-2020||National||Village in Punjab's Mohali sees 10 fresh coronavirus cases, total now 32||Ten people tested positive for coronavirus in Jawaharpur village in Punjab's Mohali district on Friday, taking the number of confirmed cases in the area to 32, officials said here. The village located in Dera Bassi of Mohali has become a coronavirus hotspot in the state. The number of cases stood at 22 on Thursday. With the new cases, the coronavirus count in Mohali jumped to 48, an official said. The district is topping the COVID-19 tally in Punjab. "10 more cases positive in Jawaharpur, Dera Bassi—32 in the village," said Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan. "Extensive sampling has enabled us to identify more positive cases within the village and timely isolate them. Hopefully containing the spread in the village with a population of 2,500 plus as well as beyond," the DC said in a tweet. "Containing without extensive sampling would not have achieved the desired/same results," Dayalan further said. The health authorities in Mohali district are conducting extensive sampling of the contacts of the coronavirus patients. The district administration has already completely sealed the entry points to the Jawaharpur village — located near the Delhi-Ambala national highway — and deployed cops to stop the movement of people. The first confirmed case of coronavirus infection in the village was reported on April 4, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/village-in-punjabs-mohali-sees-10-fresh-coronavirus-cases-total-now-32-823731.html
10-04-2020||National||India-Japan partnership can help develop new technologies for post-coronavirus world: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the India-Japan special strategic and global partnership can help develop new technologies and solutions for the post-COVID-19 world. The prime minister made these remarks on Twitter after speaking with his Japanese counterpart Shinzo Abe on the situation arising out of coronavirus outbreak. "Had fruitful discussion with my friend, Japanese PM @abeshinzo about the COVID-19 pandemic. The India-Japan Special Strategic & Global Partnership can help develop new technologies and solutions for the post-COVID world - for our peoples, for the Indo-Pacific region, and for the world," he said. Prime Minister Abe had recently declared a state of emergency in Tokyo and six other prefectures to contain the spread of the killer virus. An official statement later said the two leaders discussed the global health and economic challenges emerging out of the COVID-19 pandemic. They also discussed the steps taken in their respective countries to deal with this crisis. Both the leaders expressed appreciation for the support and facilitation provided during the present crisis to each other's citizens present in their respective territories, and agreed to continue such coordination. "The two leaders agreed that the India-Japan partnership could play a critical role in helping the world find solutions to the challenges arising out of the pandemic," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-japan-partnership-can-help-develop-new-technologies-for-post-coronavirus-world-pm-modi-823735.html
10-04-2020||National||Decision to bring Indians from abroad will be taken after reviewing coronavirus situation: Government||Over 20,400 foreign nationals have been evacuated from India and a decision on bringing Indians from abroad will be taken at a later stage after reviewing the COVID-19 situation, the government said on Friday. According to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), the government also said there are 3.28 crore hydroxychloroquine tablets in India's stock and a decision has been taken to export some surplus medicines after reviewing the domestic requirement and keeping buffer stocks. The anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine has been cited by many as a viable therapeutic solution to fight the coronavirus infection. The Union Ministry of Health said there has been no community transmission of the novel coronavirus so far in the country. There has been a rise of 678 COVID-19 cases and 33 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of novel coronavirus cases to 6,412 and death toll to 199 in the country. Addressing a press briefing on the COVID-19 situation, MEA Additional Secretary Dammu Ravi said, "There were requests from governments of several countries. We have successfully evacuated 20,473 foreign nationals as of yesterday". "This is an ongoing process. Some questions have come about Indians abroad. It is a situation where we cannot give a definite answer because the lockdown is still there. We need to assess the situation… it will be the government's decision on how we manage the return of Indians from other countries,” he said. "Our ambassadors and high commissioners in all these countries are in regular touch with all Indians abroad and giving all support to them. The MEA COVID control room helplines are active, teams are taking calls and guiding them in these matters. The situation is under control. We will review at a later stage about their return," Ravi said. Ravi, who is also the COVID-19 coordinator, said, the government had received requests about hydroxychloroquine from different countries and a decision has been taken to export some surplus medicines. "India has received requests from several countries for hydroxychloroquine. Taking into view the domestic requirement and keeping a sufficient buffer of stocks, a decision has been taken to export some surplus medicines. We have 3.28 crore of hydroxychloroquine tablets already in India's stock," Ravi said. Health Ministry's Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said there has been a rise of 678 COVID-19 cases and 33 deaths in the last 24 hours. "One hundred and forty-six government labs are functional in the country and 67 private labs have been given approval for testing of COVID-19. “There has been no community transmission in the country so far but we have to be alert and follow the do's and don'ts. A total of 16,002 tests were conducted yesterday and only 0.2 per cent of the cases tested positive," he said. Agarwal pointed out that incidents of misbehaviour towards medical professionals will bring their morale down and “we need to stand by them”. The officials also maintained that rumours and media reports claiming protocol has been issued by Railways regarding passenger travel for post-lockdown are speculative and incorrect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/decision-to-bring-indians-from-abroad-will-be-taken-after-reviewing-coronavirus-situation-government-823743.html
10-04-2020||National||Ensure mentally ill people are safe during COVID-19 lockdown: NHRC||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday directed the Centre to ensure that persons suffering from mental ailments are provided with proper counselling and they do not become "easy carriers" of COVID-19, amid complaints that such people are roaming around the streets. It asked the Ministry of Home Affairs should inform to the Commission the steps it has taken and proposals it has in its mind to help such people within two weeks. The response shall include details of the steps taken or proposed to be taken by the authorities to address the issue The NHRC recommendation came following a complaint it received, which claimed violation of human rights of the mentally ill people roaming on the streets across the country. It also asked the MHA to issue necessary directions to all states and Union Territories to ensure that "persons suffering from any kind of mental ailments under their jurisdiction are provided with proper counselling towards necessary precautions for their personal care and protection from the virus and not deprived of basic amenities like food, shelter and medical care etc." While acknowledging the steps taken so far in connection with fighting COVID-19, the NHRC said some sections of the society such as persons suffering from mental illness require specific attention as even in normal circumstances, they are dependent on others and always need support.   "Therefore, in this time of crisis,  it becomes the duty of the State to ensure food, shelter and social security for the people belonging to such vulnerable classes. This becomes more necessary because not only the people suffering from mental illness may be deprived of basic amenities but also become an easy carrier of the deadly virus posing life threat to many," it said. According to the complaint, the NHRC said, a large number of persons suffering from various mental illnesses are loitering on the streets and are dependent for food, shelter and other kinds of help on temples, gurudwaras and other charity organisations. "But the administration has not issued any specific guidelines for these people and no arrangements for their survival during this period of the crisis have been made," the complaint said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-mentally-ill-people-are-safe-during-covid-19-lockdown-nhrc-823751.html
10-04-2020||National||Donation by employees to PM-CARES fund through employer to reflect in Form 16 TDS certificate||Employers will have to show donation made by employees from their salary to PM-CARES fund in Form 16 TDS certificate, the Income Tax department has said. Donations made to the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM-CARES) Fund are eligible for 100 per cent deduction u/s 80G of I-T Act. In a notice, the Central Board of Direct Taxes has said that in cases where donation is made by an employee through his/her employer, a separate certificate u/s 80G will not be issued for every employee as contribution to the fund is in the form of consolidated payment. "It is hereby clarified that the deduction in respect of such donations will be admissible u/s 80G of the Act on the basis of the Form 16/certificate issued by Drawing and Disbursing Officer/ Employer in this regard," the CBDT said. Nangia Andersen Consulting Director Shailesh Kumar said in many cases, the employees are donating a portion of their salary (viz 1 day or 1 week or 1 month, etc) to the PM-CARES fund, through their employers. "In all such cases, Form 16 issued by employer will be considered to be a conclusive evidence of donation made by employee and tax deduction u/s 80-G shall be allowed to the respective employee. This is a welcome move by the CBDT and will encourage employees to donate for this noble cause through their employers, at the same time making them eligible for tax benefit of such donation," Kumar said. AKM Global Partner Amit Maheshwari said: "This is an important clarification as there was apprehension in the minds of several employees as to how they would get the benefit after contributing to this noble cause. This clarification has made availing tax benefit simpler for them now".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/donation-by-employees-to-pm-cares-fund-through-employer-to-reflect-in-form-16-tds-certificate-823754.html
10-04-2020||National||Punjab extends coronavirus lockdown till May 1||At its meeting conducted through video conferencing, the state cabinet also approved a draft ordinance to rope in private hospitals in the state’s efforts to combat COVID-19. The Punjab Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Ordinance 2020 will enforce registration and “compliance of clinical standards”, the government said. "Given the seriousness of the situation arising out of #Covid19, Cabinet has decided to extend lockdown & curfew till 1st May. These are difficult times & I appeal to all to #StayHomeStaySafe & strictly observe health safeguards as you have done so far, for which I am thankful,” Chief Minister Amarinder Singh tweeted. Punjab Special Chief Secretary K B S Sidhu also tweeted about the decision. “Strict enforcement,” he said. The decision comes as the Centre considers proposals from the states on continuing the restrictions beyond April 14, when the nationwide 21-day lockdown is slated to end. A Punjab government statement said the chief minister will convey the decision to Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his conference with CMs on Saturday. Punjab had clamped a state-wide curfew on March 23 to enforce the lockdown, imposed ahead of the nationwide restrictions announced by the prime minister. The decision is being extended to prevent the community spread of the pandemic and to stop overcrowding at the mandis ahead of the wheat harvesting and procurement season, a statement said. Twenty-one new coronavirus cases were reported in the state on Friday, pushing the total count to 151 with 11 deaths till the evening. About half of the new cases are from a single village. Among the fresh cases, 11 were reported in Mohali district, followed by eight in Pathankot and one each in Sangrur and Jalandhar, a medical bulletin said. Jawaharpur village in Mohali district accounted for 10 of the new cases, an official said. Out of total 48 cases in the district so far, the village reported 32 after extensive sampling. At a media conference earlier in the day, the CM cited grim projections on the spread of the pandemic in the coming weeks. Quoting what he said was a PGIMER study, the chief minister said 58 per cent of India’s population could be infected in the coming months. When Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research said it was not aware of any such study, the CM’s office named Dr Shankar Prinja, an additional professor at PGIMER’s Department of Community Medicine & School of Public Health at the institute. It said the assessment by the professor and his team used “standard mathematical models with Punjab data provided to him.” The state cabinet also decided to set up a 15-member multi-disciplinary task force to formulate an exit strategy for gradual relaxation of the lockdown and the curfew. It approved the establishment of a high-powered committee to suggest a roadmap for the state's economic revival in the post-COVID-19 period. Amarinder Singh will request former Planning Commission deputy chairman Montek Singh Ahluwalia to head it. The state government will ask the Centre to establish an Advanced Centre of Virology in Punjab with an anticipated investment of Rs 500 crore, and offer free land for it. Another task force will look into “quick upgradation” of the state's health infrastructure to combat the current crisis, the government said. The Odisha government had on Thursday announced an extension of the current lockdown till April 30, amid indications by some other states that they too wanted restrictions to continue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-till-may-1-823755.html
10-04-2020||National||Truckers demand relief package from govt as coronavirus lockdown leaves them in limbo||With livelihood of about 1 crore truckers in peril due to the lockdown, transporters on Friday urged the government for an immediate relief package for the transport sector. The outbreak of coronavirus pandemic and the resultant lockdown to contain its spread have led to idling of more than 90 per cent of about one crore truckers.   More than 4 lakh truckers with goods under non-essential categories are still stranded across India while goods worth about Rs 40,000 crore are lying in vehicles in the absence of unloading mechanism as well as reluctance on part of godowns, owners and others, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC)President Kultaran Singh Atwal told PTI.  Atwal said the situation is so grim that AIMTC has written to the government, seeking immediate rescue and relief package as the transport sector has already gone on "ventilator" and as much as 20 crore people are directly or indirectly dependent on it for livelihood. AIMTC is the apex body of transporters representing about 93 lakh truckers besides various transport entities, Naveen Gupta, Secretary General of AIMTC said he was flooded with distress calls from across the nation from drivers stuck during the lockdown, seeking help. In a few such recordings with PTI, truckers are heard pleading for help saying they have been left with nothing to eat. One driver from Himachal Pradesh is heard saying "I will die of cold and hunger." In few other recordings, drivers are heard saying the godown owner or concerned transporter is not ready for unloading of goods. Gupta said the average daily loss suffered by truckers is estimated at about Rs 2,200 crore and the situation is going to be alarming. Atwal said there are many instances where the truckers have abandoned the goods and left in panic. "We have asked immediate rescue and relief package from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman which includes demand of average Rs 15,000 per month for the drivers of trucks and buses to sustain their families on basis of documents like driving licences and Aadhar,"Gupta said. Besides, AIMTC, which has prepared a White Paper and submitted it to the government, has demanded compulsory insurance for drivers as they are the backbones of the supply chain, he said. "The strategic importance of the road transport sector cannot be under-estimated, which is amply demonstrated now while maintaining the continuity of the supply chain and ensuring that communities have access to food, medical care and other essential commodities. This sector is providing yeoman services akin to police, doctors and paramedics," the White Paper said. The road transport sector of India is one of the critical sectors of the economy and highly unorganized and marginalized, the Paper said adding "it is supposedly the 'backbone of the economy' and the 'lifeline ... providing essential services to the common man'- 365 X 24 X 7. It is highest employment generator." The paper said the health of the sector, which is pinned as the barometer of economy, has in fact "deteriorated amid lockdown and in essence it is on ventilator and is in dire need of oxygen to survive. All the transport segments, both cargo and passenger, are under Acute Financial Stress due to the Corona virus crisis." The wheels have stopped and so there is no revenue generation, no financial inflows as payments from parties are restrained and existing finance with the small operators as well as that of big operators is depleting fast, it added. It demanded immediate intervention including inclusion of road transport into the National Transport Policy, a minimum Cost Based Freight (CBF) support policy and social security for the people engaged in the supply chain including rivers, helpers, loaders, un-loaders and other players of the supply chain under ESIC, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojna or Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojna. The other demands included availability of soft loans without Collateral and Credit Facility to transporters besides waiver of NH / State / Municipal Tolls till October 31, 2020 and deferments of EMIs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/truckers-demand-relief-package-from-govt-as-coronavirus-lockdown-leaves-them-in-limbo-823756.html
10-04-2020||National||India's COVID-19 death rate lower than many developed nations like United States, United Kingdom: Medical experts||Despite India reporting nearly 200 COVID-19 deaths in last one month, the country's death rate of about 3 per cent is lower than the global rate, and also much lower than several European countries like the UK, Italy and Spain, according to some medical experts. India had reported its first COVID-19 death from Karnataka on March 10. Suggesting that a relatively young Indian population may be one of the reasons for the low mortality rate due to the pandemic, experts have attributed the high number of fatalities in countries like Italy and Spain to their elderly population which are more susceptible to developing complications after contracting the infection. According to the data shared by the Union health ministry earlier this week, about 63 per cent deaths have been reported among people aged 60 and above, 30 per cent among people between 40 to 60 years and seven per cent among people below 40 years. India so far has reported 6,412 confirmed cases of coronavirus with a death toll of nearly 200, making it 3.1 per cent death rate ---percentage of deaths with respect to the total number of confirmed cases. As per the US official figures, that country has reported 4,27,460 COVID-19 cases with 14,696 deaths, amounting to a death rate of 3.4 per cent. However, according to John Hopkins University and Medicine, 4,66,299 confirmed cases of COVID-19 have been reported in the US with 16,686 deaths (death rate of 3.57 per cent). However, death rate is high in Europe. As per official figures from European countries, Spain has death rate of 9.73 per cent (1,57,022 COVID-19 cases and 15,843 deaths) and Italy having a death rate of 12.72 per cent(143,626 cases and 18,279 deaths). The UK has reported a death rate of over 12 per cent (65,077 cases and 7,978 deaths). All much higher than India. Only Germany seems to be able to contain the spread of the fast-spreading virus effectively with 1,13,525 confirmed cases and 2,373 deaths reported so far, recording about a 2.09 per cent death rate. India's death rate of COVID-19 is also lower than the global death rate of 5.98 per cent with a total of 1,610,055 cases and 96,365 deaths worldwide, according to data and statistics website worldometer. Dr Ravi Shekhar Jha, Senior Consultant and Head of the Department, Pulmonology, Fortis Escorts Faridabad, said in Italy, Spain and the US, "older population has been affected more compared to India where the fatalities have been less, perhaps because our population is fairly young". Jha also attributed an early and strict lockdown in India as one of the reasons that may have helped in containing the COVID-19 cases. He, however, noted that in India, the COVID-19 mortality rates differed from region to region e.g about 10 per cent in Indore to about 1 per cent in Haryana. Jha lauded Germany for being able to keep the death rate from coronavirus very low, because of its "excellent healthcare system". Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate Director, internal medicine, Max healthcare, agreed with Jha, saying Germany has been able to keep the fatalities on lower side with their good healthcare system. "Two reasons can be attributed to less deaths in India--- firstly, the high-risk group of people aged 60 and above being affected less compared to in Europe and the US, and secondly, less severity of the virus in India," he told PTI. "In India, the 20-40 age group account for over 40 per cent of the cases and above 60 age group about 19 per cent. So, in India the younger population is getting affected more, and hence, perhaps the less number of deaths," he said. Earlier this week, the health ministry had said people aged below 40 years account for 47 per cent of the total confirmed cases, those between 40 and 60 for 34 per cent, and those aged 60 years and above account for 19 per cent. Dr Rajesh Chawla, a pulmonologist at Apollo Hospital, also feels India having a relatively younger population compared to the Europe could be a reason for less fatalities in the country. "Also, the 18-60 is an active age group compared to people who are 60 years and older, many of whom have comorbid conditions. Italy has a large geriatric population," he said while elaborating on the reasons why the virus could impact the older population more. Comorbidity refers to the existence of multiple disorders in the same person.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-death-rate-lower-than-many-developed-nations-like-united-states-united-kingdom-medical-experts-823758.html
10-04-2020||National||Govt to give life insurance cover up to Rs 35 Lakh to FCI officials, labourers amid coronavirus lockdown, says Ram Vilas Paswan||Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Friday announced a life insurance cover of up to Rs 35 lakh per person to over 1 lakh FCI officials and labourers in case they succumb to coronavirus after six months of performing duty from the day of lockdown on March 24. State-owned Food Corporation of India (FCI) is the Centre's nodal agency that is engaged in procurement of foodgrains at a minimum support price (MSP) directly from farmers and distributes the same at a subsidised rate to over 81 crore ration card holders in the country. Currently, there is a provision to provide compensation to family members of FCI officials in case of death due to terrorist attack, bomb blast, mob violence and natural disasters. However, regular and contractual labourers are not included. "It has been decided to provide Jeevan Bhima Surakha (Life Insurance cover) to over one lakh FCI officials including 80,000 labourers working in the midst of the COVID-19 crisis," Paswan said in a statement. The life insurance cover will be given to those who succumb to the coronavirus after performing duty for six months from the day of the lockdown on March 24, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-give-life-insurance-cover-up-to-rs-35-lakh-to-fci-officials-labourers-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-says-ram-vilas-paswan-823765.html
10-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Maharashtra Police crack down on hate speech, fake news||Besides that, 33 others have been identified and they too would face action. Superintendent of Police Balsing Rajput said that from day one of lockdown to till date, a total of 161 cases are registered regarding fake news, rumors and hate speech over social media in Maharashtra. "The perpetrators are mainly spreading rumors about COVID-19 and its treatment. There is a rising trend in hate speech cases, out of total registered cases, 73 cases are about hate speech over social media," Rajput said. In the last 48 hours, a total of 30 FIR registered in Maharashtra. According to Rajput,  WhatsApp, Facebook, and Tiktok are mostly misused by perpetrators for these activities.   The Cyber Police is making coordinated awareness efforts to reach out to common citizens to sensitize about fake news, rumors and hate speech through social media handles of each district. The platforms and intermediaries are also being notified to filter the fake news video and posts to reduce the spread. "In this fight against fake news and hate speech participation and co-operation of citizens is pivotal," Rajput said.    "Don’t forward the fake news / rumours...break the chain of rumours. Spot the creators and super spreaders and inform the nearest police station or report," he added Rajput pointed out that it is important to verify and fact check before sharing or forwarding any news or information. "Always follow and rely on official sources in such time. Don’t act on fake news or rumours first verify from official sources," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-maharashtra-police-crack-down-on-hate-speech-fake-news-823768.html
10-04-2020||National||Govt decides to export surplus hydroxychloroquine, says there is buffer stock for India||Amid rising political heat over “capitulation” to the US over the export of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), Centre on Friday said it had more than adequate stocks of the anti-malarial drug that has been found effective as a prophylactic in COVID-19. India is the world’s leading supplier of hydroxychloroquine but had banned the export of the drug in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, prompting US President Donald Trump to ring up Prime Minister Narendra Modi with a request to clear the shipments. On Friday, the government said it had received requests from several nations for the supply of the medicine and approved its supply to a list of countries after taking into account the local demand. “Based on our projected requirement, we need one crore tablets of hydroxychloroquine for the coming one week, while we have 3.28 crore tablets with us today. So we have more than three times supply relative to the domestic requirement,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry told reporters here. A decision for exporting the drug to the first list of countries which put in a request has been approved, Dammu Ravi, Additional Secretary, External Affairs Ministry said. “Several countries made requests for this particular drug. Taking into view the domestic stocks available and keeping sufficient buffer for our own requirement, a decision was taken by GoM to release some surplus medicines for export purposes. The first batch for the list of countries have been approved and the products have started to leave. I want to emphasis that the domestic requirement and necessity will be a priority for the government,” Ravi said. The ICMR has recommended the use of the drug as a preventive medication to healthcare workers and household contacts looking after a positive case. Besides, the Union Health Ministry has also recommended the use of hydroxychloroquine in combination with azithromycin on those severely suffering from COVID-19 who require ICU management. Aggarwal said the domestic requirement and production of hydroxychloroquine has been 100% ensured, not only for today but for coming times as well.  “Also, two crore tablets have been sent to states to ensure their availability in the private sector,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-decides-to-export-surplus-hydroxychloroquine-says-there-is-buffer-stock-for-india-823779.html
10-04-2020||National||Amid COVID-19 outbreak, Amit Shah reviews border security||Shah held the meeting with officials of the BSF Command and Sector Headquarters through video conferencing on Thursday during which he asked BSF personnel deployed at India-Pakistan and India-Bangladesh borders to be alert. Shah directed that vigil on the border may be intensified, especially along the unfenced area, to ensure that no cross border movement is allowed.     He also said that farmers in the border areas must be educated about COVID-19 and the preventive measures to be taken to prevent its spread in these areas. Also, in coordination with District administration, BSF must ensure that the people do not venture across the border fence inadvertently. Besides officials, Ministers of State for Home G Kishan Reddy and Nityanand Rai also attended the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-covid-19-outbreak-amit-shah-reviews-border-security-823784.html
10-04-2020||National||COVID-19: J&K govt puts Durbar Move practice on hold||Amid COVID-19 pandemic, Jammu and Kashmir government has put a stop to the biannual Durbar Move, a practice dating back to 1892, to escape the extreme heat during summers in Jammu and biting cold of winters in Srinagar. The Civil Secretariat, Raj Bhavan and other Durbar Move offices get closed in Srinagar in late October and move to Jammu. Again, they come back to Srinagar in early May every year. The practice was reportedly started in the late 19th century by Ranbir Singh, the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir. However, amid the prevailing crisis, J&K General Administration Department (GAD) issued an order on Friday stating the move offices will reopen in Srinagar on May 4. But at the same time, the civil secretariat at Jammu shall remain functional and the move employees shall work “as is where is basis i.e. Kashmir based staff will function from Srinagar and Jammu-based staff shall function from Jammu. This arrangement will be reviewed after assessing the extent and spread of COVID-19 after June 15. Hundreds of trucks are usually plied to carry furniture, office files, computers, and other records to the capital.  Voices have started emerging against the more than century-old practice, which involves heavy funding towards ensuring the smooth conduct of the move.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-jk-govt-puts-durbar-move-practice-on-hold-823793.html
10-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: No community transmission yet, need to be alert, says Centre||The Centre on Friday insisted that the COVID-19 outbreak in the country has not entered the community transmission phase, virtually debunking Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s claims of indications that his state was “moving into” that phase. Centre pointed out that the infection rate of COVID-19 was 2% as only 320 of the 16,002 samples tested on Thursday had tested positive. “There is no community transmission yet. There is no need to panic, but we need to remain aware and alert. If there is community transmission, we would be the first to inform you,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, told reporters here. He also sought to downplay the findings of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) study suggesting local transmission of COVID-19 in the country. “The ICMR study refers to positive cases from our own VRDL (Viral Research and Diagnostic Labs) labs located in places where there are COVID-19 cases. These samples are not from places where there are no cases of COVID-19,” Aggarwal said. India reported 33 deaths due to COVID-19 since Thursday, taking the nationwide toll to 199. The number of positive cases also increased by 678 in a single day to touch 6412. Addressing the media through video conferencing from Chandigarh, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh expressed fear of COVID-19 outbreak entering the community transmission phase as 27 new patients tested on Thursday had no travel or contact history. ICMR has also stepped up testing over the past few days and had tested 16,002 samples on Thursday, a significant jump from a couple of thousands it was testing a week ago. “A total of 1,44,910 samples were tested till 9 pm on Thursday from 1,03,792 suspected patients, of which 5,075 returned positive. We conducted 16,002 tests in a single day. It has increased substantially,” Manoj Murhekar, Director, National Institute of Epidemiology, said. The ICMR has also widened its COVID-19 testing strategy to include all patients with influenza-like symptoms such as fever, cough, sore throat, runny nose in hotspots and cluster zones of the viral outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-no-community-transmission-yet-need-to-be-alert-says-centre-823795.html
10-04-2020||National||COVID-19 cases cross 7,500 across India; Govt gears up for extending lockdown with some possible relaxations||he nationwide tally of confirmed COVID-19 cases crossed 7,500 on Friday with more than 250 deaths as several places including Delhi and Mumbai reported further spread of the deadly virus and Punjab became the second state to extend the lockdown beyond April 14, a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi meets chief ministers to take stock of the situation. The Union Home Ministry also sought views of state governments on the 21-day lockdown including on whether more categories of people and services need to be exempted, officials said on Friday, amidst indications of a possible two-week extension of the nationwide restrictions to curb the spread of coronavirus. The Health Ministry in the meantime maintained that no community transmission is taking place as yet in India, while the World Health Organisation also put the country in a category named 'cluster of cases' -- a notch below the community transmission stage and a classification used by the global body for cases "clustered in time, geographic location and/or by common exposures". Later in the evening, WHO said that a hasty lifting of restrictions imposed to control the COVID-19 pandemic could lead to a fatal resurgence of the deadly virus, which has infected over 16 lakh people globally since its emergence in China last December while the worldwide death toll is fast approaching 1,00,000. While several states including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Jammu & Kashmir and Uttar Pradesh reported rising number of cases, the Union Health Ministry said the rate of people testing positive was only 0.2 per cent on Thursday when more than 16,000 samples were tested. Cumulatively close to 1.5 lakh samples have been tested so far across India. A PTI tally of numbers reported by various states as on 9.30 PM showed a total of 7,510 having been affected by the virus nationwide so far with at least 251 deaths. More than 700 have been cured and discharged. However, the evening update from the Union Health Ministry put the number of confirmed infections at 6,761 and the death toll at 206. Maharashtra has reported the maximum 1,574 cases, including close to 1,000 in Mumbai itself, while over 100 have died in the state. Tamil Nadu and Delhi have crossed the 900-mark in terms of positive cases, Rajasthan has over 500 now, while Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have reported more than 400 positive cases each. Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat are also fast approaching the 400-mark, while Kerala has also reported over 300 cases already. More than 200 cases have been reported by each of Karnataka and Jammu & Kashmir, while the 100-mark has been breached already by West Bengal, Haryana and Punjab. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said most of the 27 positive cases reported in his state on Thursday -- the maximum daily increase for the state -- were those of secondary transmission and expressed apprehension that the state may be entering the community transmission stage of the outbreak. A day after Odisha decided to extend the lockdown till April 30, Punjab decided to continue the lockdown till May 1, while a decision by the central government on the nationwide lockdown, which entered its 17th day, is expected after Modi's interaction with all chief ministers on Saturday. In Tamil Nadu, an expert committee recommended to Chief Minister K Palaniswami that the lockdown be extended by two weeks beyond April 14 considering the rise in number of cases. A review meeting was also held by the Prime Minister's Office during the day on various efforts to check the coronavirus spread, which also discussed ramping up of production of personal protective equipments (PPEs) among other issues. The Home Ministry, separately, has sought views of state governments on the 21-day lockdown, scheduled to end on April 14, including whether more categories of people and services need to be exempted, officials said on Friday. Some of the suggestions made by state governments include allowing construction-related activities in rural areas. The central government, while imposing the lockdown, had announced that shops dealing in essential commodities, including the online platforms, will remain open, besides services like health, sanitation, police, media, agriculture and banking. Movements of essential and non-essential cargos were also allowed by the government, but there have been reports about disruptions in the supply chain due to lack of labourers and trucks, among other issues. There have also been reports of depleting levels of essential goods from various parts of the country. Some states such as Kerala have suggested phased opening of the lockdown, while other suggestions from various states include allowing liquor sale to shore up the revenues and to allow private vehicles on an odd-even basis. However, most states have suggested keeping the public road transport, rail and airline services suspended for more time. Many have also recommended keeping state borders sealed, except for goods movement. A few states have also suggested area-specific lockdown with stricter restrictions, which are as such being followed in the places identified as hotspots of the virus spread. In the meantime, more states including Odisha and Telangana made it mandatory for people to wear masks or face covers at public places, while enforcement was beefed up for action against those violating the lockdown conditions. The Centre also asked states not to allow religious gatherings and processions. Government officials also said that a decision on bringing Indians from abroad will be taken at a later stage after reviewing the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-cross-7500-across-india-govt-gears-up-for-extending-lockdown-with-some-possible-relaxations-823812.html
10-04-2020||National||ED seizes luxury vehicles of Wadhawans used for Mahabaleshwar trip||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday issued seizure orders for five luxury vehicles used by DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan to travel to their farmhouse in Maharashtra's Mahabaleshwar during the coronavirus lockdown, officials said. They said the federal agency has sent an official order, issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), to the Satara Superintendent of Police for execution. The vehicles are owned by the Wadhawan brothers, the notice said. The Wadhawan brothers and 21 others, including their family members, were travelling in two Range Rover and three Toyota Fortuner cars.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-seizes-luxury-vehicles-of-wadhawans-used-for-mahabaleshwar-trip-823821.html
10-04-2020||National||Attack on civilians by militants shameful act: J-K DGP Dilbag Singh||Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh Friday termed attacks by terrorists on civilians a "shameful act" and said security forces are taking enough measures to counter the "evil designs of Pakistan and terrorism sponsored by it". During a visit to Jammu city to review coronavirus lockdown arrangements, he referred to ceasefire violations by Pakistan saying it is extremely shameful and condemnable that when the entire world is coming together to fight the pandemic, Islamabad and its "sponsored terrorists" are making attempts to infiltrate and disrupt peace. "The recent civilian killings exposed the inhumane and senseless conduct of the terrorists," the DGP said. "A group of terrorists has been gunned down in Keran sector. Our forces are taking enough measures to counter evil designs of Pakistan and its sponsored terrorism," the DGP said. During the visit, Singh took stock of preventive measures being taken for the police personnel deployed at sensitive places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attack-on-civilians-by-militants-shameful-act-j-k-dgp-dilbag-singh-823828.html
10-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: States tighten control over hotspots||With the ICMR picking up the first signs of COVID-19 community transmission, almost every state government has gone on an overdrive to identify and secure containment zones in order to halt the virus's further spread into the masses.  From Maharashtra to Uttar Pradesh and Kashmir to Kerala, the focus has shifted to the hotspots to ensure that the killer pandemic is arrested within a limited geography. Increasing attention is being paid to curbing strategies after the first round of ICMR sentinel survey came up with at least 40 cases of COVID-19 infection without any travel link, providing what may be the first sign of the community transmission in India. The states have now geared up their cluster containment strategies.  India's biggest state Uttar Pradesh has sealed over 100 hotspots in 15 districts from midnight on Wednesday. The maximum number of hotspots were in Agra (22) followed by 13 in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 12 in Lucknow.   In the Mumbai-Pune belt —India's worst-affected Covid-19 zone - there are close to 500 containment zones.  "In containment areas,  no one is supposed to move except for medical reasons. Containment area simply means complete and strict lockdown," Maharashtra public health minister Rajesh Tope said.  Mumbai hotspots include Worli and Dharavi where the State Reserve Police Force has been deployed to implement the containment.   "Some people are still coming out. We will strictly impose restrictions in the problem areas," State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said. Down south Tamil Nadu refrained from naming any hotspots. Instead, the state has focused its attention on containment activities in areas where positive patients reside. According to the TN Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh, containment zone is an area of  5 km radius from a positive patient’s house. Every house in the containment zone is visited by health workers who screen every member of the house and check for symptoms.   The city of Chennai is considered as containment zone by the Greater Chennai Corporation which has employed 10,000 people to visit every household in the city on a daily basis and screen people In Bengaluru, two wards —Bapuji Nagar and Padarayanapura in western parts of the city have been sealed for 14-days. “There will only be one entry and exit point.  Other than essential service providers like health, civic and civil defence workers, no person is allowed to enter or exit from the region. All essential goods will be delivered to the doorstep by the local administration," said BBMP Commissioner B H Anil Kumar. The two areas have about 40,000 houses with a population of 2 lakh to 2.5 lakh people. In Andhra Pradesh, 133 containment clusters have been earmarked in 11 districts. In neighbouring Telangana officials set up 12 containment clusters. The crowded Mallepally in old quarters of Hyderabad where the Tablighi Jamaat’s activities are centered is one of them.   Avenues with COVID-19 cases are barricaded with metal gates eight feet high, with heavy police presence to stop any movement in or out. A keen watch by the health and police officials is kept on the 4,500-odd people inside the cluster. Except for essential commodities no one can step out.  West Bengal government too zeroed in on seven hotspots, but their identity hasn't been disclosed. In Bihar, Siwan has been sealed off besides Nawada and Begusarai. On the western side, Gujarat government has created 22 clusters, most of which (14) are in Ahmedabad, whereas Surat, Bhavnagar, Vadodara and Rajkot city have two clusters each. Such clusters house nearly 2 lakh people and have been sealed by the administration for an "intense" door to door checking. In Kashmir too the restrictions would continue in the red zones after April 14 whereas in Madhya Pradesh as many as 46 towns have been identified as hot spots and sealed.   (With inputs from Mrityunjoy Bose, Sanjay Pandey, Prasad Nichenametla, ETB Sivapriyan, Arjun Raghunath, Abhay Kumar, Rakesh Dixit, Zulfiqar Majid, KN Niranjan, Soumya Das)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-states-tighten-control-over-hotspots-823880.html
10-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown set to stay, some states announce own plans||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video interaction with chief ministers of all states on Saturday to discuss the extension of COVID-19 lockdown, some states have begun moves on their own to continue with the restrictive measures beyond April 14. While the lead came from the Congress-ruled Punjab and BJD-ruled Odisha — which announced extension of curbs till May 1 and April 30 respectively — there are indications that Tamil Nadu and Telangana will follow suit by extending the 21-day lockdown period. Kerala has mooted a three-phased district-wise relaxation.  Maharashtra is also keen to continue the lockdown so as to avoid the possibility of the pandemic entering the third stage. Even if the Centre lifts the lockdown, the Uddhav Thackeray government will extend it in the Mumbai-Pune belt which has the maximum number of cases in India. On Friday evening, the Punjab Cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh unanimously approved the extension of curfew till April 30 and lockdown till May 1, with Singh expressing concern over the “horrendous and frightening” predictions by health experts on the spread of the pandemic. Amid a lurking fear of community transmission, Singh said, “In Punjab, there are 27 cases with no travel history. It can be said that most of them are cases of community transmission. According to scientists and medical practitioners, 80-85% of India may get infected... if this is correct, then they are horrendous figures.” On Thursday, Odisha had become the first state to extend curbs till April 30.  The BJP-ruled Karnataka remains undecided. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said a final call will be taken after talks with Modi. According to a senior minister, Yediyurappa is likely to apprise Modi of the recommendations by an expert committee that has favoured continuation of lockdown only in hotspots.  Lockdown extension appeared imminent in Tamil Nadu also, as a committee of government-appointed doctors recommended continuation of curbs for 14 days. The panel also suggested that the period be used to ramp up testing in the state.  Telangana’s K Chandrashekhar Rao, who was among the first chief ministers to ask for an extension of lockdown, will take a call on Saturday at a special Cabinet meeting which will also review the state’s economic situation. Kerala has, meanwhile, mooted a three-phased district-wise relaxation of lockdown depending on the number of new cases and the people under observation, based on a task force report that prescribed the activities that can be allowed and restrictions to be enforced in each phase. Uttar Pradesh, which sealed 104 hotspots in 15 districts till April 15, hinted that it was in favour of extending the lockdown period. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, too, is not averse to the idea of extending curbs by at least a fortnight, in view of the rise in positive cases in 24 hours. He, however, is likely to ask Modi to allow construction activities and flood-related works. The northeastern states have left the decision to the prime minister. According to Jammu & Kashmir Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu, restrictions will continue in the 34 red zones and there will be “selective restrictions, movement and social distancing” in these zones. The Trinamool Congress-ruled West Bengal made it clear that even if the national lockdown ends on April 14, it will not be a total end to restrictions. “States will have to take their own call,” party leader Derek O’Brien said on Friday. The decisions taken by states ruled by non-NDA parties have come before the Centre and a final call on extending the lockdown will be taken after the video conference of all CMs with Modi on Saturday. While some states have demanded a uniform strategy across the nation, many are taking measures to address special circumstances like the Delhi government, which has decided to go for ‘Operation Shield’ in 21 virus hotspots.   Congress President Sonia Gandhi also discussed Covid-19 strategy with the chiefs of party-ruled states. (With inputs from E T B Sivapriyan, Prasad Nichenametla, Sumir Karmakar, Soumya Das, Abhay Kumar, Sanjay Pandey and Arjun Raghunath)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-set-to-stay-some-states-announce-own-plans-823896.html
10-04-2020||National Politics||Ramping up testing in UP can be lifesaver: Priyanka to Yogi Adityanath||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has called for ramping up testing facilities to check coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, saying it can prove to be a lifesaver in the big state. In a letter to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, she called for steps that could win over the confidence of everyone by creating a fear-free atmosphere, while keeping aside political ideology, to ensure that people come up voluntarily for testing. "We are with you in this fight against the pandemic. Coronavirus does not see any religion or caste and affects everyone. In this battle, there is a need to take steps by keeping our political ideologies away and help bring people together and create a fear-free atmosphere," she said in her letter. Stressing on the need for ramping up testing facilities, she said for a state with such a big population "increasing testing can prove to be a lifesaver". She said state authorities have to conduct testing on more and more people, on "mild to moderately high-risk cases" and treat them on a war footing so that there is less pressure on ICUs. The Congress leader also called up the creation of more isolation wards and quarantine centres soon. She said with reports of community transmission coming from some parts and clusters in urban areas are being formed, she said there are also reports about COVID infected people hiding their disease. "This is happening because of fear-mongering in society about this disease. Hence it is important, especially in these clusters to provide the right information on a war footing in these areas and immediately stop fake news and myths about the coronavirus," she said in her letter. She also called for taking such steps that people win the confidence of the government and come forward to get testing done voluntarily. "It is important that the government takes such steps to inspire the confidence of people so that they come up voluntarily for testing," she said, while also calling for seeking the help of NGOs and social and political organisations to unitedly fight the coronavirus pandemic. Making a host of suggestions in her letter to UP CM, the Congress general secretary for Uttar Pradesh also called for improving sanitation facilities and provision of free ration to the poor and the marginalised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ramping-up-testing-in-up-can-be-lifesaver-priyanka-to-yogi-adityanath-823610.html
10-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: PIL filed in Supreme Court to bring back Indian workers from Gulf countries||Out of around 9 million Indians, employed in countries in the Gulf countries, a vast majority were involved in low-skilled labour. They are going through challenging times and are struggling to meet even their basic needs in a dire jobless situation arising out of the pandemic, NGO 'Pravasi Legal Cell' contended. It urged the court to tell the government to take appropriate steps to ensure adequate food, medicines, quarantine and emergency service facilities for them. The petitioner also sought financial support for the families of the migrant labours rendered jobless due to COVID-19. It claimed in the wake of lockdown in several Gulf states, the workers have been quarantined in notoriously-overcrowded labour accommodation camps, which lacked adequate water and sanitation, meaning that they were inevitably less able to protect themselves from the virus.  In its plea, the NGO submitted the migrant workers experiencing symptoms should have access to timely testing and medical facilities. "The migrant workers in the Gulf countries are being denied treatment in the Hospitals even after testing positive for COVID-19. Since the number of patients, getting infected is going up, there is a shortage of beds in government hospitals so first preference is given to their own citizens," it alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-pil-filed-in-supreme-court-to-bring-back-indian-workers-from-gulf-countries-823715.html
10-04-2020||National Politics||ASHA, ANMs, anganwadi workers are true patriots, have key role in combating coronavirus: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday hailed accredited social health activists, auxiliary nurse and midwives and anganwadi workers for their role in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic, saying they are "true patriots" who toil to keep communities safe in the midst of this grave crisis. In an environment where fear and misinformation pose a bigger danger than the virus itself, community workers have a key role to play in educating people about the dangers of COVID-19 and the manner in which it is transmitted, Gandhi said. In a message for Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA), Auxiliary Nurse and Midwives (ANMs) and Anganwadi Workers, he said they are working with dedication and courage, putting their lives at risk, on the frontlines of the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic. "The greatest form of patriotism is to serve our country in her hour of need. Our community workers are true patriots, our unsung heroes, who toil tirelessly away from the limelight, to keep our communities safe in the midst of this grave crisis," the former Congress chief said. "As a nation, we owe them and their families a huge debt of gratitude for the tremendous personal sacrifices each of them is making. I hope that when this crisis is over their exemplary service will serve as a catalyst for deep-rooted change in their conditions of work," he said. Gandhi said he salutes each and every community worker for their service to the nation and prays that they and their families will remain safe during this pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/asha-anms-anganwadi-workers-are-true-patriots-have-key-role-in-combating-coronavirus-rahul-gandhi-823721.html
10-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: Merely extending lockdown won't help, says Sitaram Yechury||He also found fault with exercises like lighting lamps, saying "obscurantism, sentiments or symbolism" is not a substitute to what needs to be done in the fight against the pandemic. “A lockdown will be necessary and it will be necessary in order to use that period to increase testing, equip our health workers and that is what should have been done. We are into the third week of lockdown and unfortunately, that is not being done. Merely extending the lockdown will increase the economic misery of people. That should not be allowed to happen. The spread has to be contained through identifying, isolating and sealing areas. That is why it has to be phased withdrawal," Yechury said during a digital press conference. He was responding to a question whether the lockdown should be extended and what could be the economic cost the country and people may incur.   "India’s first case was detected on January 30. What has happened in the 72 days since then?" he said. The Centre should allocate more money to states and more personal protection kits to healthcare professionals, he said adding, "we need to do more testing. Why are we not doing it?" Asked about proposals from certain quarters that the government should print more notes, he said there is no dearth of resources in the country. "Where are the thousands of rupees which the Prime Minister has collected under a new fund. Hasn't the government written off Rs 7.78 lakh crore your super rich owed? But at the same time, you are not willing for a one-time loan waiver of our farmers. The question is of will. If the will is there, the resources are there," he said.    Yechury was critical about the government not stepping up testing saying countries have gone for intensive testing and it has yielded positive results. On spread of fake news and targeting the Muslim community, Yechury said no one is condoning the "irresponsible" act of Tablighi Jamaat but the question remains over who allowed that to happen. "Unfortunately, those who are with them (government) and supporting them are the prime movers of fake news. But Tablighi Jamaat's irresponsible behaviour should not be an excuse to target a community. Fake news undermines the unity that we need at this point of time," he said.  Queried about the government decision to suspend MPLADS for two years, he said one of the most effective ways to fight COVID-19 is to fight at the state level. "If you deny an MP to spend money in his constituency, then you are undermining this fight," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-merely-extending-lockdown-wont-help-says-sitaram-yechury-823773.html
10-04-2020||National Politics||Despite Pakistan's antics, Nepal backs India's role in SAARC's coronavirus response ||Oli lauded Modi for taking the initiative in coordinating the SAARC’s response to the pandemic, according to a press-release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office in New Delhi.    Nepal currently holds the chair of the SAARC and its endorsement for India’s role in coordinating the eight-nation bloc’s response to the COVID-19 is significant as it came just a day after Pakistan demanded that all initiatives by the bloc to contain the pandemic in South Asian nations must be spearheaded by the secretariat of the organisation.  “The degree of seriousness of each nation can be gauged by its behaviour,” the Ministry of External Affairs of the Government of India said on Friday, tacitly slamming Pakistan for its move to create roadblocks for the SAARC’s endeavour to save people in South Asia from the virus and to minimize the social and economic impact of the pandemic and the curbs imposed to contain it. “We discussed the prevailing situation due to COVID-19. I appreciate the determination of people of Nepal to fight this challenge. We stand in solidarity with Nepal in our common fight against COVID-19,” Modi, himself, posted on Twitter after his talks with Oli over the phone.     Oli too tweeted about his talks with Modi. He also thanked New Delhi for providing Kathmandu with medicines and other medical equipment necessary to deal with the pandemic in Nepal.   The two leaders also discussed maintaining the supply of the essentials from India to Nepal. The SAARC, which came into existence in 1985, has its secretariat in Kathmandu and is headed by a Secretary General nominated by a member-state. Each of the eight member-states gets to nominate a person for the office of the Secretary General in turn. Each Secretary General has a fixed term of three years in the office. Islamabad on Thursday conveyed to the SAARC Secretary General E R Weerakoon that all proceeds of the COVID-19 Emergency Fund must be administered by the secretariat and the modalities of managing it should be finalised through consultations with all the members in accordance with the charter of the organisation. The SAARC COVID-19 Emergency Fund was set up after Modi on March 15 had a video-conference with almost all other leaders of the South Asian bloc. Prime Minister Imran Khan of Pakistan did not join, but his Special Advisor Health Affairs), Dr Zafar Mirza, represented him. India initiated the fund with a voluntary contribution of $10 million and was followed by Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Afghanistan, which contributed altogether $8.43 million more. After much dilly-dallying, Pakistan on Thursday pledged $3 million to the fund, but with riders attached. The fund was set up to help any SAARC nation to meet the emergency expenditure to deal with the pandemic in its territory.   “It is for each SAARC Member State to decide on the timing, manner and implementation of their SAARC COVID-19 Emergency Response Fund commitments,” Anurag Srivastava, spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs of the Government of India, said, adding: “Where India is concerned, the commitment made by the Prime Minister is today in an advanced stage of implementation.”      Srivastava noted that India had already extended assistance in material and services to Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal and Sri Lanka. Pakistan on Wednesday also boycotted a video-conference the SAARC trade officials had to discuss ways to minimize the impact of the curbs imposed to contain the pandemic on regional commerce. Aisha Farooqui, a spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan Government, said that Islamabad had decided to stay away from the virtual meeting as it was not organized by the SAARC secretariat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/despite-pakistans-antics-nepal-backs-indias-role-in-saarcs-coronavirus-response-823861.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi hospital in the dock for not following COVID-19 protocol||The senior management and administration officials of Maharaja Agrasen Hospital in Delhi's West Punjabi Bagh are facing a police case after the Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) filed a complaint against them. In his complaint, the SDM said that a 72-year-old woman Sheela Rani, who hails from Haryana's Rohtak, was admitted to the hospital on March 10 and later was referred to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital where she was found to be positive for COVID-19. Following this, the hospital authorities carried out COVID-19 tests on patients who were in beds within five metres of Sheela Rani as also 82 staff who came in contact with her. Six employees of the hospital were later found COVID-19 positive. Later, a patient admitted in the same ward where Sheela Rani was admitted was also detected with COVID-19 infection, who breathed his last on April 4.  "The hospital authorities handed over the body to relatives of Khila Ram without informing the local authorities and violating the guidelines on the dead body management for COVID-19 patients issued by government. A detailed inquiry in this regard was conducted by District Magistrate (West)," police said. The family members of Khila Ram also did not inform anyone regarding the COVID-19 positive status of the deceased and it resulted in several persons attending the cremation. Later Khila Ram's son Sachin was also found to be infected by COVID-19. Police registered a case under sections 188 (disobeying instructions of public servant), 269 (negligence) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act. If found guilty, the officials could face a jail term up to two years. According to Section 51(b) of Disaster Management Act, which has been invoked, those who refuse to comply with any direction given by or on behalf of the Central Government or the State Government or the National Executive Committee or the State Executive Committee or the District Authority under this shall on conviction be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or with fine, or with both. If such obstruction or refusal to comply with directions results in loss of lives or imminent danger, thereof, the prison term may extend to two years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-hospital-in-the-dock-for-not-following-covid-19-protocol-823517.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Armed with sticks, women guard hamlet against coronavirus in Jammu||Armed with sticks, women at a hamlet in Jammu stand guard at entry points, which have been blocked by barbed wires, as they have taken it upon themselves to ensure a complete lockdown and prevent outsiders' entry into their hamlet to keep the residents safe from coronavirus. Both mothers and daughters in the hamlet, barely a few kilometers away from Jammu city, have taken up this task as the number of coronavirus cases have shown an increase in the winter capital. A 61-year-old woman succumbed to coronavirus at the Government Medical College Hospital in Jammu on Wednesday, taking the death toll due to COVID-19 to four in Jammu and Kashmir. This is the first death in the Jammu region as the other three deaths took place in Kashmir. While Jammu has accounted for 36 positive cases so far, the union territory reported 188 coronavirus cases. Twenty-four cases were reported on Thursday. For the past few days, a group of women, led by former sarpanch Gurmeet Kour, are guarding their hamlet from 9 am to 4 pm along with a few policemen at the barbed wire blocked entry points to the locality which houses over 6,500 people. "COVID-19 is a deadly disease. It is our duty to support our police force and government in this war against coronavirus. So we have taken up the role to guard our small locality and insulate it from any outside contact," Kour told PTI. She added that despite awareness, some people don't take any precaution and keep roaming which not only can infect them, in case of any contact but their family and locality as well. "We want to keep our locality safe as cases in Jammu are increasing," she said. Harmeet, 55, said that police cannot guard villages, locality or lanes to ensure lockdown. "We felt it is our duty to contribute a bit by guarding our locality and relieving the police which is performing a large-scale duty in the time of lockdown. At least we can guard our own area." she said.  The number of red zones declared by the administration in Jammu and Kashmir has also witnessed a sharp jump taking the count to 45.  The number of red zones, areas which are a cluster of COVID-19 cases, has seen a spurt during the last few days. Of the total red zones, 26 are located in Kashmir division while rest are in Udhampur, Rajouri, Samba and Jammu, according to an official source.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/armed-with-sticks-women-guard-hamlet-against-coronavirus-in-jammu-823574.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Punjab: Mobile testing pods to collect samples of suspected coronavirus patients in Sangrur||Punjab's Sangrur district administration has come up with a mobile testing pod for risk-free collection of samples of suspected patients of coronavirus. Sangrur Deputy Commissioner Sangrur Ghanshyam Thori said it will ensure safety of health personnel who take samples of suspected patients. Sharing details, Thori said the best global practices will be followed in this testing pod as disposable gloves will be used over plastic gloves which will be disposed of after taking every sample. This pod could also be mounted on a vehicle and can be moved to any location for taking samples, said Thori in a release here. With one testing pod costing around Rs 25,000 to 30,000, such pods would be installed at civil hospitals and other required places in the district, he said. The Deputy Commissioner said the use of these testing pods will also reduce the demand for PPE kits, gloves, masks etc. being used for sample collection as the patient will not be exposed directly to the medical staff. He said the simple design of this pod will make sample collection easier as compared to traditional methods. "It is the time when safety of medical staff is on our utmost priority and besides restricting direct contact, it will also reduce the manpower required for sampling during an epidemic," Thori said. The DC said social distancing has emerged as an effective way to prevent spread of coronavirus in the community and while testing with these pods, social distancing will be strictly followed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-mobile-testing-pods-to-collect-samples-of-suspected-coronavirus-patients-in-sangrur-823576.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||4 test positive for COVID-19 in Udhampur; cases in J&K climb to 188||Four people have been confirmed positive for COVID-19 in Udhampur district, taking the total number of cases in Jammu and Kashmir to 188, officials said on Friday. The four are the contacts of a 61-year-old woman who died of coronavirus on Wednesday, they said. "Ten tests were received in Udhampur. Out of these, four have turned out positive. They have known contacts of a woman who died of coronavirus at GMC Jammu," District Magistrate, Udhampur, Piyush Singla told PTI. The positive cases included two grand-daughters, daughter-in-law and a neighbour of the deceased woman, he said. The reports of the son and the husband of the woman are awaited from GMC Jammu, Singla said. The woman's son is a PSO of a retired police officer, he said. Authorities have declared Tikri village in Udhampur a red zone and aggressive contact tracing of positive cases is being done by health teams, officials said. Jammu and Kashmir has so far reported 188 COVID-19 cases -- 152 in the Valley and 36 in the Jammu region. The disease has claimed four lives -- one in Jammu and three in Kashmir. Meanwhile, the body of the woman, who died of coronavirus on Wednesday, was cremated as per protocol at the Jogi Gate area in Jammu, officials said. The woman was the first victim of the deadly virus in the Jammu region. She was an arthritis patient and bed-ridden and was shifted to Narayana Super Specialty Hospital at Kakryal in Katra by her family following chest congestion and other problems, sources said. As she was symptomatic, the hospital referred her to the Government Medical College Jammu where she tested positive for COVID-19, they said.   The woman had no travel history, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-udhampur-cases-in-jk-climb-to-188-823579.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||MP: 40 booked for gathering at mosque amid coronavirus lockdown||A case was registered against 40 men for allegedly violating the COVID-19 lockdown, by gathering at a mosque in Madhya Pradesh's Chhindwara district, police said on Friday. At least 40 people, including the sarpanch of Khairikhurd village, were found offering namaz at a mosque at the village in Chourai tehsil, 38 km from the district headquarters, on Thursday night, inspector Mukesh Dwivedi said. A police patrol party got an alert about a gathering at the mosque amid section 144 (banning assembly of five persons or above) of Criminal Procedure Code imposed in the area, he said. The men were charged under sections 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant) and 269 (unlawful or negligent act likely to spread infection of a dangerous disease) of Indian Penal Code, the official said. They were also booked under the Disaster Management Act, Madhya Pradesh Epidemic Diseases Act, Madhya Pradesh Public Health Act 1949 and Epidemic Act 1897, the official said, adding that the men were subsequently granted bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-40-booked-for-gathering-at-mosque-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-823593.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Two doctors among 14 test coronavirus positive in Bhopal||Fourteen more persons, including two women doctors, tested positive for coronavirus in Bhopal on Friday, taking the number of COVID-19 patients in the state capital to 112 and overall tally in Madhya Pradesh to 440, a health official said. Test reports of these persons came on Friday morning and they were found to be infected with the viral disease, he said. Efforts were on to quarantine them and start their treatment, the official said. The woman doctors found coronavirus positive are working at a prominent government hospital here and were involved in screening people for the infection in the city, he said. With these new infections, the number of coronavirus cases in the state has gone up to 440, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-doctors-among-14-test-coronavirus-positive-in-bhopal-823602.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Ladakh reports one COVID-19 positive case after a week||This was the first patient tested positive for the deadly virus after a gap of seven days in the Union Territory. On April 2, one person was tested positive for coronavirus in Ladakh and since then no case was reported till Thursday. The female patient is from Choshot Yokma area of Leh, which has now been notified as a ‘containment area’ by the district administration, an official said. Of the nine results, which came on Thursday, one is positive. Out of 15 positive cases, 11 patients have recovered so far and have been discharged from hospitals, he said. “One more negative, Total cases cured of #covid19 is 11. #Ladakh>78% #coivd19 cases cured in #Ladakh,” tweeted government spokesperson and Commissioner Secretary Health Rigzin Samphel. He later tweeted, "One new Positive case of #covid19 from Leh. #Ladakh." Medical superintendent SNM hospital Leh said a female patient, who had a travel history of Iran, was tested positive. He said that her close contacts have been traced and they have been kept in quarantine and their samples have been taken today and will be sent for reports on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-reports-one-covid-19-positive-case-after-a-week-823607.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Dozens arrested for attending Jaish militant’s funeral amid COVID-19 lockdown||Jammu and Kashmir Police have arrested dozens of people during nocturnal raids in Sopore area of north Kashmir’s Barmaulla district a day after an FIR was filed against them for attending the funeral of a Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) commander who was killed in an encounter on Wednesday. A local news gathering agency, quoting police, said that dozens of people, who were identified through visuals, were arrested by the police in several areas of Sopore on Thursday night. The police said more arrests were expected in the coming days. The police said those booked had violated protocols and government advisories barring social gatherings in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The police said the legal heirs of the deceased militant had ensured they would “adhere to social distancing when the body was handed over to them after completing medico-legal formalities”. However, it did not happen as photographs of a group of people attending the funeral surfaced on social media late on Wednesday evening. Large crowds attending the funeral of the slain militants in Kashmir has been a concern for security agencies for the last several years.  However, these pose a new challenge at a time when Kashmir is under lockdown enforced to prevent the spread of coronavirus that has claimed four lives and infected nearly 200 people so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dozens-arrested-for-attending-jaish-militant-s-funeral-amid-covid-19-lockdown-823619.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: 50-year-old coronavirus patient dies in Dewas||A 50-year-old newspaper agent died of COVID-19 infection at Hatpipalya town in Madhya Pradesh's Dewas district, a health official said on Friday. This is the first coronavirus casualty in the district, which has two more positive patients, he added. The deceased, who worked as an agent for a Hindi daily and as a journalist in small towns, had tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday night, the official said. He was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Dewas town, where he succumbed to the infection on Thursday, the official said. The victim had suffered from a fever three to four days ago, and was referred to Dewas District Hospital, from where he was shifted to a quarantine facility at a private hospital, the official said. Of the 62 swab samples sent for testing in the district, the reports of three patients came out positive, and one of them has died, he said. High-risk contacts of COVID-19 patients are being quarantined, he added. Madhya Pradesh has so far recorded 426 COVID-19 cases and 33 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-50-year-old-coronavirus-patient-dies-in-dewas-823624.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi Waqf Board designates graveyard for coronavirus victims||The Delhi Waqf Board on Thursday designated one of its graveyards specifically to bury those who die from COVID-19, in view of the problems being faced by people in performing the last rites of the coronavirus victims. In a letter to secretary of Delhi government and Health department, Board's chief executive officer S M Ali said it has designated its "Jadeed Qurustaan" graveyard near Millennium Park, for the last rites of the COVID-19 victims in the city.  "One of the major problem faced by public is last rites of COVID-19 victims. It has been reported that due to lack of information, the general public is not allowing burial of victims of coronavirus in the graveyards of Delhi, which is unfortunate," the letter stated. Ali said the Waqf Board has designated its graveyard situated along the Ring Road, near Millennium Park as "COVID 19 graveyard". "The graveyard may be used for burial of COVID-19 victims," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-waqf-board-designates-graveyard-for-coronavirus-victims-823641.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Over 4.8 lakh daily wagers get Rs 1,000 financial assistance from UP government||The beneficiaries of this relief measure have been identified by the state urban development department, according to an official release. The 21-day nationwide lockdown was imposed from March 25 to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. Over Rs 48 crore was transferred directly to the bank accounts by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath from his official 5 Kalidas Marg residence here, it said. Street vendors, auto drivers, rickshaw pullers, e-rickshaw drivers and porters working at agricultural wholesale markets ‘mandis’ are among the beneficiaries, the release said. The chief minister also interacted with beneficiaries from different districts through video conferencing. Adityanath, according to the release, said due to the coronavirus there is a lockdown in the state, due to which the government is providing food and maintenance allowance to the poor people. In this procedure, the government is sending a “maintenance allowance” of Rs 1,000 in the bank accounts of small vendors, rickshaw pullers, e-rickshaw drivers and porters, he said. In this time of crisis, the central and the state governments are standing firm for the poor, the chief minister said. He added that those who did not have ration cards are also being covered by these schemes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-over-48-lakh-daily-wagers-get-rs-1000-financial-assistance-from-up-government-823643.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Delhi man hides visit to Tablighi Jamaat, his locality becomes containment zone||Now thanks to his irresponsible behaviour, the locality he lives in, Najafgarh, in the national capital, is now declared a containment zone and two of his family members have tested positive for COVID-19 Police has registered a case against him under sections 188 (disobeying instructions of public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code, which are punishable with a jail term of up to six months or fine or with both if found guilty.  The incident came to light when police did a verification at his residence and found him not at home. The Delhi government has provided mobile numbers and addresses of over 27,000 people, who were instructed to be in home quarantine, to the police so that they can trace their movements and check whether people in home quarantine were actually staying in their designated places. During physical verification, police found that he was not at home and later during the enquiry, he did not disclose where all he went or the persons he contacted. Police said on Friday that his mobile phone call records and tracking showed that he had visited Tablighi Jamaat campus in Nizamuddin. However, police said, "even during repeated medical and police enquiry, he withheld this fact without ever disclosing it to the  authorities." "He has jeopardised the health of the local community and his family members. Two of his family members have been found positive. As a fallout, the affected area has been declared a containment zone. Legal action has been initiated against him," police added. According to official statistics, 430 out of 720 cases reported in the national capital is linked to a mid-march religious gathering organised by Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin while a large number of cases in the country is also linked to people who attended the meet and then returned to their natives and their contacts. Over 2,300 people were evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in late March after the national lockdown was announced. Earlier, a professor, who also did not disclose that he visited the Tablighi Jamaat, was slapped with a case in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-man-hides-visit-to-tablighi-jamaat-his-locality-becomes-containment-zone-823645.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Mild-earthquake hits Jammu and Kashmir, no damages reported||An earthquake of 3.0 magnitude hit Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, but there were no reports of any damage, officials said. The earthquake occurred at 11.51 am, they said. The officials said the quake occurred at a depth of 10 Km in the Jammu region of the union territory at a latitude of 33.3 degrees north and a longitude of 76.6 degrees east. The tremors were felt in most areas of the union territory, they said. The officials said so far there were no reports of any damage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mild-earthquake-hits-jammu-and-kashmir-no-damages-reported-823646.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Over 30 booked for stepping out without masks in Delhi amid coronavirus crisis||Over 30 people have been booked for stepping out of their houses without wearing masks to guard themselves against coronavirus in northwest Delhi, police said on Friday. According to a senior police officer, total 32 people were booked after they were found without masks in different areas of the northwest district. Face masks have become mandatory for people stepping out of their homes in Delhi. On Thursday, 190 cases were registered and 3,954 people detained in Delhi for violating government orders during the coronavirus lockdown||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-30-booked-for-stepping-out-without-masks-in-delhi-amid-coronavirus-crisis-823648.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: No Friday congregational prayers in Jammu and Kashmir for third consecutive week||Reports said all the major masjids and shrines across Jammu and Kashmir, including Dargah Hazratbal and historic Jamia Masjid in Srinagar remained closed for the prayers. However, in most of the local masjids, only two to three persons offered Friday prayers. The people have been advised to offer prayers at the home to prevent the spread of deadly virus which has claimed four lives in the UT so-far while nearly 200 persons testing positive. “This feeling is indescribable ... the minarets are crying. The masjids which were once full of worshippers are empty…,” Muzaffar Ahmad, a muezzin (who gives call for prayers) at one of the masjids in Srinagar, told DH. Prayer is one of the "five pillars" of Islam, performed five times a day by the devout, but enjoined as a congregational activity only at noon on Fridays. But as the pandemic spread, authorities ordered suspension of congregational prayers, leaving Muslims to pray at home. Several religious authorities across the world have urged Muslim to pray at home as, “Islam promotes life, not death.” “People can pray at home when our religion allows it, there is no need to go to mosques till the situation gets normal,” they said. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Srinagar Shahid Iqbal Choudhary said the ongoing lockdown to prevent spread of COVID-19 pandemic has been intensified. He said the lockdown was not a “law and order one” but an effort to ensure that people stay back home to fight the spread of Covid-19. “We urge people not to move out of their homes as we get to see people coming outdoors during the evenings,” he said. There were reports of police resorting to cane-charging on people found allegedly violating lock down orders in several parts of Kashmir. Police and paramilitary personnel were deployed on roads across the Valley and they had erected concertina wire to block the movement of people to prevent movement of people and vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-no-friday-congregational-prayers-in-jammu-and-kashmir-for-third-consecutive-week-823649.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Madhya Pradesh health worker's death falsely communalised as attack by Muslims in Uttar Pradesh||An image of an injured woman is being shared on social media with the claim that she is a doctor who died after she was attacked by “Islamic jihadis” in Uttar Pradesh. The woman is lying on a gurney with an intubation tube inside her mouth.   A parody Twitter handle of journalist Arnab Goswami while tweeting the image claimed, “Today, doctor Vandana Tiwari died. Last week, she had gone to conduct coronavirus test in UP where she was attacked by ‘Islamic Jihadis’. She was severely injured in the attack and today she has died.” At the time of writing this article, this tweet has garnered close to 1,100 retweets. [Translated from: “आज डां वंदना तिवारी कि मृत्यु हो गई वह पिछले हफ्ते ही UP में कोरोना टेस्ट के लिए गई थी पर इस्लामिक जिहादीयों ने उन पर हमला कर गंभीर रूप से घायल कर दिया था आज उनकी मौत हो गई।”]    With a reverse search on Google, Alt News found a news report published by Bhopal Samachar on April 7, 2020. According to the report, Vandana Tiwari, a pharmacist at Shivpuri medical college, was working with a team fighting coronavirus. Tiwari suddenly felt sick while she was on duty on March 31. She was later admitted to the district hospital and on April 1, she was moved to Birla hospital after her condition worsened. Doctors had informed that Tiwari was suffering from brain haemorrhage. She went into a coma after her operation and succumbed to her illness on April 7, 2020.  Therefore, a case of a health worker who died due to brain haemorrhage in MP was communalised on social media with the false claim that she died after Muslims attacked her in UP. This is one of the several attempts where the Muslim community has been targeted with misinformation in the light of a religious gathering organised by the Tablighi Jamaat being identified as a coronavirus hotspot. Earlier this week, a 2015 video of a man massaging his customer’s face with his own saliva was shared with a false communal narrative. Note: The number of positive cases of the novel coronavirus in India exceeds 6,600 and close to 200 deaths have so far been reported. The government has imposed a complete restriction on movement apart from essential services to tackle the pandemic. Globally, more than 15 lakh confirmed cases and over 90,000 deaths have been reported. There is a sense of panic among citizens, causing them to fall for a variety of online misinformation – misleading images and videos rousing fear or medical misinformation promoting pseudoscience and invalid treatments. While your intentions may be pure, misinformation, spread especially during a pandemic, can take lives. We request our readers to practice caution and not forward unverified messages on WhatsApp and other social media platforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-madhya-pradesh-health-workers-death-falsely-communalised-as-attack-by-muslims-in-uttar-pradesh-823655.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown should continue, Punjab will allow district-wise relief to farmers: Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday said the ongoing lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus should continue, while noting that predictions by health experts about the spread of the pandemic are "horrendous and frightening". He said a decision on whether Punjab will extend the lockdown will be taken at a meeting of the state cabinet later this evening. Addressing a press conference through video conference, Singh said Punjab will allow district-wise relief from lockdown only to farmers to allow them for harvesting of Rabi crop. He said the state was expecting a bumper crop of 185 lakh tonnes of wheat and is making arrangements for harvest of the crop. He said predictions by health experts about the spread of the pandemic are "horrendous and frightening". "Prediction by experts about spread of the virus are horrendous and frightening," he said, adding that the government is preparing itself and gearing up for such a situation. Quoting a PGIMER study, he said the virus is likely to touch its peak by mid-september and may likely to affect 58 per cent of India's population and 87 per cent of Punjab's and other states' population. "....COVID-19 epidemic in India is estimated to reach its peak in mid-September 2020 at a point where 58 per cent of population has been infected," he said quoting the projections made by the Department of Community Medicine in PGIMER in Chandigarh. Quoting another figure from the projections by PGI, he said the virus can infect up to 87 per cent of population of Punjab and other states. He said, "The only good thing about coronavirus is that the drugs supply line has been broken". To a question, the Punjab chief minister admitted that there has been some community transmission of the virus in Punjab as there are 27 positive cases from among the Tablighi Jamat congregation attendees in Nizamuddin in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-should-continue-punjab-will-allow-district-wise-relief-to-farmers-amarinder-singh-823667.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||National Commission for Women seeks inquiry into death of 9-month pregnant woman amid coronavirus lockdown||The NCW has sought an inquiry into the death of a nine-month pregnant woman, who was suspected to have coronavirus and had to travel for over 70 km for medical attention. According to a media report, a 27-year-old pregnant woman complained of not being able to breathe following which she was rushed to different hospitals covering 70 km between Nalasopara and Mumbai. The next afternoon, the woman passed away and the unborn child could not be saved. Calling the incident "very unfortunate", the National Commission for Women has sought an inquiry into the matter "A 9-month pregnant woman had to undergo such trauma in Maharashtra and passed away due to suspect for COVID19 and travelling for over 70 km to reach hospitals and for medical attention, is a very unfortunate incident. The NCW seeks inquiry into the matter," the NCW said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/national-commission-for-women-seeks-inquiry-into-death-of-9-month-pregnant-woman-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-823691.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus in Uttarakhand: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 10, 2020||Till, April 10, 2020, India has registered more than 6,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 237 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Uttarakhand: 35 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Uttarakhand: 0 Total number of people cured/discharged in Uttarakhand: 5 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 6882 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 237 Total number of people cured discharged in India: 504 This data was last updated on April 10, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome. Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-in-uttarakhand-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-10-2020-823658.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 10, 2020||Till, April 10, 2020, India has registered more than 6,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 237 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Uttar Pradesh: 431 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Uttar Pradesh: 5 Total number of people cured/discharged in Uttar Pradesh: 31 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 6882 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 237 Total number of people cured discharged in India: 504 This data was last updated on April 10, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome. Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-in-uttar-pradesh-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-10-2020-823662.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus in Ladakh: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 10, 2020||Till, April 10, 2020, India has registered more than 6,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 237 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Ladakh: 15 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Ladakh: 0 Total number of people cured/discharged in Ladakh: 10 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 6882 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 237 Total number of people cured discharged in India: 504 This data was last updated on April 10, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome. Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-in-ladakh-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-10-2020-823694.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh reports 21 more coronavirus cases, total infected 431||The number of COVID-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh jumped to 431 with 21 people testing positive for coronavirus in the state in the past 24 hours.  According to the official sources here on Friday, the number of affected districts in the state has risen to 41 from 37 a few days ago. The maximum number of 89 coronavirus positive cases has been reported from Agra followed by Noida and Meerut. So far, four people have died of COVID-19. Meanwhile, the state government further tightened the restrictions in the sealed localities on Wednesday. Drones were pressed into service to ensure that the people remained indoors. The government also imposed a ban on the movement of vehicles during certain times of the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-reports-21-more-coronavirus-cases-total-infected-431-823698.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus in Rajasthan: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 10, 2020||Till, April 10, 2020, India has registered more than 6,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 237 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Rajasthan: 520 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Rajasthan: 8 Total number of people cured/discharged in Rajasthan: 21 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 6884 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 237 Total number of people cured discharged in India: 504 This data was last updated on April 10, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome. Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-in-rajasthan-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-10-2020-823614.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Woman dies of coronavirus in Rajasthan; 57 fresh cases reported||The fresh cases include eight people evacuated from Iran. Defence sources said all the 1,036 Indians evacuated from Iran had tested negative for the virus in that country but 50 of them have tested positive now. They were kept in Army quarantine facilities. On Friday, the maximum 15 cases were reported from Jaipur, a hotspot, taking the total number of cases in the state capital to 183. The samples of those who tested positive were collected during a house-to-house survey, officials said. Banswara reported 12 cases, Jaisalmer and Jodhpur eight each, Jhalawar three, and Alwar, Bharatpur and Kota one each. On Thursday evening, a 65-year-old woman died in Jaipur, taking the death toll in the state due to COVID-19 to eight. "The woman from Ramganj in Jaipur was admitted to SMS Hospital on Wednesday with complaint of respiratory distress pneumonia and co-morbidity hypertension. She tested positive for COVID-19 and was on ventilator," an official said. This was the first death of a coronavirus patient in Ramganj and second in Jaipur. On Sunday, a man from Ghat Gate in the capital died of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-dies-of-coronavirus-in-rajasthan-57-fresh-cases-reported-823706.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus in Chandigarh: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 10, 2020||Till, April 10, 2020, India has registered more than 6,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 237 deaths. In its efforts to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), the Government of India has announced a country-wide lockdown till April 14, 2020. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Chandigarh: 18 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Chandigarh: 0 Total number of people cured/discharged in Chandigarh: 7 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 6882 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 237 Total number of people cured discharged in India: 507 This data was last updated on April 10, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome. Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-in-chandigarh-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-10-2020-823668.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus in Delhi: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 10, 2020||Till, April 10, 2020, India has registered more than 6,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 237 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Delhi: 720 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Delhi: 12 Total number of people cured/discharged in Delhi: 25 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 6882 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 237 Total number of people cured discharged in India: 504 This data was last updated on April 10, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome. Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-in-delhi-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-10-2020-823682.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Gautam Gambhir bats for extension of coronavirus lockdown period||BJP MP from East Delhi Gautam Gambhir has batted for extension of the 21-day lockdown period to contain the spread of coronavirus, saying the country can not afford the risk of resurgence of the pandemic. Noting that chief minister's of some states have said that lockdown needs to be extended and the prime minister has to take a decision on it, he said extension is not a bad idea considering that a large number of people will come out after the lockdown ends and will be exposed to the virus that is still beyond control. A nationwide lockdown for three weeks was declared by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for checking the spread of coronavirus. The lockdown started on March 25 and will end on April 14. "We are in the middle of a fight. Lockdown was imposed despite hardships to people and now lifting it in one go may nullify all the sacrifices of the people and hard work by various agencies to enforce it, if the virus spreads further," Gambhir told PTI. Its time to rise above politics to work together and stop the spread of the virus, said the cricketer-turned-politician who donated Rs one crore to Delhi government for procuring medical equipments to fight the pandemic. "Its not the time of finding faults, but I think Delhi government should focus on helping people rather than issuing figures of how many have been provided ration and food. "Lakhs of migrant workers have left Delhi but Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal keeps on saying 71 lakh have been provided ration and lakhs are getting food from government centres. The migrant workers would not leave Delhi if they believed that government cared for them," he said. Gambhir had procured 1000 personal protective equipment (PPEs) after Kejriwal, while reacting to the MP's offer of Rs one crore, had said availability of the PPEs not money was the problem. If Delhi government asks, more kits and equipments will be provided to the hospitals, he said. "The PPEs have been delivered to LNJP hospital to be used by doctors and other medical staff. There are vendors who are ready to provide thousands of PPEs so I do not believe availability is any issue as claimed by Delhi government," he said. There is no time to talk now and the challenge ahead is grave, Gambhir said, adding that this is an opportunity for people with resources to help others. "I am doing whatever I can do by arranging ration, food and other necessary items for the poor and needy people who are most affected by the pandemic and the lockdown," he said. Gautam Gambhir Foundation in collaboration with other organisations and corporates like ONGC, Daikin, Le Meridien and DS Group is reaching out to thousands of people in need of food and other essential items, he said. The Lok Sabha MP said Delhi government should ensure quality of food being distributed by it and also pay attention to hygiene of its shelters for people staying there. He also said the government should strictly enforce the lockdown, with special attention on containment zones in the city. The national capital has reported 720 coronavirus cases, including 12 deaths, so far. Complete ban on movement of people has been enforced by Delhi government in 22 places where coronavirus cases have been reported in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gautam-gambhir-bats-for-extension-of-coronavirus-lockdown-period-823716.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus in Jammu & Kashmir: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 10, 2020||Till, April 10, 2020, India has registered more than 6,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 237 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Jammu & Kashmir: 207 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Jammu & Kashmir: 4 Total number of people cured/discharged in Jammu & Kashmir: 4 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 6882 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 237 Total number of people cured discharged in India: 504 This data was last updated on April 10, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome. Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-in-jammu-kashmir-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-10-2020-823685.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||In Uttar Pradesh, man builds a 'greeny' abode to avoid coronavirus||In Uttar Pradesh's Hapur district, about 450 km from here, a man, in a bid to maintain social distance, turned a tree into his abode since the lockdown was declared. Mukul Tyagi, who was a lawyer by profession, has erected a 'machan' (a platform erected on a tree, especially by those hunting or watching large wild animals) on the tree, where he spends most of his time. He said that this was the only way he could have maintained social distance. ''This place is very isolated....no one disturbs me here....its very quiet also here...I am very comfortable here,'' Tyagi said. He has kept some religious books, which he reads during the day time.  Tyagi uses a ladder to reach his greeny abode, which is near his house at Asaura village in the district. The family members keep the food under the tree and Tyagi gets down and takes it to his 'machan' and eat it there. Though a few curious people do sometimes go near the tree to watch his temporary shelter, they do not climb up. ''This is real social distancing,'' he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-uttar-pradesh-man-builds-a-greeny-abode-to-avoid-coronavirus-823736.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Doubts about ration diversion, as several ration shops remain shut in Delhi||One-third of the ration shops a group of activists visited over the past five days in the national capital are not functioning while several ration shop dealers claim that the food grains they received have finished raising concerns about diversion of articles delivered by the government. The Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyaan (DRRAA) said in its 'Report on Monitoring of Ration Shops in Delhi during COVID-19 Lockdown' that 13 out of the 37 ration shops the activists visited for the past five days since April 4 were closed on most of the days. The Delhi government has announced that poor people will get 7.5 kg of good grain for free. Delhi has around 72 lakh out of 1.93 crore people who have ration cards. In one case, the report said, one particular shop in Narela has been shut since March 29 and locals told activists that the shopkeeper and his relatives own 3-4 shops in the area and they distribute ration in another location in Tikri Khurd village. "In almost all the shops, which were found to be shut, we were informed that the stock had finished and the shop will be open when new stock arrives," the report said. Some shopkeepers, who opened the shops, said they have received stock of wheat but not rice and they are not distributing ration due to this. However, the report said, the official online database shows that the government as already delivered full allocation of rice and wheat to ration shops for both April and May. "For some of the shops which stated that stocks were over (and therefore were shut or were open and not distributing grains), we could locate cardholders who had not yet received their rations even though the online website shows that their ration had been dispatched to the shop. The issue of shops claiming stocks are over requires an investigation by the Food Department," it said. The report said the issue of shops claiming stocks are over requires an investigation by the Food Department. A Delhi government order has said that the ration stock for April and May should be delivered to all ration shops by March 29. "It is, therefore, not clear how the stock has finished already, especially since the update put out by the Delhi government on April 3 mentions that ration has been distributed to only 60% of cardholders (no update has been put out since then). This raises serious concerns about the possibility of diversion of grains. No details of ration cardholders who have availed rations for April or proof of distribution (sale registers) are available in the public domain. No reports of the daily stock position of each shop are publicly available," it said. Earlier, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had warned shop owners against misusing rations delivered to them. At least two incidents of diversion of ration have been discovered in the national capital after the lockdown due to COVID-19 was imposed on March 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-doubts-about-ration-diversion-as-several-ration-shops-remain-shut-in-delhi-823741.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police receives 857 calls on its helpline regarding coronavirus lockdown in 24 hours||The Delhi Police received over 850 calls on its 24x7 helpline number from 2 pm on Thursday and the same time on Friday, seeking assistance on issues faced during the lockdown, officials said. A total of 16,621 calls were received by the police on its helpline (011-23469526) regarding the lockdown till date. The police received 857 calls from Thursday 2 pm to Friday 2 pm. Out of 857, 49 calls were related to areas outside Delhi, which were referred to respective state helpline numbers. Three calls were related to no food or money, which were forwarded to NGOs. A total of 25 calls were received regarding medical issues which were resolved through proper guidance, the police said, adding that 567 calls were related to movement passes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-receives-857-calls-on-its-helpline-regarding-coronavirus-lockdown-in-24-hours-823744.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||With 23 more positive coronavirus cases, Jammu & Kashmir's tally crosses 200||"#COVID19 #JammuAndKashmir Today's Update:  Total positive cases in J&K now 207. Jammu-39;  Kashmir-168. A detailed bulletin follows shortly,” J&K government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal, tweeted.     On Thursday, 24 patients had tested positive for novel cornavirus in J&K, while the figure was 33 on Wednesday. Out of the total 207 positive cases, four patients have died, while six have recovered. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest COVID-19 case density areas in India which is 16 cases per million of the population. The national average per million population so far is six. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions, the Valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak. With the growing number of people testing positive for COVID-19, the number of contacts and other suspected cases is also growing exponentially in the UT. The sheer number makes infection control difficult and experts have opined that administrative quarantine was a bad idea.    An official involved in contact tracing in Kashmir said each positive case involves quarantine for 20-30 contacts on an average. Currently, all of these contacts are quarantined in facilities administered by the government. Home quarantine, experts believe, can be a more effective and a sustainable method of isolation of those who “might have been exposed” to this highly contagious virus. “Home isolation means we have a small unit of people in a setting where they can stay comfortably and where they will not be exposed to a new set of people,” Dr Saleem Khan, Head, Department of Preventive and Community Medicine at Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar, said. This essentially means containment at the micro level, he said, and added that taking people out of their homes and then admitting them to facilities where they come in contact with others, is a “stark risk”.     “And then we may have individuals who are more at risk among those in quarantine. Their safety will be jeopardised,” Dr Khan said.   ]||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-23-more-positive-coronavirus-cases-jammu-kashmirs-tally-crosses-200-823750.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||MLA demands doubling of salaries of medical staff amid coronavirus pandemic||Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik on Friday urged the Maharashtra government to double the salaries of the medical staff, who have been providing treatment to COVID-19 patients. In a letter to Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, the Thane city legislator said that the Harayana government has already implemented it. Risking their own lives, doctors, nurses and other medical staff are selflessly carrying out their work of treating the coronavirus patients. Their work needs to be appreciated and hence their salaries should be doubled, he said in the letter. "Likewise, every police personnel, who is serving selflessly during this period, should be given an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh," he added. "If the government wants, it can deduct the salaries of legislators up to 50 per cent from the present 30 per cent, so that the money is diverted towards those serving the society," Sarnaik said. The Maharashtra Cabinet on Thursday decided to cut the salaries of MLAs and MLCs by 30 per cent from this month till March next year in view of the state's economy bearing the brunt of the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mla-demands-doubling-of-salaries-of-medical-staff-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-823752.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Panic grips border residents as Indo-Pak armies exchange shelling along LoC||Amid the coronavirus pandemic, the Indian and Pakistani armies, on Friday, exchanged heavy artillery shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district. The shelling was reported from Panzgam, Malikpora, TCP, Hafrada and Ferkiyan areas along the LoC which created panic among the border residents. At Panzam, reports said, many people left their homes and were moving towards safer locations, while others had confined themselves to safer locations within their homes. It was not only those living nearby, the shelling rattled even far off villages with some residents saying that they heard roaring sounds for the first time, an eyewitness told DH over the phone. “The shelling was so intense and we are hearing it for the first time,” said Suhail, a resident of a village which is far away from the LoC. “The houses were shaken with the sound of the shell.” An official said the shelling was started by Pakistan and the Indian Army responded in equal proportions. “It is a ceasefire violation as Pakistan resorted to unprovoked artillery shelling and Indian Army gave a befitting reply,” he said. With cornavirus pandemic spreading chaos everywhere, sources said, Pakistan army was trying to take advantage of the crisis and push militants into Jammu and Kashmir. In recent days, several attempts were made by the infiltrators with the Pakistani Army giving them covering fire along the LoC in Kupwara, Poonch and Rajouri districts of Jammu region. There was a total of 646 incidents of ceasefire violations along the International Border (IB) as well as the LoC between January 1 and February 23 this year, Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik had said in March. Over 3,200 ceasefire violations by Pakistan troops were recorded in 2019. There is a 198 km IB and over 510 km of LoC with Pakistan in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/panic-grips-border-residents-as-indo-pak-armies-exchange-shelling-along-loc-823761.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||10-month-old baby dies at quarantine centre in Uttar Pradesh||A 10-month-old baby girl died on Friday at a quarantine centre set up in a primary school in Uska Bazar area of neighbouring Siddharthnagar district, a senior official said.  The toddler was rushed to the district hospital in an ambulance but doctors declared her brought dead, he said. The family had come from outside and were instructed to stay at a primary school at Chaurasi village that was functioning as a quarantine centre, DM, Siddharthnagar, Deepak Meena said. "The baby's father told me that on Thursday evening the girl was restless and showed symptoms like those of measles. In the morning they called an ambulance and rushed the baby to the district hospital where doctors declared her brought dead," he said. "They were staying at the school for the last 13 days and today was their last day as they showed no sign of COVID-19. The family performed the baby's burial in the village. I went to the village and met the family," the DM said. The baby's parents had come from Mumbai and were at the quarantine centre since March 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-month-old-baby-dies-at-quarantine-centre-in-uttar-pradesh-823771.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Amarinder Singh proposes to PM Narendra Modi setting up of virology research centre in Punjab||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday proposed to the Centre setting up of a Rs 550-crore Advanced Centre for Virology in the state, with land to be offered by his government free of cost. Singh wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to direct the Union Health Ministry to set up the centre, which would focus on addressing regional, national and global needs in virology, diagnostic, research and therapeutic evaluations to cope with COVID-19, according to an official statement. Pointing at the "unprecedented crisis" faced by the country in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, the chief minister noted the sudden onset of this contagion and it "acquiring pandemic proportions within only two months" have highlighted the need to devote greater government resources on cutting-edge research in virology. At present, the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune is the only institution in the country capable of providing a well-coordinated medical and public health response to such an emergency, Singh said. In the present scenario, wherein the world is in the grip of the highly infectious SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, an 'Advanced Centre for Diagnostic Virology and Research' as a regional reference laboratory for virus diagnosis and research is much required, he stressed. "Frequent epidemics caused by viruses pose a constant threat and it is imperative for us to be future ready to predict and detect these at the earliest so that necessary preventive steps could be taken," the chief minister said, adding the proposal to establish the centre in Punjab will be a step in this direction. The state government thus a specialised centre in Medicity in New Chandigarh, which, he said, would be well-placed to serve the interests of the northwestern region given Chandigarh's international air connectivity. Singh also pointed out that the Centre could easily be incubated in PGIMER, which is located at only 7-8 kilometers from the proposed Medicity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarinder-singh-proposes-to-pm-narendra-modi-setting-up-of-virology-research-centre-in-punjab-823807.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Allahabad High Court rejects objections raised by BJP MP Sanghmitra Maurya, to examine election petition filed against her||The Allahabad High Court on Friday rejected preliminary objections raised by BJP MP Sanghmitra Maurya against a petition filed by Samajwadi Party leader Dharmendra Yadav, challenging her election from the Badaun parliamentary seat in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Justice Ramesh Sinha ha May 6, 2020 as the next date of hearing. In July, Yadav had moved a petition in the Allahabad High Court challenging the election of Sanghmitra Maurya from Badaun constituency. Sanghmitra, daughter of Uttar Pradesh minister Swamy Prasad Maurya, had defeated Yadav by around 18,000 votes. While rejecting the objections of Sanghmitra Maurya, the court said, “In my considered opinion, the contention advanced by counsel for Maurya that petitioner Dharmendra Yadav’s statement in the election petition raises no cause of action is wholly unfounded. It is a well settled law that if the election petition speaks about the material facts and concise statements on which the election petitioner relies upon are stated in the election petition, the same should not be thrown at the threshold.” The petitioner has requested the court to declare the election of Sanghmitra Maurya as null and void. Yadav has challenged the election of Sanghmitra Maurya on the ground that it is a case of improper acceptance of nomination. In the petition, he also said that there is no disclosure of Sanghmitra Maurya’s marital status.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allahabad-high-court-rejects-objections-raised-by-bjp-mp-sanghmitra-maurya-to-examine-election-petition-filed-against-her-823814.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||HRD Ministry seeks suggestions to improve online education system amid coronavirus lockdown||The HRD Ministry has launched a week-long campaign called "Bharat Padhe Online" for gathering ideas to improve the country's online education ecosystem. "The campaign aims to invite the best brains in India to share suggestions and solutions directly with the HRD Ministry to overcome constraints of online education while promoting the available digital education platforms. I will personally go through the suggestions," Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said. "Students and teachers are our main target audience. I hope that they will participate in this campaign wholeheartedly to improve the existing online education methods. "Students who are studying in schools or higher educational institutions are the ones engaging with the existing digital platforms offering various courses on a daily basis. They can share what is lacking in the existing online platforms and how we can make them more engaging," he added. Ideas can be shared on bharatpadheonline.mhrd@gmail.com and on twitter by using #BharatPadheOnline up to April 16. "Educators across the country can also come forward to share their expertise and experience in the field of education. They must tell what do they think what an ideal online education ecosystem should look like. Or what are the limitations of the current online education scenario of India, what challenges they face in traditional classrooms that can be addressed through online education," Nishank said. The death toll due to coronavirus rose to 206 and the number of cases in the country climbed to 6,761 on Friday, a record spike of 896 cases and 37 deaths in 24 hours since Thursday evening, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hrd-ministry-seeks-suggestions-to-improve-online-education-system-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-823819.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Coronavirus claims another doctor's life in Indore||A 65-year-old male ayurveda doctor died due to COVID-19 in Indore, the commercial capital of Madhya Pradesh, on Friday, an official said. This is the second case of a doctor succumbing to the infection in the city in as many days, the official said. On Thursday, coronavirus had claimed the life of a 62 -year-old physician in Indore, probably the first case of a doctor succumbing to COVID-19 in the country. "In the case of the latest victim, he was posted as a district Ayush officer and retired from service about one-and-a-half years back. The ayurvedic doctor breathed his last in a private hospital," chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Dr Praveen Jadia, said. He had probably come in contact with some COVID-19 patients in his private clinic and the authorities are now trying to identify them, he said. "After tracing such persons, they would be sent for quarantine and their health would be monitored," he said. With this death, the number of persons who died due to COVID-19 in Indore has now reached 27. A total of 235 people have tested positive for coronavirus in the city so far. Meanwhile, Divisional Commissioner Akash Tripathi said that 12 COVID-19 patients have been discharged from a private hospital after their repeat samples tested negative. Eleven other persons, including a male nurse, have also recovered from the deadly infection earlier in the city, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-coronavirus-claims-another-doctors-life-in-indore-823822.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Community kitchen, food bank set up at Indian Youth Congress headquarters amid COVID-19 crisis||A community kitchen and a food bank have been set up at the headquarters of the Indian Youth Congress at Raisina Road in the national capital for people affected by the lockdown imposed to control the spread of coronavirus, president of the outfit Srinivas BV said on Friday. The IYC headquarters, a sprawling bungalow in Lutyens' Delhi, has established a 24x7 food bank to supply fresh food and clean drinking water. An automatic machine capable of making 1,000 'chapatis' within an hour has also been set up at the kitchen, he said. The mega kitchen is already providing food to thousands of people. Food packets are also being supplied directly to the needy people across several areas in Delhi, Srinivas said..  "The nation is fighting an unknown and unprecedented enemy in the form of a global pandemic. "In this hour of need, we at the Indian Youth Congress remain determined and firm to shoulder the responsibility bestowed upon all responsible citizens and organizations of the country to help the underprivileged in this fight against COVID-19 and its effects," he said.  The IYC  is also running various campaigns to attend to the needs of the underprivileged people, those who are devoid of food, groceries and basic medical supplies, across the nation, he said. All the volunteers involved with preparation and distribution of food have been instructed to strictly follow social distancing guidelines. Every activity is being closely monitored and mirco-managed by IYC incharge  Krishna Allavaru and Srinivas BV, said Amreesh Ranjan Pandey, IYC media incharge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-community-kitchen-food-bank-set-up-at-indian-youth-congress-headquarters-amid-covid-19-crisis-823826.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||4 COVID-19 patients recover in Himachal Pradesh||Three patients admitted to IGMC Shimla from Nalagarh on April 5 and another admitted to RPGMC in Kangra district from Una on April 3 have recovered from COVID-19, Additional Secretary (Health) R D Dhiman said here. The reports of the three patients admitted to IGMC Shimla are found to be negative, he added. Residents of Uttar Pradesh, the three Tablighi Jamaatis from Solan's Nalagarh had tested positive on April 4. Similarly, samples were drawn from three COVID-19 patients admitted to RPGMC Tanda and the report of one of them was negative whereas the other two are awaited, Dhiman said. All three are members of the Tablighi Jamaat and had been staying in Una's Nakroh mosque. With this, the number of patients in the state who have recovered from the COVID-19 infection has risen to six. The ACS (Health) said a total of 127 samples were taken on Friday for testing. Reports of 87 have come out negative whereas the rest are awaited. A total of 900 people have been tested in the hill-state so far. Of them, reports of 832 are negative and 28 are positive, he added. As per the latest data, one person has died of the disease in the state and four were shifted to a private hospital outside Himachal Pradesh as per their wish.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-covid-19-patients-recover-in-himachal-pradesh-823832.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Militant launchpad, ammunition depots on other side of LoC destroyed: Indian Army||The Army said that it had destroyed ammunition dump and a launchpad of militants along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Keran sector of north Kashmir's Kupwara district on Friday. Defence spokesperson Colonel Rajesh Kalia said that launchpad and ammunition depot of militants was destroyed on the other side of the LoC as Indian army retaliated the unprovoked ceasefire violation of Pakistan. "Pakistan resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation in Keran sector, which was retaliated effectively and strongly," he said and added in the precision targeting, militant launchpad and ammunition dump was destroyed. The spokesperson claimed that there were reports of heavy damage to enemy (Pakistan) side. Last week, five special forces soldiers and equal number of infiltrating militants were killed in a fierce gun battle in Keran sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-launchpad-ammunition-depots-on-other-side-of-loc-destroyed-indian-army-823846.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi reports record high of 183 cases in a single day||Delhi reported a record high of 183 COVID-19 cases in a single day with the bulk coming from those people who were evacuated from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters and sent to quarantine centres. With this, the number of cases in the capital has risen to 903. Of the new cases, 154 patients are linked to Tablighi Jamaat, taking the event-linked cases to 584. The day also saw two deaths, taking the total toll to 14. Officials said the rise in number of cases is due to the testing done of people linked to Tablighi Jamaat who were lodged in quarantine centres. Earlier, tests on over 500 people who were directly sent to hospitals were done. Meanwhile, authorities added seven more localities to the list of containment zone, taking the total to 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-reports-record-high-of-183-cases-in-a-single-day-823859.html
10-04-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh coronavirus tally jumps to 431||According to the official sources, the number of affected districts in the state has risen to 41 on Friday from 37 a few days back. The highest number of cases was reported from Agra followed by Noida and Meerut. Agra reported 89 cases so far. Four people have died from COVID-19, according to official figures from the ministry. Meanwhile, the state government tightened restrictions in the localities sealed on Wednesday. Drones were being used to ensure that people remained indoors. The government also imposed a ban on the movement of vehicles from morning to evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-coronavirus-tally-jumps-to-431-823869.html
10-04-2020||Opinion||COVID-19 will change a lot of things, why not the way the Indian State engages with business?||But it’s not just about the Supreme Court alone. The COVID-19 outbreak has once again brought to the fore the Indian State’s penchant to interfere in markets that are always lurking just under the surface, eagerly waiting for the next crisis. In mid-March, when a huge spike in the demand for masks and hand sanitisers led to a shortage, both the Essential Commodities Act (ECA) and the Legal Metrology Act were invoked – the former to ensure there is no hoarding and the latter to put a lid on prices. Neither of these moves would have facilitated or incentivised a ramping up of production that was most needed at that point of time. On April 8, the Union Home Secretary asked state governments to take recourse to the ECA to ensure the availability of essential commodities. Sure, some hoarding will be unearthed and cases slapped against a few traders but there is enough evidence from earlier instances that the negative fallout will far outstrip the few gains such actions will yield. At a time when state capacity is under severe stress and when much of the shortage is because of transit disruptions, bringing in draconian measures like this will only unleash inspector raj, something India definitely does not need at this point. Far better to intelligently ease curbs and provide logistics support to the movement of essential goods. That will make hoarding unviable – a far more effective way of killing it. Unfortunately, such measures make politicians feel good and get support across the political spectrum. The Big State returns? The fulsome praise for the undoubtedly stellar role played in the crisis by the Food Corporation of India and Air India is worrying. There’s a real danger that this could lead to the permanent shelving of any plans to restructure the former and privatise the latter. No one will question whether these two highly inefficient organisations should be guzzling taxpayers’ money during normal times just because they rise to the occasion during Black Swan events. No one will ask if there is another way of achieving the same objectives. Reduce regulatory burden on businesses The state certainly has a role to play in mitigating the impact of large disasters of the scale we are currently seeing. Assisting the poor and vulnerable sections with cash transfers and ensuring they have access to food is quite acceptable. Businesses – big and small – also need assistance, but should it take the form of bail outs (the sums being sought are staggering) or an easing of sundry compliances, especially those relating to the payment of taxes? These questions need to be asked now. Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) are particularly hit and will need a lot of support. But the biggest bugbear of the SME sector is regulatory cholesterol and inspector raj, from both the central, state and local governments. Take for example their access to credit. It is blocked largely because of unreasonable conditions regarding collateral and other paperwork. Would it not be far better to drastically overhaul the regulatory regime for these businesses? Giving them fiscal sops may not mean much if the associated paperwork proves extremely cumbersome. Similarly, street vendors and hawkers (who will be eligible for some cash transfers) will benefit enormously from state and local governments getting off their backs. Apart from doles, these governments should make serious efforts to implement the Street Vendors Act, 2014, and stop harassment by municipal authorities and the police. Large businesses also suffer from regulatory excesses; let’s not forget the provisions related to corporate social responsibility, the anti-profiteering law and tax terrorism, to name just three of the most egregious ones. Why not go over the regulatory burden of each sector and drastically reduce – if not altogether eliminate – them? These might do more for the health of those sectors than fiscally unsustainable sops. What COVID-19 has highlighted once again is the abysmal levels of state capacity in India – especially in welfare-related functions. State expenditure and governance capacity should be concentrated on public health and providing a safety net to the vulnerable, not frittered away in meddling in prices and other business operations. The pandemic is going to change the ways of the world in many ways – why not the role of the Indian State and the way it engages with businesses? (The writer is a senior journalist and author. She tweets at @soorpanakha) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-will-change-a-lot-of-things-why-not-the-way-the-indian-state-engages-with-business-823625.html
10-04-2020||South||COVID-19 lockdown: Karnataka, Kerala police join hands to deliver medicine to six-month-old in Thiruvananthapuram||Despite the differences between Kerala and Karnataka over allowing patients from Kasargod to Mangaluru, the Karnataka police have joined hands with their Kerala counterparts in delivering a medicine to a six-month-old child in Thiruvananthapuram. Prajith sent an email request to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's office and the CMO forwarded it to the Kerala police chief Loknath Behera. The SPC referred the matter to IG S Sreejith, who is heading the community policing wing of the Kerala Police, known as the 'Janamaithri Police'.  Sreejith got in touch with ADGP-Railway in Karnataka, J Arun Chakravarthy, on Tuesday. Chakravarthy told DH that as soon as he got the request from police officials in Kerala, he made arrangements to collect the medicine from the person who was possessing it and sent it to Kerala Police at the Talapady border in a special vehicle as it was medical emergency. Sreejith said that police patrol teams passed on the medicines and it reached Thiruvananthapuram by Wednesday late night after being passed on in over 20 police vehicles. Thiruvananthapuram Police Commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay handed over the medicine at Prajith's house in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-lockdown-karnataka-kerala-police-join-hands-to-deliver-medicine-to-six-month-old-in-thiruvananthapuram-823599.html
10-04-2020||South||Banish fear to win battle against COVID-19, say Kerala's recovered patients||Conquering fear is the most crucial step in the fight against COVID-19, said two Gulf returnees who were cured of the deadly disease after undergoing treatment at the government hospital in this town, Kerala's hotspot for the virus. Abdul Gafoor (54) and N H Suhail (31), who tested positive for coronavirus soon after their arrival from Dubai, thanked profusely the doctors, paramedics and other staff at the hospital for their selfless and dedicated service. They also shared tips on how not to lose hope and be brave during the tense period in the hospital. "Initially I was a bit scared. But when I looked at other patients and the hospital staff, who selflessly spent days and nights looking after us, I told myself that this is not the time to give up." "Banish fear, embrace vigilance, and half the battle is won, I told myself and you can see the results now," Gafoor, a native of Kasaragod said. He had come home on vacation last month to be with his wife and two sons. Soon after his arrival, he contracted the disease and got admitted to the general Hospital, where he underwent treatment for two weeks. Four days after landing in Kerala, Suhail was also diagnosed with COVID-19 and admitted to the hospital. "The experience taught me many lessons: be strong, be resilient and take out fear from the equation. Equally important that it has boosted my trust in our public healthcare system," he said. Suhail left the hospital in eight days but is yet to see his family, including his two-month-old baby girl. The two, who were discharged on Saturday last, are aware that the battle is not over yet and they have to remain under home quarantine for the next couple of weeks. We still have to undergo home isolation for another two weeks and repeat the tests. But we have cleared the first major hurdle, they said. Anonymous as they were covered from head to toe in their PPE (Personal Protection Equipment), the hospital staff gave Gafoor and Suhail a warm send off when they walked out of the hospital the other day. There are mothers, toddlers and even aged people in the hospital who are undergoing treatment for the scourge that is wreaking havoc on humanity. Gafoor and Suhail are among the first patients in Kasaragod to be cured of the disease. They have been given instructions to be followed once they reach their homes. The medical team that took care of them included doctors M Kunjiraman, P Krishna Naik, C H Janardhana Naik, K Aparna, Sunil Chandran, Nursing Spdt Snishi, Head Nurses Mini Vincent and Sudha John, Staff Nurse Salim and Dietician Udaif. It has been 100 days since the first COVID-19 case was reported in the state and since then, a total of 357 cases have been confirmed and currently, 258 patients are under treatment in different hospitals. The state has reported two fatalities so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/banish-fear-to-win-battle-against-covid-19-say-keralas-recovered-patients-823623.html
10-04-2020||South||Two new cases of coronavirus reported in Andhra Pradesh, tally goes up to 365||The two fresh cases from Anantapuramu district were reported since 9 PM on Thursday, the latest bulletin said. After the death of six coronavirus patients and recovery and discharge of 10 more, the number of active cases, currently in hospital, stood at 349. In all, 892 blood samples were tested across the state in the last 24 hours, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-new-cases-of-coronavirus-reported-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-goes-up-to-365-823629.html
10-04-2020||South||Chennai hostels to be converted into quarantine facilities||Hostels of prestigious institutions like the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) and Anna University are likely to be turned into quarantine facilities by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) as the number of positive patients in the metropolis goes up every passing day. As per the health bulletin released Thursday evening, Chennai stood number one in the number of patients in the state at 163. The GCC has deployed more than 10,000 members of Self-Help Groups (SHGs) to screen members of all 18 lakh households in the city to prevent further spread of Covid-19. As part of its contingency plan, the GCC has issued notices to 41 institutions, both government and private, to hand over their facilities so that they can be used to quarantine potential Covid-19 patients. People who display Covid-19 symptoms are generally quarantined at private facilities before being moved to isolation wards in hospitals once they test positive. “We have issued notices to 41 institutions that have hostel facilities to hand over their buildings to us. These hostels will be used as quarantine facilities for people who need to be tested. Authorities are in touch with the management of the institutions to get things done,” P Kumaravel Pandian, Deputy Commissioner (Works), GCC, told DH. While some institutions have already handed over the buildings, some are in the process of giving it to authorities, he added. IIT-M and Anna University have several hostels inside their sprawling campuses and these buildings will be useful to quarantine thousands of people if such a situation arose, officials said. These buildings can also be used for other Covid-19 prevention activities, the officials added. Besides hostel buildings, the institutions have also been asked to hand over a few other structures for use of the authorities in their efforts to prevent Covid-19. The notices have been issued by the GCC under the Disaster Management Act. Another official said some institutions were “hesitant” in handing over their buildings, but they are being made to understand that the government can take over any structure in times of health emergency. The state, which has so far reported 834 positive Covid-19 cases, is trying to contain the disease in its current stage but is also preparing for the worst if it enters the third stage, which is community transmission. Tamil Nadu has plans to test 1 lakh people beginning next week as it awaits the arrival of rapid test kits that can deliver results in half-hour. The state has also ordered another 4 lakh rapid test kits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-hostels-to-be-converted-into-quarantine-facilities-823647.html
10-04-2020||South||Coronavirus in Lakshadweep: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 10, 2020||Till, April 10, 2020, India has registered more than 6,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 237 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Lakshadweep: 0 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Lakshadweep: 0 Total number of people cured/discharged in Lakshadweep: 0 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 6882 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 237 Total number of people cured discharged in India: 507 This data was last updated on April 10, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome. Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-in-lakshadweep-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-10-2020-823697.html
10-04-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Good Friday prayers go online, people worship from home in Tamil Nadu||Almost all churches, including the famous Vailankanni Shrine Basilica in Nagapattinam district and the 16th century-built St. Thomas Cathedral Basilica in the heart of the city, streamed live the proceedings as priests conducted special Good Friday services to empty halls. YouTube and Facebook were the popular platforms for live streaming of prayers in churches from across the state as people remained indoors due to the 21-day lockdown to contain spread of Coronavirus. These apps were chosen by the churches as they can be easily accessed from smartphones. Madha TV, an online Catholic Christian Tamil channel, also live streamed mass services from various churches through the day on Friday. The mass services also recited prayers to protect people from COVID-19 and priests asked people to maintain social distancing to keep coronavirus away. Churches across the state closed their doors to public in the third week of March after temples and places of public importance closed to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Though members of various churches were asked to pray from their homes, a few of them planned to live stream the proceedings on a daily basis. Since Good Friday and Easter on Sunday are considered to be important and solemn occasions for Christians, majority of the churches ensured that prayers are live streamed so that people can pray from their homes. “Individual priests in churches of our diocese were asked to make arrangements to live-stream the prayers on Friday. Members of the churches were also communicated about the live streaming. At the church, only the priest will conduct the mass services to ensure social distancing,” Fr Patrick Paul L, Secretary, Archdiocese of Madras Mylapore, told DH. The Archdiocese’ Bishop Rev. George Antonysamy addressed a special mass via Madha TV at 6 pm, he said, adding that same arrangement would be followed on Easter day on Sunday too. The famous Vailankanni Shrine Basilica in Velankanni town, also live-streamed its evening special mass at 5.30 pm via YouTube. A priest at a CSI church in Chennai, whose prayer service was live-streamed, said more than 500 members of his church tuned into the shrine’s YouTube channel to virtually participate in the mass. “While I spoke from the podium to an empty hall, most of our members tuned into the YouTube channel. This was a new experience since the church hall would be jam-packed on Good Friday,” the priest told DH.    A priest at a CSI church in Chennai, whose prayer service was live-streamed, said more than 500 members of his church tuned into the shrine’s YouTube channel to virtually participate in the mass. “While I spoke from the podium to an empty hall, most of our members tuned in to the YouTube channel. This was a new experience since the church hall would be jam-packed on Good Friday,” the priest told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-good-friday-prayers-go-online-people-worship-from-home-in-tamil-nadu-823702.html
10-04-2020||South||Coronavirus in Puducherry: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 10, 2020||Till, April 10, 2020, India has registered more than 6,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 237 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Puducherry: 6 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Puducherry: 0 Total number of people cured/discharged in Puducherry: 1 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 6882 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 237 Total number of people cured discharged in India: 507 This data was last updated on April 10, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome. Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-in-puducherry-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-10-2020-823703.html
10-04-2020||South||Coronavirus in Tamil Nadu: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 10, 2020||Till, April 10, 2020, India has registered more than 6,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 237 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Tamil Nadu: 834 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Tamil Nadu: 8 Total number of people cured/discharged in Tamil Nadu: 21 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 6882 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 237 Total number of people cured discharged in India: 504 This data was last updated on April 10, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome. Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-in-tamil-nadu-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-10-2020-823617.html
10-04-2020||South||Coronavirus in Telangana: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 10, 2020||Till, April 10, 2020, India has registered more than 6,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 237 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Telangana: 471 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Telangana: 11 Total number of people cured/discharged in Telangana: 35 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 6882 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 237 Total number of people cured discharged in India: 504 This data was last updated on April 10, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome. Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-in-telangana-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-10-2020-823620.html
10-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Six Thai nationals held in Tamil Nadu for violating visa norms||Six Thailand nationals, who tested positive for coronavirus and are undergoing treatment at a government hospital near here were arrested for allegedly indulging in religious preaching in violation of visa norms, police said on Friday. The arrest was effected in the Perundurai IRT Government Medical College hospital on Thursday evening, days after cases were registered against them under relevant sections of IPC. Police personnel were posted outside the isolation ward of the hospital, where the six are undergoing treatment. The action was taken based on a complaint by local Tahsildar lodged with the police. The Thai Nationals, who possessed tourist visas engaged themselves in Islamic preaching despite suffering from COVID- 19, they said. In all, a group of seven Thailand nationals came here some three weeks ago, stayed at Kollampalayam Housing Unit complex and engaged themselves in preaching. One among them died due to kidney ailment at a government hospital in Coimbatore. The remaining six tested positive for coronavirus, prompting authorities to launch a massive contact tracing of those who had attended the preaching sessions and others. District Collector, C Kathiravan said 1.66 lakh people in the district have been kept under home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-six-thai-nationals-held-in-tamil-nadu-for-violating-visa-norms-823728.html
10-04-2020||South||Chief Minister brainstorms with experts, panel favours 14 more days lockdown in Tamil Nadu||A 19 member expert committee constituted by the Tamil Nadu government to advise it of steps to tackle the COVID-19 crisis on Friday recommended to Chief Minister K Palaniswami that the lockdown be extended by two weeks beyond April 14 consdering the rise in number of cases. A day after Palaniswami said a decision on lockdown extension will be taken based on the committee's recommendation, he also consulted public health experts, including World Health Organisation chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan and others via a video link from the Secretariat. The advice of experts like Swaminathan to the government was notknown immediately. Emerging from the meeting, Dr Prabhdeep Kaur, representing the 19-member committee of experts, said they have recommended to the State government to extend the lockdown beyond April 14 for 14 days considering the rise in the number of positive cases. Kaur, a scientist with the Indian Council of Medical Research's National Institute of Epidemiology here, told reporters at Fort St George that so far the efforts of Tamil Nadu government in battling the virus was good and it was appreciated in the meeting. "The public health system is robust and hence the government has the capacity to detect cases and clusters early and easily and this can be further strengthened and this was discussed." The government has made 'good arrangement' in respect of having adequate number of beds in hospitals to treat coronavirus infected people and several steps have also been taken vis-a-vis the needs of patients and their family members, she said. "Many efforts are being taken (by the government) for the safety of doctors, nurses and other health workers who are on the frontline in the fight against the virus. This should be given importance as they could fight the pandemic only if they are well," she said. "Despite all efforts, the number of cases have been increasing so far and in the past one week the positive cases was on the rise. All experts feel that it will be good if the lockdown is extended for 14 more days and this is the recommendation of the expert committee," she said. In the 14-day period, more testing should be done for people, including contacts of positive people and results should be collected and "based on the data, an informed decision (on ending or further prolonging the lockdown) can be taken two weeks later," she said. On Thursday, the Chief Mininster had said that a decision on extending the lockdown depended on the advice of the 19- member committee of medical experts and the government's 12 panels on tackling COVID-19 scenario. To a question, he had said: "We are now in stage two, there is a chance for progression into stage three and the government is taking all steps to confine the infection to stage two."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chief-minister-brainstorms-with-experts-panel-favours-14-more-days-lockdown-in-tamil-nadu-823759.html
10-04-2020||South||One more victim of coronavirus in Tamil Nadu; 77 new cases found||An expert committee of doctors appointed by the government recommended extending the 21-day lockdown by another 14 days to prevent further spread of the coronavirus. In a significant development, Chief Secretary K Shanmugham addressed the regular press briefing which was hitherto handled by Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh. However, the latter was also present at the briefing on Friday. The Chief Secretary said that all 77 patients, who tested positive, have contact or travel history, and 70 of them have links to the “single source event in Delhi,” an oblique reference to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in the national capital. He also said the state was still in Stage-2 of the disease and the source of infection of all but 23 patients has been conclusively established. “Only for 23 patients, we have not been able to directly establish the source of infection. Even in these patients, we can indirectly conclude the cause,” Shanmugham said, adding that efforts were on to ensure new cases don’t emerge from non-containment zones. He also said 72 patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) were tested for COVID-19 but 67 tested negative, while the test results of remaining five are yet to come. The Chief Secretary said there was no shortage of masks or medical equipment in Tamil Nadu as the state was directly procuring them without “solely” depending on the Centre. On extension of lockdown, the top bureaucrat said experts were of the view that ending the lockdown before the spread of COVID-19 has been contained would make the last few weeks' progress fruitless. A decision on extending the lockdown would be decided after Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami meets with the Prime Minister and state cabinet colleagues on Saturday. The state has so far tested 8,410 samples and have placed 1,987 persons in isolations wards in hospitals. It also plans to begin mass testing of people from this weekend once it gets one lakh rapid test kits from China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-more-victim-of-coronavirus-in-tamil-nadu-77-new-cases-found-823787.html
10-04-2020||South||COVID-19 relief: RIL, Reliance Foundation donate Rs 5 crore to CMRF||Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) and Reliance Foundation have contributed Rs five crore to the Telangana Chief Minister Relief Fund (CMRF) to support the COVID-19 relief efforts cause of the state. K C Reddy, Jio Telangana CEO and Kamal Potlapalli, Corporate Affairs -RIL met Telangana Minister for IT and Industries K T Rama Rao and handed over the RILs contribution letter, "RIL has been in the forefront of executing a comprehensive strategy of fighting this battle and created Indias first Covid-19 facility addressing the challenge of increasing the national capacity for testing, masks, PPE and other critical equipment. It is also providing over 50 lakh meals meal-equivalents through grocery kits across India," an RIL press release said. In addition to all these, RIL and Reliance Foundation has also contributed cumulatively over Rs. 530 crore to the PM- CARES and several Relief Funds, the release added. Meanwhile, Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Raos office said the promoter of My Home Group, Jupally Rameshwar Rao, gave Rs three crore to the CMRF. Similarly, Gangavaram Port Limited donated Rs one crore to the CMRF, the CMO release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-relief-ril-reliance-foundation-donate-rs-5-crore-to-cmrf-823805.html
10-04-2020||South||Seven more test positive for coronavirus in Kerala||Seven more people, including two Tablighi Jamaat returnees, tested positive for COVID-19 in Kerala on Friday, taking the total number of active cases in the state to 238. Kerala Health minister K K Shailaja said 124 people have so far been cured of the infection, including 27 on Friday. Of the seven cases, three are from the worst affected Kasaragod and two each from Kannur and Malappuram districts, a press release quoting the minister said. The two who tested positive from Malappuram had participated in the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi recently. Five people had contracted the infection through contacts, of which two are from Kannur and three from Kasaragod. In a relief to the state, the test results of 27 people, including 17 from the worst affected Kasaragod had turned negative on Friday, the minister said. Since the detection of the first case in the state on January 30, samples of 124, of whom 37 were from Kannur, 24 from Kasaragod and eight foreigners, have turned negative so far and have been discharged, the release said. In the first phase, India's first three coronavirus positive cases, all students from Wuhan, had tested positive for the virus. They have been treated and discharged. The number of virus cases has increased in the state since March 8, with 364 people having tested positive so far. Presently, 238 people, including 130 in Kasaragod, are under treatment in various hospitals and there have been two fatalities. At least 1,29,751 people are under observation in various hospitals, including 730 in hospitals. On Friday, 126 people were admitted to hospitals. Samples of 13,339 people with virus symptoms had been sent for testing, of which 12,335 have returned negative, the release added. Meanwhile, Opposition Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala on Friday slammed the Left government for allegedly entrusting a US company with the task of collecting the data regarding COVID-19 patients and said it was a violation of the fundamental rights of the affected people. The data, collected using government machinery, was being uploaded not in the government server, but that of the foreign company, he told reporters here during a press conference. Such secret data is considered as 'protected health information' by countries and handing it over to a foreign private agency was a "serious" issue, the Congress veteran said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/seven-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-kerala-823810.html
10-04-2020||South||Double whammy for farmers as they lose crop in midst of COVID-19 lockdown||It was a double whammy for farmers in several districts of Andhra Pradesh as untimely rain and gale storm on Thursday left their agricultural and horticultural crops in several thousand hectares damaged, if not destroyed, on top of the misery imposed on them due to the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. Paddy, harvested in some places and ready-to-harvest in others, was the worst hit while chilli, mango, banana, maize and other crops too suffered substantial damage in Kadapa, Kurnool, SPS Nellore, Prakasam, Guntur, Krishna, West Godavari, East Godavari and Srikakulam districts. Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, at his daily review meeting, directed the authorities concerned on Friday to enumerate the crop losses immediately and extend necessary compensation to the distressed farmers. Preliminary estimates by the agriculture department said paddy in over 20,000 hectares in many districts was badly hit by the untimely rain. Rabi paddy harvesting got delayed in many districts because of the ongoing lockdown and the produce that was kept to dry after the harvest got soaked. In Krishna district alone, paddy crop in over 9,700 hectares was damaged while in neighbouring West Godavari the damage was spread over 6,600 hectares. In West Godavari and SPS Nellore districts, ready-to- harvest mango is now almost lost because of the gale storm. Similarly, banana plantations in Kadapa, Kurnool, Nellore and West Godavari districts suffered extensive damage as trees were uprooted. In Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam districts, chilli suffered severe damage. At many places, the harvested chilli was left in the yards for drying up and the sudden rain left it soaked. Crops like cashew, sunflower and green gram were damaged in Srikakulam district. "We are obtaining reports from each district on the extent of damage to each crop. The enumeration will take a few days because of the lockdown and a clear picture on the damages will be known only after that," a senior official of the State Disaster Management Authority said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/double-whammy-for-farmers-as-they-lose-crop-in-midst-of-covid-19-lockdown-823815.html
10-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Online art festival, another lockdown innovation in Kerala||Over 500 candidates, aged from 15 to 70, are participating in the four-day fest, titled Lockdown Online Art festival, that began on Thursday (April 10). The Students Federation of India (SFI) workers of Thodupuzha in Idukki high-range district came up with the idea of conducting an art festival for students of various educational institutions of the locality. However, students of the same region studying in other places also requested to include them in their activity. All students comprising of one municipality and five panchayats are allowed to participate in the event, said SFI Thodupuzha area committee secretary, Linu Jose. Siciliamma C V, who is pursuing law studies at the age of 70, is the eldest among the participants. She is participating in story writing competition. Linu told DH that 26 events are included in the competitions. A special group has been formed in the Telegram social media app, so the participants can submit their work. The participants need to perform at their home itself and post the video on the group at the specified time slot for each event. It would be passed on to the judging panel comprising of three experts in each event. Linu said that they came across a similar initiative in a campus in Kerala and that prompted them to conduct a regional art festival on those lines. It is indeed keeping many engaged during the lockdown days. At the end of the event, 'Kalathilakam' and 'Kalapratibha' titles for those securing higher individual points and trophies for the best-performing institution or region would be also announced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-online-art-festival-another-lockdown-innovation-in-kerala-823835.html
10-04-2020||South||As coronavirus cases near 500, Telangana makes masks compulsory to step out||The Telangana government has revised its earlier advisory of “Masks only for the sick” to “Mask on, while stepping outdoors, in closed spaces and while interacting with others.” A memo of the state’s health department issued on Thursday states that the revision is based on the learning that “a large number of infected people do not show symptoms but are still carriers of infection.” Telangana has, as of Friday night, reported 487 COVID-19 cases, out of which about half are from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation – the Hyderabad civic body’s jurisdiction. Most of the state’s cases are related to the Tablighi Jamaat event. “Till date, there is no evidence of community transmission in Telangana. The family and secondary contacts of Delhi Markaz attendees is being traced, tracked, tested and treated for COVID-19. Containment activity is taken up in all the districts where positive cases are reported,” said a senior health official. While 101 hotspots are identified across the state, GHMC officials have marked at least 12 zones with high incidence of COVID-19 cases and have set up containment clusters in those areas. The crowded Mallepally in old quarters of Hyderabad where the Tablighi Jamaat’s activities are centered is one of them. Avenues with COVID-19 cases are barricaded with eight-foot high metal gates, with heavy police presence to stop any movement in or out. A keen watch by the health and police officials is kept on the 4500-odd people inside the cluster. Except for essential commodities, no one can step out. Households that reported cases are totally sealed, with all aid provided by the authorities. According to the GHMC officials, these 12 containment zones form about 10 per cent – geography and population wise - of Hyderabad civic body area.         On Friday, the state reported 16 new cases making the total active case tally 430 – i.e. those under treatment. 45 people have so far recovered while 12 succumbed to the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-coronavirus-cases-near-500-telangana-makes-masks-compulsory-to-step-out-823837.html
10-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: With 381 COVID-19 cases, Andhra Pradesh sets up 133 containment clusters||The Andhra Pradesh government has quarantined people in 133 containment clusters, spread in 11 districts that reported COVID-19 cases, to prevent further spread of the virus. As on Friday night, the state has a total of 381 positive cases, with Kurnool and Guntur topping with 77 and 58 cases respectively.  It has registered six COVID-19 deaths, while 10 patients have recovered from the virus. Two districts - Vizianagaram and Srikakulam in north coastal Andhra Pradesh, adjoining Odisha - have registered no cases so far. Over 90 per cent of the cases in the state are related to the Nizamuddin Markaz attendees, officials said. 30 containment clusters are in Nellore and 22 are in Kurnool districts, with a large number of Jamaat returnees. Red alert has been issued in these clusters, which form the three-km radius area around the spots with COVID-19 positive patients. A five-km buffer zone in urban areas and seven km in rural areas is also identified for close watch. Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy held a video conference with all 13 district collectors on Friday and hailed the doctors, paramedical staff, and sanitation workers for their relentless service. Unlike other states and cities like Hyderabad, Bengaluru, and Chennai, Andhra Pradesh lacks premier hospitals but has a committed strength of doctors and medical staff, the CM said adding, ““I salute our medical staff keeping our state in the forefront of COVID-19 fight.” “Our COVID-19 cases increased due to Markaz attendees but all of the returnees, their primary and secondary contacts were traced and kept in isolation,” Chief Minister said adding that “the situation is currently under control and normal conditions would prevail in a few days.” The state is carrying out a third-round comprehensive family survey as per the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines to identify any suspects. Officials believe such effective steps would result in a downward trend of COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-with-381-covid-19-cases-andhra-pradesh-sets-up-133-containment-clusters-823852.html
10-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: 17 cured, three infected in Kerala's Kasargod||Of the 27 who recovered, 17 were natives of Kasargod, taking the total number of persons recovered in the district to 24. Meanwhile, three more in the district tested positive. All of them contracted the infection through local contact. At present 130 COVID-19 infected persons are under treatment in Kasargod, while 10 more natives of the district are undergoing treatment in Kannur. Of the seven fresh cases on Friday, two attended the Nizamuddin meet while five were infected through local contact. Of the 364 persons in Kerala who were infected so far, 124 have recovered, while two died and 238 are under treatment. The number of persons under home observation also witnessed a steady decline over the past few days. While 1.35 lakh people were under home observation on Thursday, the number came down to 1.29 lakh by Friday. Around 730 with some kind of symptoms were under hospital observation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-17-cured-three-infected-in-keralas-kasargod-823875.html
10-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu man hangs self in isolation ward; later tests negative for COVID-19||A 60-year-old man, whose swab test results for COVID-19 were awaited, on Friday hanged himself from a ceiling fan inside the isolation ward at the Government Hospital in Ariyalur, 300 km from here. His swab test, however, returned negative and the results came after the patient had killed himself. The man, who was working as a labourer in Kerala, returned to his native village in the district on March 23 and was under home quarantine. He came to the Ariyalur Government Hospital voluntarily on April 6 and doctors admitted him to the isolation ward as he had COVID-19 symptoms like fever and cough. “Since he displayed symptoms for COVID-19 and had travel history, doctors took his swab samples and quarantined him at the isolation ward of the hospital,” Ariyalur District Collector D Rathna told DH. She said the patient had a quarrel with his wife over phone on Thursday night and is said to have shouted at her during the call. Hospital sources said domestic discord might be the reason for the man’s extreme step and added that he seemed to have been upset with his family members not checking on his health even over the phone. The district collector said the patient attended the regular psychiatric session that is mandatory for all patients in the isolation ward on Friday and had even taken tea and snacks at 5 pm. “It was the duty doctor who went to the ward at around 7 pm for regular visit found him hanging from the fan. He had used a towel,” she said, adding that his swab samples returned negative – the patient didn’t know since the results came much after he had ended his life.  The suicide of a man inside the isolation ward of a hospital highlights the need to focus more on providing counselling to patients who are lodged in isolation wards of hospitals. The state government says it has made available counsellors to provide psychological support to patients under isolation. The government has also publicized mobile numbers of counsellors who will provide help to those under stress due to COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-man-hangs-self-in-isolation-ward-later-tests-negative-for-covid-19-823884.html
10-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Tamil Nadu says no to new disinfection tunnels||The first “disinfection tunnel” in the country was launched in Tiruppur on April 1 and several districts in Tamil Nadu and other states, including Karnataka, followed suit. After the number of such tunnels increased, experts raised concerns about the effectiveness of these chemicals sprayed on humans in killing the virus. Some of them even said the chemicals used to spray on humans might be more harmful than the virus itself. As apprehensions were raised, the Tamil Nadu government on Friday sought the opinion of an expert committee of doctors appointed by it to suggest measures to contain COVID-19. The experts are understood to have said there was scientific proof of the effectiveness of disinfection tunnels. In a message to district collectors, the government on Friday evening said the chemicals, if used at higher concentrations, would result in irritation to eyes and skin. The government said the public should “not be misled to think” that the virus will get killed if they pass through the tunnel in the absence of any scientific study. “On the contrary, washing hands with soap has been found to be extremely effective to prevent the spread of the virus. Hence, Collectors are requested to refrain from setting up of disinfectant tunnels in their districts,” the message read. Three district collectors confirmed that they received a message regarding setting up of disinfection tunnels from the government. However, they said there was no clarity on the existing ones. “We will wait for further instructions. But it is clear we can’t set up new ones,” a district collector said. The solution sprayed on people who pass through the disinfection tunnel is 1 percent of sodium hypochlorite in 1 ppm, which was said to be cleared by doctors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-tamil-nadu-says-no-to-new-disinfection-tunnels-823888.html
10-04-2020||State||Coronavirus lockdown: Blood shortage looms large in Tumakuru district||Since the country-wide COVID-19 lockdown, blood banks in the district are facing a shortage of blood collection. Doctors fear that this might lead to a bigger problem of blood unavailability if the current situation continues.   Blood banks have begun going out in mobile vans to places where people gather like hospitals and markets and requesting donors to donate blood voluntarily. So far, blood banks are not facing a severe shortage of blood. But blood is required for deliveries of pregnant mothers and people who undergo surgery.  Because of the lockdown, organising blood donation camps are ruled out. The district blood banks were supplying nearly 500 units of blood. Going forward, meeting this demand may become difficult and a major shortage may occur. Earlier, blood banks used to organise five blood donation camps a month in different places. Now, police even stop voluntary donors going to blood banks to donate blood said blood banks sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-blood-shortage-looms-large-in-tumakuru-district-823699.html
10-04-2020||State||Patient from Kerala returns without availing treatment||A woman patient from Kasargod visited K S Hegde Charitable Hospital at Deralakatte citing headache but returned to the town without a diagnosis.  The district administration has designated K S Hegde Charitable Hospital for treating non-COVID Kerala patients.  Accordingly, the woman patient, who complained of headache, returned in another ambulance that had brought a patient from Kasargod to the hospital.  The doctor had asked the patient to undergo a few tests to ascertain the cause of the headache. However, she did not respond and returned without informing the doctors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/patient-from-kerala-returns-without-availing-treatment-823781.html
10-04-2020||State||Rain lashes parts of Belthangady||Heavy rain lashed different parts of Belthangady in Dakshina Kannada on Friday. Including, Naravi, Kuthloor, Pilya, Aladangady, Shirlal areas received good shower. While, the Belthangady and Guruvayanakere experienced drizzling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rain-lashes-parts-of-belthangady-823785.html
10-04-2020||State||Complete distributing rations by April 25: Minister||Food and Civil Supplies Minister K Gopalaiah inspected ration shops in two places --Tumakuru city and Hebbur --in the district on Friday. He asked officials to complete the process of distributing rations by April 25. The minister said that he will visit two districts each day and inspect the public rationing system there.  He told officials not to insist on OTP (One Time Password) to disburse rations or take money for the rations that the government has sanctioned. "If the ration card holder lives farther than 3 km from the shop, I have asked the shop owner to deliver the rations to their doorstep," he added. Officials told the minister that 53% of the rations had already been distributed. Goplaiah visited the Siddaganga Mutt during his visit to the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/complete-distributing-rations-by-april-25-minister-823789.html
10-04-2020||State||91 foreigners leave for home countries from Gokarna||The police, district administration and the Tourism Department officials have lent a helping hand to several foreign tourists, stranded here following the lockdown clamped to check the spread of Covid-19 pandemic, to return to their respective countries.  A total of 91 foreign tourists of 12 different nations, including France, Germany, Israel, Spain, Sweden, Denmark and Netherlands, have left for their countries thanks to the local officials who contacted their embassies and made arrangements for their safe return. The local officials provided the details of the foreign tourists to the Goa officials. Later, they were allowed to return to their countries through Goa airport. Flight cancelled However, a flight, scheduled to fly to Russia from Goa on Thursday night, was cancelled suddenly. About 100 Russians were ready to fly to their country back. A police source said Russia has completely banned the entry of flights from other countries. Hence, the air service to Russia has been put off, the source added. A total of 180 Russians are staying in Gokarna. Among them, only 100 are ready to go back to their country, the source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/91-foreigners-leave-for-home-countries-from-gokarna-823850.html
10-04-2020||State||22 people test negative in Kolar district||A total of 22 people from Narasapur village in the district, who had come in contact with Covid-19 positive person from Bayalur Narasapur, tested negative. The man from Bayalu Narasapur in Bengaluru rural district had visited many parts of the district. He is one of 34 people from the district who reportedly attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi between March 13 and 15. After he returned to his native place, his throat swabs and blood samples were sent to the laboratory for a report. The investigation reports indicated that he had Covid-19. At present, he is undergoing treatment at an isolation ward at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, Bengaluru . Members of three families in Narasapur village and two families in Vemagal had come in contact with him. All 22 people were kept under home quarantine. The development had raised concerns in the district. Meanwhile, the health department has traced 12 persons of three families from Vemagal who had come in contact with the man. About 12 members of two families in Narasapur too have been traced. Throat swabs and blood samples of all 24 people have been sent to the laboratory for reports. They have been advised home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/22-people-test-negative-in-kolar-district-823856.html
10-04-2020||State||MLA serves biryani at his b'day party with kids||Despite the country-wide lockdown and the social distancing norm that needs to be mandatorily adopted, Turuvekere MLA Masale Jayaram, celebrated his birthday with children of the government school in Idaguru village, CS Pura hobli in Gubbi taluk on Friday.   Throwing caution to the winds, the MLA celebrated his birthday with school kids with police present at the venue. Biryani was served to the people who attended the party.  Police who use lathis to prevent people from coming out of their homes provided protection to the MLA at his birthday bash instead of taking action against him. The video of the MLA's celebration has gone viral on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mla-serves-biryani-at-his-bday-party-with-kids-823867.html
10-04-2020||State||Help reaches Devadasi community in Davangere||As many as 25 families belonging to the Devadasi community in Davanagere district, who were struggling for ration, received supplies on Friday with the intervention of local leaders and government officials. DH had carried a report on April 8, on how several families belonging to the community did not have access to ration owing to the lockdown. Based on the report, Chitradurga MP A Narayanaswamy, along with Jagalur MLA S V Ramachandrappa, reached out to the families in Asagodu village in Davanagere district and distributed the supplies. T V Renukamma, state president, Karnataka State Devadasi Mahila Vimochana Sangha, who welcomed the initiative, urged the state government to take up similar initiatives to ensure supplies for the distressed community in other districts too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/help-reaches-devadasi-community-in-davangere-823868.html
10-04-2020||State||Districts have enough supplies of TB drugs to handle lockdown||Ever wondered how over 90,000 Tuberculosis (TB) patients in Karnataka get their medicines in this prolonged period of lockdown? In the run-up to the lockdown, the state dispensed medicines for two months to the TB patients. But there are those who are taking treatment from private healthcare providers and have said no to the public health system. But 10% of these patients are also taking medicines from the government. The Karnataka Health Promotion Trust, armed with a list of 1,000 TB patients’ contacts from Bengaluru, keeps calling them every day to remind them to take medicines, for their viral load may increase without the medication. Currently, if a patient has two weeks of cough, a spike in fever in the evening, and some degree of loss of appetite, a test for TB is done. Most of these symptoms are similar to those of Covid-19. Any Covid-19 suspect being tested for novel coronavirus is also being tested for TB. Additional cartridges for GeneXpert machines that are used for testing phlegm samples of TB patients have also been dispatched. 35,000 cartridges of GeneXpert are already available with 65 testing facilities in Karnataka. A top-up of 17,000 was done. The district drug stores in Karnataka have a surplus of TB drugs now with three and four fixed drug combination (FDC) drugs for the first line of treatment having been dispatched in troves from March 1st till now. A health department official, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Apart from the existing medicines, we sent a buffer stock to the stores. As far as 3 FDC drugs are concerned, the districts had 80,000 strips. We sent a buffer stock of 82,000 strips. These will go from the district drug stores to respective TB units. From there it will be sent to all PHIs including a primary health center. If any patient walks in for want of TB drugs, they will be given the same.” As far as 4 FDC drugs are concerned, existing stock included 70,000 strips and additional stock of 50,000 strips was sent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/districts-have-enough-supplies-of-tb-drugs-to-handle-lockdown-823877.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt fights online pandemic of fake news, reaches over 49 lakh people||A video of a drum-beating man heralding a message in the Ankanahalli village of Ramangara went viral on Thursday. He announces that the gram panchayat has barred entry of Muslims and anyone transacting with them will be penalised Rs 500-1,000.  Senior IAS officer L K Atheeq, who heads the government’s committee on information dissemination on the COVID-19 pandemic, busted this. “It is a minor mischief involving a gram panchayat member and two other people. The gram panchayat itself has no role,” he tweeted.  This was just one example. The committee has been on an overdrive to ensure citizens are well-informed during the pandemic by countering fake news and rumour-mongering. Since March 21, the committee has busted 33 fake news or messages circulated on social media. This includes a message that said citizens cannot post or forward messages on COVID-19, one claiming that colleges will be shut till May 20, a purported WHO lockdown protocol among others.  While Atheeq, whose current position is principal secretary, RDPR, is overseeing the information, education & communication (IEC) initiatives, IAS officers P Manivannan (secretary, Department of Information and Public Relations) and C Shikha (managing director, BMTC) are also on the committee. “We have pooled in resources from our respective departments to put a team together,” Atheeq told DH.  “We have a dedicated page for fake news on the government’s official COVID-19 website. As and when we come across fake news - like the Ramanagara one - we alert the police and advisories are issued,” Atheeq said.  Concerned over the rise in messages targeting Muslims, the committee got the government to remove the reference to the Tablighi Jamaat in the daily COVID-19 bulletin to avoid further stigma. Instead of saying Tablighi Jamaat, the bulletin simply attributes ‘travel to Delhi’ as the source of infection among the fresh positive cases.  Till date, the committee claims to have reached 49.17 lakh people through WhatsApp, Twitter, Instagram, TikTok and Facebook. “TikTok, especially, has helped. Usually, no government channel uses this platform that mostly has dance videos. But we’ve been pushing the chief minister’s videos,” Atheeq said.  Besides real-time dissemination of information related to COVID-19, Manivannan runs a public Telegram channel that citizens can join and ask questions. “We also have village-level task forces to enforce social distancing, home quarantine and ensure distribution of essential supplies,” Atheeq pointed out. On their part, the police have set up their own fact-checking mechanism at factcheck.ksp.gov.in||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-fights-online-pandemic-of-fake-news-reaches-over-49-lakh-people-823478.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mystery COVID-19 cases in Karnataka leave govt worried||Mystery COVID-19 cases of Karnataka are giving the Karnataka government jitters with the health department unable to identify the source even days after their hospitalisation. Their infected cluster is becoming bigger. There are at least 10 cases where they have no travel history, international or domestic, have no contact with infected cases, nor any know contact with their primary and secondary contacts. And yet, the state is denying community transmission. BBMP For example, out of the 16 cases reported on Thursday, P196 and P197 who are 42-year-old and 27-year-old men respectively, residing in BBMP areas, have only been identified as those suffering from SARI - Severe Acute Respiratory Infection. There is no information on their travel history or contact history. Asked if after so many cases of SARI, these can be considered examples of community transmission, spokesperson for COVID-19 in Karnataka, Minister S Suresh Kumar, denied it, saying not all SARI cases are devoid of travel history. "One SARI case P195 is a 66-year-old man who travelled from Manipur to Bengaluru on March 12," he said. However, in this case, it has already been 27 days before he tested positive for COVID-19, well after the presumed window period of 14 days. P101, a 62-year-old woman from Bengaluru who is still on ventilator, has no known travel history or contact history. A detailed investigation is on in her case, says Kumar. Gadag P166, the 80-year-old woman who died in the wee hours on Thursday, has also been identified as a meeting case of SARI. The source of infection is yet to be known as all her family members and contacts, 42 in all, have tested negative. The test results of 11 others are awaited. Mysuru Details are yet to be ascertained for P158, a 26-year-old man from Mysuru. Despite a detailed investigation, health officials have still been unable to find out the cause of infection in the Nanjangud case of a pharma company employee. "The 35-year-old man (patient number 52), who did not have any foreign travel or contact history, tested positive on March 26, and so far has infected 36 others," said Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar. P52 spread the infection to his wife and father-in-law including to several of his colleagues. They are all managers in mid-level positions in the company. The department even took samples from the packages that the company got from China. But it did not yield the source. P137 is a 39-year-old man from Mysuru about whom 'detailed investigation is under process'. The same explanation has been given for P139, a 40-year-old man from Mysuru. Bagalkot P125 is a 75-year-old man who died. The source for his infection is still being determined in a 'detailed investigation under process'. Bengaluru Urban P102 is a 24-year-old man from Bengaluru where his source of infection is being ascertained in a 'detailed investigation'. The man was recently weaned off a ventilator. He is the youngest to be put on a ventilator in the state. Ballari P89 (52-year-old man), P90 (48-year-old woman) and P91 (26-year-old woman) from Hosapete in Ballari travelled to Bengaluru but their source of infection is yet to be found.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mystery-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-leave-govt-worried-823479.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Yediyurappa appoints district-in-charge ministers; Not unhappy, says Jarkiholi||Three recently inducted ministers were left out of the list of district-in-charge ministers, while five cabinet members have received additional charge of districts. Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has retained charge of Bengaluru Urban district. Among the ministers not inducted to the cabinet included Ramesh Jarkiholi, K Gopalaiah and Shrimanth Patil. They are among the 10 defectors from the Congress-JD(S) coalition, who won with a BJP ticket in December 2019 and were sworn in as ministers in February this year. Amidst rumours of disgruntlement regarding the issue, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has dismissed the same. The ministers in charge of additional districts are DyCM and PWD minister Govind Karjol - Bagalkot and additional charge of Kalaburagi, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar - Belagavi and Dharwad, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai - Haveri and Udupi, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister JC Madhuswamy - Tumakuru and Hassan and Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan - Bidar and additional charge of Yadgir district. The other in-charge ministers are: DyCM and Higher Education Minister CN Ashwath Narayan - Ramanagara, DyCM and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi - Raichur, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister KS Eshwarappa - Shivamogga, Revenue Minister R Ashok - Bengaluru Rural, Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu - Chitradurga, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar - Chamarajanagar, Housing Minister V Somanna - Kodagu, Tourism Minister CT Ravi - Chikkamagaluru, Muzarai and Fisheries Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary - Dakshina Kannada, Mines and Geology Minister CC Patil - Gadag, Excise Minister H Nagesh - Kolar, Women and Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle - Vijayapura, Labour and Sugar Minister Shivaram Hebbar - Uttara Kannada, Cooperation Minister ST Somashekar - Mysuru, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar - Chikkaballapur, Municipal Administration Minister KC Narayana Gowda - Mandya district, Forest Minister Anand Singh - Ballari, Urban Development Minister Byrati Basavaraju - Davanagere district, and Agriculture Minister BC Patil - Koppal district. There were reports of disgruntlement soon after the list was released, claiming that Ramesh - who represents Gokak in Belagavi district - was left unhappy. While four MLAs from the district are ministers - Savadi, Jolle, Ramesh and Shrimanth Patil, charge of Belagavi was handed over to Shettar, who has additional charge of Dharwad. Jarkiholi, in a statement, said that he had requested the CM not to make him in-charge of Belagavi district and continue Shettar as in-charge. "There is no question of disgruntlement. The CM was keen on appointing me as district-in-charge. Since Belagavi is a large district and I handle the Water Resources portfolio, I conveyed my inability to fulfil both responsibilities," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-yediyurappa-appoints-district-in-charge-ministers-not-unhappy-says-jarkiholi-823613.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown decision 'hasty', farmers, labourers suffering: Deve Gowda||Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda on Friday claimed the lockdown decision was taken in 'haste' without forethought because of which farmers and the working class were 'suffering' and suggested measures to mitigate the impact. The state government should have consulted experienced citizens, officials, progressive farmers, farmer organisations and wholesale traders about the pros and cons before lockdown, he said in a letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, while highlighting that 61 per cent of the state's population depended on agriculture. Because of the "hasty decision taken without any preparations", farmers of the country and the state are facing financial distress," he said in the April 9 letter, a copy of which was released to media here on Friday. The JD(S) patriarch suggested taking up some measures, including ensuring no restrictions on agriculture activities, procurement of horticulture produce at a fair price, relaxing export curbs on it, to provide relief to farmers, agriculture labourers, and daily wage workers. On Sunday, Gowda had said he has assured Prime Minister Narendra Modi of his support in the nation's battle against COVID-19 pandemic when the latter called him to discuss the situation. In his letter to the chief minister, Gowda said: "...the lockdown implemented to control the spread of coronavirus has led our farmers into despair and put their lives into a burning fire. This lockdown looks like a decision taken at haste without proper thinking and forethought for our farmers, agriculture labourers, and daily wage workers." He said the lockdown decision was taken after remaining 'quite' for about two months since the first corona infection was reported in the country on January 30. Among the suggestions made by the former prime minister include, procurement of horticulture produce at a fair price like in the case of milk from villages by the government through related organisations like Karnataka Horticulture Federation, HOPCOMS among others.  As horticulture produce was perishable, there should be no restriction on its procurement, transportation and marketing; all processing related activities of horticulture produce should be given relaxation from the lockdown, he said. Gowda also called for relaxation on exports for horticulture produce and its processed items. There should be no restriction on agriculture activities; a national grid has to be set up for marketing of horticulture produce, he said. If such measures were not taken up immediately, the government will have to pay compensation to farmers for losses. Lack of remedial measures would lead to a shortage of supply, leading to rebellion from the people and may result in farmers' suicides and bringing about a situation that might be more grave than coroanvirus, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-decision-hasty-farmers-labourers-suffering-deve-gowda-823739.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka breaches 200 coronavirus cases, beefs up health infrastructure||Karnataka breached the 200 mark in the number of COVID-19 cases it reported on Friday with the state tally reaching 207. Two more patients have been admitted to the intensive care unit -- P108-K and P195. P108-K is one of the six transit passengers Kerala who landed in the airports of Karnataka and are being treated here. P108-K arrived in the city through Abu Dhabi from Germany March 21st. Since he was a category B patient, he was quarantined upon arrival. This category includes passengers who are above 60 years of age and have co-morbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension, and have to be sent to a quarantine facility. P195 is a 66-year-old man suffering from severe acute respiratory infection who returned from Manipur on March 12th. According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike's analysis of the total positive cases of 71 in Bengaluru and their source of transmission, 65% (46) have a travel history, 7% (5 cases) are Tablighi Jamaat attendees, two (3%) have a travel history and are a primary contact, and 25% (18) are primary contacts. In a bid to beef up the health infrastructure in the state in view of the spiralling cases, the health department has issued a circular to convert 50% of the urban primary health centres into fever clinics. The Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust has issued a circular to all districts to identify alternate hospitals in their respective districts to facilitate treatment of patients for all non-COVID-19 health requirements. SAST shall provisionally empanel the hospitals that are identified by the Deputy Commissioners, which are not empanelled under it. On Thursday, the government had already notified 14 district government hospitals with 5,665 beds, 801 ICU beds, and 372 ventilators for COVID-19 in Bagalkot, Chitradurga, Haveri, Chamarajanagar, Chikkabalapur, Kolar, Chikkamagaluru, Udupi, Davanagere, Yadgir, Ramanagara, Tumakuru, Uttara Kannada, and Vijaypura. The ones in Tumakuru and Chitradurga are being developed. Out of the 10 cases reported on Friday, two are from BBMP, five from Mysuru, one from Kalaburagi and two from Bengaluru Rural. The number of recovered patients went up to 34 on Friday with four more patients being discharged. One more private testing lab Apollo Hospital, Bannerghatta Road, has been added to the list of private labs that have been approved for COVID-19 testing in Karnataka. Now, there are five private labs and 10 government labs for testing COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-breaches-200-coronavirus-cases-beefs-up-health-infrastructure-823786.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka declares results for classes 1 to 9||The Department of Public Instructions, Karnataka, has declared results for students from classes 1 to 9 on the Students Achievements Tracking System (SATS). The portal has been opened up for all students to access. The state government had earlier decided to promote all students from classes 1 to 9 based on their internal assessments and periodical tests such as FA 1, 2, 3, 4 and Summative Assessments 1 and 2. K G Jagadeesha, Commissioner for Public Instructions said, "The data has been collated and published on the SATS. The marks and transfer certificates are now available on the same portal and can be accessed by all." If students achieve a 'failed' grade, then remedial classes will be conducted and these students can give online exams or regular exams can be conducted after classes commence||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-declares-results-for-classes-1-to-9-823813.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Education department declares results for class 1 to 9||The Department of Public Instruction has declared the results of students from Class 1 to 9 on Students Achievements Tracking System (SATS) and opened the portal for access by all students. The state government had earlier decided to promote all students from Class 1 to 9 based on their internal assessments and periodical tests such as FA 1, 2, 3, 4 and Summative Assessments 1 and 2. K G Jagadeesha, Commissioner for Public Instruction said, "The data has been collated and published on the SATS. The marks and transfer certificates are now available on the same portal and can be accessed by all." In case any student "failed" by securing lower marks, then remedial classes should be conducted, and online exams or regular exams can be conducted after the commencement of the classes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/education-department-declares-results-for-class-1-to-9-823840.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||7 booked for boat travel to M’luru||The Mangaluru police have registered a case against seven persons for violating the lockdown by travelling in a boat from Kerala to Addur on the outskirts of the city. Commissioner of Police P S Harsha said, Yakoob (48) had crossed Talapady along with his family members in a boat to reach Addur. They were helped in their transit by one, Shakir. The commissioner said Yakoob had violated all lockdown norms issued by the state and central governments. All the seven have been sent to Wenlock Hospital for health check-up and will remain quarantined there. Meanwhile, the Gangolli police booked cases against Fr Fred Mascarenhas of St Antony Church of Padukone, Nada village and six others for violating the lockdown rules and holding mass prayers in the church on Thursday evening, reports DHNS from Udupi. Following complaints that the priest and six others were offering prayers at the church, the police registered cases under sections 188, 269 and 149 of the IPC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/7-booked-for-boat-travel-to-m-luru-823842.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Graduation, PG exams only after May 31, says minister||The postponed examinations of all the undergraduation and postgraduation courses will be held only after May 31. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan on Friday said, "Tentatively, we are planning to conduct examinations after the month of May. Students and parents do not need to worry about it." He advised students to study and prepare for examinations through various online platforms available and also by attending the online classes conducted by the respective universities. "I understand that students who are staying at rural areas cannot attend classes conducted through Zoom App due to network issues. For the benefit of those students, we have uploaded the pre-recorded content on the Youtube channel launched by the department recently," he explained. The minister assured students that the examinations will not be conducted soon after the commencement of classes. "We will give students some time to come out of the mental stress they are all going through currently due to the lockdown and Covid-19 crisis. Exams will be conducted by giving necessary time for students to prepare," he assured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/graduation-pg-exams-only-after-may-31-says-minister-823844.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Don't demand school fee, govt adviser tells pvt schools||Prof M R Doreswamy, adviser to state government (education reforms), has requested all private school managements in the state to follow the order issued by Department of Public Instruction about collection of fee for next academic year. In an appeal, he requested school managements to understand the current situation and not to demand parents to pay the fee. "This might affect students as there are chances of parents forcing students to discontinue education owing to financial crisis in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak and nationwide lockdown," said Doreswamy||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dont-demand-school-fee-govt-adviser-tells-pvt-schools-823845.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||District ministers appointed; Jarkiholi doesn't get Belagavi||All 30 districts now have ministers in-charge with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa retaining Bengaluru Urban with him. Late on Thursday night, the government issued a notification appointing new district in-charge ministers.  Three ministers - Ramesh Jarkiholi, Shrimant Patil and K Gopalaiah - have not been given charge of any district. Jarkiholi, who was tipped to be made in-charge of Belagavi, dismissed reports of disgruntlement. He said he declined the responsibility as he was already in-charge of the laborious water resources portfolio. "The chief minister was keen on appointing me as district in-charge. Since Belagavi is a large district and I handle Water Resources portfolio, I conveyed my inability to fulfill both charges," Jarkiholi said in a statement. The district in-charge ministers are as follows: B S Yediyurappa: Bengaluru Urban, Govind Karjol: Bagalkot and Kalaburagi, Jagadish Shettar: Belagavi and Dharwad, Basavaraj Bommai: Haveri and Udupi, J C Madhuswamy: Tumakuru and Hassan, Prabhu Chauhan: Bidar and Yadgir, C N Ashwath Narayan: Ramanagara, Laxman Savadi: Raichur, KS Eshwarappa: Shivamogga, R Ashoka: Bengaluru Rural, B Sriramulu: Chitradurga, S Suresh Kumar: Chamarajanagar, V Somanna: Kodagu, C T Ravi: Chikkamagaluru, Kota Srinivas Poojary: Dakshina Kannada, CC Patil: Gadag, H Nagesh: Kolar, Shashikala Jolle: Vijayapura, Shivaram Hebbar: Uttara Kannada, S T Somashekar: Mysuru, K Sudhakar: Chikkaballapur, K C Narayana Gowda: Mandya, Anand Singh: Ballari, B A Basavaraja (Byrathi): Davanagere and B C Patil: Koppal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/district-ministers-appointed-jarkiholi-doesnt-get-belagavi-823848.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress chief D K Shivakumar petitions police chief, seeks action against BJP leaders||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Friday lodged a complaint with Director General and Inspector General of Police Praveen Sood seeking action against four BJP leaders for their alleged communal statements. In his petition, Shivakumar cited remarks made by BJP MP Shobha Karandlaje, former union minister Anant Kumar Hegde, MLAs MP Renukacharya and Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, describing them “vituperative statements which are offences under Sections 153A of the IPC.”  The Congress leader said the four leaders "joined in a criminal conspiracy to create enmity between Hindus and Muslims.” Their statements, Shivakumar said, further caused "criminal intimidation by threatening to shoot down persons belonging to a particular community.”  Shivakumar accused the BJP leaders of "misusing even the killer Covid-19 pandemic to further their oblique political purposes."  Speaking to reporters, Shivakumar said the DG and IGP was "duty-bound" to take suo motu action. "It doesn’t matter what the chief minister says or does, but the DGP is the concerned authority. He must take action," he said.  'Read the Preamble' Shivakumar announced a ‘Read the Preamble’ programme on April 14 to mark 129th birth anniversary of B R Ambedkar, the architect of the Indian Constitution.  "It is with this Constitution that we’ve built our society and it’s the biggest asset of our country. We want to celebrate, but there must be social distancing. So, at 10 am on April 14, only 8-10 leaders will assemble in the party’s headquarters to take a minute by reading the preamble," he said. "Party workers and citizens are also invited to read the Preamble wherever they are," he added.  Shivakumar reiterated that the Congress will support the government on whatever decision is taken on combating the Covid-19 pandemic.  Vision K'taka panel The Congress has constituted a 15-member committee called Vision Karnataka, which will be headed by former minister R V Deshpande. The committee will look at ways in which the economic challenges can be faced after the coronavirus crisis subsides. Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Gowda is the committee's convener.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-chief-d-k-shivakumar-petitions-police-chief-seeks-action-against-bjp-leaders-823849.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No issues over dist incharge minister: Ramesh||Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, on Friday, put to rest all speculations that he was disappointed over not being made incharge of the district. “I myself had requested Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to continue Jagadish Shettar as incharge of the district. Hence, there is no question of disappointment,” he said in a statement here. He said the responsibility of his portfolio was huge.  So, he was not keen on the additional responsibility of Belagavi, a big district. Jarkiholi said Shettar being the incharge minister was akin to he (Jarkiholi) himself being the incharge minister. The minister said he had conveyed to the chief minister that he would take charge of the district one year prior to the elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-issues-over-dist-incharge-minister-ramesh-823851.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||With no takers, Haveri farmers let flowers wilt at farm||The coronavirus-induced lockdown has hit the floriculturists in the district hard. With no takers for galate flower, the farmers are destroying flowers or letting the produce wilt in thefarms. Many farmers of Ganajuru, Hanumanahalli, Kallapur, Basapur among other villages in the taluk have taken to galate flower (yellow flowers in full bloom looks like chrysanthemum) cultivation. There is a huge demand for galate flowers in Haveri and adjoining districts. Buyers from districts buy the flower from Haveri market. Shanmukappa Anaji, an aggrieved farmers from Ganajuru poured out his woes to DH, “I had procured galate flower saplings from Dharwad and transplanted the same three months back. I had harvested twice and sold the flower at Rs 30 per kg. I was expecting a good harvest and profits, this Ugadi. But everything went haywire following the lockdown clamped to curb the virus spread. I didn’t pluck about 3 quintals of flowers. Both flowers and plants wilted due to pest menace. I didn’t have any option but to destroy the plants, which I did using my tractor,” he rued. “I have spent Rs 6,000 for saplings and a further Rs 17,000 on tilling, manure and labourers. In return, I got just Rs 5,000. I would have earned Rs 2 lakh in six months even if the flowers were sold at a below par price of Rs 25- to Rs 30 per kg. My hard work and money have gone down the drain due the pandemic,” the farmer lamented. The story of Nagaraj Angadi, a farmer from Ganajuru, is no different. Angadi, who is into galate flower cultivation for the past six-to-seven years, has let the produce wilt at its farm owing to the lockdown and drastic fall in price.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/with-no-takers-haveri-farmers-let-flowers-wilt-at-farm-823854.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covd-19: 17 lakh people to be screened in Haveri||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said that a decision would be taken on extending lock down after videoconferencing with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. Addressing reporters, here he said that Modi would hold the videoconferencing with chief ministers of all states and a decision on either continuing or ending the lock down in the state would be taken. Bommai warned that stern action would be taken against those circulating false and provocative content on social media about Covid-19. “Director General AND Inspector General of Police Praveen Sood has discussed the matter with superintendents of police of all districts. The police are closely watching social media tools,” he said. Bommai, also Haveri district in-charge minister, said that about 17 lakh people in the district would be subjected for medical examination. Six lakh people had already under gone the examination. Suitable treatment would be given to those suffering from low immunity and respiratory problems. “About 530 Personal Protective Equipment Kits, 10,500 Covid masks, one lakh three-layer masks and sanitiser will be distributed among home guards, policemen and medical staff. Instructions have been given to prepare 40 beds in district hospital and five beds in taluk hospitals for Covid-19 patients in the district,” he said. Bommai stated that vacant medical and para medical posts would be filled on contract basis. Daily wage labourers had been worst hit due to lock down and the chief minister would be consulted on helping them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covd-19-17-lakh-people-to-be-screened-in-haveri-823855.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt's digital library gets more visitors||The lockdown has brought more number of visitors to the State Library department's online library. As per the data provided from the department, more than 10,000 people have downloaded the app since the lockdown was imposed last month. "The variety of content available in the app is attracting more people towards reading," said Minister S Suresh Kumar, who holds the Public Libraries Department. There are over 1 lakh e-books available on the digital platform of the department. The books range from arts, humanities, to school and college curriculum and also other competitive examinations. However, these are all free for readers through the app.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govts-digital-library-gets-more-visitors-823865.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Holiday for teachers extended||The Department of Public Instruction has extended the holiday for teachers up to April 30. In the earlier order, teachers were given holidays till March 31, following Covid-19 outbreak. Now the holiday has been extended up to April 30 and teachers have been asked to complete the tasks given to them during this period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/holiday-for-teachers-extended-823866.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||State breaches 200 mark, beefs up health infra||Karnataka breached the 200 mark in the number of Covid-19 cases it reported, on Friday. The tally has reached 207. Two more patients have been admitted to the intensive care unit - P108-K and P195. P108-K is one of the six transit passengers from Kerala who landed in the airports of Karnataka and are being treated here. P108-K arrived in the city through Abu Dhabi from Germany on March 21. Since he was a category B patient, he was quarantined upon arrival. This category includes passengers who are above 60 years of age and have co-morbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension, and have to be sent to a quarantine facility.  P195 is a 66-year-old man suffering from severe acute respiratory infection who returned from Manipur on March 12.  According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s analysis of the total positive cases of 71 in Bengaluru and their source of transmission, 65% (46) have a travel history, 7% (5 cases) are Tablighi Jamaat attendees, two (3%) have a travel history and are a primary contact and 25% (18) are primary contacts. In a bid to beef up the health infrastructure in the state in view of the spiralling cases, the health department has issued a circular to convert 50% of the urban primary health centres to fever clinics. The Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST) has issued a circular to all districts to identify alternative hospitals in their respective districts to facilitate treatment of patients for all non- Covid-19 health requirements. SAST shall provisionally empanel the hospitals that are identified by the Deputy Commissioners. On Thursday, the government had already notified 14 district government hospitals with 5,665 beds, 801 ICU beds, and 372 ventilators for Covid-19 patients in Bagalkot, Chitradurga, Haveri, Chamarajanagar, Chikkaballapur, Kolar, Chikkamagaluru, Udupi, Davanagere, Yadgir, Ramanagara, Tumakuru, Uttara Kannada, and Vijayapura. The ones in Tumakuru and Chitradurga are being developed.  Out of the 10 cases reported on Friday, two are from BBMP limits, five from Mysuru, one from Kalaburagi and two from Bengaluru Rural. The number of recovered patients went up to 34 on Friday with four more patients being discharged.   Apollo Hospital, Bannerghatta Road in Bengaluru has been added to the list of private labs that have been approved for Covid-19 testing in Karnataka. Now, there are five private labs and 10 government labs for testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/state-breaches-200-mark-beefs-up-health-infra-823873.html
10-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||K’taka, Kerala cops join hands to deliver life-saving drug to baby||The Karnataka police joined hands with their Kerala counterparts in delivering medicine to a six month old child in Thiruvananthapuram. This, despite the differences between Kerala and Karnataka over allowing patients from Kasargod to enter Mangaluru. The son of Prajith, a native of Thiruvananthapuram, suffers from an ailment and his blood glucose level started dipping due to the unavailability of the medicine locally, owing to the lockdown. Prajith, who is working abroad, came to know that the medicine was available in Bengaluru. But transportation was the major hurdle due to the lockdown. Prajith sent an email request to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's office and the CMO forwarded it to state police chief (SPC) Loknath Behera. The SPC referred the matter to IG S Sreejith, who is heading the community policing wing of the Kerala Police, known as the 'Janamaithri Police'. Sreejith got in touch with ADGP-Railway in Karnataka, J Arun Chakravarthy, on Tuesday. Chakravarthy told DH that as soon as he got the request from police officials in Kerala, he made arrangements for collecting the medicine from a person who possessed it and sent it to the Kerala Police at the Talapady inter-state border in a special vehicle. Sreejith said police patrol teams passed on the medicine and it reached Thiruvananthapuram by late night on Wednesday in over 20 police vehicles. Thiruvananthapuram city police commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay himself delivered the medicine to Prajith's house in the city on Thursday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/k-taka-kerala-cops-join-hands-to-deliver-life-saving-drug-to-baby-823876.html
10-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||‘Auction smuggled gold to fight Covid-19’||The government instead of diverting or stopping development projects to fund the fight against Coronavirus pandemic, can auction large quantities of smuggled gold seized by Customs department, said former IRS officer G Shreekumar Menon.  The present system of taking possession of smuggled gold is a long drawn process that drags on for years. As most smugglers are carriers and with acquittal being remote, the government should fast track legal formalities with help of an ‘emergency enactment’ and sell the smuggled gold in market, Menon, who had retired as Director General of National Academy of Customs Indirect Taxes and Narcotics (NACIN), explained.  On the quantity of seized gold lying with the Customs department, Menon said that World Gold Council (WGC) had estimated that up to 95 tonnes of gold was smuggled into India in 2018. But India’s Association of Gold Refineries and Mints is of the opinion that seized quantity is double this estimate, said Menon, who had also served as Registrar of Yenepoya (deemed to be University).  Menon also suggested that the government should allow all the Duty Free Shops to liquidate their stocks of perishable chocolates, cigarettes, tobacco, liquor and perfumes.  As all international flights are non-operational, special orders should be issued to sell all these locally after levying Customs duties, local taxes and a special Covid-19 Cess. The government also can revive foreign travel tax (FTT) which was withdrawn decades ago.  In 2019, Indian tourists to Thailand crossed over 2 million. Singapore received over 1 million visitors from India and 2 million visited Dubai. Even a nominal levy of Rs 500 can bring in revenue sufficient enough to offset the revenue crunch caused by the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/auction-smuggled-gold-to-fight-covid-19-823827.html
10-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Helpline for blind and visually impaired||As a part of the initiative, Khabri will provide aid to this segment with expert inputs from domains including medical, psychological, social or financial. Through this initiative, the company also aims to raise awareness and strives to sensitise others around the same.  Those in need can directly contact the team of Khabri on 9810511211 toll-free number, mobile, WhatsApp or reach them through the Khabri official App. Emphasising the need to raise awareness in the current situation, Sandeep Singh, president and co-founder, Khabri, said, “While privileged masses can ensure compliance to social distancing, a large group of blind and visually-impaired is facing a plethora of challenges – be it social, medical or psychological. During these unprecedented times, they need the utmost care as their entire life revolves around touching and sensing. With our helpline portal, we endeavour to reach this cohort and address their problems. Besides this, we are also planning to hold live sessions with experts for direct interaction and make sure that the community of blind and visually-impaired is not left behind.” Commenting on the same, Honorary Secretary In-Charge, S K Singh, NAB said, “The helpline portal comes as a huge relief to the community of blind people across the country and further gives them hope to stand stronger in this scenario. Blinds have a different set of problems in addition to normal people which will now be noticed and addressed with Khabri’s help. We would like to thank Khabri and its entire team to turn this brilliant idea into a possible reality.” Khabri is also set to launch a dedicated content channel, live counselling session and a celebrity-led talk show to further its commitment towards empowering the blind community across India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-helpline-for-blind-and-visually-impaired-823521.html
10-04-2020||West||Amidst COVID-19 lockdown, 'Play At Home' to engage children||The ‘Play At Home’ program is designed in a manner that will help the children to be active, healthy and happy while they are at home.  The program contains age-appropriate activities and tasks that are helpful to maintain the physical, emotional, as well as the mental well-being, of the children. The programme, which is accessible on the Sportz Village website, is a 30-day long calendar of activities with fitness charts and instructional videos that the children can follow to remain fit and more importantly have fun.  The parents can also be a part of this program by observing/monitoring their child during the activities, as well as performing, a few of the activities along with them. Additionally, the program also includes activities to keep the children mentally active with sports quizzes (SLAM), puzzles (Brain Games), as well as provide recommendations, for sports-specific inspirational movies that the children can watch and enjoy. Commenting on this initiative, Saumil Majmudar, co-founder, CEO and Managing Director of Sportz Village said “It is extremely important to keep our children fit and happy during this trying time. Through the ‘Play At Home’ program, children will not only be fit, active, healthy and happy but also would get an opportunity to do fun activities along with their parents.”   Sportz Village’s ‘Play At Home’ initiative has also been applauded and supported by many of its partner schools as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amidst-covid-19-lockdown-play-at-home-to-engage-children-823525.html
10-04-2020||West||Five prisons in Maharashtra to be 'locked down' over pandemic fears||An order has been issued to "lock down" five central prisons in Mumbai, Pune and Thane districts to prevent the spread of coronavirus among inmates, a senior official said on Thursday. As per the order, no new inmates would be admitted and no one would be let out. Even the staff will not leave the prisons. The order would apply to Arthur Road jail and Byculla jail in Mumbai, jails in Thane and Kalyan, and Yerawada jail in Pune. Additional Director General (Prisons and Correctional Services) Sunil Ramanand said this preventive step was being taken as these jails are located in coronavirus-affected areas, and house a large number of inmates, much beyond their capacity. "Medically examined prison staff will lock themselves up until further orders and administer the prisons without stepping out," he said. In an official statement, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said the decision was aimed at preventing the contagion from spreading in prisons. Arrangements will be made for food and stay of jail staff inside prisons, he said. "Steps will be taken to keep the main gates of the prisons completely closed during the lockdown," the statement said. Contact numbers of senior prison officials will be shared with families of staff so that they can call up the senior officials if there is a problem, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-prisons-in-maharashtra-to-be-locked-down-over-pandemic-fears-823543.html
10-04-2020||West||Mumbai: 11 more test coronavirus positive in Dharavi, tally 28||Eleven more people, including two who returned from the last month's religious gathering at Nizamuddin, tested positive for coronavirus in Dharavi on Friday, taking the tally in the slum-dominated area here to 28, civic officials said. According to the officials, among the 11 three are women. One of them, aged 29, is the wife of a doctor who tested positive earlier in Vaibhav Nagar, while the another one, aged 31, is a resident of the Kalyanwadi locality, they said. "Two people who figure in the list of police who returned from Markaz (Tablighi Jamaat's event at its headquarters in Nizamuddin, Delhi) were also found positive," said a senior BMC official. He said one of them was a resident of Dr Baliga Nagar, while the other is from PMGP colony. "Both were already quarantined at the Rajiv Gandhi sports complex and have been now taken to hospital," he said. While five patients tested positive earlier in the day, six other cases came to light later. Of these six patients, five are residents of Mukund Nagar, while a 26- year-old man lives in Rajiv Gandhi Nagar chawl.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-11-more-test-coronavirus-positive-in-dharavi-tally-28-823557.html
10-04-2020||West||Anil Deshmukh must quit over travel nod to Wadhawans: Somaiya||Senior BJP leader Kirit Somaiya on Friday demanded the resignation of Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh over the permission given to DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, accused of financial fraud, to travel despite the ongoing lockdown. He said the government's action against Amitabh Gupta, Principal Secretary (special) in the home department, who has been sent on compulsory leave following the incident, was mere "window dressing". The former Lok Sabha MP sought to know on whose instructions Deshmukh told Gupta to provide VVIP treatment to the "fraudulent" Wadhawan brothers. "Sending Gupta on leave is nothing but window dressing. We want the resignation of Anil Deshmukh," Somaiya said in a video statement. Earlier in the day, Deshmukh announced that Gupta, who gave permission to the Wadhawans to travel to Mahabaleshwar, a popular hill station in Satara district, has been sent on compulsory leave. The bureaucrat had issued a letter exempting the Wadhawans from the lockdown norms citing a family emergency. Deshmukh said the decision has been taken after discussion with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. According to local police officials, the Wadhawan family along with others travelled from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar on Wednesday evening in their cars, even when both Pune and Satara districts are sealed amid the ongoing lockdown for containing coronavirus. Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan are accused in Yes Bank and DHFL fraud cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-must-quit-over-travel-nod-to-wadhawans-somaiya-823580.html
10-04-2020||West||COVID-19 lockdown: Top Maharashtra official sent on leave for allowing DHFL promoters Wadhawans to travel||As many as 23 members of the Wadhawan family, along with some close friends, were set on compulsory quarantine by the Satara police. The Wadhawan family is linked to the Yes Bank and Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative Bank scams. The large family owns the troubled entities - HDIL real estate development company and DHFL financial management company. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh immediately sent the officer, Amitabh Gupta, on compulsory leave.  Gupta is an officer of the rank of Additional Director General of Police, who was currently posted as Principal Secretary (Home). “As per discussion with chief minister,  Amitabh Gupta has been sent on compulsory leave with immediate effect, till the pending of enquiry, which will be initiated against him,” Deshmukh tweeted. The Wadhawans are based in Mumbai and it is surprising that they could cross the two districts of Mumbai city and Mumbai suburban, Raigad, Pune and reach Satara.  The permission – in the form of an open letter, ‘To Whomsoever It May Concern’ – was issued by Gupta on his personal letterhead on April 8, permitting the Wadhawans to move. The matter sparked off a huge political storm late on Thursday with the BJP leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and state BJP vice president Kirit Somaiya,  who is also the founder-president of Investors Grievances Forum, demanding a probe and Deshmukh’s resignation.  Deshmukh said the probe will also go into how the 23-member team managed to reach from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar. Gupta’s letter said: “This is to just inform you that following are well known to me as they are my family friends and travelling from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar for family emergency… Hence you are hereby informed through this letter to co-operate with them to reach their destination.”  It listed the registration numbers of all the five vehicles and the names of all the family members, friends, and others who were planning to travel in each of the vehicles for the unspecified ‘family emergency’.  "No lockdowns for mighty & rich in Maharashtra? One can spend holidays in Mahabaleshwar with official permission from the police. It is not possible that a senior IPS officer would do such gross mistake knowing the consequences on his own," Fadnavis tweeted. "With whose order or blessings was this done?" he asked and demanded an explanation from Thackeray and Deshmukh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-lockdown-top-maharashtra-official-sent-on-leave-for-allowing-dhfl-promoters-wadhawans-to-travel-823582.html
10-04-2020||West||Gujarat:Biggest spike in coronavirus cases takes total to 378||Gujarat reported on Friday a record 116 positive coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours till Friday evening news bulletin, the highest in the time period ever since the infection was first detected nearly three weeks back.  A day before, 76 new cases had been detected in the same time period. The total COVID-19 cases rose to 378 in the state.  A majority of these cases are being detected in containment zones, which have been sealed for the past four days in cities such as Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. But what is worrying the state government is the new cases being reported from districts which have remained untouched. On Friday, seven first cases were reported in Bharuch, making it the 18th district in the state out of 33 where the infection has been detected. This has compelled the government to start testing in the unaffected districts. "While a majority of the cases are being detected due to aggressive testing in the containment zones, we are now going to start testing 100 samples in districts which have not reported any cases till today," Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi told reporters while giving updates on Friday evening. She said that the rise in the number of cases were "expected" due to intense testing in the hostpots zones. There are nearly 2 lakh people under these zones in four major cities. As a matter of fact, the number of positive cases started rising dramatically since April 7 when the health department started undertaking more tests. From March 18, the date first two cases were reported till April 6, the average sample testing was about 100 per day which was increased substantially after positive cases started rising in clusters containment and links to controversial religious congregation of Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi came into light.  In the last 24 hours since Thursday evening, a total of 1,519 samples were collected for testing, out of which 116 cases were found positive. Earlier, on April 9, the authorities had collected a total of 1,975 samples, the highest. By Friday evening, state government undertook 7,718 tests out of which 378 have been tested positive. So far, state has recorded 19 deaths, with mortality rate a little over 5%, which is said to be higher than the national average. Ahmedabad has recorded the highest cases with 197 followed by Vadodara, 59, Surat, 27, Bhavnagar, 22 and Rajkot, 18 positive cases. Out of 378 cases, state has recorded 19 deaths so far while 33 patients have been cured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujaratbiggest-spike-in-coronavirus-cases-takes-total-to-378-823594.html
10-04-2020||West||Two more die due to coronavirus in Gujarat, toll reaches 19 in state||Two more patients, including an elderly man, succumbed to COVID-19 in Gujarat, taking the toll in the state to 19, said officials on Friday. The two, who died during the last 12 hours, were a 40 -year-old man from Ahmedabad and an 81-year-old man from Gandhinagar, said Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi. While the patient from Ahmedabad was suffering from a kidney ailment, the elderly man from Gandhinagar contracted the virus from a close contact, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-more-die-due-to-coronavirus-in-gujarat-toll-reaches-19-in-state-823638.html
10-04-2020||West||COVID-19: BMC asks private hospital to quarantine its nurses||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday directed a private hospital to quarantine all its nurses and stop new admissions after two of its nurses tested positive for coronavirus. A senior BMC official said two nurses from Sushrusha Hospital in Dadar, aged 27 and 42, have tested positive for coronavirus. Following this, the BMC, as a preventive step, asked the private hospital to quarantine all its 28 nurses at the medical facility itself and stop new admissions, he said. "We have advised them to test all the nurses at their own cost," said the officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-bmc-asks-private-hospital-to-quarantine-its-nurses-823652.html
10-04-2020||West||Unprecedented security, sanitisation at Dharavi as officials fight to contain coronavirus||Drones takes off and hovers over a cluster of slums, jumbo tankers of the fire brigade zooms past, ambulances with sirens on, grabbing attention. Policemen parading the streets, doctors and medical staff on job. A group of cops are glued to the CVTV footage and, simultaneously, intelligence sleuths ferret information. This is not a war zone. Its not just a security mock drill but this is what's happening in Dharavi in Mumbai, the biggest slum locality in whole of Asia. Sandwiched between the Central and Western railway lines of Mumbai, it is just around two kilometers away form Matoshree, the private bungalow of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, at Bandra. State's public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope and school education minister Varsha Gaikwad, who is the MLA form Dharavi, speak to each other several times in a day to monitor the situation. "We want to contain the Dharavi cases...contact tracing is key," says municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi. For the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Dharavi is a big challenge. A sizable part of Dharavi has been declared as containment zone. Dharavi is spread over 2.1 sq km and is home to over 7 lakh people, majority of whom are migrants. It's a sort of 'mini-India'. The key problems that Dharavi faces: 95 per cent plus people use public sanitation facilities, more than 6 to 8 persons stay in places like 8 x 10 sq ft, majority are migrants and many depend on tiffin facilities. To beef up security measures and ensure "complete lockdown", companies of SRPF have been deployed. Intelligence sleuths are trying to fish out as many people who would have attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Delhi's Nizamuddin Markaz or have interacted with the attendees. "Drones are hovering over Dharavi to see if anyone is stepping out and the crowd the toilets. The government has decided to use power water jets of the fire brigade at toilets every two hours," officials said. Besides that, the state government is also in touch with NGOs and voluntary organisations to working out a strategy so that food can be delivered at the door step. At the Mumbai police control room, the CCTV footages from roads, junctions of Dharavi are being strictly monitored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/unprecedented-security-sanitisation-at-dharavi-as-officials-fight-to-contain-coronavirus-823665.html
10-04-2020||West||22 coronavirus patients in Sangli recovered: Maharashtra minister Jayant Patil||Maharashtra Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil on Friday claimed that 22 out of 26 COVID-19 patients in Sangli district were cured of the infection and praised the local administration and citizens for their efforts. Patil, who is also Sangli's Guardian Minister, said 25 persons had earlier tested positive for coronavirus in Islampur, while one COVID-19 patient was found in Wadgaon in the district. Of the 26 COVID-19 patients in the district, 22 had tested negative for the infection, following treatment, he said. A three-pronged approach of isolation, cluster identification and social distancing was adopted in Islampur to contain the spread, he said, calling it the "Islampur pattern" to defeat the pandemic. The state NCP president also lavished praise on the people of Islampur and Sangli for ensuring that the experiment of isolation in the district was a "100 per cent success". "I am happy to inform that we have been able to control the spread of coronavirus with the cooperation of government officials, staffers and people. The families who were infected by coronavirus, are now completely cured," the minister said in a Facebook post. Patil said he was relieved to some extent and confident that the virus will not spread in the district. "But the lockdown is still in force and people must observe it completely," the minister said. Patil also urged people of the state to follow the government's orders and stay home to defeat the deadly disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/22-coronavirus-patients-in-sangli-recovered-maharashtra-minister-jayant-patil-823673.html
10-04-2020||West||Goa: Coronavirus lockdown triggers rise in mental health issues||The coronavirus outbreak coupled with the lockdown has triggered an increase in the cases of stress, anxiety and domestic violence in Goa, mental health experts claim. According to counsellors in the coastal state, the number of SOS calls from victims of domestic violence and those suffering from anxiety have risen considerably during these unprecedented times. "The concept of a lockdown is alien to us and we are unable to cope with it," counsellor Aditi Tendulkar said. Anxiety, frustration, panic attacks, loss or sudden increase of appetite, insomnia, depression, mood swings, delusions, fear and suicidal tendencies, have become quite common during the lockdown, she said. The Psychiatric Society of Goa (PSG) has started a service called Covidav to provide free online psychological evaluation and treatment to citizens during the lockdown. Consultant psychiatrist Dr Priyanka Sahasrabhojanee, who is part of the PSG's initiative, said the lockdown has worsened the condition of people who already suffer from psychological ailments. "The lockdown is specially challenging for people suffering from substance abuse because of unavailability of alcohol or other substances they are addicted to," she said. Mental health patients may also find it difficult to access prescription drugs, forcing them to go off medications, thus worsening their condition, she said. Moreover, higher incidence of domestic violence is also being reported during the lockdown, as people with troubled relationships are forced to be in each other's presence all the time, Sahasrabhojanee said. Another issue that has caused stress and anxiety is the financial uncertainty during this time. "The COVID-19 lockdown has also become a financial lockdown, as both salaried individuals and businessmen have suffered losses," said Prakriti Poddar, mental health expert and managing trustee of Poddar Foundation. Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) may be a fallout of this crisis, as many have lost their jobs and they will have to take a lot of effort to get back on their feet, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-coronavirus-lockdown-triggers-rise-in-mental-health-issues-823707.html
10-04-2020||West||Coronavirus in Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 10, 2020||Till, April 10, 2020, India has registered more than 6,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 237 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu: 0 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu: 0 Total number of people cured/discharged in Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu: 0 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 6882 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 237 Total number of people cured discharged in India: 504 This data was last updated on April 10, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome. Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-in-dadra-nagar-haveli-and-daman-diu-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-10-2020-823674.html
10-04-2020||West||IAS officer who quit in August over Jammu and Kashmir told to join duty; he says no way||The government has asked Gopinathan to join duty on the ground that his resignation has not been accepted yet. Gopinathan termed this as as act of harassment by the government and refused to join duty, saying he is ready to volunteer his service to people during the COVID-19 crisis but not as an IAS officer. Owing to imposition of curbs in Jammu & Kashmir after revocation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the state in Union Territories in August last year, Kannan had resigned in protest as IAS officer from the adjoining UT of Daman and Diu. It has been almost 8 months now since my resignation. Only thing the Govt knows is harassment. Of people & of officers. "I know that they want to harass me further. But still, I offer to volunteer for the govt in these difficult times. But not rejoining IAS, Gopinathan tweeted on Thursday night, posting a photo of his official response to the government. The letter sent to Gopinathan by the government on the direction of the Administration of Daman, Diu and Dadra Nagar Haveli said, a resignation becomes effective when it is accepted and a government servant is relieved of his duty. You were directed to continue to attend your assigned duties, but till date you have not reported for duties of this UT administration". Further, coronavirus has been declared as a pandemic and NDMA, under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, has directed all Ministries /Departments of Government of India, state governments and state authority to take measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the country, the letter said. Therefore, you are hereby directed to report for duty immediately, the letter said. In his response to the order, whichGopinathan has put up on Twitter, he said, In this regard, let me clarify that I have resigned from the Indian Administrative Service close to eight months back, in August 2019, and accordingly the government has also not processed my salary since then. "Hence, I am under no obligation to reply. As a responsible citizen, I extend all my services to the people of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu during this disaster." The 33-year-old bureaucrat said he is ready to help people as a common citizen. "But as I have already resigned from IAS, my services won't anymore require the tag of an IAS officer, or the perks and salary that it entails. "I provide my service voluntarily as a free and responsible citizen of this country, the letter by Kannan to the government read. Gopinathan had resigned to protest "denial of freedom to the people of Jammu and Kashmir" following scrapping of Article 370 by the NDA government, which had also imposed communication curbs on the erstwhile state, including on the Internet, and ordered detention of prominent leaders. A week after his resignation, the government had asked him to join duty, a directive he ignored. This is the second time Gopinathan has been asked to join duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ias-officer-who-quit-in-august-over-jammu-and-kashmir-told-to-join-duty-he-says-no-way-823719.html
10-04-2020||West||Maharashtra to probe IPS officer's role in travel nod to Wadhawans||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday said that the state government will probe Principal Secretary Amitabh Gupta's role in allowing DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan to travel despite the ongoing lockdown. He said that AdditionalChief Secretary Manoj Saunik will conduct the probe. Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan are accused in Yes Bank and DHFL fraud cases. In a video statement, Deshmukh said that action will be taken against the Wadhawans under sections 188, 269, 270, 34 of the IPC, section 51(b) of the Disaster Management Act and section 11 of the COVID-19 regulations. The home minister lashed out at the BJP leader Kirit Somaiya, who demanded his resignation over the incident. Deshmukh said the central government had to powers to dismiss an IPS officer. Gupta, who is special principal secretary in the state home department, is a senior IPS officer. Earlier in the day, the state government sent Gupta on compulsory leave after it came to light that he had allegedly allowed passage to the Wadhawan family to Mahableshwar during the ongoing lockdown. Deshmukh had tweetedthat as per the discussions with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Gupta was sent on compulsory leave with immediate effect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-probe-ips-officers-role-in-travel-nod-to-wadhawans-823729.html
10-04-2020||West||Lockdown will affect paddy harvesting in Goa: minister||Goa Agriculture Minister Chandrakant Kavlekar said on Friday that the ongoing lockdown on account of coronavirus will hamper the harvesting of paddy in the state. Rice crop is ready for harvesting in some places, he said at a meeting of state agriculture ministers through video conference. "But we cannot deploy combined harvesters as per requirement, because the operators trained to run these machines are from neighbouring states, and bringing them back is an issue because of lockdown," he said. The meeting was chaired by Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. It had been convened to discuss the impact of lockdown on agriculture and farmers in the country. Kavlekar said the lockdown will affect farmers greatly, but in view of the gravity of the pandemic, relaxing the restrictions on movement could not be an option. "So the central government must be ready to compensate farmers on case-to-case basis," the minister added. Floriculture in Goa too was under threat, he said. "Flowers like gerbera which locals grow in polyhouses were mostly sent to other states and exported, which is not possible now," Kavlekar said. "I have issued directions to the state agriculture department to conduct a preliminary assessment of losses," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-will-affect-paddy-harvesting-in-goa-minister-823778.html
10-04-2020||West||Coronavirus toll in Maharashtra crosses 100, positive cases tally goes past 1,500||On Thursday evening, according to the report of the state's Public Health department, the casualties stood at 97 and positive cases at 1,364. In the Friday (April 1) evening report, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation has confirmed 10 deaths in Mumbai city and suburbs,  while 218 COVID-19 positive cases were recorded - thus taking the total infections to more than 1,500. The state's compilation report is expected soon. The BMC also said that contract tracing of 775 patients, has led to the identification of 4,028 high-risk individuals.  Most of the detected cases are asymptotic and isolated. In Mumbai itself, 16,000-odd tests have been conducted in government and private laboratories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-toll-in-maharashtra-crosses-100-positive-cases-tally-goes-past-1500-823799.html
10-04-2020||West||34,010 FIRs in Maharashtra for coronavirus lockdown violation||The police in Maharashtra have registered 34,010 First Information Reports (FIRs) so far for violation of coronavirus lockdown across the state, an official release said on Friday. The highest number of FIRs were registered in Pune (4,317), as per a release of the Law and Order Department of state police. In Mumbai, 1,930 offences were registered while 2,299 cases were registered in Nagpur, 2,227 in Nashik city, 2,994 in Solapur city, 2,690 in Pimpri Chinchwad, 3,215 in Ahmednagar. FIRs were also registered against 468 persons for violating quarantine norms. Sixty-nine police personnel faced attacks while enforcing lockdown in the state and 161 persons were arrested. At least two policemen have contracted coronavirus. Both have been quarantined, the release said. The police also registered 777 cases for illegal transportation of various goods including liquor. A total of 2,510 persons were arrested in these cases and 18,995 vehicles seized. A fine of Rs 1.22 crore was recovered for violation of lockdown from offenders. Fifteen cases were registered under the Foreigners Act for violation of visa conditions -- three each in Mumbai and Ahmednagar, two in Amravati city, one each in Pune, Nagpur, Thane, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Navi Mumbai and Nanded. Milind Bharambe, Inspector General, Law and Order, said people should follow lockdown and cooperate with police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/34010-firs-in-maharashtra-for-coronavirus-lockdown-violation-823809.html
