11-04-2020||First Edit||A ‘Kerala model’ worthy of emulation||Kerala has done much better than other states in the fight against coronavirus and in mitigating the hardships caused by the measures to contain it. The state’s achievement in both respects has attracted international attention also. It was the first state to record a COVID-19 infection in January but is now the first to start showing signs of declining infections. All indicators have shown a hopeful and positive trend. The infection curve may be flattening, with not many new infections being reported in the past week. The recovery rate is more than the infection rate. The fatality rate is also low, as only two persons in the state have succumbed to the disease till now. At one stage, Kerala had the highest number of infections in the country, but it is sixth among all states now. This was achieved through a relatively high number of testing, effective scrutiny and surveillance, quick identification of suspected and infected cases, efficient isolation and quarantine measures and unfailing and daily follow-up. Route maps of virus carriers were prepared diligently, and contacts were traced and isolated or quarantined. Even in Kasaragod district where tracing became difficult and which became a hotspot, matters have nearly been brought under control. The patients got good treatment in hospitals, and the highlight was the recovery of a 92-year-old man and his 88-year-old wife. The state’s main strength is that it has an effective public health system. It also has the experience of fighting the Nipah virus in 2018. The lockdown was enforced well, with violations coming down every day. The government created awareness in the community about the steps needed to contain the epidemic. That led to better compliance. The needs of people who were adversely affected by the lockdown were well attended to. Kerala has an efficient public distribution system, and this was used to distribute essential commodities to all families. Those who lost their livelihoods, like daily wage earners and migrant workers and other vulnerable sections, were taken care of. Note that about 70% of the relief camps being run for migrant workers in the country are in Kerala. It is a state with perilous finances but has stretched its resources and made optimum use of them. The state is not out of the danger zone and there is always a chance that the gains made till now may be lost. But whatever has been achieved till now is impressive and an example for other states to emulate. It might yet provide another ‘Kerala model’ to the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-kerala-model-worthy-of-emulation-823916.html
11-04-2020||In Perspective||Humour in trying times||At the height of the devastating American Civil War, President Abraham Lincoln visited the war front at Fort Stevens to inspect, first-hand, the defences of the Unionist forces. The task of showing the President around fell on a young officer, Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. – who would later go on to become a justice of the Supreme Court and an illustrious legal historian and philosopher. But on that morning of July 1864, as young Holmes pointed out the enemy lines in the distance to his President, Lincoln stood up – all 6 feet 4 inches of him plus his stovepipe hat – to have a good look. No sooner, seeing a clear target jutting out, a volley of fire sputtered from the enemy trenches. Holmes grabbed Lincoln in a flash and dragged him under cover, shouting “Get down, you fool!” Holmes quickly realised what he had said, and to whom, and expected disciplinary action. But Lincoln said disarmingly, “Captain Holmes, I’m glad to see you know how to talk to a civilian.” At different phases of human history, the world has seen tumultuous times that have thrown the rhythm of life to the wind, caused untold sorrow and suffering. Today, we are more connected than ever before, and so are feeling the impact of calamities taking place on the other side of our planet faster, and more than ever. And like everything jetting across the seas, disaster has also travelled fast, and far. But even the gravest of situations have never been able to bully the human spirit. It has always displayed the gall to see death in the face, wink, and crack a joke. Some did it better than others. Abe Lincoln pulled them off with aplomb. His gabs crossed the Atlantic as, in reporting about which way the American civil war was going, London’s Saturday Review informed its readers, “One advantage the Americans have is the possession of a President who is not only the First Magistrate, but the Chief Joker of the Land.” Much less is known about the humorous traits of Mahatma Gandhi throughout his struggles, both in South Africa and in India. Mostly regarded as a sombre, no-nonsense person, only those close to him, like Sarojini Naidu or Rajagopalachari, spoke about the funny bones of the Mahatma. Rajagopalachari called Gandhi, “A man of laughter.” Veteran Gandhian Shobhana Radhakrishna, who was born and grew up in Gandhi’s Sewagram, narrated this. When Gandhi was in South Africa, in 1910, the government there treated all non-Christian marriages as invalid. Gandhi mischievously told Kasturba, “This means, you are my mistress.” Again, while going to attend the Round Table Conference in England, when a reporter asked, “Mr Gandhi, do you think you are properly dressed to meet the King?” The Mahatma had famously quipped, “Do not worry about my clothes. The King has enough clothes on for both of us.” Humour bloomed in the most strenuous of places at the most unlikely hours. Jokes went round in the damp trenches of the Second World War, while solders cramped together in the ditches, firing and being fired at. Ridicule and irony often underpinned those jests. Here’s one: Hitler and Göring are standing atop the Berlin radio tower. Hitler says he wants to do something to put a smile on Berliners’ faces. So Göring says: “Why don’t you jump?” Supposedly, the joke did not end there. A factory worker in Hitler’s Germany was reportedly executed for retelling it. Okay, here’s another one from the WWII trench, presumably crammed with French solders: There are four people in a train compartment -- a German solder, an old lady, a young and beautiful French woman, and a young Frenchman. The train enters a tunnel, and no one can see anything. A kiss is heard, then a thumping slap. When the train comes out of the tunnel, the German solder has a horrible black eye. “So unlucky,” thinks the German to himself. “The Frenchman gets the kiss and I get the blame.” “Well done, my girl,” thinks the old lady. “You stood up to that brute.” The young woman is puzzled. “Why would that German kiss that old lady?” The Frenchman, meanwhile, says to himself, “I kiss the back of my hand, hit the German, and no one suspects me.” In those destructive days and scary nights of the Second World War, humour helped to steam off frustration. Mockery became the garb to cover the blatancy of helplessness. A new breed of newspapers, called ‘trench newspapers’, sprouted in England. People found their poodle of laughter in the gentle derision of ‘Wipers Times’ -- the most popular trench newspaper of that time. The entire world is right now going through a depressing phase. Amidst the scare and death and idiocy and bravery, humour is showing its quirky face. Mostly in social media. Is it an appropriate time for humour, some would ask. It’s one of those questions to which there is no right answer. But through all the arduous spells of human history, humour has always managed to cheat its time, cared two hoots about probity and careened its way, whistling. And the refrain of that whistle, well, can anyone put it more poignantly than Abraham Lincoln? “I laugh,” he told to a friend in the darkest of days, “because I must not cry.” (The writer is a Bengaluru-based software entrepreneur and a freelance writer on travel, music and culture)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/humour-in-trying-times-823918.html
11-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Three youth in Karnataka held for causing coronavirus scare||Three youth, who caused panic at a police check post in Mandya district by posing as Muslims infected with COVID-19 and threatened to pass it on to the personnel there if they were detained, have been arrested, a revenue official said on Saturday. The incident occurred on April 8, when the three identified as Mahesh, Abhishek and Srinivas reached Tendekere checkpost in an autorickshaw, KR Pet Tahsildar M Shivamurthy told PTI. "When they were intercepted, one of them showed the home quarantine seal on his hand and threatened the personnel by claiming that they were Muslims infected with coronavirus and would spread the disease if they were detained, before fleeing," the official said. Police launched a manhunt for the trio and nabbed it at Ballekere. A case was registered against the youth, who were subjected to a medical examination at a hospital, but they remained asymptomatic, said the official adding they have been quarantined. Later, in a press release, Shivamurthy said that though the accused were Hindus, they identified themselves as Muslims infected with COVID-19 and triggered panic. "I want to make it clear that neither Muslims have come to KR Pet to pass on the disease nor is it true that people from the minority community area were transmitting it. People need not panic," he clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-youth-in-karnataka-held-for-causing-coronavirus-scare-824206.html
11-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Govt plans to procure veggies from farmers’||Cooperative and District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar said that the government will procure vegetables from farmers. The minister was speaking to reporters after visiting the Argicultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) yard here, on Saturday. "The government is already procuring vegetables in some parts of the state. We have an idea to procure vegetables through the Horticultural Producers Cooperative Marketing and Processing Society (Hopcoms),” he said. The minister said that he has been visiting all APMCs to resolve farmers’ problem. There is a need for a cold storage in Mysuru APMC. It will be established after holding a discussion with the officials concerned. A cold storage will reduce wastage of vegetables, he said. MP Pratap Simha, MLA L Nagendra, Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth and Deputy Commissioner of Police A N Prakash Gowda were present. Later, Somashekar, Agriculture Minister B C Patil and MLA G T Devegowda held a meeting with the officials at the Zilla Panchayat. The ministers also visited Jubilant Generics in Nanjangud, where 36 Covid-19 cases are reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-plans-to-procure-veggies-from-farmers-824220.html
11-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar petitions police chief, seeks action against BJP leaders||KPCC president D K Shivakumar on Friday lodged a complaint with Director General and Inspector General of Police Praveen Sood seeking action against four BJP leaders for their alleged communal statements. In his petition, Shivakumar cited remarks made by BJP MP Shobha Karandlaje, former union minister Anant hkumar Hegde, MLAs MP Renukacharya and Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, describing them “vituperative statements which are offences under Sections 153A of the IPC.”  The Congress leader said the four leaders “joined in a criminal conspiracy to create enmity between Hindus and Muslims.” Their statements, Shivakumar said, further caused “criminal intimidation by threatening to shoot down persons belonging to a particular community.”  Speaking to reporters, Shivakumar said the DG and IGP was “duty-bound” to take suo motu action. “It doesn’t matter what the chief minister says or does, but the DGP is the concerned authority. He must take action,” he said.  Shivakumar announced a ‘Read the Preamble’ programme on April 14 to mark 129th birth anniversary of B R Ambedkar, the architect of the Indian Constitution. The event will be held at the party headquarters at 10 am on April 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-petitions-police-chief-seeks-action-against-bjp-leaders-823974.html
11-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||PDS outlets ignore govt order, consumers in distress||Despite the government order, consumers are forced to face distress in getting ration in the district. Considering Covi-19 situation, the government has ordered public distribution system outlets to distribute food grains for April and May in one lot. Every Antyodaya card holder is entitled for 70 kg rice. Every Priority (PHH) card holder (one unit) 10 kg rice. One PHH ration card holder is entitled for 4 kg wheat, a non-Priority ration card holder 10 kg rice. Ration card holders with two and more than two members in the family will get 20 kg rice at Rs 15 per kg. Every gas ration card holder will get one litre kerosene at subsidised prices. The department of Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs had decided to distribute the ration based on One Time Password. As the consumers faced technical problems in sending the OTP, the department decided to obtain consumers’ signatures for the ration distribution. The department had directed the outlets to take thumb impression of the consumers. It is alleged that owners of the outlets have not implemented the government order. They are refusing to sell the ration quoting problems regarding the OTP. Some owners reportedly come very late to the outlets and make consumers stand up in a long queue. Serpentine queues in front of these outlets is a regular feature. As people are losing their temper, they are not maintaining social distancing. According to some consumers, they are extorted from owners of some outlets. They are collected Rs 10 from every card holder to distribute the ration. Some of them sell the ration only if the consumers buy salt, vegetable leaves and edible oil. The consumers have sought strict action against those who fail to implement the government order. “Ration card holders may lodge complaints with food shirastedars or food inspectors in respective talukes in case of problems in the distribution of ration,” said Nagaraj Kelaginamani, deputy director, department of Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs. Taluks             Ration Cards KGF:                 23,547Bangarpet:        70,152Kolar:               83,362Malur:               53,315Mulbagal:          64,798Srinivaspur:       49,500 Taluks Helpline numbers Bangarpet: 9886434942Kolar: 9739562266Malur: 9972873230Mulbagal: 9902294444Srinivaspur: 9844029644 Ration cards: 3,44,674 Public Distribution system outlets: 601 Allotment of rice: 12,956 Allotment of wheat: 1,270||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/pds-outlets-ignore-govt-order-consumers-in-distress-824175.html
11-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Focus on drinking water supply in villages: ZP President||Zilla Panchayat president M B Chikkanarasimhaiah on Saturday directed the officials to give top priority to supply drinking water regularly. “There should be regular supply of drinking water in rural areas. Focus should be laid on maintaining cleanliness,” he said. Chikkanarasimhaiah chaired a meeting to discuss drinking water supply and measures to contain Covid-19 at the ZP auditorium. “Action plan should be prepared for three months to supply drinking water in rural areas as situation worsens from April. Alternative arrangements should be made for the supply of the water. Borewells should be drilled in village,” he said.He said that many villagers had returned from urban areas in the wake of Covid-19 which had crated water shortage. Steps should be taken to avoid inconvenience in rural areas, he said. “Tankers are used to supply water to purified drinking water units in rural areas. GPS facility should be installed at water tankers,” he said. Chikkanarasimhaiah said that masks and sanitisers have been distributed among government employees put on Covid-19 duties, Asha workers and police. Efforts are made to ensure that staff get these materials without fail daily. Action would be taken against those selling masks for higher prices. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Fouzia B Taranum said that hygiene should be given top priority in villages to contain Covid-19. Tankers should be used to supply water in rural areas. ZP vice-president Nirmala Muniraju and senior officers were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/focus-on-drinking-water-supply-in-villages-zp-president-824178.html
11-04-2020||Main Article||Coronavirus lockdown: Cure worse than the disease||Without doubt, the lockdown imposed on the nation on March 24 was needed, even if it could have been better planned and the nation given sufficient notice. It has saved lives by containing the likely spread of the virus. It is time now to seriously consider winding down the lockdown in some fashion, rather than extending it or tightening it. The cost to the nation of the total lockdown may be higher than the benefit if we extend it. This becomes apparent when one compares the Coronavirus-related deaths in India so far with those in the US and European countries. The lockdown has already resulted in untold hardships to the poor of India. For the middle class, it is only a question of inconvenience. Some 94% of the Indian labour force work in the informal sector and most have problems meeting the daily basic needs of food. Financial and other help extended by the government, although it came late, and by NGOs and activist philanthropists, have gone some way in helping some of them get over the hardships. But we have failed to assess how the lockdown has affected those in urgent need of medical care for diseases far worse than COVID-19. In addition, there are those who might have suffered because of depression as a result of having been confined to their homes, cut off from friends and relatives. Most of our worries have been focusing on the likely impact on our current and future economic prospects. Usually, performing any cost-benefit analysis or weighing the pros and cons of any decision, though complex, does not involve putting a value on human life. However, in the case of the decision on the lockdown, we are faced with this difficult situation. If the lockdown is not extended, it will certainly result in some number of additional deaths. But, based on the current experience, it may not be very high. At the same time, though, some experts warn that India may not have yet reached stage 3 (when the virus spreads through community transmission) and we may see an exponential rise in deaths, numbering in the thousands. On the other hand, if we look at the number of known infected cases and deaths related to COVID-19, they are so insignificant that some have gone so far as to compare it with ordinary flu. For flu, no one thinks of imposing lockdown -- total or partial. Despite India’s specific situation, we seem to be adapting the containment strategy of deeply affected countries like Italy, Spain and get frightened by looking at the daily worsening death rate in the US and Europe. Two graphs that are in circulation show the number of COVID-19 cases and deaths per million. As of April 9, total number of deaths in India, for a country of 1.3 billion, is 226, while for Italy, Spain and the US, with lesser populations, it is 18,279, 15,447 and 16,150, respectively. On a per million basis, India’s death rate is hardly visible on the graph. There are several theories about why India has so far had such a low COVID-19 mortality rate. First is the age factor. Based on the study of deaths in China, it has been found that it is the older people, above the age of 60, that are affected the most and younger people are least affected. Since India’s median age is 26.4 years – i.e., a large part of the population is young -- the age factor may be one of the reasons for low incidence of death rate in India. A second theory is that the virus is not virulent at higher temperatures. One study found that the COVID-19 virus may be less stable at higher temperatures, with the optimal temperature for transmission probably around 8.72°C. COVID-19 related deaths in Africa are considerably fewer than in other countries. However, there is no scientific explanation yet to prove this theory. The third theory, based on a recent research report by New York Institute of Technology’s College of Osteopathic Medicine, is that those countries which have universal BCG vaccination programmes have lower death rates. This research report is still not peer-reviewed and researchers are conducting more studies on this aspect. A fourth theory is that Indians may have higher immunity since we are already exposed to an unhealthy environment. As one doctor from Goa described in poetic phrase, Indians are now getting the dividends of their notorious “dirtiness.” One way to prove the hypothesis that Indians have an innate ability to fight the virus is to conduct a randomised sample survey in a known “hot cluster” where COVID-19 patients might have spread the disease. To get more confidence, at least four to five clusters may be needed where it may be enough to test nearly100 people to get statistically significant results. Researchers are implementing such a survey in Los Angeles to explore the possibility of ending the lockdown early, according to an article in Washington Post. Los Angeles was among the first cities in the US to issue stay-at-home orders and it has had fewer than 200 deaths while New York has had more than 4,500. If the estimate of the fatality rate is based on reported cases, then it is 6%. However, since a large percentage of cases are asymptomatic, the actual fatality rate may be around 1.4%, as reported by a Chinese study, too. For India, it may be as low as 0.004%, after comparing the fatality rates of European countries. If we apply this rate, then the number of Indians who might have been infected may be as high as 56,500 and not the reported infected number of about 7,000. This is because a large number of infected patients are asymptomatic. This has been proven in Iceland, where 50% of coronavirus cases have no symptoms. When we take a randomised survey and it shows that a large percentage is already infected but is asymptomatic, we can start winding down the lockdown in phases with confidence. (The writer is former governing council member of Manipal Institute of Technology, and an international oil expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/coronavirus-lockdown-cure-worse-than-the-disease-823921.html
11-04-2020||Mysuru||Five more test positive for COVID-19 in Mysuru; tally reaches 47 in district||All the five, who were tested positive today, are employees of Nanjangud-based Jubilant Generic.   Of the 47 cases reported in the district, 36 are related to the company. It has to be noted that one foreign returnee and an employee of the company were discharged after they recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/five-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mysuru-tally-reaches-47-in-district-824016.html
11-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Easter church services go online||Most Christians in the city are gearing up for the occasion as Easter approaches. As attending a church service isn’t possible now due to the lockdown, many churches have decided to stream their mass or Sunday workshop sessions online.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-easter-church-services-go-online-823935.html
11-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 11, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.  Stay healthy, stay safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-11-2020-edition-823922.html
11-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 11||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly).     Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 7,959 as of April 10. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 274 Andhra Pradesh: 6 Assam: 1 Bihar: 1 Delhi: 14 Gujarat: 22 Himachal Pradesh: 2 Haryana: 3 Jammu and Kashmir: 4 Jharkhand: 1 Karnataka: 6 Kerala: 3 Madhya Pradesh: 33 Maharashtra: 121 Odisha: 1 Punjab: 12 Rajasthan: 8 Tamil Nadu: 11 Telangana: 11 Uttar Pradesh: 5 West Bengal: 9 Coronavirus in India: States/UTs with confirmed positive cases (Details are updated as we receive information) Kerala: 373 Punjab: 158 Delhi: 903 Jammu and Kashmir: 224 Ladakh: 15 Rajasthan: 678 Uttar Pradesh: 452 Maharashtra: 1,666 Karnataka: 215 Tamil Nadu: 911 Telangana: 471 Haryana: 169 Andhra Pradesh: 405 Himachal Pradesh: 32 Gujarat: 468 Uttarakhand: 35 Odisha: 50 West Bengal: 134 Chandigarh: 19 Chhattisgarh: 18 Madhya Pradesh: 427 Bihar: 61 Puducherry: 6 Manipur: 2 Mizoram: 1 Goa: 7 Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 11 Jharkhand: 17 Assam: 29 Arunachal Pradesh: 1 Tripura: 2 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 504 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-11-823937.html
11-04-2020||National||Ensure treatment of pregnant women, dialysis patients despite lockdown: Health min Vardhan to states||States need to be mindful that treatment or medical needs of pregnant women, dialysis patients and those suffering from ailments such as thalassemia are attended to despite the lockdown imposed to control the spread of COVID-19, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday. Vardhan made the suggestion during a meeting with health ministers of states and Union Territories through video conference to review actions and preparedness for mitigating COVID-19. Reviewing the requirement and the adequacy of PPEs, N95 masks, testing kits, drugs and ventilators with each state, Vardhan said, "The government is trying its best to ensure there is no shortage of supplies of these critical items and orders for various requirements have already been placed.  "Partial requirements of states vis-a-vis the need indicated by them have been addressed," he said. The death toll due to coronavirus rose to 206 and the number of cases in the country climbed to 6,761 on Friday, a record spike of 896 cases and 37 deaths in 24 hours since Thursday evening, according to the Union Health Ministry. "States need to be mindful that the treatment or medical needs of pregnant women, dialysis patients and those suffering from ailments such as Thalassemia are attended to. "States should also promote voluntary blood donation and arranging mobile units for safe blood donation for adequate supply of blood at any point of time," he said. He said the fight against the pandemic is now more than three months old and the prevention, containment and management of COVID-19 in the country is being monitored at the highest level in collaboration with the states. "The government has taken several pre-emptive, proactive, and effective measures. These timely steps have helped us mange the situation and be prepared for any eventuality," he added. Pointing to the critical importance of the next few weeks to break the chain of transmission of the disease, Vardhan urged all to ensure social distancing and spread awareness about personal hygiene, which will help in a resolute and collective fight against COVID-19. "There is a need to establish dedicated COVID-19 hospitals in each district of the country and notify them as soon as possible so that people are informed about them," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-treatment-of-pregnant-women-dialysis-patients-despite-lockdown-health-min-vardhan-to-states-823938.html
11-04-2020||National||India welcomes Saudi-led coalition's ceasefire in Yemen||India on Friday welcomed the unilateral ceasefire in Yemen announced by the Saudi-backed coalition which has brightened hopes for an end to the five-year-old civil war in the country that has left around 100,000 people dead. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India hoped that cessation of hostilities will eventually lead to peace and stability in Yemen. "India welcomes the announcement of ceasefire and hopes that cessation of hostilities will lead to resumption of political dialogue leading to peace and stability in Yemen and the region," he said. "This will also help Yemen to join the global community to deal with COVID-19," he added. The Saudi-led coalition is fighting Yemen's Houthi movement which fighting for the country's Zaidi Shia Muslim minority. The coalition announced halt in its operations for two weeks in support of United Nations efforts to bring peace to the country. The ceasefire came into effect on Friday afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-welcomes-saudi-led-coalitions-ceasefire-in-yemen-823957.html
11-04-2020||National||Cong evolves 'Corona Action Strategy' involving its workers in combating COVID-19||The Congress on Friday formulated a "Corona Action Strategy" across states to utilise its cadre and organisations to combat COVID-19 on a "war footing", with party chief Sonia Gandhi stressing on ramping up testing to deal with the pandemic. She also flagged concerns over "massive shortfall" in a number of testing centers in the country and demanded a special financial package for the MSME sector and labourers working there, besides urging partymen to help farmers. Gandhi held discussions over video conferencing for over three hours with all Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) presidents to chart out a comprehensive strategy to combat and contain the virus. Gandhi also stressed on the necessity of instituting meaningful financial incentives for frontline workers fighting coronavirus and said it was non-negotiable. The Congress also called for special assistance to farmers. In addition to providing support to harvest and transport the crops, the central and state governments must ensure fair and remunerative prices for the produce, the party said. Gandhi also called for ensuring adequate support to farmers for planting the next crop cycle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-evolves-corona-action-strategy-involving-its-workers-in-combating-covid-19-823959.html
11-04-2020||National||Death toll due to COVID-19 rises to 239; cases climb to 7,447||While the number of active COVID-19 cases is 6,565, as many as 642 people were cured and discharged and one had migrated, it said. As many as 33 new deaths have been reported since Friday evening, the ministry said. Seventeen deaths were reported from Madhya Pradesh, 13 from Maharashtra, two from Gujarat and one from Assam, it said.  Maharashtra has reported the most coronavirus deaths at 110, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 33, Gujarat at 19 and Delhi at 13. Punjab registered 11 deaths while Tamil Nadu has reported eight fatalities and Telengana seven. Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka have reported six deaths each while West Bengal has registered five deaths each. Jammu and Kashmir and Uttar Pradesh have reported four deaths each while Haryana and Rajasthan have recorded three deaths each. Two deaths have been reported from Kerala. Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand and Assam reported one fatality each, according to the health ministry data. The 7,447 figure includes 71 foreign nationals. The death toll on Friday evening was 206. However, a PTI tally of numbers reported by various states as on 9.30 pm on Friday showed a total of 7,510 people having been affected by the virus nationwide with at least 251 deaths There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of cases announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states. According to the ministry's data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 1574, followed by Tamil Nadu at 911 and Delhi at 903. The cases have gone up to 553 in Rajasthan, followed by 473 in Telengana and 435 in Madhya Pradesh and 431 in Uttar Pradesh. Kerala has reported 364 cases and Andhra Pradesh 363. Gujarat has 308 positive patients so far. Novel coronavirus cases have risen to 207 in Karnataka and Jammu and Kashmir each and 177 in Haryana. Punjab has 132 positive patients so far while West Bengal has 116 cases. Bihar has reported 60 cases while Odisha has 48 coronavirus cases. Thirty- five people were infected with the virus in Uttarakhand while Assam has 29 patients, followed by Himachal Pradesh with 28 cases. Chandigarh and Chhattisgarh have 18 cases each while Ladakh has 15. Jharkhand has 14 positive patients so far while 11 cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Goa has reported seven COVID-19 infections, followed by Puducherry at five cases. Manipur has two while Tripura, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported one case each. "State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation," the ministry said on its website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-due-to-covid-19-rises-to-239-cases-climb-to-7447-823988.html
11-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Prohibit use, spitting of smokeless tobacco in public places, health ministry tells states||The Union Health Ministry has asked all states to prohibit the use and spitting of smokeless tobacco in public places to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. "Chewing smokeless tobacco products, paan masala and areca nut (supari) increases the production of saliva followed by a very strong urge to spit. Spitting in public places could enhance the spread of the COVID-19 virus," the ministry said in a letter to chief secretaries of all states and union territories. In view of the increasing danger of the coronavirus pandemic, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has also appealed to people to refrain from consuming smokeless tobacco products and spitting in public places.  The letter stated that state and Union Territory governments have necessary authority under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act and under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code 1860 and the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc) to deal with COVID-19. "In this background, it is requested that necessary preventive measures may be taken under the appropriate law to prohibit the use and spitting of chewing smokeless tobacco products in public," the letter stated. Few states like Bihar, Jharkhand, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra, Haryana, Nagaland and Assam have already issued orders on the ban of use of smokeless tobacco products and spitting in public places during the COVID-19 epidemic. The death toll due to the novel coronavirus rose to 239 and the number of cases climbed to 7,447 in the country on Saturday, according to the Union Health Ministry. However, a PTI tally of figures reported by various states as on Friday showed at least 7,510 cases and 251 deaths. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of cases announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-prohibit-use-spitting-of-smokeless-tobacco-in-public-places-health-ministry-tells-states-823989.html
11-04-2020||National||All hopes of summer holidays dashed, children say they will miss train journeys||From Agra's petha to Mathura's peda, train journeys have a completely different meaning to children, who count not just the stations during their travel but also the regional delicacies they offer. Often restless, they wait through the year with incredible patience for the summer vacations to indulge and set themselves free of their daily routine. Sitanshu, 8, has looked forward to May every year when he would travel from Delhi to Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh. But he is a little disappointed this year. He has got an “infinite” number of days at his disposal but is not allowed to step out of his home in Noida Sector-41.  "I was studying hard thinking about the vacation but this summer is bad. I hope coronavirus dies soon," said Sitanshu. His friend and neighbour Revati agrees with him. "I would travel to Bilaspur (Chattisgarh) every year to visit my mami (aunt). On my train journey, my father would buy me Champak and Chacha Choudhary comics and I would read and re-read them on my way," said the eight-year-old. Many children especially miss their train journeys which they treat as a medium to see new things and meet their cousins and grandparents, said Rabia Hasan, a child psychologist. "In many cases these train experiences whether it is the food they eat on the way or the comics they read remain with them for the rest of their lives. Right now, the parents must ensure children are given attention and they are not allowed to play video games as a compensation as these two things cannot be compared," she said. What is perhaps weighing more on Sitanshu and Revati's minds is that they cannot understand why their favourite trains will not run during the summer holidays. The Indian Railways is yet to decide when it will start operations, but it is allowing bookings for train journeys after April 14, the day the lockdown ends. However, fear and uncertainty due to the coronavirus pandemic have kept travellers away. Data accessed by PTI showed as of April 4, there has been around 2 lakh bookings for travel per day between April 15 to April 30, immediately after the end of the 21-day lockdown, but it has dipped to around one lakh per day for journeys in May. In fact, during the summer holidays when it is rare to find a booking on any train, the lowest number of tickets were booked this year. For May 26, only 77,000 tickets were booked, followed by May 28, when 67,847 tickets were booked, and for May 28, when 73,180 were booked. While it is parents who decided to stay home, it is also them who need the break. Sashi, a homemaker in Delhi's Mayur Vihar, says she misses her "yearly break". "The summer vacation used to be the time of the year when I would unwind. Go to my sister's home and have some time for myself," Shashi said. Varsha Rajora, 48, calls the period from May to June her "me-time". "It is that time of the year when I live for myself. Being a housewife is a full-time job and we too need a break," she asserted, bordering on the frustration. A resident of Mayur Vihar Extension, she had planned to visit Shimla but had to cancel due to the lockdown. "We are not sure when the railways would start its operations and the danger of coronavirus also looms. There are all kinds of rumours, so we decided to cancel the plan and stay home. Better safe than sorry," she said. India is under the biggest lockdown in its history with all 1.3 billion people asked to stay home for three weeks in view of the coronavirus disease which has claimed more than 200 lives and infected over 6,000 people across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-hopes-of-summer-holidays-dashed-children-say-they-will-miss-train-journeys-824009.html
11-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Stuck between devil and deep blue sea, villagers struggle for survival on Indo-Bangla border||There is little food left at home, and no monetary aid or medical assistance on the horizon. They cannot even afford to fall sick amid the COVID-19 lockdown. The people of Kali Krishna village of Tripura are on edge, literally, living as they are on a narrow strip of land on the Indo-Bangladesh border. The village stands hemmed in between the international border and the barbed wire fence India has erected 150 yards away from it on its side. Jahangir Hossain, a peasant, is among the 3,000 odd neither-here-nor-there people for whom the March 24 lockdown came as a bolt from the blue as the border gates closed abruptly at the midnight hour, shutting them out from the rest of the country. Fear and uncertainty have gripped people in the godforsaken place. "We do not know who to approach for assistance, as the officials on the Indian side are not opening the gates. We are trapped here," 42-year-old Hossain told a PTI by phone. India has raised barbed wire fences across its 4,096- km border with Bangladesh, 150 metres ahead of the zero line, in accordance with the 1971 Indira-Mujib pact. Another resident of the neighbouring Nabadeep Chandra Nagar village, who preferred not to be named, said some villagers, with no solution in sight, were entering Bangladesh to buy essentials, and sell poultry and agricultural produce. Subrata Majumder, the sub-divisional magistrate of Sonamura in Tripura's Sipahijala district, insisted people living on the other side of the fence visit Bangladesh often to buy and sell items, and that there is nothing new about it. According to BSF Chief Public Relations Officer C L Belwa, certain guidelines have been issued to the paramilitary force as part of the efforts to contain the spread of COVID- 19 but claimed its local unit has been distributing food and other essential items among those stuck outside the fence. Selim Khan, a resident of Nabadeep Chandra Nagar Village, however, alleged that the rations they receive is not enough to sustain a family. "With the gates closed on the Indian side, we are facing difficult times buying essential supplies and tending to our fields, part of which fall in the mainland. Add to that, our foodstock is depleting fast, he added. Shyamal Muhuri, a member of the Kali Krishna Nagar panchayat, said the villagers had been told to come to the mainland but they refused. "We made an appeal to the villagers to shift to the Indian side, but they refused to respond to the plea, claiming that their livelihood would be at stake. They also said that there would no one to look after their houses, land, poultry, and cattle, if they were to move to the mainland," Muhuri told PTI. Echoing him, Joydeb Sarkar, a local leader of the ruling BJP, said his party had called upon the villagers to take shelter in government buildings, but they turned down the offer. "People living on the other side of fence are mostly daily wagers, having no permanent source of income. We are looking for government land for their rehabilitation and resettlement, but the process is taking longer due to the unavailability of a suitable plot, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-stuck-between-devil-and-deep-blue-sea-villagers-struggle-for-survival-on-indo-bangla-border-824010.html
11-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Central procurement of PPEs, ventilators stirs up row||A notification by the Centre barring state governments from procuring ventilators, PPE kits and N-95 masks, has stirred up a controversy, with critics terming it as "yet another attack on the federal structure" of the country. The ruling BJP, however, has defended the decision by the BJP-ruled Centre, saying that such procurement would address quality concerns and ease the logistics required to import them from other countries. "State governments/UTs may not go for procurement of crucial medical equipment like PPEs, N95 masks and Ventilators and that these should be procured centrally by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare and distributed to the states," states an April 12 letter by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare.  The circular came at a time when the state government had plans to procure 1,000 ventilators in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, from a Mysuru based company - which now remains suspended.  Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan defended the Centre's move, saying that quality concerns would be addressed if the equipment was centrally procured. "Since ventilators have to be imported, the Centre is ensuring that this is done without any logistic hassles," he said. Of the 1,000 ventilators the State was planning to procure, it had placed orders for 300. Karnataka has procured around 60 ventilators from different companies and was expecting around 1,500 units from the Centre, he said. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah condemned the decision by the Centre saying that it was "against the federal structure and decentralised system of governance." In a tweet, he said: "The Central government is trying to assume supreme power during this crisis. States cannot wait till the Central government sends the supplies. Critical time will be lost as it affects timely interventions and the whole system gets jeopardized. Both Central & State governments should work in tandem." Prathap Kanagal of the JD(S), took a dig at the Centre's decision, saying that the federal structure of the country was reduced to a 'big joke'. "Neither does the Centre do it, nor does it allow anyone. Why has the Centre suddenly issued such an order? Does it fear that it won't get any commission if state governments procure it?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-central-procurement-of-ppes-ventilators-stirs-up-row-824025.html
11-04-2020||National||DMK chief Stalin urges TN govt to extend lockdown in state||The opposition DMK in Tamil Nadu on Saturday urged the state government to take a cue from Punjab and Odisha and extend the ongoing lockdown enforced in the state to stem the spread of coronavirus till April-end. DMK President M K Stalin's demand came on a day when the state cabinet under Chief Minister K Palaniswami is likely to take a call on extending the lockdown. On Friday, a 19-member expert committee constituted by the state government to advise it of steps to tackle the COVID-19 crisis had recommended that the lockdown be extended by two weeks beyond April 14 considering the rise in number of cases. Tamil Nadu has so far reported 911 positive cases. On Saturday, Stalin wrote a letter to Palaniswami, where he wanted the lockdown to be extended beyond April 14. Though isolation was a key precautionary measure, many states had urged the Centre to extend the lockdown, Stalin pointed out. "The Chief Ministers of Odisha (Naveen Patnaik) and Punjab (Amarinder Singh) have extended the lockdown till April 30 and May 1, respectively. Therefore, a due decision on this in Tamil Nadu should be taken without further delay," Stalin, Leader of the Opposition in the state, said in the letter. He said the lockdown will affect the livelihood of the poor, farmers, labourers and small-time traders and urged the government to ensure they did not suffer during this period. He demanded for a cash assistance of Rs 5,000, besides the provision of essentials like rice and pulses to people. He also wondered why the state government was not convening an all-party meet like Prime Minister Narendra Modi had done to discuss the matter, adding, the outbreak of the virus was not a mere health or medical issue but also a future social, economic, environment and political one. Stalin also took exception to the state government's decision to utilise Rs one crore from legislators' local funds towards fighting COVID-19, saying the monies were being used by them only for "public welfare." "It is the MLAs' moral right. It is not fair on the part of the state government to snatch away that right," he told the chief minister. Palaniswami had on Tuesday ordered utilisation of Rs one crore from the MLA Local Area Development Fund of all the 234 legislators towards procuring medical equipment, drugs and for prevention initiatives against the coronavirus across Tamil Nadu. Among others, Stalin sought for giving incentives to health professionals and field staff such as police since they were actively involved in the fight against coronavirus. While there were apprehensions of Tamil Nadu slipping into the third stage of the pandemic, the government should ensure it doesn't happen, he said. In the event of the state entering the third stage, the government must be prepared to face it, the DMK chief added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dmk-chief-stalin-urges-tn-govt-to-extend-lockdown-in-state-824029.html
11-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Centre mulls more steps to keep cash-strapped discoms afloat||The government may soon announce more steps -- like cheaper working capital and lower tariff -- for power discoms to ensure uninterrupted electricity supply during the lockdown to contain COVID-19. "The Power Ministry is working on a proposal to provide relief to discom to keep them afloat during the lockdown, especially when the demand is low and their bills collections is negligible," according to a source. The power demand has come down by almost one third during the lockdown.    The demand met was down by about 29 per cent at 121.38 GW on April 10 compared to 170.52 GW on the same day last year. The demand was down mainly due to lower requirements from industry and state power distribution companies (discoms). The peak power demand met is the actual highest energy supply during the day across the country. According to the source, the discoms are facing liquidity crunch and therefore the efforts of the central government would be to provide them working capital at lower interest rates. Besides, the government may direct central and state power regulators to reduce tariff for the discoms, the source added. However, these measures may require Union Cabinet approval as it has financial implications. The proposal could be sent for the Cabinet approval next week, the source said. Last month, the power ministry had taken some measures to provide relief to discoms, which included delayed payment to gencos and lower late payment surcharge on bills generated till June 30. Amid the low power demand during the lockdown, the spot power price touched a three-year low of 60 paise per unit for supplies on last Wednesday (March 25) on Indian Energy Exchange. The average spot power price is hovering around Rs 2.50 per unit at electricity exchanges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-centre-mulls-more-steps-to-keep-cash-strapped-discoms-afloat-824032.html
11-04-2020||National||Doctor takes sick newborn to hospital on bike; saves his life||Doctors are considered second to God and this came true for a newborn in the neighbouring Alibaug town, who was taken to a neonatal facility on a doctor's two-wheeler when he developed respiratory problems just minutes after his birth. For the couple, who had already lost their first child within hours of birth, getting the right care at the right time was crucial. "Shweta is a diabetic, and she was immediately put on medication to keep her sugar level under control," Ketan said.  Considering Shweta's medical history, the local gynaecologist, who had delivered her first child, called in neonatologist and paediatrician Dr Rajendra Chandorkar for assistance. A c-section was performed and a baby boy, weighing 3.1 kg, was delivered with normal parameters, Chandorkar said. However, the doctor's relief was short-lived when the newborn developed breathing problems and turned blue. "The diagnosis was transient tachypnea of newborn (TTN) and the baby needed neonatal care urgently," he said. With no means of transportation available due to the lockdown, the newborn was taken to Chandorkar's hospital, which was 1.5 km away, on the doctor's two-wheeler. "I admitted the baby to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) and put him on oxygen support and his condition stabilised after 12 hours," he said. "It was an overwhelming experience for me. The baby held on to my finger during examination and I just wanted to assure him that he was safe and will get well soon," he said. The coronavirus outbreak and the subsequent lockdown has highlighted the risk taken by health workers who go above and beyond the call of duty to save a patient's life with limited resources at their disposal. Speaking about medical facilities in Alibaug, a popular beach destination near Mumbai, Chandorkar said there was a shortage of ventilators and critical patients are often shifted to Mumbai for advanced care.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctor-takes-sick-newborn-to-hospital-on-bike-saves-his-life-824033.html
11-04-2020||National||COVID-19 Lockdown: No infrastructure to conduct hearings through video conference, says CAT||The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), which adjudicates service related matters of central government employees, is facing difficulties in holding hearings during the lockdown due to lack of infrastructure for video conferencing, according to an official communique. The Centre had imposed the 21-day lockdown from March 25 to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus that has claimed 239 lives and infected 7,447 people so far in the country. With the imposition of the lockdown, it became impossible for the tribunal’s benches to function as neither advocates nor CAT employees were in a position to attend work, it said.  “The option to conduct hearings through video conference was not available firstly because the necessary equipment was not in place and secondly, it was not possible to procure it in view of the lockdown,” the Personnel Ministry said in the statement issued on Saturday. It has always been the endeavour of the principal bench of the CAT and its benches across the country to dispose of as many cases as possible and to function to the satisfaction of the persons who approach the tribunal for remedies, it said. As a matter of fact, the disposal rate even up to the month of February had been phenomenal, the statement said. With the outbreak of the coronavirus, the sittings were arranged adhering to social distancing norms, it said. However, even that became impossible in view of the steps taken by the government from March 22 onwards, the statement said. The principal bench in fact was scheduled to be on a mini vacation from April 2 to April 12, it said. “The further course of action would be decided depending on the steps which the government would take in respect of the period from April 15onwards. Even if there exists the slightest possibility to conduct the courts, the same would be availed,” the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-no-infrastructure-to-conduct-hearings-through-video-conference-says-cat-824047.html
11-04-2020||National||TRAI recommends making interoperability of set top boxes mandatory||The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) on Saturday recommended that all DTH and cable  Set-Top-Boxes(STBs) provided to the customers must support interoperability. The TRAI suggested that the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (I&B) include the required clause in-laws to make it mandatory. While asking the I& B Ministry to set up a committee to implement the recommendations, the TRAI said DTH operators and cable operators ( Multi-Service Operators) should be given six months time to adopt interoperable set-top boxes.  At present the STBs are not interoperable. If a  television viewer wants to change the cable operators or DTH service providers, he has to purchase a new set-top box. However, interoperable set-top boxes will allow consumers to change their DTH operator without buying a new set-top box. The TRAI also recommended the mandatory provisioning of USB port-based common interface for all digital television sets in India. The lack of interoperability of STBs between different service providers not only deprives the customer of the freedom to change his or her service provider but also creates a hindrance to technological innovation, improvement in service quality, and the overall sector growth, the TRAI said. It said DTH and MSO players (Cable tv)  should be given a time for six months to adopt “DVB CI+ 2.0 standards (with USB CAM)” in line with the ETSI standards (European Telecommunications Standards Institute). Such specifications must mandate TV manufacturers to provide all-digital television sets with at least one open interface port based on DVB CI Plus 2.0 standards permitting simple connection of USB CAM to allow reception of television signals, the TRAI said. They must also provide the digital television sets with built-in tuners to enable reception of television content through both satellite and cable platforms, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trai-recommends-making-interoperability-of-set-top-boxes-mandatory-824055.html
11-04-2020||National||PM-CMs meet on COVID-19: Most CMs favour extending lockdown||Fifteen minutes before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s crucial interaction with Chief Ministers on lockdown vis a vis COVID 19 expansion began, former Finance Minister P Chidambaram said the Congress CMs should tell the Prime Minister today that just as LIVES are important LIVELIHOOD of the poor is important. However, lives, appeared having precedence in the meeting in which Chief Ministers cutting across party lines favoured extending the lockdown, although everyone had some new element in his suggestion. Most of the Chief Ministers, who attended the meet, asked the Prime Ministers to extend the period of 21-day nationwide lockdown, which otherwise comes to an end on April 14. Two of them Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh have already increased the lock-down in their respective states till April 30 and May 1st respectively. The Prime Minister on his part told the Chief Ministers that he is available to them 24x7 and stands by them in all circumstances and urged Chief Ministers to work in close tandem with the Centre in the fight against COVID-19. This is the third video conference of Modi with Chief Ministers in less than a month since the outbreak of COVID-19. In the PM-CM video conferencing on the day 18 of the lockdown,  Shiv Sena’s CM Uddhav Thackeray, whose state Maharashtra is in a vice-like grip of the pandemic, pitched strongly for increasing the lockdown along with UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. Telangana, Rajasthan,Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu and Haryana were also for extending lockdown to check the spread of the disease. Health Ministry is also of the view that the lockdown is needed for three more weeks (till May 1st) to flatten the curve even as it has repeatedly denied any community transmission so far, a fear that has been expressed a number of times from different eminent persons, the latest being the Punjab Chief Minister on Friday. Before the meeting, while Congress President Sonia Gandhi spoke to party state chiefs, P Chidambaram also enquired with Congress Chief Ministers—Captain Amarinder Singh (Punjab) Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan), Bhupesh Bhagel (Chhattisgarh) and V Narayanaswami (Puducherry)  as well as Uddhav Thackeray Chief Minister of Maharasthra, a state in which Congress is a junior partner in the government and Chief Minister of  Tamil Nadu, his home state E K Palaniswami, In the meeting, which was addressed by the Prime Minister wearing a home-made mask and all CMs also sporting face masks, the central government gave a message to all people to cover faces. The meeting saw a consensus-building up for extending lockdown. Delhi CM wanted Modi to extend lockdown till April 30. Even if there are some relaxations, he felt public transport should not be opened. He wanted the Centre to decide on modalities of the lockdown extension. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Baghel pitched for lockdown with a human face but said the state government is with Centre if the latter decides to extend lockdown. West Bengal Chief Minister Banerjee, whose government imposed total lockdown in 10 hotspots in the state, ahead of the meeting, said that the GDP of the states has fallen after lockdown and sought a relief package for all states.  Punjab wanted Rs 500 crore from Centre for augmenting hospitals in the state and supply of testing kits, besides relief for farmers. Some of the suggestions that emerged in the meeting are to ensure stringent lockdown in hotspots, provide some relaxation in unaffected districts, there should be door-to-door screening in highly affected areas. One notable suggestion was to completely lock down those districts, which have a large number of hotspots. Before the PM meeting, Chidambaram asked the Chief Ministers that they should demand the Centre to transfer cash to every poor family immediately. Remonetise the poor should be their unanimous demand. The poor have lost their jobs or self-employment in the last 18 days. They have exhausted their meagre savings. Many are standing in line for food. Can the State stand by and watch them go hungry? the former finance minister asked.  The issue had an echo in the meeting as a number of Chief Ministers drew attention towards the plight of the migrant labours, who are stuck up in various cities where they have now been rendered unemployed and cannot go back to their home towns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-cms-meet-on-covid-19-most-cms-favour-extending-lockdown-824061.html
11-04-2020||National||Donations to PM-CARES comes under CSR but not CM Relief Fund: Government attracts criticism||The Centre's clarification that corporate donations to PM-CARES will come under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure but not those to Chief Minister's Relief Fund invited criticism from the Opposition on Saturday, saying it was "blatantly discriminatory" in the fight against Covid-19. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs on Friday had said that contributions made to PM-CARES will qualify as CSR expenditure under Schedule VII of the Companies Act 2013 and was further through an office memorandum issued on March 28, the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the setting up of PM-CARES. In the Covid-19 related FAQ, the Ministry also made it clear that the "Chief Minister’s Relief Fund’ or ‘State Relief Fund for COVID-19’ is not included in Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013 and therefore any contribution to such funds shall not qualify as admissible CSR expenditure". However, the contributions made to State Disaster Management Authorities to combat Covid-19 will qualify as CSR expenditure. CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury said it was an attempt to "corner all CSR monies for his (Modi's) personally named fund and deny states -- who are in the frontline of combatting Covid-19 -- these funds. This is “Cooperative Federalism”? Amend Schedule 7 of Companies Act to permit State governments to access these funds which could save millions of lives". He said it was "blatantly discriminatory and goes against the constitutional principle of federalism". States are at the forefront of this battle to contain the spread of Covid-19 and they are being "strangulated" by the Centre in this fight, he added. On March 23, the government had allowed companies to spend their corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, which was notified as a disaster.  According to the existing law, every company having net worth of Rs 500 or more, or turnover of Rs 1,000 crore or more or a net profit of Rs five crore or more will have to spend at least 2% of the average net profits made during the three immediately preceding financial years every financial year in pursuance of its Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. Modi has on March 28 announced the setting up of public charitable ‘Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund’ (PM CARES Fund) with the "primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation, like posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, and to provide relief to the affected". Besides the Prime Minister as Chairman of the Trust, it has the Defence Minister, the Home Minister and the Finance Minister as members among others. The decision to set up the new public charitable fund instead using the existing PM National Relief Fund (PMNRF) to collect funds from the public to fight Covid-19 has already come under criticism with opponents accusing him of using a tragedy to enhance personality cult besides raising questions about the transparency of the scheme. In the FAQ, the Ministry also said payment of salary or wages to employees and workers, including contract labour, during the lockdown period cannot be considered as CSR expenditure However, if any ex-gratia payment is made to temporary, casual workers or daily wage workers over and above the disbursement of wages, specifically for the purpose of fighting Covid-19, it is admissible towards CSR expenditure as a one-time exception provided there is an explicit declaration to that effect by the Board of the company, which is duly certified by the statutory auditor. The clarifications came after the Ministry received several references and representations from various stakeholders seeking clarity on eligibility of CSR expenditure related to Covid-19activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/donations-to-pm-cares-comes-under-csr-but-not-cm-relief-fund-government-attracts-criticism-824076.html
11-04-2020||National||COVID-19 lockdown: Centre considering extending nationwide lockdown beyond April 14 after requests by CMs||The nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19 is likely to be extended beyond April 14 with the government spokesperson on Saturday saying the Centre is considering a request made by most state chief ministers in this regard during an interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "During the video-conferencing on coronavirus in India with state CMs today, most states requested Prime Minister Modi to extend the lockdown for two more weeks. The Central Government is considering this request," government's Principal Spokesperson K S Dhatwalia tweeted. A more direct and clear indication of a possible extension came from Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal who tweeted the "PM has taken correct decision to extend lockdown. Today, India’s position is better than in many developed countries because we started lockdown early. If it is stopped now, all gains would be lost. To consolidate, it is important to extend it." The meeting, held via video conferencing, was called by Modi to discuss the situation arising due to the COVID-19 pandemic and to take the feedback of chief ministers on whether the 21-day shutdown should be extended. Among others, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, as well as Kejriwal, had suggested extension of the national lockdown by at least a fortnight.  Modi, accompanied by some senior officials, including from the Union health ministry, was wearing a white mask during the meeting which was also attended by chief ministers --Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal), Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra), Yogi Adityanath (Uttar Pradesh), Manohar Lal (Haryana), K Chandrashekhar Rao (Telangana) and Nitish kumar (Bihar). The Central government is understood to have also obtained views on the issue from all the relevant agencies and stakeholders involved in the efforts to contain the spread of the pandemic. The video conference, which began at 11am, came even as Punjab and Odisha governments earlier this week announced extension of the lockdown beyond April 14 when the current spell of 21-day shutdown ends on Tuesday. The Union Home Ministry has sought views of state governments on various aspects, including whether more categories of people and services need to be exempted. Only essential services are exempted during the ongoing lockdown. This is for the second time the prime minister is interacting with the chief ministers via video link after the lockdown was imposed. During his April 2 interaction with chief ministers, Modi had pitched for a "staggered" exit from the ongoing lockdown. Addressing floor leaders of various parties who have representation in Parliament, Modi had on Wednesday made it clear that the lockdown cannot be lifted in one go, asserting that the priority of his government is to "save each and every life". According to an official statement after the Wednesday interaction, the prime minister told these leaders that states, district administrations and experts have suggested extension of the lockdown to contain the spread of the virus. Before the lockdown was announced on March 24, the prime minister had interacted with the chief ministers on March 20 to discuss ways and means to check the spread of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-centre-considering-extending-nationwide-lockdown-beyond-april-14-after-requests-by-cms-824081.html
11-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Women in Jammu village ensure outsiders don't enter their hamlet||A group of women from a Jammu village have taken it upon themselves to ensure that no outsider enters the hamlet to keep the residents safe from catching deadly COVID-19. The women of Chatta Pind, Jammu, armed with sticks guard the entry points of the village, which have been blocked by barbed wires. Led by former sarpanch, Gurmeet Kour, the women guard the hamlet from 9 am to 4 pm along with a few policemen at the barbed wire blocked entry points to the locality which houses over 6,500 people. “It is our duty to support the police and government in this war against coronavirus. So we have taken up the role to guard our small locality and insulate it from any outside contact,” Kour, was quoted by a local English daily as having said. Kour (55) said that in this hour of crisis, it was not the duty of police only to guard villages, locality or lanes to ensure lockdown. “We felt it is our duty to contribute a bit by guarding our locality and relieving the police which is performing a large-scale duty in the time of lockdown. At least we can guard our own area,” she said. There has been a spurt in COVID-19 positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir in recent days forcing authorities to tighten the lockdown further. Hundreds of people have been arrested while hundreds of vehicles have been seized across the UT (Union Territory) for violation lockdown restrictions in the last two weeks. The number of Red Zones declared by the administration in the UT has also witnessed a sharp jump taking the count to 45. While appreciating the role of Jammu village women in guarding their village, a senior official said that despite awareness, some people don’t take any precaution and keep roaming which not only infects them but in case of any contact, their family and locality as well. “Such initiatives can prove a huge success in preventing coronavirus from spreading if replicated in other areas,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-women-in-jammu-village-ensure-outsiders-dont-enter-their-hamlet-824094.html
11-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: This season, tulips in Srinagar to wither without catching an eye||For the first time in its more than decade-long history, 1.3 million tulips at Asia’s largest tulip garden in Srinagar will wither without catching an eye due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Nestled on the foothills of Zabarwan Range, the Indira Gandhi Memorial Tulip Garden here, which is Asia's largest, was all set to have 1.3 million tulips on a display for both domestic and foreign tourists from mid-March. However, due to the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, none will witness the splendor of tulips this time. The tulip bloom lasts only for a month – from mid-March to mid-April until the temperatures witness a surge in Kashmir. The garden, overlooking the Dal Lake, is a riot of colours these days due to the full bloom of tulips this season. “This year, the Department had introduced one lakh additional tulips to its 1.2 million bulbs in the garden. This season, we had planned to keep the garden open for 40-days,” an official of the Floriculture Department, which manages and looks after the garden, told DH. However, he said, due to the coronavirus pandemic this time there is no visitor to witness the “magnificence of million tulip bloom.” The garden spread over 30 acres was ranked fourth-biggest tulip garden among the world’s biggest tulip gardens by the World Tulip Society in 2017.  It was also touted among the top 5 tulip destinations in the world at the Tulip Summit in Canada in 2017. The tourism players in Kashmir had expected that the Garden will once again attract tourists to violence-hit Kashmir. The tourism sector has been badly hit in Kashmir since August 5 last year when the government of India announced the abrogation of Article 370. Official figures reveal that around two to three lakh visitors, including locals, domestic and international tourists would visit the garden in a matter of one month. The closure of the garden due to the pandemic is definitely, a tourism official said a new “jolt” to the already ailing tourism sector. “Tulip garden had become a new opening for tourism in spring in Kashmir. It would prolong the tourism season of Kashmir. However, saving lives is more important than tourism,” he said. The garden was opened in 2007 by the then chief minister Ghulam Nabi Azad with an aim to boost floriculture and tourism in Kashmir. Apart from tulips, many other species of flowers - hyacinths and daffodils -- are available here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-this-season-tulips-in-srinagar-to-wither-without-catching-an-eye-824098.html
11-04-2020||National||Doctor asks SC to modify order for free Coronavirus test by Pvt labs||A doctor has moved the Supreme Court with a plea to modify the April 8 order for free COVID-19 test, saying it would overburden and disincentives private laboratory, at a critical time when testing across the country has to be ramped up. In an application, Kaushal Kant Mishra contended the ICMR guidelines fixing Rs 4,500 for private labs to conduct the test must continue with exception to the EWS (Economically Weaker Section) category, only on immediate reimbursement by government. Maintaining that there is a clear correlation between greater testing and finding positive numbers, he pointed out India has among the lowest rates of confirmed cases, attributable to the low testing numbers. "More than 11 million tests have been conducted across the world as of April 9, 2020, of which as per ICMR data, about 160,000 tests have been by India. While India’s positive cases are about 6,237 meaning only about 3.8% of those tested, in the United States has conducted 2.2 million tests, nearly 20% have shown up positive" his plea stated.  Mishra, through her counsel Pooja Dhar, filed an application for modification of the top court's order for free test passed in a PIL by advocate Shashwat Deo Sushi. He said as the present pandemic numbers in India were gradually increasing, and were likely to see severe spikes in the coming weeks, this is the point at which testing capacities must be at their maximum so that governmental efforts to contain its spread can be suitably supplemented.  He further pointed out in the UK, private labs were charging as much as $425 per test, which is equal to Rs 32,500. Though the ICMR issued a list of 67 private labs, authorised to test for COVID-19, apparently quite a few of them have reservations about going ahead with testing unless there was a commitment from the governments, either central or state to take on any extent of the burden. With the apex court's order, several citizens, admitted to hospitals as COVID-19 suspects would wait longer for test results, putting themselves at the virus risk and causing a strain on the system. He said the present capacity appeared to be "woefully insufficient" to obtain accurate data and control the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctor-asks-sc-to-modify-order-for-free-coronavirus-test-by-pvt-labs-824103.html
11-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Centre exempts fisheries sector from lockdown||The Centre has exempted people involved in marine fishing and aquaculture from the 21-day nationwide lockdown to arrest the spread of the COVID-19 outbreak. Late on Friday night, the Centre issued the fifth set of amendments in the consolidated guidelines to exempt the marine fisheries and aquaculture sector that contributed Rs 1.75 lakh crore to the Gross Domestic Product in 2017-18. “Operation of the fishing (marine) and aquaculture industry, including feeding and maintenance, harvesting, processing, packaging, cold storage chain, sales and marketing, hatcheries, feed plants, commercial aquaria, movement of fish, shrimp and fish products, and workers for all these activities, are exempt from the lockdown restrictions,” a Home Ministry statement said. It also reiterated that as specified in the lockdown measures, social distancing and proper hygiene practice must be ensured in each of the said activities as well as other activities permitted in previous orders. “It would be the responsibility of the head of the organisation or establishment to ensure compliance of such norms and the district administration will ensure strict enforcement,” the Home Ministry said. The order has been communicated to all other central ministries, departments, states and UTs for implementation. The fisheries sector accounts for about 6.58 per cent share of agricultural GDP of the country. According to government estimates, the sector provides livelihoods to about 16 million fisherfolk and fish farmers at the primary level and almost twice the number along the value chain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-exempts-fisheries-sector-from-lockdown-824105.html
11-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Ex RBI Guv Raghuram Rajan says ready to come to India if govt asks for assistance||Days after he wrote in a blog post that the government should call on people with proven expertise and capabilities to help it manage COVID-19 crisis in India, former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan Saturday said he would return to India if his expertise was required to tackle the pandemic’s aftermath. “This is a time of emergency… I am an Indian citizen and I am very, very closely engaged in seeing what’s happening to India and worry about it every day. So, I mean, any Indian citizen when called upon will do what is necessary in a time of need. So, I don’t think that’s an issue,” he said in an interview to NDTV, hours after being appointed an advisor to International Monetary Fund.  “The answer is a straightforward yes,” Rajan told NDTV when asked whether he would return to India if asked for his assistance.  57-year old Rajan, who served as RBI Governor for a three-year term till September 2016, is currently working as a professor at the University of Chicago. He is one of the 11 external advisors IMF appointed on Friday for wider inputs on policy matters, including that of COVID-19.    But Rajan’s role will not be limited to suggesting measures directed only to containing COVID-19, he will also give his inputs on complex policy issues confronting the world.  Rajan has earlier served as chief economist at IMF from 2003 to 2007. “There is much to do. The government should call on people with proven expertise and capabilities, of whom there are so many in India, to help it manage its response. It may even want to reach across the political aisle to draw in members of the opposition who have had experience in previous times of great stress like the global financial crisis,” Former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan recently wrote on a LinkedIn blog post titled ‘Perhaps India’s Greatest Challenge in Recent Times’.  “He, however, had said that if the government insisted on driving everything from the Prime Minister's Office, with the same overworked people, it will do too little, too late”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-ex-rbi-guv-raghuram-rajan-says-ready-to-come-to-india-if-govt-asks-for-assistance-824106.html
11-04-2020||National||Surgeon moves SC, seeks modification of order asking pvt. labs to conduct free COVID-19 tests||Kaushal Kant Mishra has filed an intervention application in a pending PIL, saying if the testing is made free for all, private labs will be overburdened financially and slow down. Mishra urged the court to allow private labs to do COVID-19 testing “as per the rates stipulated in the ICMR Advisory dated March 17”. He, however, said the labs can do the testing for the EWS categories with immediate reimbursement by the government. The senior surgeon has also sought a direction to the authorities to "forthwith set up testing labs in all municipalities and panchayat areas". Issuing the no-charge order, the Supreme Court had observed that private labs need to be philanthropic during a national crisis. Prior to this, the government allowed some private labs to charge Rs 4,500 for screening and confirmation tests for COVID-19.    Mishra’s plea said the apex court’s order has “disincentivised” the labs to continue to function “at a time when testing across the country has to be ramped up”. "In the UK, private labs are charging as much as $425 per test, which is equal to Rs.32,500," the pleas aid.   It said forcing private entities shall create a sharp dip in an “already below par testing rate for COVID-19” and if the government does not provide immediate reimbursement, there is a real risk that the private labs may stop testing for COVID-19. "The message that has been sent out by the WHO Chief as early as the middle of March is to 'test, test, test’... All countries should be able to test all suspected cases, they cannot fight this pandemicblindfolded," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/surgeon-moves-sc-seeks-modification-of-order-asking-pvt-labs-to-conduct-free-covid-19-tests-824108.html
11-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: 'Booze party' at quarantine centre in Uttar Pradesh||One would think that the people, who were quarantined, would be kept under observation and that they would maintain social distancing but what happened at a quarantine centre in Uttar Pradesh's Ayodhya district, about 150 kilometres from here, was exactly the opposite. According to the reports a 'booze party' was organised at the quarantine centre at the government primary school at Chaudharipur village in the district and the quarantined people were treated to chicken and liquor. The party would have gone unnoticed but for a drunken brawl among the quarantined people. The village 'chowkidar', who witnessed the brawl, informed the cops about the same. Though the party had taken place a few days back, the district authorities kept the matter to themselves pending an investigation.  The district officials said on Friday said that the village 'pradhan' (panchayat chief) had thrown a party at the quarantine centre, where liquor had been served. A case was registered in this regard, police sources said. Earlier also a more or less similar incident had been reported from Etah district in the state, where a beer party was organised inside the isolation ward at the district hospital. Two employees of the hospital were suspended following the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-booze-party-at-quarantine-centre-in-uttar-pradesh-824113.html
11-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Supreme Court Bar Association asks CJI to cancel summer vacation||The Supreme Court Bar Association, on Saturday, asked the Chief Justice of India to cancel the summer vacation, scheduled between May 16 and July 5, in order to make good loss of working hours. The top court is hearing urgent matters since March 16, in view of COVID-19 pandemic. In a resolution, the lawyers body also requested CJI SA Bobde to improve the current video conferencing facility by adopting live streaming as mandated in the SC's judgement in 'Swapnil Tripathi' (2018). This has come within days of the Delhi HC cancelling the one-month summer vacation in June for the High Court and subordinate courts. The executive committee of the SC lawyers supported the need for the restrictions, saying those were "unavoidable in the unprecedented situation faced by all in the first phase of the lockdown". It, however, requested the CJI and the companion judges of the Supreme Court to take further proactive measures to mitigate the suffering and distress of the litigating public by gradually restoring full functioning of the top court. It said the existing 'Vidyo' (app-based) conferencing platform must be replaced by a modern and efficient multi-user platform such as those provided by other well-known companies or the interactive services being used by the Council of Ministers and officials of the government on a daily basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-supreme-court-bar-association-asks-cji-to-cancel-summer-vacation-824115.html
11-04-2020||National||India's rapid response team has reached Kuwait: S Jaishankar||India's rapid response team has reached Kuwait as a follow up to the discussion between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Kuwait counterpart Sheikh Sabah Al-Khaled Al-Hamad Al-Sabah on dealing with coronavirus crisis, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday. On April 1, Prime Minister Modi and Sheikh Al-Sabah held a telephonic conversation and decided that officials of the two countries would maintain regular contact to exchange information and explore avenues of cooperation. "India's RAPID RESPONSE TEAM arrives in Kuwait. Follow up to the discussion between our two Prime Ministers on #COVID19. Underlines the special friendship between India and Kuwait," Jaishankar said in a tweet. Kuwait has reported nearly 1,000 cases of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-rapid-response-team-has-reached-kuwait-s-jaishankar-824124.html
11-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Learn from mistakes, protect farmers and workers, say agriculture unions to PM||Urging Prime Minister Narendra Modi to "learn from mistakes", two agriculture unions, on Saturday, asked the government to address the concerns of farmers and agriculture workers before extending the 21-day COVID-19 lockdown for another two weeks, saying an "unprecedented" scenario is staring at the country with rising hunger and malnutrition among the poor. The All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) and All India Agricultural Workers' Union (AIAWU) said the announcement on the lockdown on March 24 by Modi was "without any preparations" and had led to "untold misery" for peasantry, agriculture workers, the poor and the migrant workers. "Already, more than 150 deaths are being reported due to the unplanned, unprepared and mismanaged lockdown and the accompanying loss of employment, earning, hunger as well as all round distress. A human tragedy of an unprecedented nature is staring at us with hunger and malnutrition rising even as nutritious food is part of the requirement to counter COVID-19. If an extension of the lockdown is warranted, the Prime Minister and the Centre should put in place concrete measures to mitigate the suffering of the masses," they said. In a statement, AIKS President Ashok Dhawale and General Secretary Hannan Molla and AIAWU President A Vijayaraghavan and General Secretary B Venkat said the government should ensure harvesting and procure the produce at remunerative prices. It should also ensure that crop loss and income losses are compensated while free seeds and other inputs at subsidised rates must be provided for the next season. "Reports from Rajasthan suggest that mustard and chana, which were fetching Rs 4,800-Rs 5,000 per quintal are now fetching only Rs 1,000. There are such reports from other states too," they said. The two groups demanded that Rs 6,000, under the PM-Kisan scheme, should be transferred to all farmers, including tenant farmers and share croppers as first instalment and the amount must be enhanced to Rs 18,000 per year. They also wanted the government to deposit Rs 5,000 per month in the accounts of people living below the poverty line and for this, an allocation of Rs four lakh should be made. Another demand was that all agricultural workers under MGNREGA must be given Rs 300 per day or minimum wage prevalent in respective states, whichever may be higher using the Unemployment Wage clause in the Act. Raising the issue of migrant labourers, they said those people who have left cities for their villages should be kept in clean facilities by taking over community halls and empty buildings and proper food must be provided. The AIKS and AIAWU also wanted the Centre to assist state governments with a special package with the autonomy to use for social security measures and augment health facilities. "The buffer stock of foodgrains must be released for ensuring 35 kg per family so that there are no hunger deaths. The Kerala Model wherein other than the foodgrains under National Food Security Act, other essentials like 2 varieties of cooking oils, 3 varieties of pulses, spices like chilli powder, turmeric, methi, sugar, soaps, sooji-rava, tea etc have been given to 87 lakh beneficiaries must be emulated," they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-learn-from-mistakes-protect-farmers-and-workers-say-agriculture-unions-to-pm-824125.html
11-04-2020||National||SCBA appeals to CJI for cancellation of summer vacation of Supreme Court||The Supreme Court Bar Association appealed to Chief Justice of India S A Bobde and his companion judges on Saturday to cancel the summer vacation this year and treat it as a working period in the larger interest of litigants and justice. The lawyers’ body said now that restrictions are likely to continue after the first phase of coronavirus lockdown ends on April 14, the CJI and the companion judges should take more proactive steps to mitigate the distress of litigants. It also urged the judges to take measures to gradually restore the full functioning of the top court. Accordingly, the Executive Council resolves to appeal to the CJI and his companion judges to cancel the summer vacation and treat the period “as working of the Supreme Court of India”, the resolution passed unanimously by the bar association said. It said it is “deeply concerned” about the distress caused to litigants because of the restricted functioning of the courts throughout the country-- first due to Holi recess and then due to the nationwide lockdown, which necessitated very limited hearing of only urgent matters through video link. The SCBA resolves that all lawyers practising in the Supreme Court will give up the summer vacation scheduled from May 16 till July 5 and make themselves available for work, the association said. It demanded that the temporary video-conference facilities be improved for live-streaming of court proceedings using an efficient multi-user platform such as those being used by the Council of Ministers and government officials. “It is only if all contesting lawyers, instructing Advocates in Record, and litigants can have simultaneous access to the video-conference proceedings, that the same can become an effective system for conducting full-fledged court proceedings at par with those which our judicial system requires should normally be conducted in open courtrooms,” the lawyers’ body said, adding, that its President Dushyant Dave should bring this resolution to the notice of the Chief Justice of India. The bar association said it fully supports the restrictions, which were unavoidable in the unprecedented situation faced by all in the first phase of the lockdown. On Saturday, advocate Ashok Arora, secretary of SCBA said the CJI will review the functioning of the apex court every three-four days in consultation with other judges and officials of the Health Ministry. He said the demand from bar leaders and other bodies that summer vacation this year be preponed can wait for a while and till then status quo is to be maintained. “I spoke to Chief Justice of India on April 10 at12 noon and was informed that he was going to review the situation after every 3/4 days after consulting the other Judges and health ministry. Till then the status quo. So better, we wait for a while,” Arora said. Meanwhile, senior advocate Dinesh Goswami has written to the CJI, requesting suspension of summer vacation. The top court on March 23 virtually went into the lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus and suspended for an indefinite period the entry of advocates and other staff in the high-security zone on the basis of their proximity cards. On April 9, the Delhi High court decided to suspend the summer vacation this year, previously scheduled from June 1 to 30. The high court also cancelled the summer break of subordinate courts in June this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scba-appeals-to-cji-for-cancellation-of-summer-vacation-of-supreme-court-824129.html
11-04-2020||National||Ensure police protection to medical staff working during coronavirus pandemic: MHA to states & UTs||Amid increasing cases of attack on healthcare professionals involved in tackling COVID-19, the Ministry of Home Affairs on Saturday wrote to states to ensure police security to doctors and other medical staff when they go to hospitals for screening as well as in quarantine centres. It has also been communicated to the states to provide necessary police security to doctors and medical staff who visit places to conduct screening of people to find out symptoms of the disease. The letter by MHA Deputy Secretary Srinivasu K referred to the Supreme Court direction in this regard and said necessary action should be taken for compliance of the order. On April 8, the Supreme Court said, "The Government of India, respective states/Union Territories and respective authorities are directed to provide the necessary police security to the doctors and medical staff in hospitals and places where patientsw who have been diagnosed COVID-19 or patients suspected of COVID-19 or those quarantined are housed." It also said, "Necessary police security be also extended to doctors and other medical staff who visit places to conduct screening of people to find out symptoms of disease." Healthcare professionals in Delhi and elsewhere have been complaining that they were facing harassment with house owners asking them to vacate their rented accommodation besides facing harassment from locals. The Centre and state governments had issued appeals to citizens not to harass healthcare professionals, who are on the frontline in the fight against COVID-19. Earlier this month, doctors in Telangana were attacked following the death of a COVID-19 patient while two woman doctors and civil authorities who went to a locality in Indore for COVID-19 screening were attacked. Highlighting the issue, the Federation of Resident Doctors Association shot off a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah on April 1 demanding passing of Central Protection Act for Doctors and deploy Hospital Protection Force similar to CISF to prevent incidents in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-police-protection-to-medical-staff-working-during-coronavirus-pandemic-mha-to-states-uts-824134.html
11-04-2020||National||Team taking coronavirus patient to hospital attacked in UP's Meerut||A team of police and district officials was attacked in Meerut's Jali Kothi on Saturday when it reached there to seal a part of the area following a confirmation about presence of coronavirus patients there, officials said. Four people, including an imam, have been arrested in connection with the incident, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said in Lucknow. "A team which had gone to take a COVID-19 patient to hospital in Meerut's Jali Kothi area was attacked by some people. Four persons, including an imam, have been arrested in this regard. Action will be initiated against the accused persons under the National Security Act (NSA)," Awasthi said in a statement. The NSA allows preventive detention up to 12 months without a charge if the authorities are satisfied that the person is a threat to the national security or law and order. Circle Officer Dinesh Shukla said the accused pelted stones at the team, injuring a police official and the city magistrate. "On February 24, three people attended a programme of a local Jamaat and came from Maharashtra (Malegaon) to Meerut. They were staying at Dariwaali Masjid. On Friday, their samples came back positive for coronavirus," he said. "On Saturday morning, when in-charge of Delhi Gate police station Ravindra Singh along with police force and City Magistrate Satendra Kumar Singh went to seal a lane in the Jali Kothi area, some people started resisting them, and raised slogans against the police. They also pelted stones at the police," he added. In the incident, city magistrate and police station in-charge sustained injuries, Shukla said. Additional police force from other police stations was rushed to the spot as soon as information about the incident was transmitted on wireless. Superintendent of Police (City) Akhilesh Narayan Singh said, "The area is being sealed. As of now, there is peace in the area." So far, Uttar Pradesh has reported 433 coronavirus cases. The tally in Meerut stands at 44, of which six were reported on Saturday, according to official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/team-taking-coronavirus-patient-to-hospital-attacked-in-ups-meerut-824147.html
11-04-2020||National||586 COVID-19 hospitals with 1 lakh isolation beds across country: Health Ministry||Addressing a press briefing, Health Ministry's Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said the government has taken early preemptive action to identify COVID-19 hotspots in the country. In the absence of a lockdown and other containment measures, there would have been over 8.2 lakh coronavirus cases in the country till April 15, he said. According to the Health Ministry, 1,035 fresh COVID-19 cases and 40 deaths due to the disease were reported in the last 24 hours across the country, taking the total number of cases to 7,447 and deaths to 239 nationwide. Agarwal said, "586 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals have been earmarked at the state and centre level. One lakh isolation beds and 11,500 ICU beds have been reserved for coronavirus patients across country. This figure is being augmented every day, based on the evolving situation." He further said, "We had done an analysis on the rate of growth in cases. We observed Janta curfew on March 22 and went for lockdown from March 25. According to statistical analysis, in the absence of lockdown and other containment measures, there would have been 41 per cent increase and 8.2 lakh coronavirus cases by April 15," Agarwal said. He asserted that measures like social distancing, lockdown and other containment efforts are important in fighting the battle against coronavirus. "The response of Government of India has been preemptive, proactive and to the extent of being over-prepared and through our graded approach, we have aligned our response with the evolving situation. Ministry of AYUSH has prepared a set of guidelines on respiratory health and to boost immunity. Districts have been asked to incorporate this in district-level contingency plan as well," he said. Agarwal also asserted that there is no shortage in the country of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, cited by many as a viable therapeutic solution to counter the coronavirus infection. Responding to a question, a senior official of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said, "Five lakh antibody testing kits ordered by ICMR have not been received yet". The ICMR official said over 1.7 lakh samples have been tested in country so far for COVID-19, of which 16,564 samples were tested on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/586-covid-19-hospitals-with-1-lakh-isolation-beds-across-country-health-ministry-824148.html
11-04-2020||National||West Bengal CM extends coronavirus lockdown till April 30||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said that since Prime Minister Narendra Modi has decided to extend the lockdown till April 30 in the meeting, the same will also be extended in the state till April 30. “Prime Minister has officially announced that the lockdown will be extended till April 30 in today’s meeting. We have said that in such a situation we don’t want any difference of opinion with the Centre and hence, the lockdown will continue here also till April 30,” said Banerjee. She was speaking to journalists at the state secretariat following the virtual meeting of Chief Ministers with the Prime Minister regarding the lockdown. Banerjee also said that she has urged the Centre to increase surveillance in the border areas of West Bengal to ensure that no one enters the state during the lockdown. “Bengal has three borders and we have received information that some are trying to enter into the state. I have said in the meeting to ensure that by no means people can cross the border and enter the state (during lockdown). If Bengal gets into trouble same will happen to the North Eastern states, Bihar and also other states,” said Banerjee.   Banerjee urged the Prime Minister to keep international flights suspended till the situation becomes normal. Refuting a section of media reports which claimed that the state government has specified certain areas as COVID-19 hotspots, Banerjee said that her government has not made any such statements. “We have said that we are monitoring certain areas. The people in those areas will be asked to be alert and abide by instructions issued by police. We have never specified any particular area and neither are we saying any such thing today,” said Banerjee. “We have found certain sensitive spot in our mapping and we will ensure that the lockdown is fully enforced in these areas. But that doesn’t mean we will shut down grocery stores, medicine shops in these areas and prevent people from buying essential commodities,” said Banerjee. She also said that with six new COVID-19 cases, the total number of active positive cases in the state has gone up to 95, adding that some patients have been cured and will be released soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-cm-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-till-april-30-824161.html
11-04-2020||National||SC decision to send activists Navlakha and Teltumbde to jail "disappointing": Amnesty||Amnesty International India has described as "disappointing" the Supreme Court's recent direction asking civil rights activists Gautam Navlakha and Anand Teltumbde to surrender before jail authorities within a week in connection with the 2018 Bhima Koregaon violence case. AII executive director Avinash Kumar, in a statement, said the SC order is also at odds with the court's previous ruling where it directed the states to decongest the country's overcrowded prisons to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, thereby posing a risk to the health of the two activists. Mentioning that Navlakha and Teltumbde have a history of working to protect the rights of some of India's most marginalized people, the international human rights body said they are to be arrested under a "draconian counter-terrorism law that has repeatedly been used to silence government critics". "AII believes that the impending arrests of the two, along with the arrests of the nine activists in the Bhima Goregan case, are politically motivated actions that are aimed at chilling peaceful dissent. The Indian government seems to have failed in its obligation to protect human rights defenders, and the freedom of expression and assembly," Kumar alleged. On April 3, the UN Human Rights Commissioner, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, urged all nations to release "every person detained without sufficient legal basis, including political prisoners, and those detained for critical, dissenting views". Both of them are above 65 years old and have underlying heart ailments, the statement said. Kumar said the WHO in its briefing on April 8 further said that although all age groups are at risk of contracting COVID-19, older people face significant risk of developing severe illness if they contract the disease due to physiological changes that come with ageing and potential underlying health conditions. "On one hand, the court acknowledges that overcrowded prisons present a serious threat and recommends the release of prisoners during the pandemic and then it directs two activists who have been critical of the government to surrender before the police and to be sent to jail," AAI said in the statement. Originally, the duo, who was directed by the SC on March 16 to surrender within three weeks, moved the plea seeking extension of time on the ground that going to jail during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic is "virtually a death sentence". A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra on Wednesday said the accused should have honoured its decision of dismissal of the anticipatory bail and the direction to surrender themselves within three weeks. "Though we expected that the accused would surrender, honouring the order of this court, they have not done so. We are told that in Bombay, the courts are functioning. It would have been appropriate for the accused to surrender as the courts are open and not totally closed," the apex court said on April 8. "However, since the petitioners have enjoyed the protection for long, by way of last opportunity, we extend the time granted to surrender for one week," the bench ordered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-decision-to-send-activists-navlakha-and-teltumbde-to-jail-disappointing-amnesty-824170.html
11-04-2020||National||India could've seen 8.2 lakh COVID-19 cases by April 15 sans lockdown, containment steps: Health ministry||The number of coronavirus cases in the country could have increased to 8.2 lakh by April 15 had India not implemented a lockdown and other containment measures, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. Addressing a daily briefing on the coronavirus situation of the country, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said the country has taken early preemptive action to identify COVID-19 hotspots, along with implementing other containment measures. "According to a statistical analysis by us, India would have registered a 41 per cent cumulative rise in the number of cases, taking the total to 2.08 lakh on April 11 and 8.2 lakh by April 15 had there been no lockdown or other containment measures," the officer said. With containment measures but no lockdown, the number of cases could have risen to 1.2 lakh till April 15 and to 45,370 on April 11 at 28.9 per cent growth rate, he said. Stressing on the importance of social distancing, lockdown and other efforts in the battle against coronavirus, the officer said, "Since we started promoting social distancing and implemented lockdown from March 25 along with other containment measures, there has been a decrease in cases and we have 7,447 coronavirus cases till date." His remarks came on a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with chief ministers and said that there seems to be a consensus among states on extending by another two weeks the ongoing nationwide lockdown, which began on March 25 and was to end on April 14. At the briefing, Agarwal elaborated on India's preparedness to deal with the challenge of the virus, saying 586 hospitals have been earmarked as dedicated COVID-19 facilities at state and Central level with capacity of over one lakh isolation beds and 11,836 ICU beds reserved for such patients. "This figure is being augmented every day, based on the evolving situation," he said. According to the Health Ministry, 1,035 fresh COVID-19 cases and 40 deaths due to the disease were reported in the last 24 hours across the country, taking the total number of cases to 7,447 and deaths to 239 nationwide. "The response of the Government of India has been preemptive, proactive and to the extent of being over-prepared and through our graded approach, we have aligned our response with the evolving situation," he said. The AYUSH ministry has prepared a set of guidelines on respiratory health and to boost immunity. Districts have been asked to incorporate this in district-level contingency plan as well, he said. Agarwal also asserted that the country has no shortage of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, cited by many as a viable therapeutic solution to counter the coronavirus infection. To a question on the efficacy of the drug on frontline health workers, Head of Epidemiology and Communicable diseases at ICMR Raman R Gangakhedkar said, "Out study has not reached at the stage where the results can be analysed so as to draw a conclusion. The duration of exposure has to be long enough otherwise our conclusions may be wrong." Stressing on the use of hydroxychloroquine as a prophylaxis for healthcare workers and household contacts taking care of coronavirus positive case, he said "There is not evidence to recommend its use for general public." To another question, the ICMR official said, "Five lakh antibody testing kits ordered by the ICMR have not been received yet." He said over 1.7 lakh samples have been tested for COVID-19 in the country so far, of which 16,564 were tested on Friday. Out of these 16,564 samples, 14,210 were tested in 146 government laboratories under the ICMR network and the remaining at 67 private labs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-couldve-seen-82-lakh-covid-19-cases-by-april-15-sans-lockdown-containment-steps-health-ministry-824182.html
11-04-2020||National||With business as usual, India would have seen 8.2 lakh COVID-19 cases by April 15, says Health Ministry||India would have seen 8.2 lakh COVID-19 cases by April 15 had the government not taken pre-emptive steps and announced a lockdown on March 24, Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary of Health Ministry said on Saturday. The Centre presented two different scenarios, based on statistical analysis done by the Health Ministry, to stress the importance of the policy of social distancing and lockdown as 1,117 new COVID-19 cases were reported from across the country since Friday. “A statistical analysis of the rate of growth suggests that if there were no lockdown or containment measures then the cases growing at 41% rate could have resulted in 8.2 lakh cases by April 15,” Lav Agarwal told reporters at the daily briefing on the COVID-19 situation here. Aggarwal said according to the second scenario with containment measures alone without a lockdown, the country could have seen 1.2 lakh positive cases by April 15 at the peak growth rate of the disease (28.9%) seen before the implementation of lockdown. The revelations came on a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Ministers of states decided to extend the 21-day lockdown by another two weeks till April 30. As of Saturday, after lockdown and strict containment measures, India has 7,529 cases as of Saturday. Of these, 652 patients have been cured on the infection and discharged from hospital.  India also witnessed 43 deaths due to COVID-19 in a single day, taking the death toll to 242, the health ministry said. According to the Health Ministry, 1,04,613 isolation beds and 11,836 ICU beds have been reserved for Covid-19 patients across the country. Also, 586 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals have been earmarked at the central and the state levels. The Indian Council Of Medical Research (ICMR) said 1,71,718 samples had been tested. On Friday, 16,564 tests were conducted through a network of government and private labs. Centre has roped in National Cadet Corps, National Service Scheme and Civil Defense volunteers to ensure supply of essential commodities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-business-as-usual-india-would-have-seen-82-lakh-covid-19-cases-by-april-15-says-health-ministry-824186.html
11-04-2020||National||Lockdown, social distancing most effective 'social vaccines' to fight COVID-19: Vardhan||Given the size of India's population, coronavirus testing needs to be scaled up in a manner that can be sustained, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has said, asserting that the lockdown and social distancing are the most effective "social vaccines" available to fight the pandemic. At the same time Vardhan, in an interview to The Week magazine, dispelled concerns about lower volume of testing, saying it is being progresively expanded while prioritising individuals who are at risk of the infection. As of April 8, a total of 1,04,764 tests were carried out in India, he said, adding the present capacity of testing is 20,000 per day. On the issue of paucity of ventilators, the health minister, citing official data, said 80 per cent of the infections are mild or asymptomatic, 15 per cent are severe requiring oxygen, and 5 per cent are critical requiring ventilation. He said around 17,000 ventilators are available for the virus-infected people while another 48,538 units are being procured in the coming weeks. On the availability of personal protective equipment (PPEs), Vardhan said it has been a worldwide problem and is more acute in India because they were not manufactured locally. He said a total of 1.57 crore PPEs are being procured. Talking about the overall trend of coronavirus infection, Vardhan said more than 80 per cent of the cases were reported from 71 districts across 17 states. It is vital that community-led interventions to ensure social distancing, quarantining and isolation of symptomatic persons are initiated to augment the scale of the lockdown in place, he said. Everything depends on the people and their discipline to strictly follow all public health measures being outlined, Vardhan said, cautioning that any single break in the chain can prove counterproductive. "Although the world, including India, is striving hard to develop a vaccine for COVID-19, I strongly feel that lockdown and social distancing are currently the most effective 'social vaccines' available to the masses," he said. India went under a 21-day nationwide lockdown on midnight of March 24. There have been indications that the central government may extend the lockdown beyond April 14 with some possible relaxations. "I have coined this term 'social vaccine' for lockdown and social distancing as a combined intervention strategy to not only contain, but also mitigate this dreadful pandemic," Vardhan said. He said the upcoming few days will be critical for India in the fight against the pandemic. "The experience, as is evident from the global response, tells us that even with stringent lockdowns and public health measures in place, the transmission dynamics of COVID-19 are such that it takes about two to four weeks to bend the curve," he said. The death toll due to the novel coronavirus in India has risen to at least 239 and the number of cases to at least 7,447, according to the Union Health Ministry. On the hotspots identified to check spread of the virus, Vardhan said "community ownership", especially for social distancing, remains the most important intervention. In districts with more than 15 cases, an action plan for containment of large outbreaks is being followed, he said. "There are 76 districts with fewer than 15 cases each, where we are following an action plan for cluster containment," Vardhan said. The minister also hailed the efforts by the states in dealing with the crisis, saying they were doing well and responding to the Centre's call. There are some exemplary "best practices" by the states, Vardhan said. Elaborating on the government's efforts to scale up testing for COVID-19, he said that given the population of India, testing needs to be scaled up in a manner that can be sustained while building up capacity for testing and management of positive cases. "With the impending scaling up of testing, it is envisioned that we shall reach optimal levels of case detection. In addition, we are also considering scaling up of rapid antibody tests, which is easier to do and takes less time, but is not recommended as a diagnostic test," he said. He said the current testing strategy is customised based on the transmission typology in India. At present, 136 government labs and 59 NABL-accredited (National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories) private laboratory chains are involved in testing. "We are making sure that the quality of the testing kits and the biosafety of the testing labs are maintained so as to avoid any issues related to unreliable results or iatrogenic transmission (illness caused by medical examination or treatment) in health care or laboratory staff," the minister said. Asked about progression of the disease, he said several theories are being discussed but it is bot clear which one of them will eventually play out. "In the short term, this is likely to play out like an epidemic, which inevitably follows a pattern of going up and then coming down to a baseline, over three to six months, depending on the intensity of interventions put in place," he said. "If herd immunity develops in the community, there is a possibility that the infection will fizzle out in the medium term, over the next few months," he added. Vardhan said there was a third possibility which states that in the long term the coronavirus will mix in with the seasonal flu virus, and have seasonal trends, much in line with the current influenza patterns. "Finally, there is also the consideration that like the 2003 pandemic of SARS, this new infection will also fizzle out and eventually die out," he added. The development of vaccines and therapeutics is also likely to impact the way the infection plays out in the long term, Vardhan added. "For now, we need to focus on limiting the deaths and raising a concerted effort to reduce the impact of COVID-19 in India," he said. On PPEs, he said all potential manufacturers based in India were contacted and provided handholding support to make good-quality PPEs. The health ministry, along with the external affairs ministry and the textiles ministry, has identified several other foreign sources to procure PPEs. "As of now, hospitals across the country have around 4 lakh PPEs with them. We are aiming to achieve 10 lakh a week by the end of next week," Vardhan said. He also said that private sector players have a major role to play in responding to this national crisis and they have helped scale up the testing capacity in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-social-distancing-most-effective-social-vaccines-to-fight-covid-19-vardhan-824191.html
11-04-2020||National||Amid coronavirus lockdown, parents travel 2000 kms to Bengaluru for Army officer's funeral||In the wake of a nation-wide lockdown, parents of a gallantry award-winning officer had to undertake an over 2000-km-long journey by road to attend the funeral of their son in Bengaluru, according to a family member. Col N S Bal, who had earned a Shaurya Chakra and ran marathons despite battling cancer, died on Thursday at a hospital in Bengaluru, officials said. The late officer's brother, Navtez Singh Bal, has been writing about the journey undertaken by the family starting from Amritsar. "Thank you sir. At the moment my parents are in Delhi figuring out a way to reach Bangalore to perform the last rites! I hope that The Forces will also be able to say 'they can' and not force them to drive 2000+ km to get to Bangalore," he tweeted on Friday. "Thank you all for the support! We have just reached Vadodara. Massive help and support from the Forces on the way. What a wonderful institution! If all goes well, we will hit Bangalore tomorrow night," he again tweeted. Both civilians and people belonging to the armed forces have been condoling Col Bal's death, with tributes pouring on social media. Many on Twitter, even hoped that some help would come to the family en route to Bengaluru. India is currently under a nation-wide lockdown in view of the coronavirus pandemic, and all means of transportation have been suspended, except for essential services. "Quick update. Now 650 km away from Bangalore. Massive support and help from the Forces and Police. Everyone at the frontline is doing a fantastic job in managing the spread of the virus," Navtez Singh Bal tweeted on Saturday. Some Army veterans expressed sadness after the parents of this decorated officer were forced to travel such a long distance by road to perform the last rites of their son. In a tweet, former Army chief Gen (retd) V P Malik, replying to a post by Col Bal's brother, wrote, "Deepest condolences! Have a safe journey. Sad GOI did not help. Rules are never written on stone. They are modified or changed in special circumstances."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-coronavirus-lockdown-parents-travel-2000-kms-to-bengaluru-for-army-officers-funeral-824197.html
11-04-2020||National||Consensus among states on extension of coronavirus lockdown, says PM in interaction with CMs||Interacting with chief ministers via video conference, the prime minister also said there seems to be a consensus amongst states on extending by another two weeks the ongoing nationwide lockdown, which began on March 25 and was to end on April 14. Amid reports of shortfall of protective gear for doctors and para medics, he said measures are being taken to ensure availability of personal protective equipment and critical items for all front-line workers in COVID-19 fight, an official statement said.   During the interaction, the chief ministers sought financial, fiscal assistance from the Centre to boost resources in fight against the pandemic, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/consensus-among-states-on-extension-of-coronavirus-lockdown-says-pm-in-interaction-with-cms-824200.html
11-04-2020||National||Coronavirus death toll rises to 242, number of cases climbs to 7,529: Health Ministry||The death toll due to coronavirus rose to 242 and the number of cases in the country climbed to 7,529 on Saturday, an increase of 768 cases in 24 hours since Friday evening, according to the Union Health Ministry. While the number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 6,634, as many as 652 people have been cured and discharged, and one had migrated, it said. The total number of cases include 71 foreign nationals. Thirty-six deaths have been reported since Friday evening, of which 17 were from Madhya Pradesh, 13 from Maharashtra, two each from Gujarat and Telengana, and one each from Delhi and Assam. Of the total 242 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 110 fatalities, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 33, Gujarat at 19 and Delhi at 14. Punjab registered 11 deaths, Telengana nine fatalities and Tamil Nadu eight. Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka have reported six deaths each while five people have lost their lives in West Bengal. Jammu and Kashmir, and Uttar Pradesh have reported four fatalities each while Haryana and Rajasthan have recorded three deaths each. Two deaths have been reported from Kerala. Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand and Assam reported one fatality each, according to the health ministry data. However, a PTI tally of figures reported by various states as on Saturday showed at least 8,016 cases and 261 deaths. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of cases announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states. According to the ministry's data updated in the evening, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 1,574, followed by Tamil Nadu at 911 and Delhi at 903. COVID-19 cases have gone up to 553 in Rajasthan followed by 504 in Telengana and 443 in Madhya Pradesh. Uttar Pradesh has 433, followed by Andhra Pradesh at 381, Kerala at 364 and Gujarat at 308. The number of novel coronavirus cases have risen to 214 in Karnataka, 207 in Jammu and Kashmir and 177 in Haryana. Punjab has reported 132 COVID-19 positive cases so far and West Bengal 126. Bihar has reported 60 cases while Odisha has 48 coronavirus cases. Thirty-five people were infected with the virus in Uttarakhand while Assam has 29 patients followed by Himachal Pradesh with 28 cases. Chandigarh and Chhattisgarh have 18 cases each while Jharkhand has 17 and Ladakh 15, while 11 cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Goa and Puducherry have reported seven COVID-19 infections each, Manipur and Tripura have two cases each while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported one case each. "State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation," the ministry said on its website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-death-toll-rises-to-242-number-of-cases-climbs-to-7529-health-ministry-824219.html
11-04-2020||National||BBC releases rare footage of Ravi Shankar on 100th birth anniversary||A rare footage of Pandit Ravi Shankar has been unveiled to the mark the 100th birth anniversary of sitar maestro Ravi Shankar. The footage released by BBC was shared by the sitarist's family from their archives. It shows the legendary musician performing at different concerts as well as teaching sitar to The Beatles guitarist George Harrison. To commemorate his centenary year, a series of ‘Ravi Shankar Centennial Concerts’ was planned featuring his daughters Norah Jones and Anoushka Shankar. However, the tour was cancelled indefinitely due to the spread of the coronavirus. Talking to BBC, Anoushka called her father one of the greatest musicians ever lived. "Most people across cultures and generations seem to know the name Shankar. There definitely were decades where he was the household Indian name that was putting India on the map, culturally and artistically. "He's my father so I think people might be inclined to take this with a pinch of salt but I really do think that he is one of the greatest musicians that ever lived," she said. She said her father had deep knowledge about his music and that is why people from all over the world used to come to him for learning. "All of those sort of iconic friendships and relationships he had, be it Yehudi, George Harrison, Philip Glass, John Coltrane, people were drawn to this new music they'd never heard before and he was the right kind of person to teach it and share it. "My father was known for being unbelievably, deeply well-versed in the ragas. Like his knowledge of the ragas and their details, their permutations and melody forms was unmatched. And his ability to also balance that with interplay of rhythm was unmatched. He was known for having the most intricate knowledge of cross rhythms and poly rhythms... He could take all of that and do it in this instantly improvised way," Anoushka said. As a musician, she said, her music has been immensely influenced by her father. "I was hugely influenced by listening to my father's music. But of course I play the same instrument as him and I learned from him. Even my brain, as a composer, has shaped by years of learning from him, so I think it's very very central in my musicianship," she added. Anoushka believes that music has the power to bring upliftment and healing to people. "I really do think that lots of people are turning into their kind of higher selves and that positivity and that hope and peace that I do think it makes a difference. And so any art, anything that helps people do that has incredible value," she added. Ravi Shankar was born on April 7, 1920 in Varanasi and died on December 11, 2012 after undergoing heart valve replacement surgery in San Diego, California, US. He had son Shubhendra and Anoushka with Sukanya Rajan. He also fathered singer Norah Jones, out of wedlock with Sue Jones, a New York concert producer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bbc-releases-rare-footage-of-ravi-shankar-on-100th-birth-anniversary-824224.html
11-04-2020||National||Playing games, exercise are some measures to prevent coronavirus lockdown stress: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare||Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has issued an advisory that suggests playing games to lessen stress amid coronavirus lockdown. “It’s natural to have stress due to the coronavirus fears, thus, it is essential to not only take care of physical fitness but also mental fitness," said Dr Randeep Guleria, Director of AIIMS in a video launched by MoHFW.    Suggestions include playing games, chatting with family members, doing light exercises and reading books as some of the measures to de-stress your mind amid the lockdown. India is under the lockdown for 21-days amid the rising cases of coronavirus across the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/playing-games-exercise-are-some-measures-to-prevent-coronavirus-lockdown-stress-ministry-of-health-and-family-welfare-824225.html
11-04-2020||National||5 St Stephens Hospital staff move Delhi HC against their sacking during coronavirus outbreak||The petition, moved by the ex-support staff of St Stephens Hospital Healthcare Facility in Gurgaon, contended that the decision was taken without giving any notice or opportunity to hear them. The decision was taken on March 30 by the management of St Stephens Hospital, located at Tis Hazari here, as it was closing its Gurgaon facility, the plea said. However, no one else was terminated by the hospital, the petition claimed. Apart from the hospital, the petition has arrayed the ministries of Home Affairs and Labour and Employment as parties in the matter. The petitioners have contended that the decision was in violation of the advisories issued by the Labour Ministry on March 20 and March 23 which had "specifically directed that persons engaged contractually or casually with either public or private establishments not be terminated during the coronavirus outbreak". The petition said that due to their termination, the petitioners have been left without any means of livelihood for themselves and their families during the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic. "That such termination at this catastrophic juncture is inhumane and in the teeth of the two advisories," the petition said. It sought quashing of the March 30 decision taken by the St Stephens Hospital management or a direction to continue employing them while COVID-19 pandemic subsists in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-st-stephens-hospital-staff-move-delhi-hc-against-their-sacking-during-coronavirus-outbreak-824234.html
11-04-2020||National||Plea in Supreme Court challenging RBI circular on 3-month moratorium on loan repayment amid coronavirus lockdown||A petition was filed in the Supreme Court on Saturday seeking direction on setting aside the RBI's March 27 circular on three-month moratorium on loan repayment between March 1 and May 31 amid coronavirus pandemic. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had issued the circular giving liberty to all banks and financial institution to allow a moratorium of three months on payment of instalments in respect of all term loans outstanding as on March 1, subject to the borrower making such a request. It had said that repayment schedule for such loans as also the residual tenor would be shifted across the board by three months after the moratorium period. Interest shall continue to accrue on the outstanding portion of the term loans during the moratorium period, the RBI had said. The plea, filed in the apex court by advocate Amit Sahni, has alleged that the RBI circular is an "eyewash as it provides that the interest shall be chargeable during the moratorium period and it makes no sense in paying additional interest along with the regular EMIs". It sought a direction to the Centre and the RBI to clarify that any interest and accumulated interest on outstanding amount shall not be charged from the borrower for the moratorium period by any bank and financial institution. It also sought directions to the government and the RBI to "appropriately consider extending the moratorium period for certain period so as to enable millions of persons, who may get unemployed due to COVID-19 health emergency for some time even after lockdown". "The purported relief proclaimed to have been given by the respondents (Centre and RBI) vide circular dated March 27, 2020 is incomplete as the same does not provide interest relaxation to citizens and those who avail moratorium of three months shall have to pay interest on the same subsequently," the plea said.    It said that COVID-19 has impacted each and every segment of society and its consequences would be far more serious even after lifting of the ongoing lockdown and in such a situation, the government and the RBI are "duty bound to support its citizen".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-supreme-court-challenging-rbi-circular-on-3-month-moratorium-on-loan-repayment-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-824239.html
11-04-2020||National||IndiGo employee dies of coronavirus in Chennai||Budget carrier IndiGo on Saturday said one of its staff passed away due to coronavirus infection in Chennai. While the airline did not provide details, a source told PTI that the employee was an aircraft maintenance engineer and he passed away on Friday. The engineer was in his mid-50s and had been working with the carrier since 2006. He was posted in Chennai, the source said. "We are extremely sorry and saddened by the demise of one of our beloved employees in Chennai due to infection of Covid 19 virus," an airline spokesperson told PTI on Saturday. This is possibly the first case of death of an aviation personnel due to coronavirus infection in the country. "This is a heartbreaking moment for all of us at IndiGo and in this time of sorrow we stand with his family and request that we respect the privacy of our employee and his family," the spokesperson said. The number of infections in the country has crossed 8,000 and more than 260 people have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indigo-employee-dies-of-coronavirus-in-chennai-824242.html
11-04-2020||National||Kozhikode MP moves SC for evacuation of Indian citizens from Gulf countries||Kozhikode MP M K Raghavan on Saturday moved the Supreme Court with a plea to establish a specialised team to identify Indian citizens stranded in the Gulf countries for immediate evacuation in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. He stressed at the need to facilitate evacuation of those stuck in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Bahrain, and Oman, due to variety of reasons, including flight cancellations. He sought a direction to the  government to lift the ban on international flights or grant permission for special flights for the purpose. Similar petitions have been filed for evacuation of citizens from the USA, the UK, Iran and Japan. In his petition, Raghvan said that he had contacted several airlines which have expressed their desire and willingness to ensure the safe return of Indians stranded in GCC nations. He said GCC nations had also assured their complete support for the operation of flights to assist with the repatriation of stranded Indian citizen which proved to be futile as the Indian airspace has been shut.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kozhikode-mp-moves-sc-for-evacuation-of-indian-citizens-from-gulf-countries-824245.html
11-04-2020||National Politics||Fresh case of COVID-19 in Chandigarh; tally at 19||A 40-year-old man tested positive for coronavirus on Friday here, taking the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the union territory to 19, officials said. The city witnessed a fresh COVID-19 case after almost a week's gap. A total of 223 samples have been taken in the city so far and the reports of 199 cases are negative while reports of four cases are still awaited, as per medical bulletin. Seven coronavirus positive persons have so far been discharged from the hospital after they were fully cured. Meanwhile, UT Chandigarh adviser Manoj Parida said 2.19 lakh persons have so far been screened in the city.  The remaining will be done through additional teams moving from door to door, he said in an official release here. Parida also informed that the government of India has banned all social or religious gatherings and processions during the festivals coming up in April. Chandigarh administrator V P Singh Badnore said outlying areas in periphery and colonies should be given priority for door to door screening, the release said. He stressed that all officials going for screening must maintain hygiene and wear proper safety gears.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fresh-case-of-covid-19-in-chandigarh-tally-at-19-823924.html
11-04-2020||National Politics||Demand transfer of cash to poor families: PC to CMs||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's meeting with chief ministers, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday urged CMs of states where the party is in power to unanimously demand transfer of cash to every poor family. He said the poor have lost their jobs and have exhausted their savings. They are now standing in lines to get free food, the former Union finance minister said. Chidambaram said remonetising the poor would cost only Rs 65,000 crore, which is economically viable. "Chief ministers Amarinder Singh, Ashok Gehlot, Bhupesh Baghel, V Narayanasami, Uddhav Thackeray and E Palaniswani should tell the prime minister today that just as LIVES are important LIVELIHOOD of the poor is important,” he tweeted.  இன்று முதலமைச்சர்களுடன் பிரதமர் மோடி கலந்தாலோசிக்கிறார். ஊரடங்கை இரு வாரங்களுக்கு 30-4-2020 வரை நீடிப்பதைத் தவிர்க்க முடியாது என்று தோன்றுகிறது. "The poor have lost their jobs or self-employment in the last 18 days. They have exhausted their meagre savings. Many are standing in line for food," Chidambaram said. Can the state stand by and watch them go hungry," he asked, adding that chief ministers should demand that cash be transferred to every poor family immediately. "Remonetise the poor” should be their unanimous demand," Chidambaram said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/demand-transfer-of-cash-to-poor-families-pc-to-cms-823994.html
11-04-2020||National Politics||PM holds meeting with CMs; lockdown extension focus of discussion||As India battles the COVID-19 crisis, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held a video conference with chief ministers primarily to take their feedback on whether the 21-nation-wide lockdown is extended beyond April 14 to stem the tide of the infections. The initial visuals of the meeting showed Modi wearing a white mask during the interaction which was among others attended by chief ministers -- Amrinder Singh (Punjab), Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal), Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra), Yogi Adityanath (Uttar Pradesh), Manohar Lal (Haryana), K Chandrashekhar Rao (Telangana) and Nitish Kumar (Bihar). The Central government is understood to have also obtained views on the issue from all the relevant agencies and stakeholders involved in the efforts to contain the spread of the pandemic The video conference, which began at 11am, comes amidst indications that the central government may extend the nationwide lockdown with some possible relaxations even as Punjab and Odisha have already announced extending the lockdown beyond April 14 when the current spell of 21-day shutdown across the country ends on Tuesday.  The Union Home Ministry has sought views of state governments on various aspects, including whether more categories of people and services need to be exempted. In the current lockdown only essential services are exempted.  This is for the second time the prime minister is interacting with the chief ministers via video link after the lockdown was imposed. During his April 2 interaction with chief ministers, Modi had pitched for a "staggered" exit from the ongoing lockdown. A PTI tally of numbers reported by various states as on Thursday at 9.30 pm showed a total of 7,510 having been affected by the virus nationwide so far with at least 251 deaths. More than 700 have been cured and discharged. However, the last update from the Union Health Ministry put the number of confirmed infections at 7,447 and the death toll at 239. Addressing floor leaders of various parties who have representation in Parliament, Modi had on Wednesday made it clear that the lockdown cannot be lifted in one go, asserting that the priority of his government is to "save each and every life". According to an official statement after the Wednesday interaction, the prime minister told these leaders that states, district administrations and experts have suggested extension of the lockdown to contain the spread of the virus. Before the lockdown was announced on March 24, the prime minister had interacted with the chief ministers on March 20 to discuss ways and means to check the spread of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-holds-meeting-with-cms-lockdown-extension-focus-of-discussion-824001.html
11-04-2020||National Politics||If nationwide lockdown is extended, BSP will welcome it: Mayawati||If the Centre decides to extend the nationwide lockdown imposed to combat coronavirus, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) will welcome the move, party supremo Mayawati said on Saturday. "If after serious review, the 21-day nationwide lockdown imposed in view of COVID-19, is extended by the Centre, then the BSP will welcome it," she said in a series of tweets in Hindi. Mayawati also appealed to the central and the state governments to rise above caste, religion and party politics at this hour of national crisis and keep in mind the interests of the poor, the weaker sections, labourers, farmers, etc., and help them before taking any decision. "The Centre and state governments should act fast to save the doctors, nurses, policemen, health workers and others indirectly involved in fighting the novel coronavirus, and their families so that their confidence level is boosted," the BSP chief said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/if-nationwide-lockdown-is-extended-bsp-will-welcome-it-mayawati-824012.html
11-04-2020||National Politics||Amarinder Singh suggests extension of national lockdown||The national lockdown should be extended by at least a fortnight, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh suggested during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's interaction with chief ministers on Saturday. As India battles the COVID-19 crisis, the prime minister held a video conference with chief ministers primarily to take their feedback on whether the 21-day nationwide lockdown should be extended beyond April 14 to stem the tide of infections. Singh also suggested a slew of health and relief measures for the people in the state's COVID-19 battle. In addition, the chief minister also asked for special concessions for the industrial and agricultural sectors on an urgent basis. Singh said there was a huge uncertainty about the incidence rate of the disease and that the nation was in for a long fight. Given the trend in China and several European countries, it was necessary to continue the lockdown, he said. The chief minister informed the meeting that the Punjab government had already decided to go for curfew or complete lockdown till May 1, with all educational institutions to be closed till June 30. State board examinations have also been deferred till further orders, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amarinder-singh-suggests-extension-of-national-lockdown-824027.html
11-04-2020||National Politics||Pray on Easter that world emerges victorious in fight against coronavirus: Naidu||"As we celebrate Easter at home with our loved ones, let us pray that our nation and the world will emerge victorious in this fight against COVID-19," a statement issued by the Vice President's Secretariat said. The vice president also said everyone must be grateful to all the people, especially healthcare workers, who are working tirelessly to tide over the crisis, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pray-on-easter-that-world-emerges-victorious-in-fight-against-coronavirus-naidu-824087.html
11-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus lockdown: 30 crore poor get Rs 28,256 crore under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana||As part of Rs 1.70 lakh crore relief package, the government announced free foodgrains and cash doles to women and poor senior citizens and farmers to mitigate hardship faced due to the lockdown. "More than 30 cr beneficiaries have been directly given support through Direct Benefit Transfer amounting to Rs 28,256 cr under #PradhanMantriGribKalyanPackage," a tweet from the Finance Ministry said. Of the total disbursement, Rs 13,855 crore have gone towards payment of first installment of PM-KISAN. Under the scheme, nearly 6.93 crore out of 8 crore identified beneficiaries got Rs 2,000 directly in their account. As many as 19.86 crore women Jan Dhan account holders received Rs 500 each in their account. The total disbursement under the head was 9,930 crore, it said. The National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) disbursed about Rs 1400 crore to about 2.82 crore old age person, widow and disabled person, the ministry added.  Each beneficiary received an ex-gratia cash of Rs 1,000 under the scheme.    As many as 2.16 crore construction workers received financial support from the Building and Construction Worlers' Fund managed by state governments. Under this Rs 3,066 crore were given to beneficiaries. The government, under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana, is in the process of releasing 12 million MT of food grain during April-June. "It will provide for 80 crore people @5 kg per head per month at no cost. Free rations have already reached 2 cr beneficiaries," the ministry said in another tweet.    The package included free LPG refills for the next three months to over 8.3 crore poor women under Ujjawala scheme and Rs 50 lakh insurance cover for healthcare workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-30-crore-poor-get-rs-28256-crore-under-pradhan-mantri-garib-kalyan-yojana-824185.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||UP: 21 of fresh 23 coronavirus cases related to Jamaat event; total count 433||The total number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Uttar Pradesh rose to 433 on Friday, with 23 new cases being reported, of whom 21 are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi, the state government said. It said the deadly virus has now spread to 40 of the state’s 75 districts, with Agra being the worst hit at 88 positive cases and one death. "As many as 431 people have tested positive so far in the state. These cases are in 40 districts. Of the (total positive cases), 32 have been treated," Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters. In a bulletin later, the state government updated the total number of positive cases to 433, of whom 245 are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event. Among the fresh cases, six were reported from Meerut, five each from Agra and Amroha, three from Ghazipur, and one each from Gautam Buddh Nagar, Basti, Auraiya , Rampur, the bulletin said. Twenty-one of the 23 fresh cases are related to the Tablighi Jammat event in New Delhi in March, it said. The district wise tally in the state is: Agra (88), Gautam Buddh Nagar (64), Meerut (44), Lucknow (29), Ghaziabad (25), Saharanpur (20), Shamli (17), Firozabad (11) and Sitapur (10), the bulletin said. The districts that have recoded cases in single digits are: Basti, Kanpur and Varanasi (nine each); Bulandshahr (eight), Amroha (7); Hapur, Maharajganj, Pratapgarh, Rampur and Bareilly (six each); Ghazipur, Baghpat (five each); Azamgarh, Hathras, Muzaffarnagar, Jaunpur and Lakhimpur Kheri (four each), it said. Besides, Auraiya has reported three cases; Pilibhit , Banda, Mirzapur, Rae Bareli, Kaushambi, Mathura and Hardoi (two each); and Moradabad, Shahjahanpur, Barabanki, Bijnore, Prayagraj, Badaun (one each), the bulletin said, Earlier in the day, Prasad had said, "So far, 9,041 samples have been tested of which 8,250 were found to be negative, 431 were found positive and results of the rest are still awaited.” Presently, around 1,000 samples being tested every day, but the facilities at testing centres will be ramped up to 1,500 to 2,000, Prasad added. Till Thursday, there were 410 cases in the state of whom 225 are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi last month, he said. The death toll in the state due to COVID-19 stands at four - one each in Meerut, Basti, Varanasi and Agra districts. Additional Chief Secretary Awanish Awasthi said 75 per cent of the total coronavirus positive cases in the state (about 300) are in hotspots that have been identified in 15 districts. "These hotspots are under strict lockdown and sealed. A magistrate has been appointed for every hotspot," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-21-of-fresh-23-coronavirus-cases-related-to-jamaat-event-total-count-433-823926.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||MP: Qazi seeks COVID-19 link probe into Indore deaths||The number of people being brought for burial in graveyards in Indore in Madhya Pradesh has increased and authorities must probe if these deaths had a coronavirus link, a senior religious authority said here on Friday, though the local administration said there didn't seem to be a connection to the outbreak. Indore has 235 COVID-19 cases, including 26 who died from the infection. Speaking to PTI, Indore's Shahar Qazi, Mohammad Ishrat Ali said. "The Indore administration should compare figures of arrival of janazas (funeral processions) at graveyards prior to imposition of curfew in the city (for the virus outbreak) and after, and find out what could be the reason for these deaths. Only after a probe would a clear picture emerge." However, Indore Collector Manish Singh said, "It is true that in some graveyards, the number of janazas has increased, but the exact cause behind these deaths will be known only after medical examination. We have spoken with families of the deceased, Shahar Qazi, clerics and local representatives." "These people had had no symptoms of coronavirus, like sneezing, cold and cough, prior to their deaths," Singh said. He said Khajrana, Chandan Nagar and Hathipala are more affected with the outbreak, and these areas have been sealed and movement of people has been stopped. On the high death rates due to the virus in the city, Singh said, "It is mainly because COVID-19 patients are informing us late about the infection, despite constantly appealing to the people to inform as soon as possible for timely treatment." The Shahar Qazi, meanwhile, said public address systems in 200 mosques are being used to ensure people follow the norms in place to combat the outbreak. He also alleged some people suffering from heart and stomach ailments have been turned away by hospitals, and they had subsequently died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-qazi-seeks-covid-19-link-probe-into-indore-deaths-823927.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan govt announces Rs 50 lakh compensation for staff who die due to COVID-19 while on duty||Rajasthan government on Friday announced it will provide an assistance of Rs 50 lakh to the family of any employee who dies due to coronavirus while on duty related to the COVID-19 pandemic, an official statement said. This assistance scheme also includes state government contractual employees deployed on coronavirus related duty, it said. However, those healthcare workers for whom central government had announced Rs 50 lakh insurance cover will not come under this scheme, the statement said. Various employees like patwaris, police constables, home guards and Anganwadi workers have been put on duty to check the spread of coronavirus in the state, an official said. Intense contact searching of the patients and massive screening of people in affected areas is being conducted through the state government machinery in Rajasthan, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-announces-rs-50-lakh-compensation-for-staff-who-die-due-to-covid-19-while-on-duty-823928.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 How Delhi's Dilshad Garden is winning the battle||The Delhi administration was on its toes as eight people, including four from the woman’s family, tested positive in northeast Delhi’s Dilshad Garden for COVID-19 by the third week of March. It was then the Delhi government put in place ‘Operation SHIELD’ — its strategy of sealing, home quarantine, isolation and tracking, essential supply, local sanitisation and door-to-door checking to contain virus infection in a locality that could turn a hotspot — for the first time in the capital. The results are encouraging as the last 10 days has seen not a single case in Dilshad Garden. All started with the return of a woman with her 19-year-old son from Saudi Arabia on March 10 after visiting her husband. Two days later, she developed fever and cough and met a doctor at a local clinic. However, she was taken to Guru Tegh Bahadur (GTB) Hospital on March 15 and subsequently to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital where she tested positive for COVID-19. On March 18, a day after results confirmed virus infections, authorities traced 81 people who met her while in the next four days, five people — her mother, brother, two daughters and the local doctor — tested positive. “I feared a massive COVID-19 outbreak in Dilshad Garden. The hard work of the health officials and the successful implementation of the Operation SHIELD made Dilshad Garden COVID-19 free,” Delhi Health Minister Satyender Jain said on Friday. Soon after the eight were tested positive, Dilshad Garden was declared a containment zone and authorities started tracing people who came in touch with her. “Her son was not very cooperative, so we had to seek the help of the local police to get information. We also used footage from the CCTV cameras installed near their home to identify some people who needed to be put under surveillance,” Dr S K Nayak, a district administration officer who led the operations, said. Nine of the 11 entry points that led to Dilshad Garden Sector L were shut. Not even essential services were permitted while the public address system was used to urge residents to come out for testing if they had met the family of the 38-year-old woman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-how-delhis-dilshad-garden-is-winning-the-battle-823939.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Encounter breaks out between security forces and militants in J&K's Kulgam||An encounter broke out between security forces and militants in Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the Damhal Hanjipora area of the south Kashmir district during the night after receiving specific information about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said as the forces were conducting the searches in the area, militants fired upon them. The security forces retaliated, ensuing an encounter. The gunfight is going on and further details are awaited, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-and-militants-in-jks-kulgam-823961.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Indore: Coronavirus claims 3 more lives, city's death toll 30||With three more persons, including a 75-year-old man, succumbing to COVID-19 in Indore, the death toll in the city has reached 30, officials said on Saturday. The three men died during treatment at different hospitals in the city over the last three days. However, their test reports, which confirmed that they were coronavirus positive, were received this morning, an official of Government Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College said. The other two deceased were aged 66 and 52, the official said. Two of the three victims were suffering from diabetes and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). As many as 249 people have so far tested coronavirus positive in Indore, the commercial capital of Madhya Pradesh. Of them, 30 have so far died due to the deadly infection, officials said. The city has emerged as one of the hotspots of COVID- 19 in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indore-coronavirus-claims-3-more-lives-citys-death-toll-30-823991.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Kejriwal suggests extension of lockdown till April 30 during PM Modi's interaction with CMs: Sources||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday suggested that the nationwide lockdown should be extended till April 30 during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's interaction with chief ministers, sources said. They said Kejriwal was of the view that the ongoing 21-day lockdown, which is scheduled to end on April 14, should be extended to the whole of India and not only in Delhi.  "Extending the lockdown in Delhi only will not serve any purpose," sources quoted Kejriwal as saying in the video conference interaction with the prime minister. The central government is understood to have also obtained views on the issue from all the relevant agencies and stakeholders involved in the efforts to contain the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-suggests-extension-of-lockdown-till-april-30-during-pm-modis-interaction-with-cms-sources-824017.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Woman delivers baby on road while being taken to hospital on bicycle in Uttar Pradesh||A woman delivered a baby on the road when she was being taken to a community health centre on a bicycle here, police said on Saturday. "On the evening of April 9, the woman, a resident of Raghunathpur village, was being taken on a bicycle by her husband to Madnapur community health centre, which was 10 kilometres away. As the couple travelled almost 5 kilometres and reached near Sikandarpur crossing, the woman delivered a baby girl," Superintendent of Police (rural) Aparna Gautam. She said a passerby informed a Police Response Van (PRV) that rushed the woman to the health centre. "Meetu Tomar deployed on PRV-1358 with the help of a woman, who was working in the nearby fields, took the woman to Madnapur community health centre. Both the mother and the child are fine," Gautam said. Tomar has been given a certificate of appreciation, she said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-delivers-baby-on-road-while-being-taken-to-hospital-on-bicycle-in-uttar-pradesh-824019.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||3 fresh COVID-19 cases in Jharkhand, total count rises to 17||One person from Hindpiri locality of the state capital tested positive for the coronavirus, while two others, who were diagnosed with the infection, are from Koderma and Hazaribagh districts, they said.  Bokaro district has reported six positive cases, Ranchi eight, Hazaribagh two and Koderma one. A 72-year-old man from Gomia's Sadam village in Bokaro district had died of coronavirus on Wednesday. Jharkhand had registered its first positive case on March 31, when a 22-year-old Malaysian woman tested positive for the virus. She was staying at Ranchi citys Hindpiri locality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand-total-count-rises-to-17-824028.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: 76 prisoners released from Srinagar Central jail amid COVID-19 threat||This comes after the Supreme Court directed states and Union Territories to consider decongesting jails in view of coronavirus threat. An official said those released included 31 detenues who were booked under Public Safety Act (PSA) and 36, under trials. One convict was also released on parole, he said. The 36 undertrials were released on bail granted by the competent courts after they were represented by legal aid counsel. “Different courts of Srinagar, Budgam and Baramulla have granted bail to persons who were lodged in Srinagar Central Jail for different alleged offences,” said advocate Mir Naveed Gul, legal aid counsel for jail inmates of Srinagar Central Jail, engaged by District Legal Services Authority.  He said courts heard the proceedings virtually after the Supreme Court asked the courts to discourage the physical presence of lawyers and litigants. Politicians in Kashmir, human rights activists and families of detainees lodged in jails outside the Union Territory are also making pleas to bring back prisoners, many of whom have been detained under preventive detention after the special status of Jammu and Kashmir was revoked on August 5 last year. Families say many of the detainees are either of vulnerable age or have underlying health conditions. States like Maharashtra, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh have also released prisoners held for petty crimes on parole or furlough in the wake of the pandemic. Maharashtra released 11,000 such prisoners last month, fearing that COVID-19 would spread among jail inmates||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-76-prisoners-released-from-srinagar-central-jail-amid-covid-19-threat-824037.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Beggars, urban poor scour once-pulsating Vaishali market for food, alms||Once pulsating with the shrill cries of fruit sellers, pleas of beggars and unending footfalls of shoppers, the Vaishali market is today a ghost town. Its multitude of stores selling almost everything from daily essentials to high-end electronics are shuttered and silent. The lockdown has also exposed the plight of the society's underbelly -- the countless beggars who survive on the charity of people at the market to buy food, and the daily wage earners such as rickshaw pullers who have no jobs, no savings, no social safety net and are too proud to beg. While the initial days of the world's biggest lockdown didn't seem to have altered much, as days progressed it has begun to tell a chilling tale. Visitors going to market to pick up daily essentials such as fruits and vegetables are mobbed by beggars, many of them children. Some children begging at intersections and sidewalks are from families that worked through the day in odd jobs to earn a hand-to-mouth income.A few, begged on the streets earlier too, but now go without meals more often. Downed shutters and near-empty market also means fewer people, who used to dole out spare change. "Maa, baap kaam par nahi jate (mother father no longer go to work)," said 9-year old Raju who begged for a few rupees to buy a meal.   The beggar kids include ragpickers and children of factory workers and daily wage earners who have exhausted all of their little savings. That roadside tailor on a makeshift bench, who would stitch and mend for captive customers living in housing societies and flats in the area, the chaiwala whose humble tea stall was a place to unwind for those working in this once-bustling market, and the hawker who would sell knick-knacks, jewellery and other trinkets – are all struggling to feed their families. A rickshaw puller, on seeing a good samaritan, jumps out of his rickshaw to ask for money. He hasn't eaten for some time and wants to buy a banana, he says with all the dignity he can muster. Having earned an honest living, ferrying passengers in his cycle rickshaw for years, pleading for money from occasional passerby is an act driven by desperation, he says. Another rickshaw puller says he hardly gets any passengers, and police, once in a while, drives them away. It's difficult to make ends meet, he says. Once every a few days, someone pulls his car over, bringing foodgrains and pulses for free distribution but the seekers far outnumber the supplies. "My family has seven people. How long will 1 kilo flour for all of us?," asks Suman, who works as a housemaid.    The two houses where she worked have paid her full wages for March despite the lockdown, but extended lockdown beyond April 14 could cast a shadow on her future earning, if any of the households employing her refuse to pay citing full month of absenteeism, she says. There are others like her who can no longer go to work, as housing societies have barred their entry for fear of the deadly virus. Terrified by the possibility of savings drying up, these women who work as domestic help, now try their best to leverage the doles that good samaritans give once in a while. On a good day, when food packets are distributed by the residents of nearby societies, it is one meal less to worry about, they say. They are also not entirely thrilled about the government package as they say wheat is being offered when there are no flour mills in operation. Also, many don't have ration cards. Struggling through the day was always tough, they said, but the sudden, unprecedented crisis has now put life and livelihood under threat. Roaming about barefoot, with clothes in tatters and face exposed, Raju contrasts starkly to the masked passerby he trails. Lack of mask and ignoring repeated calls for social distancing can mean obvious risks, but driven by hunger, and circumstances, that is a chance he, and others like him, are willing to take.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-beggars-urban-poor-scour-once-pulsating-vaishali-market-for-food-alms-824042.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: PIL in Supreme Court seeking evacuation of Indians from US||Maintaining that they were not challenging orders of March 9 and 26 for a ban on airspace, senior advocate Vibha Datta Makhija and advocate Kashish Aneja said they wanted the government to exercise its moral and legal duty on humanitarian grounds to evacuate only those Indian citizens, who approached various consulates on a case-to-case basis.  In a joint plea, the petitioners further contended action of the Indian government to only evacuate Indian citizens stranded at high-risk zones of Wuhan, Italy and Iran, was "discriminatory" against those stranded in the states of New York and California which saw "acutest effect of pandemic worldwide". They also pointed out many Indian citizens were in the USA on a temporary visa, which might have expired or may expire in days, making them vulnerable to face panel action on being declared as "illegal immigrants". The top court had earlier admitted similar petitions to bring back citizens from the United Kingdom and Japan, for consideration and sought a reply from the Centre. Both the petitioners are alumni of Georgetown University Centre, Washington. Makhija's son was on optional practical training visa in San Diego. Her daughter, a student in New York, however, came back before the restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-pil-in-supreme-court-seeking-evacuation-of-indians-from-us-824049.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Man facing several police cases shot dead by nephew in Uttar Pradesh||A man, who was wanted in several cases in Uttar Pradesh, was shot dead by his nephew at Jivana Guliyana in Baghpat district, police said on Saturday. The incident took place late on Friday night. Subodh had bullet injuries to his head and chest, Inspector Ravindra Singh said. He was shot dead by his nephew when he was sleeping, the officer said, adding that the body has been sent for post-mortem. Singh said a case was registered on a complaint from Subodh’s father and the nephew, Nikhil, has been arrested. Seventeen cases were registered against Subodh, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-facing-several-police-cases-shot-dead-by-nephew-in-uttar-pradesh-824056.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 lockdown likely to be extended, hints Arvind Kejriwal||The first indication of the extension came soon after the conclusion of a nearly four-hour video conference Prime Minister Narendra Modi had with all Chief Ministers to review the situation with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal indicating that a decision has been taken on this. In a tweet, Kejriwal said, "Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) has taken the correct decision to extend lockdown. Today, India’s position is better than many developed countries because we started lockdown early. If it is stopped now, all gains would be lost. To consolidate, it is important to extend it."   PM has taken correct decision to extend lockdown. Today, India’s position is better than many developed countries because we started lockdown early. If it is stopped now, all gains would be lost. To consolidate, it is imp to extend it However, an official announcement is awaited. Odisha and Punjab governments have already announced their decision to extend the lockdown in their states till this month-end. Government sources said most states have requested the Prime Minister to extend the lockdown for two more weeks. The Central government is considering this request, they said. During the video conference, Kejriwal urged PM Modi to extend the nationwide lockdown till April 30. He said the lockdown should be for the whole country and not just Delhi. "Extending the lockdown in Delhi alone will not serve any purpose," a source quoted the Chief Minister as saying. Earlier in the day, PM Modi held a video conference with Chief Ministers of the state to discuss the situation in the country. PM Modi had announced a 21-day lockdown from March 25 to contain the spread of COVID-19. Puducherry Chief Minister Narayanaswamy later said that most Chief Ministers sought the extension in lockdown and the Prime Minister agreed to it. The Prime Minister felt that the activities in the farm sector should continue and guidelines will be issued by the Centre on the construction industry in a graded manner, he added. Sources said Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy was of the view that lockdown in his state should be only for 37 hotspots but assured the Prime Minister that he will support whatever decision PM Modi takes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-likely-to-be-extended-hints-arvind-kejriwal-824058.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||2 die, 4 missing as dyke of power plant develops breach in MP||Two persons, including a boy, died while four others washed away on Saturday when the storage pond of a private coal power plant developed a breach in Harrahwa village in Singaruli district of Madhya Pradesh, an official said. District Collector KVS Choudary said the pond of the Sasan Ultra Mega Power Project (UMPP), located around 20 kms from the district headquarters, broke around 5 am on Saturday. At least six people washed away in the sludge, he said, adding that the bodies of Abhishek Kumar Shah (8) and Dinesh Kumar (35) have been recovered. He said efforts were on to trace Seema Kumari (9), Ankit Kumar (3), Chunkumari (27) and Rajjad Ali (28). When asked about the cause behind the incident, the collector said, "It is sheer negligence on the part of Reliance (Power, which owns the plant)". When asked about the action the administration is proposing to initiate, the collector said, "Our priority right now was to search for the four missing people. A magisterial inquiry has been ordered into the breach," Choudary said. Reaction of Reliance Power was not available immediately. The sludge has affected crops spread over an area of 25 acres, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-die-4-missing-as-dyke-of-power-plant-develops-breach-in-mp-824063.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||52 of 102 people who stayed in Delhi's COIVD-19 hotspot Chandni Mahal test positive||As many as 52 people out of the 102, who were found living in 13 mosques in Delhi’s Chandni Mahal area, have tested positive for the novel coronavirus and many of them had last month attended a congregation in Nizamuddin, a COVID-19 hotspot, officials said on Saturday. There are 30 COVID-19 hotspots in the national capital and Chandni Mahal was declared one on Friday. In the last four days, at least three people from the central Delhi area have succumbed to the coronavirus disease, a senior government official told PTI. During intensive verification drives conducted in the last five days, government agencies found that 102 people, including foreigners, were living in 13 mosques in the Chandni Mahal area. After preliminary medical examinations, 52 of them tested COVID-19 positive, the official said. All of them were sent to different quarantine centres. Many of these 102 people had attended the congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat at the Nizamuddin Markaz last month. The authorities have launched a sanitisation drive in Chandni Mahal and introduced a containment plan after the detection of such a large number of people living in religious places. Those who came into contact with the three people who died and those who tested positive have been put under home quarantine.  No resident of the locality is allowed to go out of their homes and essential items are being delivered at home, another official said. So far, over 500 COVID-19 positive cases and about 20 deaths in the country have been found to have links to the Nizamuddin congregation. Over 2,300 activists, including 250 foreigners of the Islamic organisation Tablighi Jamaat, were found to be living at its headquarters at the Markaz building in Delhi's Nizamuddin in the later part of March, despite the 21-day lockdown imposed from March 25 to check the spread of the coronavirus. At least 9,000 people had participated at the congregation at the Nizamuddin Markaz last month after which many have travelled to various parts of the country for missionary works. Among the participants include citizens of 41 nationalities. They are 379 Indonesians, 110 Bangladeshi, 77 Kyrgyzstan, 75 Malaysian, 65 Thai, 63 Myanmarese and 33 Sri Lankan citizens besides others. The home ministry had also asked Delhi Police and police chiefs of other states, where these foreigners are currently living, to take legal action under the Foreigners Act and the Disaster Management Act. The ministry had said that about 2,100 foreigners have come to India since January 1 and indulged in Tablighi activities in different parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/52-of-102-people-who-stayed-in-delhis-coivd-19-hotspot-chandni-mahal-test-positive-824064.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi court sends ex-J&K cop Davinder Singh to one-month judicial custody||A Delhi court has sent to one-month judicial custody Jammu and Kashmir Police officer Davinder Singh, who was arrested while ferrying two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists in a vehicle on the Srinagar-Jammu Highway earlier this year. Special Judge Ajay Kumar Jain sent Singh to judicial custody till May 6 after he was produced before the court on Friday on expiry of his 30 days' custodial interrogation by the Delhi police. The police told the court the accused was not required for further interrogation. The court also sent three other co-accused arrested in the case -- Javed Iqbal, Syed Naveed Mushtaq and Imran Shafi Mir -- to judicial custody. The police requested the court that all accused be sent to judicial custody as they may flee or hamper the probe if let free, defence advocate Prashant Prakash said. DSP Davinder Singh was suspended from the Jammu and Kashmir Police in January this year.  The Special Cell had brought Singh to Delhi from Hira Nagar Jail in Jammu and Kashmir. Earlier, the police had told the court that Syed Naveed Mushtaq and others were planning to execute terror attacks in Delhi and other parts of the country as well as targeted killings of protected persons. The police said Mushtaq, the commander of Shopian district of Hizbul Mujahideen, used to chat with the other co-accused and militants through various internet platforms, including darknet chat. "Mushtaq, along with other militants of Hizbul Mujahideen, was planning to execute terror attack in Delhi and other parts of the country and targeted killings of protected persons," the police told the court. The Delhi Police has filed an FIR under Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The FIR said the youths of Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab are being trained for carrying out terrorist activities. The FIR also mentioned the mafia's D Company and Chhota Shakeel. According to the FIR, the Delhi Police Special Cell had received an input that the D Company, run by fugitive Indian underworld kingpin Dawood Ibrahim, is funding pro-Khalistan terrorist organisations in Punjab. Davinder Singh was taken in custody under the same FIR. The Special Cell had also interrogated Singh regarding the Khalistan angle, police said. Although Singh is not named in the FIR, the Special Cell has some inputs on the basis of which the enquiry will be carried out and he will be questioned, the police had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-sends-ex-jk-cop-davinder-singh-to-one-month-judicial-custody-824067.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Women in Jammu village ensure outsiders don't enter their hamlet||A group of women from a Jammu village have taken it upon themselves to ensure that no outsider enters the hamlet to keep the residents safe from catching the deadly COVID-19. The women of Chatta Pind, armed with sticks, guard the entry points of the village that has been blocked with barbed wire. Led by former sarpanch Gurmeet Kour, the women guard the hamlet from 9 am to 4 pm along with a few policemen at the barbed wire-blocked entry points to the locality which houses over 6,500 people. “It is our duty to support the police and government in this war against coronavirus. So, we have taken up the role to guard our small locality and insulate it from any outside contact,” Kour was quoted by a local English daily as having said. Kour (55) said that in this hour of crisis, it was not the duty of only the police to guard villages, locality or lanes to ensure the lockdown. “We felt it is our duty to contribute a bit by guarding our locality and relieving the police which is performing a large-scale duty at the time of the lockdown. At least, we can guard our own area,” she said. There has been a spurt in COVID-19 positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir in recent days, forcing authorities to tighten the lockdown further. Hundreds of people have been arrested, while hundreds of vehicles have been seized across the union territory for violation of lockdown restrictions in the past two weeks. The number of red zones declared by the administration in the UT have also witnessed a sharp jump, taking the count to 45. While appreciating the role of the Jammu village women in guarding their village, a senior official said that despite awareness, some people don’t take any precaution and keep roaming and this not only infects them, but in case of any contact, their family and locality as well. “Such initiatives can prove a huge success in preventing coronavirus from spreading, if replicated in other areas,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-women-in-jammu-village-ensure-outsiders-dont-enter-their-hamlet-824084.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Kathua panchayat skips a meal daily to feed hungry amid coronavirus lockdown||Setting an example, about 2,500 residents of a panchayat in Kathua district Saturday decided to skip their one meal everyday to feed the hungry as the coronavirus lockdown has snatched livelihoods of many and left them without food, despite best government efforts. Sarpanch Shiv Dev Singh of Panchayat Baira-Buorthian said a resolution to this effect was passed by the Panchayat, which has a population of over 2,500, at a special meeting “The 2500 residents implemented it immediately,” he told PTI, raising the slogan “save food - save the nation”. “It is a token contribution from our panchayat in the country's fight against coronavirus.” Jammu and Kashmir was put under complete lockdown on March 22, two days ahead of the 21-day nationwide shutdown announced by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to combat the spread of novel coronavirus. A total of 207 people - 168 in Kashmir and 39 in Jammu - have tested positive in the Union Territory, out of whom four have died, three in the Valley and one in Jammu. After the lockdown was announced, migrant labourers working in J&K got stranded with no work. Also, local daily wage-earners lost their livelihoods as all commercial activities and labour work came to a halt.    Although the government has taken various steps to reach out to the affected people, complaints about underprivileged sections running out of ration and money have been coming from different parts of Jammu region. Police and other security agencies including Army and Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) have also come forward joining hands with NGOs, social and political outfits and even individuals to ensure “no one sleeps hungry”. Reports from Doda said the tribal population in the remote areas of Chenab valley district are facing a very adverse situation. Sarpanch Shiv Dev Singh urged other panchayats to follow suit to ensure such people get help. He said his panchayat will identify the needy people and would reach out to them to ensure that they survive this lockdown with “honour and dignity”. Social activist Sukesh Khajuria, a resident of Jammu, welcomed people showering flower petals on those on the forefront of the battle against coronavirus but said “we need much more than tokenism”. “The stark reality is that many people are running short of food and money due to the ongoing lockdown and we need to strengthen the efforts of the government to reach out to such people,” he said. Reports from Doda said the tribal population living in the remote hilly slopes of the Chenab valley district are facing a very adverse situation. The Gujjar tribe traditionally resides in small hamlets near high-altitude meadows far away from the populated areas and treks downhill to the villages and towns with their produce (milk) and labour work to earn their daily income. "I have not earned a penny for the last 15 days, as the work has come to a standstill. We are without money and left with no essentials as a result of which my four children and elderly parents are starving for the past two days," said Mohammad Salim Gujjar of Alan-Sharekhi village, hoping some government help would come sooon. Hundreds of Gujjar families reside on the slopes in small hamlets like Alan-Sharekhi, Dooru-Sartingal, Kota Top, Darie, Ladoo, Rajpura, Kilroo and Ghil-kanaan near high altitude meadows Padri, Qatari, Kainthi, Gildhar, Sarola, Kilroodhar, Guldanda and Bhal-Padri of the hilly district. The families of many local labourers who are stranded in neighbouring states including Punjab and Himachal Pradesh are also looking towards the government for assistance to overcome the crisis. "I have been borrowing money to survive as my husband has got stranded at Shimla due to lockdown. We want the government to at least help us get back our bread-earners ," said Gulshana, the wife of stranded labourer Abdul Gani Additional Deputy Commissioner, Bhadarwah, Rakesh Kumar, when contacted, assured necessary help would be made available to the tribal population. "We have got enough stock of foodgrains with us. We will immediately send a team to these hamlets and ensure delivery of ration to them at the earliest," he said. Reports from Samba district said over 150 families of village Dunai in Sumb block are without food as the local residents have no money left with them. “We heard the government is providing three months free ration to the poor but no one had come to us so far. We were working in the unorganised sector and earned our wages daily. We have no money to feed our families,” said Babu Ram, a local resident, fearing starvation in case the help does not reach them. The district administration in Jammu distributed free ration among over 400 stranded labourers who are living in a slum near Jammu railway station. The workers, most of whom earn a living by handling goods at the railway station, had complained of starvation due to the lockdown. The government distributed ration kits containing five kg Atta, mustard oil and other items among the workers on Friday, officials said. Police had also come to the rescue of over 40 families consisting of 160 people in Akhnoor sector in the outskirts of Jammu as part of its “we care for you” campaign. Police acted after receiving a call from the stranded labourers from Bihar and Haryana that they are running out of ration, an official said, adding ration kits were distributed among the labourers with voluntary contribution from Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kathua-panchayat-skips-a-meal-daily-to-feed-hungry-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-824092.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus outbreak: Focus now on 'jaan bhi, jahaan bhi', says PM Narendra Modi||The Centre is considering a request made by most states to extend the ongoing nationwide lockdown by two more weeks beyond April 14, government said on Saturday after Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with chief ministers and told them that the focus should now be on the health as well as prosperity of the nation. "During the video-conferencing with state CMs today, most states requested Prime Minister Modi to extend the lockdown for two more weeks. The Central Government is considering this request," a government spokesperson said. During his interaction, Modi, himself wearing a white mask, told chief ministers the focus should be on "jaan bhi, jahaan bhi" and it is essential for "India's bright future, and prosperous and healthy India", the statement said. "While announcing the lockdown, I had said 'jaan hai to jahan hai'... Most people in the country understood it and discharged their responsibilities by remaining indoors. And now it is imperative to focus on both aspects, 'Jaan bhi Jahan Bhi', for India's bright future, and prosperous and healthy India," Modi said. There are indications that an extension in lockdown may come with certain relaxations to boost economic activities and sources said proposals being considered include lesser restrictions in areas unaffected by the virus spread. After the interaction, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said the next two weeks of lockdown, after April 14, would be different from the ongoing one for three weeks. He said the prime minister told the chief ministers that the lockdown extension was inevitable and guidelines will be issued about its implementation for further 15 days in a couple of days. When every citizen does his work while keeping both these aspects in mind and follows the government instructions, then it will further strengthen our fight against coronavirus, he said.  Farmers and industry bodies have sought certain relaxations during the lockdown to carry out necessary activities. During the video conference with Modi, several chief ministers including Punjab's Amarinder Singh, West Bengal's Mamata Banerjee and Delhi's Arvind Kejriwal had suggested extending the lockdown at least by a fortnight. Odisha and Punjab have already extended the lockdown till April 30 and May 1 respectively. The ongoing 21-day nationwide lockdown to contain the COVID-19 crisis, announced by Modi on March 24, is scheduled to end on April 14. Modi was accompanied by some senior officials, including from the Union health ministry, during the meeting and the chief ministers who participated in it also included Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal), Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra), Yogi Adityanath (Uttar Pradesh), Manohar Lal (Haryana), K Chandrashekhar Rao (Telangana) and Nitish kumar (Bihar).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-outbreak-focus-now-on-jaan-bhi-jahaan-bhi-says-pm-narendra-modi-824097.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Shivraj Singh Chouhan supports extension of coronavirus lockdown in Madhya Pradesh||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that he was not in favour of the withdrawal of the ongoing coronavirus lockdown, which ends on April 14, in his state. Chouhan shared his views on continuation of the restrictions during the PM's meeting with chief ministers which was conducted through a video conference. "Today we are not in favour of removal of lockdown. It should not be removed now. Life of the people is more important and to save it the lockdown is necessary," Chouhan's spokesperson quoted the CM as telling Modi.  Madhya Pradesh reported 470 COVID-19 cases till Friday night and 40 deaths. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shivraj-singh-chouhan-supports-extension-of-coronavirus-lockdown-in-madhya-pradesh-824101.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan govt launches scheme to aid folk artists amid coronavirus lockdown||Coming to the rescue of folk artists amid the nationwide lockdown, the Rajasthan government has launched a scheme under which such artists can shoot videos of their performances and get a chance to win cash prizes. Under the 'Chief Minister Folk Artist Encouragement Scheme', solo folk artists living in rural areas should shoot a 15-20 minute video performance at their homes and send the same to the government. “There are several folk artists who are solely dependent on their art for livelihood. This is a unique scheme to support such folk artists due to the situation created by the coronavirus crisis,” Rajasthan Art and Culture Minister B D Kalla said. Ravindra Manch, Jaipur has been made the nodal agency for the scheme. Under the scheme, entries from only folk artists, folk instrument artists, folk dancers and folk singers will be accepted. Kalla said selected entries under the scheme will be paid as per the decided rates. “The scheme is meant for solo folk artists who can record a video of not more than 15-20 minutes on a high quality camera phone or a professional camera,” he said. Meanwhile, the state government has strongly urged the artists to follow social distancing while recording their presentation. The entries can be sent via e-mail, providing bank account details, photo copy of Aadhaar Card and photograph of a cancelled bank cheque so that the award money can be deposited directly in the bank account of winners. The winning artists will be given Rs 2,500, a state official said, adding further details of the scheme will be advertised in the media. The selected videos would be released on digital media platforms, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-govt-launches-scheme-to-aid-folk-artists-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-824130.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Number of coronavirus cases rises to 452 in UP; death toll at 5||With one more fatality reported from Bulandshahr, the COVID-19 death toll rose to five in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, while the number of cases climbed to 452 as 19 persons tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the last 24 hours. A health department bulletin said one person died of COVID-19 in Bulandshahr on Saturday. With this, one death each has been reported from Basti, Meerut, Varanasi, Agra and Bulandshahr due to the dreaded virus. Of the 19 fresh cases, four each were reported from Meerut and Agra, three each from Lucknow and Bulandshahr, two from Ghaziabad and one each from Saharanpur, Badaun and Bhadohi, Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Awasthi said. Of the new cases, eight were linked to last month's Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi, he said, adding that altogether, 254 of the cases in Uttar Pradesh had links to the religious congregation held at Nizamuddin in the national capital. Till Friday, the coronavirus count in the state stood at 433. The virus has spread to 41 of the state's 75 districts, with Agra being the worst hit. The district-wise tally in the state is: Agra (92), Gautam Buddh Nagar (64), Meerut (48), Lucknow (32), Ghaziabad (27), Saharanpur (21), Shamli (17), Bulandshahr, Firozabad (11 each) and Sitapur (10), the bulletin said. The districts that have recorded cases in single digit are: Basti, Kanpur and Varanasi (nine each), Amroha (seven), Hapur, Maharajganj, Pratapgarh, Rampur and Bareilly (six each), Ghazipur, Baghpat (five each), Azamgarh, Hathras, Muzaffarnagar, Jaunpur and Lakhimpur Kheri (four each), it added. Besides, Auraiya has reported three cases, Pilibhit, Banda, Mirzapur, Rae Bareli, Kaushambi, Mathura, Badaun and Hardoi have reported two cases each and Moradabad, Shahjahanpur, Barabanki, Bijnore, Prayagraj and Bhadohi have reported a case each, the bulletin said. The number of those recovered and discharged is 45, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/number-of-coronavirus-cases-rises-to-452-in-up-death-toll-at-5-824143.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Police, health teams attacked while sealing coronavirus hotspot, NSA slapped on attackers||Four persons, including a Muslim cleric, were arrested on charges of attacking cops and health workers, when the latter were trying to seal a coronavirus hotspot in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut town, about 500 kilometres from here, on Friday. According to the police sources here, the National Security Act (NSA) would be slapped on the attackers. Sources said that the police and health officials had reached the spot, situated at Delhi Gate area in the town to seal it after three persons, alleged to be the members of Tableegh-e-Jamaat, tested positive for the Coronavirus. Some miscreants started pelting stones at the police and health workers while they were barricading the locality in which four persons, including an inspector, sustained injuries.  The situation was brought under control after additional security personnel rushed there and cordoned off the area completely.  Earlier also the cops had come under attacked in different parts of the state while trying to enforce the lockdown and preventing people from offering prayers in groups. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the police to slap the NSA on those found to be violating the lockdown and attacking the cops and health workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-health-teams-attacked-while-sealing-coronavirus-hotspot-nsa-slapped-on-attackers-824162.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Fire at shelter home near Delhi's Kashmere Gate, no casualties||A fire broke out at a shelter home near Kashmere Gate here on Saturday but was doused before it could cause any damage, officials said. Information about the blaze was received at 6.05 pm, following which five fire tenders were rushed to the spot, the fire department said. The fire personnel managed to douse the blaze soon after reaching the spot. Further details are awaited, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-at-shelter-home-near-delhis-kashmere-gate-no-casualties-824166.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 positive cases continue to rise in J&K, tally at 224||Jammu and Kashmir recorded another major jump in COVID-19 cases on Saturday after 17 more persons were tested positive for the novel coronavirus, taking the total number of positive cases in the Union Territory to 224, including four deaths. “17 new cases reported in J&K. 5 from Jammu division and 12 from Kashmir. Total positive cases now 224. Detailed bulletin follows (sic)," J&K government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal, tweeted. One among the 17 patients includes a lady from Akhnoor district of Jammu region, who gave birth to a baby on Friday, the report said. This is the J&K’s first case of a COVID-19 positive patient giving birth which has led to panic in the entire UT. The sample of the baby has been taken and the results are awaited. “Both the woman and her baby are healthy but the test returning positive for the coronavirus has created panic,” a senior official said. From 52 reported cases on March 31, J&K reached a cumulative tally of 106 cases on April 5. Till date, the officially confirmed tally stands at 224 - 44 in Jammu and 180 in Kashmir. Four people have died due to the deadly infection in the J&K while six others - three each in Jammu and Kashmir divisions have recovered. In Srinagar city, authorities have declared 14 areas, wherefrom most of the positive cases are reported, as red zones and all entry/exit points have been sealed.  As the number of positive cases keeps on soaring, advisor to Lieutenant Governor and overall Incharge of Coronavirus Control Efforts (CCE) in Kashmir, Baseer Khan directed deputy commissioners to enforce 24x7 strict lock-down in their respective districts. An official spokesman said he issued these directions while chairing a high-level meeting to review the arrangements and preparedness to combat the epidemic in the valley. The advisor has directed DCs to plug all loopholes immediately and take strict action against people who try to break the lockdown. He asked DCs to involve religious heads so that they can advise their followers against holding any congregations and spread awareness about observing social distancing norms to prevent the transmission of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-positive-cases-continue-to-rise-in-jk-tally-at-224-824169.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Lockdown appears to be succeeding in Uttar Pradesh, lowest increase in past three days||Complete sealing of the Coronavirus hotspots across Uttar Pradesh and strict enforcement of the lockdown appear to be bearing fruit as the increase in the number of COVID 19 cases has slowed considerably in the state in the past three days. The state recorded a comparatively modest increase in the number of Coronavirus positive cases on Friday. Only 21 persons tested positive for the virus infection on Friday, according to the official sources here. On Friday the total number of COVID 19 cases in the state stood at 452. The state had recorded an increase of 189 Coronavirus positive cases between April three and April eight. In the next three days, the increase was only 42. A total of 10595 persons has been tested in the state so far. Of them, a little over ten thousand samples had tested negative. Some test reports were still awaited. Till now five persons have died from the virus infection in the state.  The officials here attributed the fall in the number of cases to sealing of the hotspots completely and also strict enforcement of lockdown in the state. They said that so far only 41 districts of the state were affected by Coronavirus infection. No case of infection had been reported from 34 other districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-appears-to-be-succeeding-in-uttar-pradesh-lowest-increase-in-past-three-days-824179.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||7 fresh coronavirus cases in Punjab; total count rises to 158||Seven more people tested positive for coronavirus in Punjab on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 158, officials said. Besides, a 78-year-old woman who died on April 7, was found positive for COVID-19 on Friday, they said, adding that she was diabetic. On Saturday, three fresh cases were reported from Jalandhar, two from Mohali and one each from Pathankot and Patiala, according to the medical bulletin. In Jalandhar, the three people who contracted the infection were relatives of a man who died of COVID-19 on Thursday, the officials said. While a gardener of a government officer tested positive in Patiala, a 42-year-old truck driver, who recently returned from Gurgaon, tested positive for the infection in Pathankot, the officials said.    Out of the total 158 cases in the state, Mohali has the highest number of infected people at 50. Nineteen cases were reported from Nawanshahr, followed by Pathankot 16, Jalandhar 15, Mansa and Amritsar 11 each, Ludhiana 10, Hoshiarpur 7, Moga 4, Rupnagar 3, Fatehgarh Sahib, Sangrur, Patiala, Barnala and Faridkot two each, and Muktsar and Kapurthala one each, according to the medical bulletin. Two patients are in critical condition, it said.  Twelve of the total 158 patients have died while 20 have been cured and discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-punjab-total-count-rises-to-158-824180.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Helpline facilitates over 3,000 stranded Jammu and Kashmir residents across India amid coronavirus lockdown||More than 3,000 residents of Jammu and Kashmir, including 800 students, who are stranded in different parts of the country due to the ongoing lockdown, were given temporary accommodation, cooked food and medicines, etc. over the past fortnight, an official spokesman said on Saturday. With an aim to address the issues faced by the residents of the Union Territory living in different parts of the country, a 24X7 helpline centre was established at J&K Resident Commissioner Office, New Delhi following the lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. "As far as the queries of students are concerned, during the last 14 days, the liaison officers (Los) have handled more than 250 queries from 50 locations across India rendering help to 800 students,” the spokesman said. Similarly, he said the helpline team handled more than 1,000 queries from 30 locations from labourers, workers, business persons and patients during the same period and provided help to 2500 persons. He said the helpline is engaged with local administrations of more than 18 states in rendering all possible help in the form of cooked food, dry ration, medicines, vegetables as well temporary accommodation wherever required.    “Almost all the district administrations have been very prompt and responsive in their actions and are making sure that all the issues are resolved on war front,” the spokesman said. He said the centre is being run by a team of Resident Commission Office – New Delhi under the guidance of Principal Resident Commissioner Dheeraj Gupta and is being ably supported by a strong team of seven LOs. "All the queries have been adequately closed post ensuring complete follow up and after confirmation from the caller that his/her issue has been resolved,” he said adding the top few location with high number of queries have been Chandigarh, Mohali, Ropar, Bhopal, Kota, Jaipur, Pune, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Delhi and Dehradun. In case of labourers in Himachal Pradesh, the LO- Chandigarh helped them to get accommodated in schools and panchayat ghars. Many of them are being served cooked food on a daily basis from local NGOs and government facilities, the spokesman said. In some cases of patients stuck in Mumbai and Delhi, he said the LOs helped them to accommodate in guest houses on a temporary basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/helpline-facilitates-over-3000-stranded-jammu-and-kashmir-residents-across-india-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-824183.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Senior Army officer meets Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor; discusses security situation in the state||Amid a spurt in ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir, a senior Army officer on Saturday met Lt Governor G C Murmu here and discussed with him the prevailing security situation in the Union Territory, an official spokesperson said. General Officer Commanding (GOC), 26 Infantry Division, Major General Vijay B Nair called on Murmu at the Raj Bhavan and briefed him about the security situation in his area of responsibility, he said. "The Lt Governor and the GOC discussed various important issues relating to the overall security environment in the Union Territory," he added. Pakistani troops violated ceasefire for the fifth consecutive day on Friday by shelling mortars along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district. The Indian Army has been retailiating effectively to firing from across the border, according to officials.    The Army on Friday said it had inflicted heavy damage on Pakistani army's gun areas and terrorist launchpads after unprovoked ceasefire violation by the "enemy side" in two areas along the LoC. The GOC also extended support of the Army to the administration in its efforts to combat COVID-19, the spokesperson said. Jammu and Kashmir has reported 224 COVID-19 cases and four deaths due to the disease so far, according to official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/senior-army-officer-meets-jammu-and-kashmir-lt-governor-discusses-security-situation-in-the-state-824190.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Worst-affected 4 Haryana districts including Gurgaon to fall in red zone: Manohar Lal Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said four districts including Gurgaon, which have reported the maximum number of COVID-19 cases, will be declared “red zones”, meaning stricter restrictions will placed in the areas to check the spread of the virus. The four districts --Gurgaon, Faridabad, Nuh and Palwal -- account for more than 100 cases out of the over 160 cases reported in the state. Many areas in these districts have already been declared containment zones. After interacting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video conference, Khattar said in a televised address this evening that“the indications” from the meeting were that the lockdown is set to increase by two weeks. It emerged during the meeting of chief ministers that areas should be categorised depending on the severity of the spread, he said. Khattar, who had urged people to wear a mask whenever they step out of their home, said now it is a must and they should make it a habit ”just like we wear clothes.” About Haryana, he said, the state will be divided into three categories – the worst affected will be declared a red zone. Gurgaon, Faridabad, Nuh and Palwal are in that category. The remaining 18 districts will be divided into two categories — “vulnerable” areas in orange category, where coronavirus cases are fewer than worst-affected areas. The third category will be of areas with minimum impact of coronavirus, he said. The lockdown, however, will continue in all three categories. The restrictions could be milder in areas with minimally affected by the virus for economic activities, he said. Khattar said all chief ministers gave their suggestions to the prime minister and most of them said the nationwide lockdown should be continued beyond April 14. “A formal announcement will be made by the prime minister but all of us should be prepared,”he said. Khattar said the CMs said increasing the lockdown can help contain the spread of the virus and the prime minister stressed the focus now is on 'jaan bhi, jahan bhi'.   Khattar said it was pointed out during the meeting that the economic activities have come to a halt and to keep these suspended for a long time is difficult for any nation or state. If the lockdown is extended, the prime minister has indicated that some arrangements will be made so that small enterprises can restart. He said CMs also raised the issues related to the farmers. Social distancing plan committees will be formed, which will work at the village, block,district, city level and will decide which industry can be allowed to run. Movement of raw material and finished goods will be allowed, he said. To ensure there is no crowding when people go out to buy essentials items like vegetables, it has been decided to increase the duration for which such stores can open. He said banks have been asked to work out an arrangement so that customers can request a 'token' over phone to reduce crowding at bank branches. To provide healthcare facilities at doorsteps including medicines, the number of mobile dispensaries will be increased from 250 to 500, he said. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said four districts including Gurgaon, which have reported the maximum number of COVID-19 cases, will be declared “red zones”, meaning stricter restrictions will placed in the areas to check the spread of the virus. The four districts --Gurgaon, Faridabad, Nuh and Palwal -- account for more than 100 cases out of the over 160 cases reported in the state. Many areas in these districts have already been declared containment zones. After interacting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video conference, Khattar said in a televised address this evening that“the indications” from the meeting were that the lockdown is set to increase by two weeks. It emerged during the meeting of chief ministers that areas should be categorised depending on the severity of the spread, he said. Khattar, who had urged people to wear a mask whenever they step out of their home, said now it is a must and they should make it a habit ”just like we wear clothes.” About Haryana, he said, the state will be divided into three categories – the worst affected will be declared a red zone. Gurgaon, Faridabad, Nuh and Palwal are in that category. The remaining 18 districts will be divided into two categories — “vulnerable” areas in orange category, where coronavirus cases are fewer than worst-affected areas. The third category will be of areas with minimum impact of coronavirus, he said. The lockdown, however, will continue in all three categories. The restrictions could be milder in areas with minimally affected by the virus for economic activities, he said. Khattar said all chief ministers gave their suggestions to the prime minister and most of them said the nationwide lockdown should be continued beyond April 14. “A formal announcement will be made by the prime minister but all of us should be prepared,”he said. Khattar said the CMs said increasing the lockdown can help contain the spread of the virus and the prime minister stressed the focus now is on 'jaan bhi, jahan bhi'.   Khattar said it was pointed out during the meeting that the economic activities have come to a halt and to keep these suspended for a long time is difficult for any nation or state. If the lockdown is extended, the prime minister has indicated that some arrangements will be made so that small enterprises can restart. He said CMs also raised the issues related to the farmers. Social distancing plan committees will be formed, which will work at the village, block,district, city level and will decide which industry can be allowed to run. Movement of raw material and finished goods will be allowed, he said. To ensure there is no crowding when people go out to buy essentials items like vegetables, it has been decided to increase the duration for which such stores can open. He said banks have been asked to work out an arrangement so that customers can request a 'token' over phone to reduce crowding at bank branches. To provide healthcare facilities at doorsteps including medicines, the number of mobile dispensaries will be increased from 250 to 500, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/worst-affected-4-haryana-districts-including-gurgaon-to-fall-in-red-zone-manohar-lal-khattar-824195.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Uttar Pradesh police declares reward for tracing Tablighi Jamaat members||The Uttar Pradesh police has declared rewards for those helping in tracing the Tablighi Jamaat members who are yet to report to the authorities here, police said on Saturday. The Jamaat members had attended a religious congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin last month against the social distancing protocol imposed by the government to combat coronavirus. The police has so far quarantined 33 Jamaat members who were staying in various mosques, madrassas and homes here. "The Jamaat members are still hiding. We have made an appeal to them that if they come up and appear before the authorities, no action will be initiated against them,” Superintendent of Police Triveni Singh said. “But, if the information about them comes to us through another source, strict action will be initiated against them,” the official said. Singh said those informing the police about the Tablighi Jamaat members will be given a cash reward of Rs 5,000, adding their identity will be kept a secret. Azamgarh has so far recorded four coronavirus cases, with all of these linked to the Tablighi Jamaat members. District Magistrate N P Singh said Mubarakpur region here has been declared a hotspot, and it has been sealed. "Four COVID-19 patients have been found here though the second test of the three patients has come negative. The sanitisation of Mubarakpur is going on,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-uttar-pradesh-police-declares-reward-for-tracing-tablighi-jamaat-members-824215.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Chhattisgarh govt makes masks compulsory in public places||The Health and Family Welfare Department issued the order in the evening, an official here said. "Health experts have suggested that wearing face masks or covers is essential in prevention and control of COVID-19. "So under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, Chhattisgarh Epidemic Diseases COVID-19 Regulations and Chhattisgarh Public Health Act 1949, it has been made mandatory for every person to wear face mask in public places," he said.   People can use triple layer masks available in the market or home-made face covers, and home-made masks could be reused after washing properly, she added. Scarf or handkerchief could also be used in place of mask but it should cover the nose and mouth fully, the official said. Legal action will be taken against those not wearing masks in public places, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-chhattisgarh-govt-makes-masks-compulsory-in-public-places-824235.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Door-to-door screening of people in Chandigarh||The Union Territory of Chandigarh is the first city in the country which is carrying out such screening of people in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. “We are conducting screening of people in the city and it is doable,” said UT Chandigarh Adviser Manoj Parida here on Saturday. “We are checking if anybody has a fever or cough and if anybody has a travel history,” said Parida, adding that paramedical staff had been pressed into service. This exercise will also help in locating those people who are reluctant in sharing their details, he said. “We already have covered over three lakh people under screening. Nobody will be left out,” he said and hoped that the entire exercise of screening would be completed within a week. Chandigarh has a population of about 12 lakh.   “Chandigarh will be the first city in the country where 100 per cent (people) will be covered. It is a small city and limited population and we have competent staff, manpower, doctors etc,” he further said. The Chandigarh Administrator, V P Singh Badnore, appealed to people to cooperate with medical survey teams which are going from house to house to screen residents. Chandigarh has reported a total of 19 coronavirus cases of which seven have been discharged from hospital.         Meanwhile, Badnore said the curfew in the city will remain as long as the lockdown in the entire country continues.          He also directed that the farmers going for harvesting and marketing of their produce should be facilitated during the curfew.           The Administrator further directed the education department to devise a mechanism, through which 40 book stores in Chandigarh could arrange home delivery of books to the students during the curfew period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-door-to-door-screening-of-people-in-chandigarh-824236.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown makes Delhi air 50% cleaner||The study, released on Saturday, said these five cities -- Ghaziabad, Delhi, Noida, Greater Noida, Gurgaon -- witnessed a drop of over 50 per cent in their PM 2.5 concentration since March 24, when the nationwide lockdown was announced. Particulate matters PM 2.5 are one of the primary reasons for health risks such as cardiovascular diseases, respiratory diseases, and lung cancer. The analysis also said that strict implementation and inclusion of all non-attainment cities under the National Clean Air Program (NCAP) is crucial to address long-term air pollution problems. The Greenpeace India report, which has also analysed Central Pollution Control Board data, said the PM 2.5 concentration level was down by 57.64 per cent in the national capital, by 65.75 per cent in Ghaziabad and 56.04 per cent in Gurgaon, among others.   "We can only use the COVID-19 outbreak as a lesson to mankind and once we pass the crisis, the country needs a coordinated and consistent action plan to address major sources of pollution that exist throughout the year to ensure a healthy planet for all,” said Avinash Chanchal, Senior Campaigner, Greenpeace India. Earlier this year, a report titled “World Air Quality Report 2019”, published by IQ Air Visuals, revealed that five out of the top 10 most-polluted cities are located in India. "Ghaziabad, which happened to be the most polluted city in the world, according to the report has witnessed 65.75 per cent reduction in PM 2.5 concentration from March 24 to April 4. "Similarly, Delhi's PM 2.5 dropped by 57.64 per cent, Noida by 65.10 per cent, Gurugram by 56.04 per cent and Greater Noida by 68.83 per cent," the NGO report said.    Comparing these figures to 2019 data, the report said that last year during the same time period the air quality ranged between “Moderate” to “Unhealthy” and this year it has now been observed to be fairly “Good”. "Surprisingly, the cities which earlier fared among the top polluted ones, their air quality has been recorded to be below the prescribed National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) of 60 micrograms per cubic meter (μg/m3). However the air quality of these cities are still much higher than the prescribed WHO standards of 25 μg/m3," it said. According to the 'Toxic air: The Price of Fossil Fuels' report released in February, air pollution from fossil fuel-related PM2.5 is attributed to an estimated 669,000 premature deaths each year in India. In March a collective of doctors, The Doctors For Clean Air (DFCA), warned that people with compromised lung function could possibly have serious complications if infected by COVID-19. The analysis said that human activities such as burning fossil fuels, transport, and the energy sector contribute significant quantities of particulate matter in cities and this can change by transitioning from fossils to renewables. "The post Covid -19 government investment should focus on sustainability from the environmental perspective to protect the public health," said Chanchal. “Although we are witnessing a reduction in PM 2.5 across the cities because of the temporary slowdown of economic activities, we are aware that blue skies are unintended outcomes of the lockdown and it has come at the expense of a huge crisis that many are bearing the brunt of. “This reduction in air pollution is temporary. It is worth noting that despite the lockdown, these most polluted cities are still not meeting the WHO prescribed air quality standards, which clearly means that we need a comprehensive study of sources of pollutants," he added. Recently, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) released a report on effect of 'Janata Curfew' on the air quality in which it found that the reduction in number of on-road vehicles, resulted in up to 51 per cent reduction in nitrogen oxide (NOx) levels and 32 per cent reduction in carbon dioxide (CO2) levels during March 22-23, 2020 as compared to March 21. PTI AG TIR TIR||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-makes-delhi-air-50-cleaner-824237.html
11-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi COVID-19 cases surge past 1,000; 5 fresh deaths||The number of COVID-19 cases in Delhi crossed the 1000-mark on Saturday with five more deaths being reported, taking the toll to 19. With 166 fresh cases, the total number of cases has surged to 1,069. Of the 166 new cases, 128 people belong to "positive cases-under special operations". This refers to those linked to a religious gathering in the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in south Delhi's Nizamuddin in mid-March. Till Friday, Delhi government health bulletin has been identifying these cases as "positive cases-Markaz Masjid". The World Health Organisation and the Ministry of Health have recently asked stakeholders to avoid using words that could stigmatize people belonging to a particular section. The health  bulletin also said that the cluster containment plan for COVID-19 is implemented at various locations of Delhi. Houses in containment zone are being surveyed by medical teams and people were made aware about the signs and symptoms of COVID-19, methods of prevention, social distancing measures and importance of hand washing. Delhi health authorities have surveyed at least 35,000 people in over 5,000 houses spread across the hotspots in the capital as part of the containment strategy. Around 30 localities have been sealed after more cases were detected from there. In South East Delhi, medical teams surveyed 6,823 people in 1,466 houses in Nizamuddin Basti area and another 1,676 people in 544 houses in Nizamuddin West locality. Similar exercise was also carried out in South Delhi where 300 people in 68 houses in Hauz Rani and 1,000 people in 152 houses of Sangam Vihar were examined. In North Delhi's Jahangirpuri, medical teams conducted survey of 2,800 houses where around 25,000 people were examined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-covid-19-cases-surge-past-1000-5-fresh-deaths-824241.html
11-04-2020||Opinion||Parenting | We must view the COVID-19 lockdown as an opportunity to introduce our kids to the wonder of ‘unstructured time’ ||Circa 1975 or thereabouts – vacations that came with summer were really vacations. We would move to the next class only in July and that was when we would get our new books, so there was no question of ‘finishing’ the syllabus at a coaching class during the vacations. The much looked-forward-to days were blissfully free of studies. Not free of another kind of education though, filled totally and completely with what appeared to be fun activities all day long. In hindsight, they were actually life-skills which taught us social-skills, creativity, self-reliance, fitness and fun.  Days started with swimming and a trek up to six floors to a sumptuous breakfast, followed by quiet hours of art and craft. At meal-times, the tasks were divided up based on age. Some got to lay the table, while others prepared salads and a simple dish or two. Afternoons – the best time of all -- were for Enid Blyton, Lego, Chinese Checkers, Ludo or imaginary battles and adventures while the elders napped. Evenings were for playing with and feeding the strays, spending time with friends and family. Compared to this privileged life, are the so-called vacations of the kids Before Corona (BC) – they hardly got any breathing space between taking exams for one class and starting to prepare for the next class. Peer-pressure or parent-pressure would send them hurtling from one coaching-class to another, if it wasn’t for studies, it was to learn a language or skill.  But what of the unstructured hours? Unused to the concept, any free time would bring forth whines about being ‘bored’ or find them glued to their tabs.  With no room for unstructured time, which, arguably, is the time when actual creativity blossoms, we were effectively stunting their development. With the result, many of our children didn’t learn to appreciate the bounties of literature or nature and some grew up with a noticeable lack of social or survival skills.  Having ‘nothing to do’ Cut to the present, an unprecedented time which has changed our lives in ways we had never imagined, much less our children. Their bewilderment, which was quickly followed by a short burst of  delight about the suspension of school and exam, is about a lot of things, among them the most crucial being the complete breakdown of routine. Youngsters of all ages are so unused to utilising unstructured time that when they did get it in the unfortunate form of lockdowns, they got antsy, ‘bored’ and aggressively addicted to mindless surfing. And it really isn’t the children’s fault, they never had a chance to learn to use unstructured time. Hassled parents, on the other hand, are managing home and office together, and choosing the apparently lesser evil and letting children have their way – one less thing to deal with. So, children are getting up at eleven, spending hours on their devices, bingeing on junk… bliss? One would think so, but no, there is still “nothing to do”!  Using unstructured time wisely Before children get completely sucked into a virtual life, with their studies and socialising now confined to the devices in their hands, it falls upon us, parents, to keep them grounded. It is the time to make the most of the huge swathes of unstructured time in our hands. ‘Unstructured’ doesn’t mean without boundaries; it is freedom within limits. It means giving options, but these options are limited by purpose. Maria Montessori professed the benefits of unstructured time within clear boundaries. She and her son and collaborator, Mario Montessori, listed “human tendencies” like activity, communication, exploration, order, repetition, purposeful activity or work as the ‘driving behaviour of development’, and structured the Montessori education system on this.  To make up for the lack of structure that a school provides, we can use this unpredictable lockdown period to introduce this system to inculcate some life-skills. Like the ingenious couple from Scotland, Callum and Claire-Marie, who gave the ultimate ‘dine-out’ experience to their toddlers by creating the adorable ‘Mummy and Daddy Restaurant’ at their home, we could try a fun home-school for children which can combine the discipline of set hours with the freedom of choosing activities which go beyond the three Rs (reading, writing, arithmetic).  Getting them to choose activities would also give children the sense of autonomy and responsibility and limited options to exercise their ingenuity gives them the opportunity of exploring and expanding their talents. The broad areas around which we can plan their days could aim for exercises around developing self-reliance.  For example, a ‘make-your-own-meal’ period could be used to prepare a healthy sandwich or an easy salad. Physical Education class could be PT or yoga or old favourites like hopscotch. In the same way, reading, art and craft, story-telling etc. could be made into a routine.  This is that godsent opportunity for parents to introduce children to the essentials of life – self-reliance, family, nature, during the unstructured time sans devices, sans company. Even though we are still to coin a term for these extended days at home, mindful boundaries around unstructured hours will go a long way in the AD world. (Madhumita Gupta is a freelance writer, children's author and an independent teacher-trainer)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/parenting-we-must-view-the-covid-19-lockdown-as-an-opportunity-to-introduce-our-kids-to-the-wonder-of-unstructured-time-824088.html
11-04-2020||Right in the Middle||The woman in white||She walked in from nowhere one morning. Clad in a coarse, white saree with head shaved and forehead smeared with a piece of ash, she could have surfaced from any small hamlet in Tamil Nadu. In truth, she had. “From where are you coming?” asked my mother when this apparition knocked on the door. “Koothandakuppam very next to Kethandapatti” she answered, with a toothless smile. Awed by the long-distance she had journeyed, mother invited her into the house with her customary hospitality and offered her coffee and other refreshments. She was delighted to have a visitor from this temple town that was the abode of the lord Aravamudhan himself. Her guest poured the hot coffee straight into her throat, and added: “But just now, I come from the Thulasi Thotam temple near Majestic.” She took out a crumpled piece of paper knotted into her sari. It was a recommendation from the temple priest. She had no home. Her luggage was a small bundle containing another white sari. She could cook and do sundry jobs in return for shelter and bus fare to visit her home town once a year. Mother almost wept with joy at this unexpected bonanza, and “Pati” became part of our household after that. We never got to know her real name. In no time, she made herself indispensable. She would wake up at dawn when the household was asleep to collect fresh milk from a nearby cowshed where the milkman milked his cows. She would also bring a handful of fragrant sampige flowers tied into the edge of her sari. They were plucked from a neighbour’s garden when the owners were still asleep. If Mother scolded her for this theft, she would snap back “I took them for the gods, not for myself.” Soon, Pati took over other chores like watering the plants in our backyard before collecting the parijatha flowers for Father’s morning puja. Come 1965, there was a family wedding in Tirupathi. We booked cottages on the hilltop and carried our own provisions with Pati bravely volunteering to prepare the wedding feast. After the ceremonies in the temple, we returned to our cottage for the grand lunch - to be greeted by two ferocious cows slurping away at the rich payasam cascading down the steps. Two more of these impressive animals were inside the cottage gobbling the hot chakkara pongal. Pati was the only composed onlooker that day. “These are not ordinary cows,” she declared. “They are Brahma, Siva, Vishnu and Mahalakshmi come to take our offerings.”,As always, Pati had the last word.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-woman-in-white-823919.html
11-04-2020||Second Edit||Ah, now the govt needs NGOs, does it?||Not many other actions of the Narendra Modi government have exposed the contradictions and hypocrisy in its policies as its reach-out to non-government organisations (NGOs) for steps to aid and supplement its efforts to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. The government’s initiative has come from the NITI Aayog, which has written to over 92,000 NGOs in the country to assist the government in identifying virus hotspots and deputing volunteers and care-givers to deliver services to the elderly, persons with disabilities, children, transgender persons and other vulnerable groups. There are NGOs working in all these areas, and they are doing excellent work and helping people. They will be able to contact the target groups, communicate with them and ensure that effective steps are taken to prevent the spread of the epidemic among them. The Modi government has always been hostile to NGOs and has harassed them for wrong and unconvincing reasons. It has looked at them as agents of foreign interests and acted vindictively against them. Some were banned and some others were told to curtail their activities. Representatives of these organisations have been arrested and humiliated on flimsy grounds. One major complaint of the government is that these organisations receive funds from abroad and utilise them for activities it does not approve of. They have often been accused of proselytisation and anti-national activities. Staying on the right side of the law and keeping proper records of activities and accounts has not helped many of them avoid being targeted. While the government does not approve of NGOs, many of which serve the poor, disadvantaged and vulnerable sections of society, receiving funds from abroad and has taken action against them under the Foreign Contributions Regulation Act (FCRA) and recently tightened the rules under the law, it has no qualms about political parties receiving such funds. It has legalised and institutionalised anonymous and opaque funding, including from unknown foreign sources by amending the very same FCRA, through the electoral bonds scheme, of which the BJP is the biggest beneficiary. The hypocrisy of it all is obvious. NGOs are relevant and necessary because they do a lot of work that the government is unable or unwilling to do. Many of them have large networks of dedicated grassroots workers. They have done a lot of good work to mitigate the pain of the 21-day lockdown among people who were badly affected by it, like migrant workers and daily wage earners. They would be happy to heed the government’s call, but the question is whether the government has truly changed its attitude towards NGOs or its appeal is only a tactical retreat from its war on NGOs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/ah-now-the-govt-needs-ngos-does-it-823917.html
11-04-2020||South||COVID-19: Drones, mist cannons, creativity, speed up disinfection work in TN||Authorities in Tamil Nadu, as part of efforts to prevent the spread of coronavirus use drones, mist cannons and have come up with innovative ideas like using catchy taglines to spur people to walk through the disinfectant tunnels when they visit market places. In the State capital, which has 172 coronavirus positive cases, the highest when compared with other districts in Tamil Nadu, Greater Chennai Corporation officials use drones in densely populated neighbourhoods like Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar as children watch the drive with curiosity from their balconies. "We are using drones in densely populated areas and the results are good," an official said adding about six litres of disinfectant liquid was being used for a single trip. The children are attracted to the buzz of drones which they call a mini-helicopter. Mist cannons which are huge blowers are mounted on trucks that go around spraying disinfectant fumes in downtown areas and in other containment zones in addition to localities of positive patients. Butterfly sprinklers -swings up and down like a butterfly's wings when dispensing the disinfectant fog- placed on the rear of tractors are also being used by the civic body for clean up work. Anti-bacterial fluid containers connected to jet spray guns are taken in light cargo vehicles to easily navigate narrow alleys in city neighbourhoods. Germicide and bleaching powder was being sprinkled on all roads, alleys and intersections. Volunteers wearing artistically designed 'coronavirus' crowns are also helping authorities in several areas to drive home the message of social distancing, personal hygiene and the need to stay indoors. Officials came up with a fresh idea to goad people to use the disinfectant tunnels set up in six locations in the Tiruvannamalai district. "Come inside (the tunnel), are you coming in or shall I (coronavirus) come (infect you) ?" the tagline in Tamil, embossed on the tunnel's facade asks. In Tamil, the slogan is more punchy as it has striking colloquial words used every day to convey the message ('Ulley vaaaa.. nee varriyaa..illa naan varatta !'). The sprawling Aarani Fort and Isanya grounds in Tiruvannamalai district that house the temporary vegetable markets are among the places where the disinfectant tunnels have been set up. People visiting the markets cannot miss the tunnels as they are placed prominently and public walk through the passage fitted with sprayers and sprinklers after and before their purchase. Cheyyaru and Vandavasi bus termini in the district also have the disinfectant walkthrough arrangement. Tamil Nadu has a total of 911 coronavirus cases and Tiruvannamalai district 10 as on April 10 evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-drones-mist-cannons-creativity-speed-up-disinfection-work-in-tn-823995.html
11-04-2020||South||Kerala reports third COVID-19 death as 71-year-old man dies||Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said that he was suffering from multiple illnesses and also developed pneumonia. All possible efforts were made to cure him, he said. He was undergoing treatment at a private hospital over the last two weeks. After his condition worsened, he was tested for COVID-19 and was found positive. Subsequently, he was shifted to the government medical college's COVID-19 ward. He was suffering from kidney and heart ailments and was put on ventilator support. The health workers are yet to trace the source of his infection. He was not found to have traveled abroad recently. Over 25 persons with whom he was in close contact have not contracted COVID-19 infection so far. Earlier, one person in Kochi and another in Thiruvananthapuram died due to COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-third-covid-19-death-as-71-year-old-man-dies-823996.html
11-04-2020||South||Pandemic Podcast: Tamil Nadu's peace plan amid a pandemic||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast gives you a bird’s-eye view of the COVID-19 situation in India. In this episode, DH Special Correspondent for Chennai E T B Sivapriyan explains how Tamil Nadu is maintaining social harmony while dealing with coronavirus cases that are linked to Tablighi Jamaat event. DH's L Subramani talks to a fitness expert from Chennai, Gita Krishna Raj on how people and children maintain fitness regimes during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pandemic-podcast-tamil-nadus-peace-plan-amid-a-pandemic-824004.html
11-04-2020||South||Five new coronavirus cases reported in Andhra Pradesh, tally rises to 386||Five new cases of coronavirus were reported in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh on Saturday, taking the overall tally in the state to 386. Kurnool Collector G Veerapandian tweeted about the rise in cases in his district from 77 to 82 by 8 am on Saturday but the Health Department's COVID-19 dashboard still maintained the number 77 at noon. The five new patients in Kurnool district were family members of the Tablighi Jamaat attendees. Kurnool tops the state with 82 cases, followed by Guntur with 58. As per the COVID-19 Dashboard, there were no additions to the number of cases on Saturday as all the 584 samples tested in 14 hours from 7 pm on Friday night turned negative. It said till date a total of 6,958 blood samples were tested, of which 6,577 turned negative. As such, the number of positive cases stood at 381 till 9 am on Saturday, it showed. With six dead and 10 cured, the number of active coronavirus cases in the state was 365, according to the dashboard. But, with five new cases in Kurnool, the number of active cases goes up to 370. The State COVID-19 Command Control Centre did not issue the daily morning bulletin on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/five-new-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-rises-to-386-824014.html
11-04-2020||South||COVID-19: Micro-level monitoring at few places in Kasaragod||The northern-most Kasaragod district, which has accounted for 130 COVID-19 cases, imposed further rigorous micro-level monitoring in four areas from Saturday to ensure there was no community spread. Police sources said the monitoring has been launched in four areas - Thalankara, Choori, Kalanad and Nellikkunnu, from where many positive cases have been reported. Drones are also being used to monitor lockdown violations. As against cluster-level monitoring being implemented across the district, patrolling in these designated areas will be made more intensive by tripling the norms of lockdown protocol, the sources said. Authorities hope that micro monitoring through intensified lockdown norms would help prevent community spread and instead help bring down the intensity of the virus. Kerala has 238 positive cases, of which the maximum is from Kasaragod.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-micro-level-monitoring-at-few-places-in-kasaragod-824034.html
11-04-2020||South||Kerala govt launches WhatsApp number to report domestic violence during coronavirus lockdown||The Kerala government on Saturday launched a WhatsApp number to report cases of domestic violence in the state, which have been on the rise during the coronavirus lockdown. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said complaints can be made to the number-- 9400080292--, which will be available 24 hours. "In the wake of reports of an increase in domestic violence during the lockdown, the Social Justice Department has been urged to take immediate steps to prevent them. Subsequently, a WhatsApp number was launched to make it easy for women and children to complain," Vijayan said in a Facebook post.  The 24-hour helpline has been started by the Directorate of Women and Child Development with the help of the technical cell of the National Service Scheme. "Similarly, complaints can be made on the child line number 1098 and women helpline Mitra's number, 181, and stern action will be taken in the matter," Vijayan said. The National Commission for Women (NCW) has received 123 complaints of domestic violence in the last 18 days, with the panel saying it has observed a spike in such cases during the lockdown imposed to control the spread of coronavirus. According to the data shared on Friday by the NCW, from March 23 till April 10, a total of 370 complaints related to women issues were received by the panel. Of the 370 complaints, the highest 123 were of domestic violence, the data said. The NCW had also launched a WhatsApp number -- 7217735372-- to report cases of domestic violence. The NCW said the whatsapp number is in addition to the online complaint links and emails which are also operational. India is currently under the biggest lockdown with around 1.3 billion people asked to stay home in view of the coronavirus outbreak, which has claimed nearly 200 lives and infected more than 6,400 people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-launches-whatsapp-number-to-report-domestic-violence-during-coronavirus-lockdown-824065.html
11-04-2020||South||'T COVID-19' App for public, officials launched in Telangana||'T COVID-19' App - a single source of information, to assist citizens and government departments in tackling the coronavirus pandemic situation, was launched by the Telangana government here on Saturday. The Health and IT departments of the state have developed the application in collaboration with Amazon Web Services (AWS), Cisco and Quantela, a city-based startup, an official press release said. The App equips citizens with accurate information about COVID-19 and helps in curbing the spread of fake news, it said. The App was launched by Telangana IT and Industries KT Rama Rao. The key functionalities of the application are sharing authentic, official statistics on number of active COVID-19 cases and other relevant statistics. Besides, citizens can take approved self-assessment tests to understand his/her medical conditions and avoid unnecessary panic, the release said. The application also has an integrated telemedicine module of Call Health that allows the patient to remotely book an appointment with a medical professional. In addition, the application includes information about approved labs and test centers, isolation wards and quarantine centres. A single click option to directly connect with the 24x7 emergency helpline is incorporated in the App, according to the release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/t-covid-19-app-for-public-officials-launched-in-telangana-824066.html
11-04-2020||South||Wildlife glimpses seen on Puducherry's road while humans under lockdown amid coronavirus scares||With the COVID-19 lockdown in force here, it's not the citizens who have been violating the regulations by stepping out of their homes- it's the wildlife - a troop of monkeys which had come out of nowhere to invade the roads in the former French colony. The now-quiet, deserted streets were full of monkeys running about, much to the amusement of children confined to the four walls of their houses, as schools and colleges have been shutdown ever since the lockdown was brought into effect. With the roads empty of vehicles, there was nil noise pollution and public movement, this could have attracted the wild animals to explore the human habitats. Some residents, upon spotting the chatter of monkeys which are commonly seen on tree tops, hurled bananas onto the roads and the simians had their fill before going about their way. A few residents said besides monkeys, birds of all kinds and shapes invaded the usually-congested arterial roads of Puducherry. The commonly spotted house sparrows and the ubiquitous crows have arrived on the territorial roads taking advantage of nil-human movement in the streets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/wildlife-glimpses-seen-on-puducherrys-road-while-humans-under-lockdown-amid-coronavirus-scares-824090.html
11-04-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: 60-year-old cycles 140 km to get medicines for ailing wife||Love for his ailing wife made 60-year-old Arivazhagan forget the pain of pedalling 140 km to reach the hospital where she was being treated for the past five months as the daily wage labourer couldn’t afford to hire a taxi. With private and government buses off the roads due to nation-wide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19, Arivazhagan did not have any choice than cycling all the way from Kumbakonam in Tamil Nadu’s fertile Cauvery Delta region to Puducherry, a distance of 140 km. The arduous journey of over 17 hours ended in joy as doctors at the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (JIPMER) not just conducted a health check on his wife, Manjula, but also gave her tablets for one month and sprang a “surprise”. The heart-warming incident took place on March 31, the scheduled date of check-up for Manjula, but has come to light now. A cancer patient, according to the family and hospital, Manjula has been suffering from the illness for the past five months and is being treated by doctors at the JIPMER who had asked her to come for a regular check-up every month. Speaking about his daring journey, Arivazhagan told DH: “I didn’t even know that it would take almost a day for me to reach Puducherry by bicycle. I wanted tablets for my wife and I couldn't see her crying unable to bear the pain. I started at 5 am and took two hours to rest on the way and reached Puducherry by 10.30 pm on March 30. The security guards were shocked when I said I pedalled my way from Kumbakonam.” In fact, it is the security guards at JIPMER who alerted the doctors about Arivazhagan’s bicycle journey.  The 60-year-old man said the doctors were so concerned about his wife’s health that they gave her medicines for a month and asked them to go to the main gate after the check-up. There awaited a pleasant surprise for the couple – an ambulance was arranged by JIPMER to ferry them to their village in Kumbakonam. “We had stopped OPD after lockdown, but we made an exception to Arivazhagan since he came all the way from Kumbakonam. Since it would not be prudent to allow the man to pedal another 140 km, we made available one of our ambulance vehicles drop him and his wife at their home,” an official with JIPMER said. Arivazhagan also said the doctors were so considerate that they pooled in funds and handed over Rs 8,000 in cash to him. “Not just the ambulance, they also arranged food for us and gave Rs 8,000 in cash. I didn’t expect such a treatment from the doctors. I am really thankful to the people who helped us and ensured we reached home safe,” Arivazhagan said. Arivazhagan didn’t even inform his family members, most of whom live in Chennai, about his bicycle journey to Puducherry. “My father left for my native village in the third week of March and I got stuck in Chennai due to lockdown. I didn’t even know that he had covered a distance of 140 km by bicycle. He told me he didn’t have any other choice,” his son A Ravi, who is also a casual labourer, told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-60-year-old-cycles-140-km-to-get-medicines-for-ailing-wife-824112.html
11-04-2020||South||Kerala woman blessed with baby after recovering from COVID-19||A woman who was under treatment for COVID-19 has delivered a baby at the Government Medical College hospital at Pariyaram in Kannur. According to the hospital sources, it was the first such instance in Kerala that a COVID-19-infected woman was delivering a baby. A couple of other women who were in the middle stages of pregnancy had already recovered from COVID-19.  The 23-year-old woman, who hails from Kasargod, tested negative two days back. But she was not discharged as she was about to deliver. Her husband had also recovered from the COVID-19 infection. The cesarean procedure was performed on Saturday by a team of doctors wearing personal protection kits and the child's swab was also being subjected to a COVID-19 test. The child had no health issues, said hospital sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-woman-blessed-with-baby-after-recovering-from-covid-19-824144.html
11-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Kerala MP moves SC for evacuation of Indians stranded in gulf countries||M K Raghavan, a Member of Parliament (MP) from Kerala's Kozhikode constituency, has said in his plea that the Centre should also be directed to facilitate the evacuation of Indian citizens who cannot afford to travel back from Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) nations -- Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Bahrain, and Oman. The petition has further sought a direction to the government to grant specific approval to special flights to bring back these citizens since many of the stranded persons are desirous of returning to India at their own cost. It said the government should be directed to depute medical team(s) to GCC nations to ensure that adequate medical assistance is provided to those "who are infected by COVID-19 with due regard to the laws and regulations of such nations". The plea has also sought a direction to the concerned authorities to "ensure that the citizens who are not stranded in GCC nations are quarantined and provided all medical and health facilities" as prescribed by the World Health Organization (WHO). The plea said many people from Kozhikode in Kerala, the petitioner MP's constituency, are working in foreign countries especially in GCC nations. "The outbreak of COVID-19 has caused widespread disruptions in the lives of Indian citizens at home and abroad, especially those stranded in Gulf countries," it said. "As a result of this, the petitioner (Raghavan) herein is being approached by several individuals and organizations to ensure the safe return and well-being of such Indians who are stranded in GCC nations in the absence of basic amenities; particularly those pertaining to essential healthcare requirements as well as household needs," the plea said. It said Raghavan has contacted several airlines which have expressed their desire and willingness to ensure safe return of Indians stranded in GCC nations.   The plea said these nations have accorded their approval and assured their complete support for operation of flights to India to assist with the repatriation of stranded citizens. "However, this proved to be futile as the Indian airspace has been shut since the outbreak of COVID-19. Therefore, Indians continue to be stranded despite several gracious offers being made by airline operators to assist their return from the GCC nations," it said. The petitioner said he had made representations to the ministries of external affairs, civil aviation, shipping and Kerala government requesting urgent permission for operating chartered flights between India and GCC nations and take other appropriate measures to repatriate Indian citizens stranded there but no positive response was obtained. On Friday, a separate plea was filed in the apex court seeking directions to the Centre to rescue and bring back Indian migrants stranded in the Gulf countries in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-kerala-mp-moves-sc-for-evacuation-of-indians-stranded-in-gulf-countries-824146.html
11-04-2020||South||Third COVID-19 death Kerala; toll at three||Kerala reported a third death due to Covid-19 on Saturday, while ten more persons were found infected and 19 recovered, including nine in Kasargod. Mahe native Mehroof, 71, died at Pariyaram government medical college hospital in Kannur. He was initially undergoing treatment at a private hospital and was shifted to the government medical college Covid ward after he was tested Covid positive. He was suffering from kidney and heart ailments and was put on ventilator support also. The health workers were yet to trace the source of infection on him. He was not found to have travelled abroad recently. Over 25 persons with whom he was found to be having close contacts were not having Covid infection so far. Meanwhile, police and district administration have enhanced vigil at some parts of Kasargod town where number of Covid cases were high. Even as nine more persons from Kasargod were tested negative on Saturday, two fresh cases were reported on Saturday. So far 374 persons were infected in Kerala, of which three died and 143 got cured. Remaining 228 are now under treatment. Kerala seeks lockdown till April 30 Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the state urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to continue lockdown at all Covid hotspots till April 30, while a phased relaxation was sought in other places by ensuring social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/third-covid-19-death-kerala-toll-at-three-824158.html
11-04-2020||South||Tamin Nadu Chief Minister appeals PM Narendra Modi to not resume flight, train services||Apparently indicating support to continuing curbs beyond April 14, Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Saturday conveyed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that train and flight services should not be resumed and stressed the importance of smooth supply of essential commodities. In a meet via a video link with Modi to discuss the COVID-19 situation, Palaniswami sought two lakh test kits from the Centre, additional funding to aid unorganised sector workers and farm labourers, besides Rs 2,000 to each of their families if the lockdown is to be extended by the Centre. He wanted the Centre to announce a special package for agriculture and horticulture promotion. "Train and flight services should not be resumed.I appeal to the Prime Minister and other Chief Ministers not to allow inter State passengers movement," an official release quoted him as saying. Smooth supply of essential commodities like dhal and spices from other states through railways and inter-State movement of these goods through lorries should be ensured, he said. "If the lockdown is extended,I request additional funding as well as allotment of essential commodities to support the unorganised sector workers and agricultural labourers. They may be provided 2,000 rupees per family.    "Noting that Tamil Nadu as on date had 911 positive cases, he said "testing of the contacts has to be done immediately for which I require rapid test kits. I have written to the Union Health Minister to provide two lakh test kits to Tamil Nadu." Palaniswami said so far 8,410 samples have been tested, and 1,891 people have been isolated. Though Tamil Nadu has faced many natural disasters continuously like the three cyclones between 2016 and 2018, besides a severe drought, it still got lesser allocation under the State Disaster Relief Fund, he said and requested an adhoc Rs 1,000 crore grant from the National Disaster Relief Fund immediately to procure medical and protective material. Thanking the Centre for Rs 510 crore grant under SDRF, he said the 15th Finance Commission methodology has resulted in Tamil Nadu getting only 64.65 per cent increase under the SDRF, while it is 120.33 per cent for other states. The Chief Mininster batted for Rs 9,000 crore grant for launching a comprehensive plan to combat COVID-19 and its aftermath on the States economy,Rs 3,000 crore towards buying ventilators, Personal Protective Equipment and N-95 masks, and wanted the Centre to supply polymerase chain reaction and rapid test kits. Also, he reiterated a number of measures like nod for additional borrowing of 33 per cent above the permitted level for fiscal year 2019-20 may be allowed for 2020-21 for combating the pandemic. Presently the State has 12 government facilities and seven private labs for COVID-19 testing and this needed to be increased by having atleast one lab per district, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamin-nadu-chief-minister-appeals-pm-narendra-modi-to-not-resume-flight-train-services-824168.html
11-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Tamil Nadu reports one more COVID-19 death, toll at 10||Tamil Nadu on Saturday reported one more COVID19 death, taking the toll from the virus to 10. Chief Secretary K Shanmugam said 58 fresh coronavirus cases were reported in the state on Saturday, with the total number of positive cases reaching 969. The latest death was reported from Erode district, he told a press conference here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-tamil-nadu-reports-one-more-covid-19-death-toll-at-10-824176.html
11-04-2020||South||YS Jaganmohan Reddy supports coronavirus lockdown extension but to red zone areas||Emphasizing that the wheel of the economy should be kept moving, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday wanted the lockdown period extended but limited only to identified red zones in the state where the COVID-19 was prevalent. I support your stand that we must take firm and bold steps to contain COVID-19. But at the same time we have to ensure that the wheel of the economy keeps moving, if not at full speed, at least to the sustenance of the people, the Chief Minister told Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a videoconference the latter conducted with all Chief Ministers. Of the total 676 mandals in the state, 37 have been identified as red zones and another 44 as orange zones. The balance 595 were in the green zone which were practically not affected (by the pandemic), Jagan said, referring to a data analysis by the state government. "In my opinion, lockdown should be limited to these red zones. While restrictions can be continued in places of public gathering like malls, cinema halls, places of worship, mass transport and schoolswhile continuing with physical distancing measures in all other places," Jagan added. "Thus far, we have been able to contain the disease thanks to God. I hope, wish and pray this pandemic will soon be vanquished and the human race will triumph over this unseen enemy and unprecedented virulence. While I have given my opinion and a brief report on the happenings in our state, I do understand this war could be won only if we function as one unit, with one single strategy," the Chief Minister said. Jagan told Modi I trust your leadership in totality and promised to go with whatever strategy you suggest and make it a success. The Chief Minister explained that the ongoing lockdown had a severe impact on the state, particularly on the common man. The agriculture sector contributed 35 per cent of Gross State Domestic Product with a 62 per cent workforce. Inter-state movement of agricultural commodities has come to an abysmal low, with less than 25 per cent of trucks on the road, he said. "There is very little storage space available in godowns within the state. We are required to buy paddy, chilli, maize and, going forward, tobacco, banana, papaya and vegetables as there are no other marketing avenues,the Chief Minister said. Wondering how much can we absorb locally,he apprehended that lakhs of farm families would be pushed into serious destitution if the present situation continued. With lack of storage space and exports curtailed, the aqua sector was also bleeding, he said. In the industrial sector, only 7,250 of the total of 1,03,986 units were running. "Supply chain disruption, road and rail network disruption has added to the crisis.    While industries are burdened with the weight of fixed costs, not coming down, how do we expect them pay wages and salaries while not functioning?," Jagan asked. "Other than all these mentioned, the states revenue sources have totally dried up while expenditure on relief and welfare has drastically shot up. My principle concern has been, and continues to be, the impact of the lockdown on the livelihoods of migrant and daily-wage workers, agriculture, horticulture and aquaculture farmers and the welfare and wellbeing of every resident of AP, the Chief Minister said. Jagan referred to the influenza virus that affected the Indians and lasted for more than two years. "We have to take this into perspective and this is a long-drawn battle that we have to fight. That perspective should always be remembered," he observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ys-jaganmohan-reddy-supports-coronavirus-lockdown-extension-but-to-red-zone-areas-824201.html
11-04-2020||South||Girl under home quarantine in Kerala stages hunger stir over attack on house||A girl in Kerala, who is under home quarantine over Covid suspicion, was staging a hunger stir in front of her house in Pathanamthitta district on Saturday alleging lapses in police action against those who attacked her house. The girl had even taken up her plight with Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the Chief Minister warned of strict action. A day after the girl took up her plight with the Chief Minister, her house was attacked by a group of CPM workers. The girl, who was studying in Coimbatore, returned on March 17. She was asked by health authorities to remain in home quarantine at her house at Thannithodu, about 20 kilometres from Pathanamthitta town. Her father, who is a local cable TV operator, kept away from the house and stayed at his office. But a section of local CPM workers unleashed propaganda that the girl's father was spreading Corona infection and even threatened to attack him. Subsequently, the girl took up the plight with the Chief Minister. But on Wednesday night, a group of local CPM workers attacked the girl's house and caused damages. The next day the Chief Minister condemned the incident and warned of stringent action. CPM also suspended six workers involved in the incident. The girl's family alleged on a Saturday that the police were trying to alter their statements and trying to frame feeble changes against the accused. Though one of the accused pushed aside the girl, no sections for assault on women were initiated. Hence the girl started a stir.  Pathanamthitta district police chief K G Simon said that a DySP was asked to record a fresh statement of the family and based on that further actions would be initiated. While three of them were arrested by the police immediately after the incident, three were held on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/girl-under-home-quarantine-in-kerala-stages-hunger-stir-over-attack-on-house-824203.html
11-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Rapid test kits from China sent to US hence the delay, says Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary||Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary K Shanmugam on Saturday admitted delay in receiving rapid test kits from China as a consignment meant for India was sent to the United States, one of the worst affected COVID-19 countries.  The state had placed orders for 1 lakh kits from China much before the Centre instructed states to buy the testing kits. The first consignment was to arrive in India on Thursday night but is being delayed.  He said China has sent the first consignment of rapid test kits that provide results in half-hour to the US and the second consignment is expected to be shipped to India.  "The issue is that only a few companies manufacture these rapid test kits and they have limited supply. One consignment was sent to the US and we are expecting second consignment to arrive in India," Shanmugam told reporters here.  Since Tamil Nadu is one of the states to have placed early orders, kits from the second consignment will be given to the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-rapid-test-kits-from-china-sent-to-us-hence-the-delay-says-tamil-nadu-chief-secretary-824207.html
11-04-2020||South||Pregnant COVID-19 woman delivers healthy child in Kerala government hospital||A team of doctors at a medical college hospital near here scripted history on Saturday by successfully performing a c-section surgery on a pregnant woman, battling coronavirus infection, and delivered her newborn. The woman, a native of Kasaragod, was found to be coronavirus positive and admitted to the Pariyaram medical college hospital, where she was undergoing treatment at the isolation ward. The doctors performed the operation by wearing personal protection equipment (PPEs) and delivered the child. Samples of the baby have been sent for testing. After the operation, the college Principal Dr N Roy told reporters that both the mother and the child were doing well. "We took all precautions while the baby was delivered through C-section surgery. This is the first time a Covid-19 patient has delivered a baby in Kerala and third in India. Both are stable," he said. Though the woman had turned negative, she will be kept under isolation. "The baby will be kept away from the mother for a few days, after which she can start breastfeeding," he said. A total of 364 coronavirus cases have so far been confirmed in Kerala and presently, 238 patients are under treatment in various hospitals. Kasaragod has reported 130 positive cases, whereas Kannur has 38.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pregnant-covid-19-woman-delivers-healthy-child-in-kerala-government-hospital-824223.html
11-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Telangana extends lockdown till April 30 as COVID-19 cases cross 500||Telangana Chief Minister Chandrashekar Rao on Saturday announced his cabinet's decision of extending the COVID-19 lockdown in the state till April 30.  After the month end, the lockdown could be lifted in phases, Rao said.  According to the Chief Minister, the state has recorded a total of 503 COVID-19 cases, till now.  “While 14 are dead, 96 have recovered and are discharged including the Indonesians,” Rao said in a press conference after a special cabinet meet on Saturday.  Earlier in the day, Rao, like other CMs, had participated in a video conference with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to assess the virus situation in the country.  “Almost all the CMs have opined in favour of the lockdown extension,” Rao said, while asking the state’s people to be patiently confined to their homes for a few days more “in their own interest.”  Telangana, as of Saturday night, has 393 active cases and none of them are in serious condition. “The incidence of cases is decreasing,” Rao said.   While all the foreign returned and their contacts who had tested positive have recovered and are discharged; quarantine of the about 26000 foreign returnees kept in home or government facilities has also ended, the CM said.  Informing that about 1200 people from Telangana had attended the Nizamuddin Markaz and have returned, Rao said that 1654 connected to the event as in quarantine now, which could end by April 24.  “If no other calamity episode arises, then we can see relief,” the CM said.    The state has established 243 COVID-19 containment zones across the state with around half of them in - 123 - in the Hyderabad civic body area.  To the relief of lakhs of anxious patients, the CM has announced the cabinet decision to promote all the school children till class IX to the next standard, without exams. A decision on 10th exams would be taken later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-telangana-extends-lockdown-till-april-30-as-covid-19-cases-cross-500-824248.html
11-04-2020||State||Sira tahsildar holds meet sitting on ground||In order to stress on the social distancing norm which needs to be followed without fail in light of the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, Sira tahsildar Naheeda Zam Zam held a meeting recently with Revenue Department staff by sitting on the floor, and making them also to do so. Revenue staff like deputy tahsildar, revenue inspector and village accountants participated in the meeting by sitting in boxes marked on the floor, each three feet away from the other.  The meeting was called to give village accountants the responsibility to supervising the ration distribution in their villages and other additional duties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sira-tahsildar-holds-meet-sitting-on-ground-824104.html
11-04-2020||State||Lockdown: Without milk, 5-year-old girl battles for life||Against the backdrop of the country-wide Covid-19 lockdown, a five-year-old girl named Sangeetha is fighting for life because her parents don't have milk to feed her in Maranagare village, in Sira taluk.  Born to a couple named Manjunath and Kavya, Sangeetha has been ailing from illness for a long time and is being fed only milk and water. Owing to the lockdown now, her parents have nothing to feed her.  Sangeetha is blind and has no strength in her waist to move around. She is lying all the time. Her food pipe is constricted and she cannot eat solid food. She is wholly dependent on milk for nutrition. Without milk for the last two days, the baby girl is being given nothing but water. The family owns a goat that has not been yielding milk for the last two days. Sangeetha belongs to a poor family. The parents make a living selling small items like hairpins at village fairs. They have no means to pay big sums for milk. It is learnt that some locals have come forward to help out the parents and Sangeetha in their time of turmoil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lockdown-without-milk-5-year-old-girl-battles-for-life-824153.html
11-04-2020||State||Traditional fishermen can carry out fishing from April 15||District In-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said over 14,000 traditional fishermen from coastal districts would be permitted to carry out fishing activities from April 15. Poojary said the fishermen themselves discontinued fishing after finding it difficult to practice social distancing. “We are also planning a system where the fish catch of traditional fishermen will be directly delivered to houses without violating the social distancing rules.” By removing restrictions on fishing, the poor fishermen will be empowered economically, he added. Under the schemes sponsored by state and Central governments loans of 23,000 fishermen will be waived, Kota said. Rs 2-crore project to raise seedlings for cage fishing in Mulky will be a reality soon. Fishermen practising cage fishing will no longer have to wait for the seedlings to be supplied from Andhra Pradesh, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/traditional-fishermen-can-carry-out-fishing-from-april-15-824199.html
11-04-2020||State||Five Hubballi cops placed in quarantine||Five cops have been put under quarantine after they came in contact with the Hubballi's first Covid-19 case. The cops in question had enquired the man who had returned from Delhi. A few days later, the man tested positive for the novel coronavirus. As a precautionary measure, all five have been placed on quarantine - three in home and two at a hotel. Hubballi-Dharwad Police Commissioner Dileep told DH, "All five had visited the man to collect details as part of surveillance. After the man tested positive for Covid-19, the cops sought for self-quaranteening and we arranged for the same."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/five-hubballi-cops-placed-in-quarantine-824211.html
11-04-2020||State||Home delivery of anti-HIV drugs in Ballari||The Karnataka State Aids Prevention Society has started supplying two months' antiretroviral drugs at the doorsteps of the persons living with HIV/Aids in the wake of lockdown clamped to mitigate virus spread. The multi-month dispensation of ART drugs to the doorsteps of the affected persons started from Guggarahatti in the city limits, which lies in coronavirus containment zone, on Saturday. The antiretrovirual durgs for two months were dispensed in advance in several districts before the lockdown was enforced. "The antiretroviral drugs will be dispensed to the affected at their doorsteps through 18 Link ART centres in the district. In Hosapete taluk, the drugs will be supplied through ambulance while in Ballari and surrounding areas, the TB Control Programme unit vehicle will distribute the drugs to the affected," Dr Indrani, district Aids Control Officer told DH. "The antiretroviral drugs improve immune system of the affected. The moment a person living with HIV stops taking ART, his/her immunity will weaken. Hence, we dispense medicine to the affected at regular basis," said Dr Ravikumar, Regional Programme Officer, Karnataka State Aids Prevention Society (Care, Support and Treatment). He added, the ART centre staff will supply medicine to the affected who are not in a position to step out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/home-delivery-of-anti-hiv-drugs-in-ballari-824221.html
11-04-2020||State||Coronavirus: Karnataka growth rate 6.05%; tally at 215||Karnataka's compound growth rate is 6.05% as opposed to the national growth rate of 12.09%. Karnataka is in the 19th position in the country as per growth rate and is in the 11th position as per the number of COVID-19 cases, said Minister S Suresh Kumar, COVID-19 spokesperson, Karnataka, here on Saturday. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka on Saturday stood at 215. So far, 39 have been discharged, up from 34 on Friday. Five more patients were discharged on Saturday.  Out of the eight new cases reported on Saturday, five are from Mysuru, one from Bidar, and two from Bengaluru. About the extension of the lockdown, Kumar said, "We are waiting for the guidelines from the Centre on how to go about the extension of the lockdown. Exempting fishing and processing activities during the lockdown in coastal districts of Karnataka like Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada, Karavalli and Udupi will benefit the sector. This can be seen as a step to reopening our economic activities. In Bengaluru, there will stricter vigil." "The CM has recommended that there should not be any inter-district, intra-district travel or travel by railways or planes. As far as the colour coding zoning goes, I think it will be done based on the incidence. The more the incidence, the more primary contacts. The more the primary contacts, there will be more secondary contacts and so on," Kumar added. He also urged people to use the central government's Arogya Setu app and said, "If someone with COVID-19 symptoms is near us, the app will alert us. But I still have to look into the technical details of how it does that." He said in Bengaluru around 20,000 vehicles had been seized so far since the lockdown began. "More than 50% roads have been blocked. Paadarayanapura and Byatarayanapura have been completely sealed. City Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao told me that vehicle density is 2% of what it used to be. Also, those requesting passes are only 44,46,000. As far as e-passes go, only 1,75,000 have been issued," he said. More than 4,000 Hoysala vehicles have been used for facilitating patients to get access to medical services like dialysis so far. "The police has attended to 273 civilian medical emergencies so far. They have taken them in their own Hoysala vehicles to hospitals," he said. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, health said that there are 11,036 isolation beds, 1,685 ICU beds and 784 ventilators available in non-COVID hospitals apart from what is available in COVID-19 hospitals. "We had ordered 1,500 regular RNA testing kits from Pune-based Mylabs. We have so far received 1,000. The entire shipment of 10,000 will reach us on Tuesday. We will receive the rapid testing kits by April 13th," Akhtar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-karnataka-growth-rate-605-tally-at-215-824240.html
11-04-2020||State||B'day bash: FIR booked against MLA's followers||CS Pura police have registered an FIR against followers of Turuvekere MLA Masale Jayaram who celebrated his birthday in Idaguru village in Gubbi taluk with school kids and served biryani to people on Friday.  Police said that the trio named in the FIR are Idaguru Ravi and Rajenahalli Vasantha Kumar and Honnegowda. Police have taken up the case suo motu.  It may be recalled that the trio had organised a birthday bash for the MLA at the Idaguru government school grounds. A video of the event went viral on social media. Ironically, the event was held with police presence on the spot.  Notices Inspector Ramakrishnaiah said that notices were issued to CS Pura Sub-inspector Nagaraju, a constable, and head constable too. He added that their response to the notice would be communicated to the superintendent of police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bday-bash-fir-booked-against-mlas-followers-824243.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: After study, ICMR widens virus testing strategy||The widening of the scope of testing came against the backdrop of a study carried out by ICMR that showed 40 patients admitted in government hospitals with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) had tested positive for COVID-19. These 40 patients have had no contact with a COVID-19 positive case or any history of international travel. The sentinel surveillance carried out by the ICMR covering 5911 patients with SARI symptoms found 104 persons (1.8%), spread across 52 districts in 20 states, to be COVID-19-positive. Out of the 104 positive cases 40 were found to have no contact with COVID-19 patients nor had any travel history.  Though the study, in its interpretation and conclusions, does not mention community transmission of COVID-19, the ICMR had commissioned the surveillance to look for community transmission of the virus.  “COVID-19 containment activities need to be targeted in districts reporting COVID-19 cases among SARI patients. Intensifying sentinel surveillance for COVID-19 among SARI patients may be an efficient tool to effectively use resources towards containment and mitigation efforts,” the study said.  According to the study, the majority of the SARI patients were tested from Gujarat (792), Tamil Nadu (577), Maharashtra (553) and Kerala (502) with COVID-19 positivity of 1.6%, 0.9%, 3.8% and 0.2%, respectively.  COVID-19 positive SARI patients were detected from eight districts in Maharashtra, six in West Bengal and five each in Tamil Nadu and Delhi.  The median age of Covid-19 positive SARI patients was 54 years, and 85 (83.3%) were males; 83 (81.4%) of the affected patients were more than 40 years of age.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-after-study-icmr-widens-virus-testing-strategy-823975.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: Wild animals are having a gala time in Karnataka||It looks like wild animals are having a gala time during the lockdown in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic they are getting bolder and becoming explorers as areas outside their habitat are becoming quiet. At some places adjoining forests in Karnataka, particularly in Kodagu district, elephants were seen walking on the roads happily. Spotted and Sambar deer were also found roaming freely. "Wild-life is always happy when environment becomes quiet, they (wild animals) are roaming not only in their own areas but also outside...in forest fringe areas," Karnatakas Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Sanjay Mohan told PTI on Saturday.    Due to human activity and busy roads otherwise, they never used to venture out, he said. Now, even spotted deer is trying to come out and 'see what all is happening. They (wild animals) are basically free-ranging animals; when they find that their surroundings have become quiet, they tend to come out and explore. "Elephants are already used to going out of forests; now with quieter environs, they are happily moving on roads like any other people, and they are coming out because vehicles are not there." But Forest department officials also said with restrictions on movement of people and vehicles, hunters are on the prowl again. Mohan, also the State's Chief Wild Life Warden, said there has been a spurt in the number of hunting cases during the lockdown period, adding, the Department has taken measures, including stepping up night patrolling, to curb such activities. Animal handlers in the Department and Zoos have been instructed to strictly follow COVID-19 guidelines like wearing masks, gloves and maintaining safe distance, he said. "In Zoos, they were following such instructions earlier also, now they have become strict." Mohan said a man was killed in a bear attack in Ballari district earlier this week, which "could be one of the fall-outs of COVID-19 (with bears becoming bolder and venturing out)." He said the Department has continued to keep cages wherever human-wild life conflict is more and "leopards are getting captured." Karnataka is home to around 6,000 elephants, 500 tigers, 2,500 leopards and 600-700 Lion-tailed macaque, according to him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-wild-animals-are-having-a-gala-time-in-karnataka-824022.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka coronavirus lockdown extended for 15 days with some relaxations: CM B S Yediyurappa||The coronavirus-driven lockdown will continue for another 15 days starting April 14, when the current one ends, but there will be some relaxations this time, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said Saturday. “Agriculture and industrial sectors will be given relaxation. Government offices will be allowed to work with partial strength,” Yediyurappa said, briefing reporters after a four-hour-long video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “But the PM said detailed guidelines will be issued in a couple of days, which will provide clarity,” he added. “The lockdown for the next two weeks will be different from how it was in the past three weeks. The Centre, keeping in mind economic activities, especially agriculture, industry and employment of labourers, will tell us what needs to be done,” the CM said, adding that the lockdown will be lifted in a graded manner. According to top sources in the government, there is no clarity on the extent of relaxation that can be provided. “We’re waiting for the Centre’s guidelines on how to go about the lockdown extension,” Minister S Suresh Kumar, the COVID-19 spokesperson, said. “In Bengaluru, there will be stricter vigil.” Extending the lockdown was “inevitable", the CM said. “For citizens who want to shop essential supplies, there’s no bar on them going by walk alone. Also, we will see to it that agricultural activities are not affected anywhere,” Yediyurappa said. The Centre has allowed fishing activities to be restored, including the processing of the fish yield. “This will benefit the coastal districts of Udupi, Uttara Kannada and Dakshina Kannada,” he said. Apparently, Modi discussed enforcing the lockdown by categorizing areas into red, green and yellow zones. “Let’s wait for the Centre’s guidelines,” was Yediyurappa’s response when asked about this. He said the same when asked about reopening of educational institutions and liquor shops. PM Modi told all chief ministers that the next 2-3 weeks will be critical. “The next few weeks will decide whether or not we have succeeded. If the situation worsens, we have to face the crisis,” Yediyurappa said, quoting Modi. According to the CM, Modi has assured a sufficient number of personal protective equipment (PPE) and other supplies. “So far, 2.84 lakh PPEs have been supplied,” Yediyurappa said. “After April 15, every second day, we will get two lakh masks.” PM Modi informed all CMs that India currently had 220 labs doing 15,000 tests daily. “The number of labs will be 300 by April 30. By May 31, the number of tests will be 1 lakh per day,” the CM said. Yediyurappa also clarified that there was no plan to seal off other parts of Bengaluru apart from Bapujinagar and Padarayanapura. “At present, there are 345 checkposts in Bengaluru and 588 across the state to restrict vehicular movement,” he said. “So far, 43,432 vehicles have been seized, 1,558 FIRs registered and 2,682 people arrested.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-coronavirus-lockdown-extended-for-15-days-with-some-relaxations-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-824071.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||H D Deve Gowda donates Rs 1 lakh each to PM CARES Fund, Karnataka and Kerala CM relief fund amid coronavirus lockdown||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda has contributed Rs 1 lakh each to PM CARES Fund, the Karnataka and Kerala Chief Minister's relief funds from his pension, towards fighting COVID-19, his office said on Saturday. "Out of the pension he receives, former Prime Minster @H_D_Devegowda has contributed Rs 1,00,000/- each to PM Cares Fund, Govt. of Karnataka Chief Minister's Relief Fund, and Kerala Chief Minister's Distress Relief Fund. - Office of HDD," a tweet from Gowda's official twitter handle read. On April 5, Gowda had said he has assured Prime Minister Narendra Modi of his support in the nation's battle against COVID-19 pandemic when the latter called him to discuss the situation. The JD(S) patriarch on Friday in a letter to Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa however, had claimed the lockdown decision was taken in "haste" without forethought because of which farmers and the working class were "suffering" and suggested measures to mitigate the impact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/h-d-deve-gowda-donates-rs-1-lakh-each-to-pm-cares-fund-karnataka-and-kerala-cm-relief-fund-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-824114.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||MGNREGS may help address rural distress amid coronavirus lockdown||With the Covid-19 pandemic having hit rural employment, the state government is now making efforts to activate jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) in all districts. “We have already commenced works under the scheme in different parts of the state. However, it is low key at the moment. We will expedite it at the earliest,” Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Principal Secretary L K Atheeq said.  With the first installment of MGNREGS funds (Rs 1,861 crore) for this year having been credited by the Centre recently, there was no shortage of wages and it would be paid within 15 days of work, Atheeq added. Owing to the absence of demand for work in the wake of the lockdown, many who were dependent on the rural employment scheme have been unemployed for close to a month now. Focus areas Considering the low demand for work, the government is making attempts to activate jobs in the areas of water conservation, construction of cattle sheds, forestry and preparing the ground for horticulture.   Also, the government owed dues to labourers for previous works executed. The pending wages would be paid to everyone within the next four days, Atheeq said. “We have already begun payments," he added. The government should ensure that its plans translate into reality at the ground level, S D Baligar, executive director of Vanasiri Rural Development Society, Haveri, said. “The rations provided by the government do not cover all essentials. We urge the government to create employment and pay wages. Otherwise, the situation will turn grim over the next fortnight,” he pointed out. Vishwasagar R, director at Vimukti Vidya Samsthe, Chitradurga, which works closely with labourers at the grassroots level, said the government must instruct gram panchayats to prioritise the issue. "Unless gram panchayats are directed to conduct gram sabhas for identifying jobs that could be taken up with effective social distancing, it will be difficult to create employment at the ground level," he felt. Last week, RDPR Minister K S Eshwarappa had announced that the Centre had released Rs 1,861 crore of MGNREGS funds. Of this, Rs 1,039 crore will go towards paying pending dues. The rest of the money is expected to be utilised for new works under the scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mgnregs-may-help-address-rural-distress-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-824205.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HDK seeks relief package for farmers||Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda on Saturday announced that he contributed Rs 1 lakh each to PM-CARES, Karnataka Chief Minister's Relief Fund and Kerala Chief Minister's Distress Relief Fund. In his latest letter addressed to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Gowda criticised the government for enforcing the lockdown hurriedly without considering proper safeguards for farmers.   Former chief minsiter H D Kumaraswamy on Saturday urged the government to immediately announce a relief package for farmers by way of direct benefit transfer and purchase of all their agricultural produce. Owing to the lockdown, farmers have been unable to find market for their produce. The government must announce relief so as to avoid farmer suicides, Kumaraswamy said in tweets. "On one hand we see farmers throwing their produce in despair and losing their livelihoods. On the other, supplies to towns are depleting. This is threatening both lives and livelihood. Government must act swiftly and effectively," the JD(S) leader said.  Earlier too, the JD(S) had asked the government to ensure market for farmers, following the suicide of a watermelon farmer in Chincholi, Kalaburagi, who was unable to sell his produce amid the ensuing crisis.  On the same issue, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Saturday appealed to all political leaders, elected representatives and party workers to purchase fruits and vegetables from farmers at market rates and distribute them to the poor free of cost. Shivakumar also criticised the government. "Farmers are expecting relief from the government, but they are suffering as help isn't reaching them on time," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hdk-seeks-relief-package-for-farmers-824208.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Minister directs hospitals to keep paediatric ICUs ready||Considering the increase in the number of paediatric Covid-19 positive cases in state, the state Medical Education Department has instructed all government and private medical college/hospitals treating COVID-19 cases to keep dedicated Paediatric/Neonatal intensive care units (PNICU). Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said, "We can deal with existing facilities in the current situation, even for pediatric cases. But in future we need to be ready with dedicated wards to treat paediatric patients. We have discussed the same with heads of all the hospitals and instructed them to make separate arrangements to treat pediatric cases in future, if the number goes up," added Sudhakar. A senior official from the department said, "As more COVID-19 positive cases are being reported from across the state, there's a need for augmenting facilities to take care of paediatric cases in future. Considering this, the minister has given instructions to keep PNICUs ready," he said. According to doctors, though the treatment is same for both adult and pediatric cases, they only have to ensure additional care as children are prone to more infections. So far, over five paediatric positive cases have been reported in state. "The 10-month-old baby which tested positive for COVID-19 was really shocking and looking at that case, it is better for hospitals to be ready to treat such cases. It is difficult to keep paediatric patients in general COVID-19 ward as they need more attention. Also appatite of children is different and we need to feed them often. So, they need more personal attention and care," said a doctor working with a government hospital in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-minister-directs-hospitals-to-keep-paediatric-icus-ready-824210.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Second doctor in Karnataka tests positive for coronavirus in Bengaluru||After the treating doctor of the first COVID-19 casualty in the country from Kalaburagi tested positive, the state saw another treating doctor of a COVID-19 patient test positive in Bengaluru. The doctor, P208, is a 32-year-old doctor who had treated P196, a patient suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection. He was working in a hospital in the East Zone within the BBMP limits and has now been admitted to Victoria Hospital for treatment. Ravi Surpur, Special Commissioner, Health, BBMP, told DH, "When you have a doctor testing positive for the infection, there is a possibility of other OPD patients and inmates testing positive for the same, that is the reason we are in the process of sealing the hospital. The owner of the hospital will close it down. We are consulting him. We cannot have more patients coming into the hospital as there is a possibility of the infection spreading to his colleagues." Dr Siddappa J, Public Health Officer, East Zone, told DH, "Today we visited the 200-bedded hospital and have given directions to the hospital to stop all operations. Chances of contamination is more since he is a doctor. He was a DNB student there who was working there for the past two-and-a-half months. Existing in-patients will be shifted to other hospitals. If the patients are on ventilators and cannot be shifted, they can be kept there. But the hospital cannot take anymore in-patients or see out-patients." Due to the lockdown, the hospital had only a 20% to 30% occupancy rate. "The doctor's test results came back positive only last night. He had been working when he tested positive. He had uncontrolled fever. That is when he decided to get tested," Siddappa said.   Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, told reporters here, "All SARI patients are being tested for COVID-19. It is while testing one such patient that we found that the doctor who treated him also tested positive."  P196 is a 42-year-old man who has been admitted at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/second-doctor-in-karnataka-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-in-bengaluru-824213.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||10-month-old baby from DK discharged||The 10-month-old baby, the youngest Covid-19 patient in the state, has fully recovered and discharged from hospital. The baby from Sajipanadu and was suffering from severe accurate respiratory illness and was admitted to a hospital. The baby tested positive on March 25. The throat swab samples of baby's mother and grandmother have returned negative. Of the 12 positive cases in DK, six patients have been discharged from hospitals, so far. No Covid-19 case was reported in DK between April 5 and 11, said Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/10-month-old-baby-from-dk-discharged-824214.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Request for approval for COVID-19 test centre at Belagavi stuck with NABL||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has invited applications from all government and private medical colleges for establishing a Covid-19 testing facility. JN Medical College, Belagavi, which is the only medical college that applied from Karnataka needs to submit NABL accreditation for testing respiratory viruses. Nut it is stuck with its inability to reach National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) due to the lockdown. The north-west districts of the state hardly have any testing facilities for Covid-19. Belagavi has 10 confirmed cases. So far, 16 testing facilities in Karnataka, public and private, have been given permission for Covid-19 testing, with a majority in Bengaluru. Getting approval requires staff to get training in molecular diagnosis, apart from biosafety cabinets, real-time PCR machines, consumables and equipment.  "Not just a plain NABL accreditation, the lab has to be NABL-approved for PCR on respiratory viruses. Only then they will consider it. Also, the state government should request" said Dr V Ravi, HoD, virology, Nimhans. Ravi has been testing Covid-19 samples since April 5. In areas with no operational Covid-19 testing facility, a new one will be considered if certain conditions of ICMR are met. The number of suspected cases in that particular district should be more than 100 per day. For Belagavi, the nearest testing laboratory is 300 km (five hours) away.  Many conditions Dr M V Jaali, Medical Director, Dr Prabhakar Kore Hospital attached to JN Medical College, said, "NABL officials are not receiving our calls. The NABL officials said we can get the accreditation online. Then they said they will see the machine through video conferencing." "Later, a clause was added that unless we test for a respiratory infection like H1N1 with the machine, we cannot get the approval. We've got the kit from the local market, the RT-PCR machine is lying with us for 10 days. We've exhausted all efforts to get NABL to talk to us," he said. The nearest Covid-19 testing facility to Belagavi is Shivamogga, 300 km away, Jaali added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/request-for-approval-for-covid-19-test-centre-at-belagavi-stuck-with-nabl-824216.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Pvt schools told to pay staff minimum 50% salary||The private schools' management association has advised its member schools to pay at least half of the salaries for their staff during the Covid-19 crisis. In an advisory issued to all the member schools, the Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka said, "For the month of April, we advise all our member institutions to give half of the salaries to staff if they don't have enough money in school bank accounts to pay the full salaries." The association has even advised the school managements not to take loans to pay the salaries. Instead, it suggested to take loans from trust members through cheque or NEFT and ensure they are Income Tax access, to prevent any complications in future. "We have even decided to request the government to allow us to utilise the stability fund available for schools and also requested to release the dues towards Right to Education admissions as a majority of budget schools are in financial crisis and unable to pay the salaries," D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the association, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pvt-schools-told-to-pay-staff-minimum-50-salary-824218.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt spending tens of lakhs annually on private godowns||In the absence of adequate number of its own godowns used to store ration supplied through the Public Distribution System (PDS), the state government spends Rs 30 lakh per month just for paying rent to private godowns.   In a written reply to a question by Yelburga legislator Achar Halappa, Food and Civil Supplies Minister K Gopalaiah had stated that the government has rented 115 private godowns across the state. Overall, there are 314 godowns in the state, including the private properties. Each month, the state government paid a rent of Rs 30.93 lakh to private entities, the minister said.   Speaking to DH, the Yelburga legislator said there were several instances of misuse in places where the government did not have its own godowns. “One obvious issue is that the government needs to spend money on rent for these godowns. That apart, the moment the property is taken on rent, there will always be an influence of vested interests in it. When the property belongs to the government, it is always easier to monitor the infrastructure and to ensure that the ration is stored at an appropriate temperature,” he said, stressing the importance of the government in setting up its own godowns.   Government data reveals that Bagalkot (10) and Raichur (12) have the highest number of private godowns, where each month, the government is spending Rs 2.06 lakh and Rs 1.2 lakh, respectively, on rent alone.   The state government has also stated in its response that it is making efforts to set up its own godowns. To begin with, the government is looking at construction and renovation of 27 godowns across the state, according to the official response. To another question, the minister said godowns set up by the Karnataka State Warehousing Corporation and those of the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) under Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana are rented “based on availability of space” for safe storage of the ration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-spending-tens-of-lakhs-annually-on-private-godowns-824226.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||14,000 traditional fishermen to start fishing on April 15||More than 14,000 traditional fishermen from coastal districts will be permitted to carrying out fishing activities from April 15, district in-charge minister Kota Srinivas Poojary has said. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, Poojary said that fishermen themselves discontinued fishing after finding it difficult to practise social distancing rules. "We are planning a system where the catch of traditional fishermen will be delivered at doorsteps without violating the social distancing rules. Removing restrictions on fishing will lead to economic empowerment of poor fishermen," he added. Poojary added that loans of 23,000 fisheremen would be waived under various schemes sponsored by the Central and state government||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/14000-traditional-fishermen-to-start-fishing-on-april-15-824227.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Goa lifts ban on meat from other states, barring K'taka, Kerala||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday announced the lifting of the ban on chicken and mutton from all states, barring Karnataka and Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/goa-lifts-ban-on-meat-from-other-states-barring-ktaka-kerala-824228.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka BJP MLA asked to explain birthday bash amid coronavirus lockdown||The BJP has sought a report from its legislator Masala Jayaram for allegedly throwing a birthday bash in violation of the lockdown.  Jayaram, who represents Turuvekere in Tumakuru district, celebrated his birthday with children of the government school in Idaguru village, CS Pura hobli in Gubbi taluk on April 10. A video of the MLA serving biryani to people went viral on social media.  “Following media reports of him celebrating his birthday in the midst of several people, I had a phone conversation with Jayaram. I have directed him to submit a factual report on the background of the incident and what exactly happened. We will think of initiating action after getting the report,” BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bjp-mla-asked-to-explain-birthday-bash-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-824232.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||7 booked for concealing info||The Hirebagewadi police filed cases against seven persons for hiding information regarding participation in the religious gathering at Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi. A youth from the village had visited New Delhi and hid information about his visit when the task force officials had visited. He even defied to get himself checked. The Tablighi Jamaat leader from the village too did not give information on the visit of the youth along with his family members. Police has booked cases against seven of them for hiding information.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/7-booked-for-concealing-info-824250.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mine firm donates PPEs||The John Mines company in the city, on Saturday, donated 1,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, worth a total of Rs 15 lakh, for frontline doctors treating Covid-19 cases. R Praveen Chandra, the proprietor, said, “The doctors are working round the clock in treating the patients. The PPEs are donated under the corporate social responsibility initiative of our Chitradurga and Holalkere units.” The kits were handed over to deputy commissioner R Vinoth Priya in the presence of district health officer Dr Palaksha and district surgeon Dr Basavarajappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mine-firm-donates-ppes-824251.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP asks its MLA to explain birthday bash||The BJP has sought a report from its legislator Masala Jayaram for allegedly throwing a birthday bash in violation of the lockdown. Jayaram, who represents Turuvekere in Tumakuru district, celebrated his birthday with children of the government school in Idaguru village, CS Pura hobli in Gubbi taluk on April 10. A video of the MLA serving biryani to people went viral on social media. "Following media reports of him celebrating his birthday in the midst of several people, I had a telephonic conversation with Jayaram. I have directed him to submit a factual report on the background of the incident and what exactly happened. We will think of initiating action after getting the report,” BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel said in a statement. Meanwhile, S Pura police have registered an FIR against followers Jayaram in connection with the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-asks-its-mla-to-explain-birthday-bash-824252.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||New app scans countless pics, alerts of quarantine violations||Violating ‘quarantine’ could be devastating for the community, desperately trying to evade the dreaded Covid-19 virus. But how can such violations be tracked when numbers surge? Promising to do exactly this, a city-based telecom firm, astTECS has now offered the government a free, cloud-based solution.  In recent weeks, the number of people with travel history and under home-quarantine has surged. Lockdowns and geographical area containments are becoming the new normal. Tracking such citizens manually has already become nearly impossible.  So, here is how astTECS’ solution works: The interface is through an Android-based mobile application in two forms, astTRAC and astTRIM, both designed to help law enforcement agencies keep a check on quarantine violators. Linked to a centralised sensor, the Apps work on data sourced through the cloud.  As astTECS Managing Director, Devasia Kurian explained, those under quarantined will have to download and login to the astTRAC App. “This will send periodic notifications to the law enforcement officers about the location of the user and if he/she has violated the home quarantine in the form of WhatsApp, SMS, email.” To ensure that the quarantined person is at home, the App alerts him/her to upload their photos periodically. A cloud-based sensor tracks these images, negating the need to manually browse through hundreds and thousands of pictures sent on WhatsApp. Along with the image, the astTRAC App automatically captures the home location.  On their part, the law enforcement officers will use the astTRIM to view all users assigned to them on a live map. “Data of users, along with their name, phone number and last known location will be pinned onto a map. Calls can directly be initiated to the quarantined person by just clicking on their name for ease of communication,” elaborated Kurian. Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar had, on March 30, announced that quarantined people would be required to send their selfies every hour to government officials through an App. The process had to be repeated from 7 am to 10 pm. The app would also send the GPS coordinates to help officials verify the person’s location.  The astTECS officials said this would generate thousands of images when quarantine cases mount. The flood of images would be near impossible to track manually if number of cases rise exponentially. Automating the process through a centralised server is the answer, theymaintained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-app-scans-countless-pics-alerts-of-quarantine-violations-824253.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka writes to ICMR for plasma therapy approval||Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute's (BMCRI) ethics committee has cleared convalescent plasma therapy for treating critically ill COVID-19 patients using blood donated by those who have recovered from the disease. Fortunately, 39 patients have been discharged so far in Karnataka who are all potential donors. The idea is to use the antibodies that recovered patients must have developed (present in their blood) in response to fighting COVID-19, for patients who are on ventilators who are not in a position to fight off the disease on their own because of weak response from their own immune system.  On Thursday, BMCRI wrote to Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Karnataka, to get the Indian Council of Medical Research's approval for the same. "There are two steps. One, an approval from the ethics committee, which BMCRI has already given. Second, permission from the ICMR, for which I have written to them. We applied three days ago. I wrote another letter to the Government of India to ask the ICMR to expedite the approval," he said. BMCRI currently has three patients in the ICU. One of them with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). "The antibodies in a recovered patients' blood will be used to treat critical patients with SARI if they stop responding to conventional treatment," said Dr CR Jayanthi, Dean, BMCRI and member secretary of the ethics committee. Karnataka's application comes after Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Delhi's pleas to the ICMR to give them permission to do the therapy. Kerala's Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute of Medical Sciences reportedly got the ICMR approval to conduct a clinical trial. The ICMR is reportedly in the process of finalising the protocol for conducting a clinical trial after which the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) has to give a go-ahead.  "Those who have recovered have to go through tests for HIV and Hepatitis B. After these diseases are ruled out, we have to work out a model of how much plasma to give to which patient, who is eligible for it and select the eligible patients. The idea is SARI patients with COVID-19 will recover faster. We have to see if we can broaden the inclusion criteria. But based on how Indian patients will react, ICMR has to work out a uniform protocol," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-writes-to-icmr-for-plasma-therapy-approval-824254.html
11-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Central procurement of PPEs, ventilators stirs row||A notification by the Centre barring states from procuring ventilators, PPE kits and N-95 masks has stirred up a controversy, with critics terming it as “yet another attack on the federal structure of the country”. The ruling BJP, however, defended the decision, saying that such procurement would address quality concerns and ease the logistics required to import them from other countries. “State governments/UTs may not go for procurement of crucial medical equipment like PPEs, N95 masks and ventilators and that these should be procured centrally by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare and distributed to the states,” says a letter by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.  The circular came at a time when the Karnataka government had planned to procure 1,000 ventilators in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, from a Mysuru-based company.  The plan now remains suspended. Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan defended the Centre’s move, saying that quality concerns would be addressed if equipment was centrally procured. “Since ventilators have to be imported, the Centre is ensuring that this is done without any logistic hassles,” he said. Of the 1,000 ventilators the state was planning to procure, it had placed orders for 300. Karnataka has already procured around 60 ventilators from different companies and was expecting around 1,500 units from the Centre, he said. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah criticised the decision by the Centre, saying that it was “against the federal structure and decentralised system of governance. The Central government is trying to assume supreme power during this crisis,” he said in a tweet. “States cannot wait till the Central government sends the supplies. Critical time will be lost as it affects timely interventions and the whole system gets jeopardised. The central and state governments should work in tandem,” he added. Prathap Kanagal of the JD(S) took a dig at the Centre’s decision, saying that the federal structure of the country was reduced to a ‘big joke’. “Neither does the Centre do it, nor does it allow anyone to do it. Why has the Centre suddenly issued such an order? Does it fear that it won’t get any commission if state governments procure the equipment?” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-central-procurement-of-ppes-ventilators-stirs-row-824256.html
11-04-2020||West||Lockdown: Stranded migrant workers go on a rampage in Surat||Hundreds of angry migrant workers on Friday evening defied the lockdown and came out on the streets complaining about food, demanding salary and permission to be allowed to travel back to their natives. The angry mob went on to vandalise properties, setting some on fire. Police said that the migrant workers, who are employed in a textile industry, mostly embroidery works, in the Laskana area under the Sarthana police station, came out of their homes near Vipulnagar vegetable market and went on a rampage. “The workers were demanding their salary dues and permission to go back home. The angry workers were complaining about food. Since they don’t have any work, they are easily getting bored and restless. About ten days back also, another group of workers had come out in the open and attacked the police,” said a local BJP leader requesting anonymity. Police said that they have registered an FIR against the migrant workers for rioting and arson, among other charges and detained over 70 of the persons who were found to be part of the mob.   “We have controlled the situation and at present trying to find reason behind the incident and identify the suspects involved in it,” said police officer at Sarthana police station where the FIR was lodged. Surat Police Commissioner R B Brahmbhatt didn’t respond to calls and messages. Meanwhile, another group of workers defied the lockdown and complained of unavailability of ration. Most of them were construction workers working under Surat Diamond Bourse. They told the police, which reached the spot the resolved the issue, that they didn’t have money and food. The nearest shop was more than 2.5 km from their construction site and there were about 400 workers stuck at the construction site following the announcement of lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-stranded-migrant-workers-go-on-a-rampage-in-surat-823912.html
11-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Masks made compulsory in Thane district||The Thane district administration in Maharashtra on Friday issued an order making wearing of masks compulsory for everybody in view of novel coronavirus outbreak, officials said. The order was issued by Collector Rajesh Narvekar, they said, adding that the masks should be of specifications issued by the government. In another development, a man who recovered from the COVID-19 infection was given a hero's welcome by neighbours when he arrived at his house in Kalyan. Meanwhile, District Education Officer Sangeeta Bhagwat said ingredients for mid-day meals will be given to parents as 1331 primary schools here are shut for the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-masks-made-compulsory-in-thane-district-823932.html
11-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Over 3.4k inmates released from Maharashtra jails||The Maharashtra prisons department has released on bail 3478 prisoners till Friday to reduce crowding in jails due to the coronavirus outbreak, officials said. These prisoners are serving jails terms of less than seven years, they said. "While 469 prisoners were released from Arthur Road Jail, 350 were freed from Thane Central, 330 from Taloja Central, 275 from Yerawada, 151 from Amravati, 141 from Nagpur, 118 from Aurangabad Central and 100 from Nashik Central," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-over-34k-inmates-released-from-maharashtra-jails-823968.html
11-04-2020||West||Gujarat: Police drones keep hawk's eye on people during lockdown  ||The police have deployed around 200 drones across the state to keep a watch on people's movement during the lockdown, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Gandhinagar, G G Jasani, said. Using these drones, which can record videos while hovering above, over 7,000 people have been arrested across the state after they were found loitering outside instead of staying indoors. They were arrested under section 188 of the IPC for defying the police notification, officials said. "Ahmedabad Rural police also uses drones to maintain social distancing and enforce total lockdown. On an average, 10 to 12 persons are arrested every day after they are spotted by drones," Deputy Superintendent of Police, Ahmedabad district, S H Sarda, said.  "Drones give us a bird's eye view of a particular area. We use them to make sure that social distancing is maintained in public as well as private areas. Recently, a drone camera captured faces of four persons who had assembled at a public place unnecessarily. Though they drove off after spotting our drone, we caught them later as their faces had been captured," he said. "Some places are difficult to monitor in routine patrolling on vehicles. Taking advantage, some youths in Bavla town had started playing volleyball in a ground located between buildings and walls. However, we were able to nab 11 of them after their act was caught in our drone camera," the officer added. In Surat city, police had recently busted a 'pakoda party' on the terrace of a residential building in Sarthana area using a drone. "To dodge the police, people have started gathering on terraces. Luckily, we have drones to keep a check on such violators. Recently, we arrested six persons who had gathered on a terrace and enjoying pakodas, which were being fried on the terrace itself. We can now keep an eye on terraces while being on the ground," Deputy Commissioner of Police, Prashant Sumbe, said. Recently, three men were caught playing cards while sitting in a corner of their society, a place that was not visible from internal road, he said, adding, We had also caught people playing cricket inside residential societies using drones. "Drones are also proving effective in creating fear among people, as they have now realised that they are no longer assemble and hide on their terraces or in remote corners of their localities," he added. Several videos of people running away frantically after spotting police drones have also gone viral on social media platforms. In Ahmedabad city too, drones have helped police in catching people playing carrom and cards on their terraces with family, friends and neighbours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-police-drones-keep-hawks-eye-on-people-during-lockdown-823983.html
11-04-2020||West||18 more found positive for COVID-19 in Rajasthan, number rises to 579||The virus has so far claimed eight lives in the state.  "18 new cases have come up today -- 14 in Kota and four in Bikaner district. All had contact history," Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said. He said the total number of coronavirus positive cases in the state has risen to 579.  The new cases in Kota were reported from the most affected Telghar and Chandraghat areas. The four new cases in Bikaner are family members of an elderly woman who had died of COVID-19, Singh said. Among the total cases of coronavirus in Rajasthan are two Italian citizens, 50 people brought back from Iran and quarantined at Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. Jaipur has reported the highest number of coronavirus cases in the state at 221. Rajasthan is under a lockdown from March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to trace the contagion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/18-more-found-positive-for-covid-19-in-rajasthan-number-rises-to-579-823984.html
11-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: 81 migrant workers arrested for rampage in Surat||A day after hundreds of migrant workers went on a rampage demanding food and permission to be allowed to travel to their natives, the Surat police arrested 81 migrant workers for rioting, arson and defying lockdown, among other charges. The accused were produced before the court and were released on bail after the police didn't seek their remand. This was the second such clash in the last ten days. Surat city police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt told DH, "What happened on Friday evening was not a law and order problem. They (workers) were angry and it required a human approach to calm them down." He also said that the workers were treated properly and served food at Sarthana police station and Kapodara police station where they were kept since Saturday night. Hundreds of workers had come out of their homes demanding money, food and permission to return to their states. They burnt over a dozen handcarts, tyres, pelted stones at police and damaged three of their vehicles near Vipulnagar under Sarthana police station   "There are roughly 30,000 to 40,000 workers, mostly from Odisha, employed in the textile factory and involved in embroidery works. Due to the lockdown, we are rendered jobless. Our seth (employers) have stopped paying us. We got barely 10 days salary which are spent already on food. Some people come with ration and distribute them to 50 to 100 persons while they pose for pictures to show that hundreds of households have received them," said Bhadram Jena, a worker, who is staying in the area for more than 20 years with his family.  He told DH over the phone that the majority of the workers have run out of money and supply of ration by the government and NGOs is too less. "We all get in the queue but most of the days the ration is over before it reaches everyone. The workers only want permission to be allowed to go back to their homes since there is nothing else to do," he added.  The Friday rampage was the second incident in Surat where a large number of migrant workers protested violently and attacked police. Earlier, on March 30, 96 migrant workers were arrested following a violent clash with the police after they were not allowed to leave the city.  Meanwhile, Director General of Police Shivanand Jha is said to have shot a letter, dated April 9, to home department warning the government that shelter homes in the state are not properly equipped with even basic facilities which may lead to clashes. Jha didn't respond to calls and messages despite repeated attempts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-81-migrant-workers-arrested-for-rampage-in-surat-823986.html
11-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Borders of four towns in Thane district sealed||The district administration in Maharashtra's Thane district has sealed the borders of Ambernath, Kulgaon-Badlapur, Murbad and Shahapur towns in light of the coronavirus outbreak, an official said on Saturday. In an order issued on Friday night, district collector Rajesh Narvekar said the borders of Ambernath, Kulgaon-Badlapur, Murbad and Shahapur were sealed for effective control of the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. As per the order, movement of people and vehicles, except those engaged in essential services, to and from these towns will be restricted. Those defying this order will face serious consequences, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-borders-of-four-towns-in-thane-district-sealed-823987.html
11-04-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: With liquor stores shut, Goa opts for hurrack||Even as liquor stores in Goa downed their shutters amid the COVID-19 lockdown, locals are increasingly opting for traditional hurrack as a substitute for their beer and brandy. Distilleries manufacturing hurrack, which are found in every nook and corner of Goa's villages, have even been asked to home deliver the brew. "There is a huge demand for hurrack these days. People have been trying to purchase hurrack by any means possible," said Mac Vaz, founder-president of Cashew Distillers and Bottlers' Association. Hundreds of wine shops in the coastal state were shut, following the nationwide lockdown, which was imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus. Hurrack, which is made from cashew apple juice, is not commercially sold, but is bottled up at backyard distilleries spread across Goan villages.  A one litre bottle of hurrack costs around Rs 100, and it is important to note that distillers have not hiked the price of this summer brew despite the rise in demand, Vaz said. Vikas Prabhu, a cashew grower based in Nirancal near Ponda, said most of the hurrack is purchased for home consumption and the drink does not have a long shelf-life. "People wait for the hurrack season, but the demand for the traditional drink has gone up as wine shops are closed," he said, adding that the brew is a strong substitute for any good quality drink and is affordable. The rise in demand is helping cashew growers, who are also involved in distilling the cashew apple juice at their farms, Prabhu said. Meanwhile, president of All Goa Liquor Traders' Association Dattaprasad Naik said they will keep wine shops shut, till the government asks them to do so. "We support the government in its fight against coronavirus. Wine shops are also one of the most vulnerable places where deadly virus can spread, as people from different sections of the society turn up here," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-with-liquor-stores-shut-goa-opts-for-hurrack-823992.html
11-04-2020||West||Gujarat: Tally of COVID-19 patients rises to 432 with 54 new cases||The number of coronavirus positive patients in Gujarat rose to 432 after 54 new cases emerged on Saturday, a state health department official said. As many as 31 new cases were reported from Ahmedabad, 18 from Vadodara, three from Anand, and one each from Surat and Bhavnagar districts, Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi said Of the total, 379 are active cases. The condition of 376 of them is stable, while three others are critical and put on ventilator support, she said. After a 53-year-old man from Gandhinagar was discharged from hospital on Saturday, the number of persons who have returned home after recovery has gone up to 34. So far, 19 people have died in the state due to the infection. In the last 24 hours, 1,593 samples were tested, she said, out of which, 1,187 tested negative, while 124 others were positive. The test results of 282 others are still pending. A total 8,331 samples have been tested in the state so far, she added.  Ravi said that the number of COVID-19 patients has risen sharply in the last few days. "But there is no reason to panic. We had deliberately decided 4-5 days ago at a high-powered meeting that we will conduct intensive testing in hotspot areas where cases are likely to be found in large numbers. We will find each and every case in such areas so as to control the spread of the virus, she said. "It has now been decided at the meeting chaired by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani that the health department will proactively collect and test samples in areas of districts where no positive cases have been found," she said. "We will test 100 samples in every district where no coronavirus positive case has emerged so far," the officer said. The state has conducted 132 tests per million population, she said. District-wise, Ahmedabad has reported the highest number of cases at 228, followed by Vadodara at 77, Surat 28, Bhavnagar 23, Rajkot 8, Gandhinagar and Patan at 14 each, Bharuch 7, Anand 5, Kutch 4, Porbandar 3, Mehsana, Gir Somnath, and Chhota Udepur two each, and Dahod, Morbi, Panchmahal, Jamnagar, and Sabarkantha one each. As many as 367 out of these 432 cases are locally transmitted, while 32 are of patients with history of inter- state travel. Thirty-three others had travelled abroad, the health department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-tally-of-covid-19-patients-rises-to-432-with-54-new-cases-823993.html
11-04-2020||West||187 new COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra, count 1,761; 17 deaths||The number of COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra reached 1,761 on Saturday with 187 new patients being detected. A state health department statement also said that 17 coronavirus patients died during the day, including 12 in Mumbai. With this the death toll due to COVID-19 in the state rose to 127. Out of the 1761 positive patients, 1146 are in Mumbai, followed by 228 from Pune. Of 17 patients who died on Saturday, 16 were also suffering from other ailments such as diabetes, high BP, asthma and heart disease. Two patients also suffered from tuberculosis, the statement said. As many as 36,771 persons have been tested in the state so far. As many as 208 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals. At present 38,800 persons are in home quarantine and 4,964 in institutional quarantine||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/187-new-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-count-1761-17-deaths-824002.html
11-04-2020||West||125 grooms and 200 horses under lockdown for 22 days in Mumbai||The polo season at Amateur Riders’ Club (ARC) at Mahalaxmi Race Course was brought to a sudden halt given Maharashtra and India are under lockdown owing to the COVID-19 outbreak and all matches ceased immediately. While international players and umpires from Argentina and the United Kingdom returned to their respective countries just in time, the horses and grooms visiting from Jaipur were locked down with immediate effect. The ARC has been taking care of over 200 thoroughbred horses and 125 grooms for the past 22 days. "The Club is very concerned that in case of a lockdown extension, the situation may become grave. The management at ARC has taken necessary measures by constructing temporary stables for the visiting horses and their grooms, in addition to bearing the costs of their daily essentials whilst ensuring safety and hygiene standards," an ARC press statement said. All essentials, including food and facilities, for the horses and grooms are being delivered directly to them. The ARC has made sure that the daily routine, health and hygiene regime of the 200 horses are not disturbed during the lockdown. Arrangements for veterinary services on call and a compounder on the premises to tend to the horses’ needs have also been made available. Members are, however, not permitted to ride or even visit the Club or the stables. When asked about how ARC has been coping with the COVID-19 lockdown, given the safety and high maintenance of the horses, Shyam Mehta, President, ARC said: “Every resource we have is devoted to the care of all the horses and the men. Given the current scenario, we have been maintaining the necessary safety standards and ensuring health and hygiene in and around the temporary and permanent stables. Our horse owners trust us with the in-house as well as the visiting horses. We are providing all essential supplies to the grooms and horses during the lockdown and hope we come out of this stronger. “Initially, it was challenging to secure feed and hay for the horses, but the managing committee has organised the same,” he added. With speculation of the lockdown being extended in the country, Amateur Riders’ Club and its management is bracing itself to prepare for tougher days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/125-grooms-and-200-horses-under-lockdown-for-22-days-in-mumbai-824003.html
11-04-2020||West||Islampur shows the way in containing COVID-19||At a time when the 'Bhilwara model' of Rajasthan has become famous for containing the spread of COVID-19, here comes Maharashtra's own 'Islampur pattern'. Located just 3 km east of the Pune-Bangalore National Highway Number 4, Islampur town in Sangli district offers a solution and an example of strict enforcement of the lockdown. The process was overseen by Jayant Patil, the MLA from Islampur and also the Water Resources Minister in the Uddhav Thackeray government. Initially, Sangli was untouched by COVID-19, but on March 23, the problems compounded suddenly when four members of a family, which returned from Saudi Arabia, tested COVID-19 positive. Within a week's time, 22 more members of the same family and members of the extended family developed COVID-19 symptoms and tested positive. On Friday, all 26 patients tested negative - giving Patil much relief. Known for his no-nonsense attitude, Patil is state NCP president is a protege of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. Patil had, during the erstwhile Democratic Front, handled portfolios like finance, having tabled the budget nine times and home in the aftermath of 26/11 terror attacks. He is known to be an excellent organiser and tough administrator. "I am somewhat relieved," Patil said, adding that all members of the family tested negative. Sangli District Collector Abhijeet Choudhary is personally overseeing the arrangements and with him was civil surgeon Dr CS Salunkhe. As soon as the first set of cases were reported, district rapid response teams were formed and high-risk and low-risks contacts were traced. All symptomatic contacts were put in isolation and tested while the asymptotic contacts were put in institutional quarantine. All low-risk contacts were home quarantined. Since most of the cases were from same locality, a one-km radius containment zone was created and over it was a buffer zone. Entry and exit points, seven of them, were sealed and essential items were delivered at doorsteps. Social distancing was also strictly followed. Teams were visiting the 1,600 houses in containment zone on a daily basis. Simultaneously, Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope did regular reviews and Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh set up a special team from the Government Medical College, Miraj. "I am sure there would not be any increase in COVID-19 positive cases in Islampur," said Patil, but adding that the lockdown has to be strictly followed. "Containment and quarantine were 100 per cent successful," he said and appealed to the people of Maharashtra to follow the norms of self-quarantine and social distancing. "It was a coordinated effort of the people, administration and health authorities," added Deshmukh, the son of late chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh. Locals said that Islampur, which has a population of nearly 70,000, was totally cut off and people remained where they were.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/islampur-shows-the-way-in-containing-covid-19-824024.html
11-04-2020||West||ED seizes posh Mumbai assets worth over Rs 32 crore in FEMA probe||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday said it has seized two prime properties, worth over Rs 32 crore, in connection with a foreign exchange violation case against a Mumbai-based woman for allegedly holding undisclosed assets abroad. An order under section 37A of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) was issued against Jaya Patel, the daughter of late Parmanand Tulsidas Patel, the federal probe agency said. Two immovable assets located on Peddar Road in Mumbai, bearing a value of Rs 32.38 crore, have been seized as "equivalent value of property in India for illegally acquiring properties abroad", it said. The FEMA probe revealed that Jaya Patel of Mumbai had "illegally amassed" properties in foreign countries like the United States of America and the United Kingdom, the agency said. "Searches were conducted at the residential and office premises of Jaya Patel and her associate which resulted in the seizure of incriminating documents about the illegal acquisition of undisclosed foreign assets," the ED said in a statement. Jaya Patel, it said, is associated with a British Virgin Islands-based firm, Ivory International Properties Ltd. "She is the beneficial owner of a flat at Chelsea Embankment, London, valued at GBP 15,25,000 and another in Central Park, New York, valued at USD 25,60,000," the ED said. "Both assets were acquired through Ivory International Properties Ltd and probe found that the firm mortgaged the said real estate properties to obtain loan and Jaya Patel had signed as co-borrower in mortgage loan application form," the agency alleged. Patel failed to explain the source of the funds for acquisition of these properties and the funds "to acquire these overseas properties have been illegally transferred by violating sections of FEMA," it said. Investigation related to the illegal transfer of money outside India to acquire the properties is in progress, the ED added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-seizes-posh-mumbai-assets-worth-over-rs-32-crore-in-fema-probe-824050.html
11-04-2020||West||Doctor takes sick newborn to hospital on bike; saves his life||Doctors are considered second to God and this came true for a newborn in the neighbouring Alibaug town, who was taken to a neonatal facility on a doctor's two-wheeler when he developed respiratory problems just minutes after his birth. Alibaug resident Shweta Patil developed labour pains in the early hours of Friday and was rushed to a nearby nursing home by her husband Ketan amid the COVID-19 lockdown. For the couple, who had already lost their first child within hours of birth, getting the right care at the right time was crucial. "Shweta is a diabetic and she has to take medication to keep her sugar level under control," Ketan said. Considering Shweta's medical history, the local gynaecologist, who had delivered her first child, called in neonatologist and paediatrician Dr Rajendra Chandorkar for assistance.  A c-section was performed and a baby boy, weighing 3.1 kg, was delivered with normal parameters, Chandorkar said. However, the doctor's relief was short-lived when the newborn developed breathing problems and turned blue. "The diagnosis was transient tachypnea of newborn (TTN) and the baby needed neonatal care urgently," he said. With no means of transportation available due to the lockdown, the newborn was taken to Chandorkar's hospital, which was 1.5 km away, on the doctor's two-wheeler. "I admitted the baby to the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) and put him on oxygen support and his condition stabilised after 12 hours," he said. "It was an overwhelming experience for me. The baby held on to my finger during examination and I just wanted to assure him that he was safe and will get well soon," he said. The coronavirus outbreak and the subsequent lockdown has highlighted the risk taken by health workers who go above and beyond the call of duty to save a patient's life with limited resources at their disposal. Speaking about medical facilities in Alibaug, a popular beach destination near Mumbai, Chandorkar said there was a shortage of ventilators and critical patients are often shifted to Mumbai for advanced care.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/doctor-takes-sick-newborn-to-hospital-on-bike-saves-his-life-824054.html
11-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: Police officer from Thane tests coronavirus positive||A senior police officer from Thane city of Maharashtra has tested positive for coronavirus and is undergoing treatment in Nashik, an official said on Saturday. The patient is attached to the Thane Police Commissionerate and works as a senior police inspector, he said.    "He hails from Nashik district. He had recently returned to his hometown, where he fell sick. His test reports confirmed that he is coronavirus positive," the official said. "He has been admitted to a hospital in Nashik," he added. Police sources said that the officer concerned had probably come in contact with COVID-19 patients in Thane.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-police-officer-from-thane-tests-coronavirus-positive-824057.html
11-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Private doctors asked to help with treatment protocol||Following the rise in the number of coronavirus cases and deaths in Maharashtra's Pune district, the administration on Saturday urged private doctors to help them formulate a "treatment protocol" for COVID-19 patients. District collector Naval Kishore Ram said the administration was working on a treatment protocol for COVID- 19 patients and conducting an assessment of casualties so far. "We are probing to find out if patients had died only because of comorbidity or there were other factors involved. We are taking help from private doctors," he said. Experts are also trying to understand how a patient's health deteriorates in the isolation period and the causes behind it, the collector said. Citing the factors that lead to COVID-19 deaths, Ram said not all patients died of pneumonia and every case was different. "Pulmonary ailments and respiratory failure are also some of the major causes for these deaths," he said. The authorities were also trying to figure out what they may encounter in the next stage of the pandemic, he added. "We have set up an expert committee and approached 10 to 15 private medical practitioners to join us," he said. Appealing to doctors from private hospitals, the collector said the district administration will take care of their fees and cost of the equipment. According to health officials from the Pune Municipal Corporation, so far 26 people with comorbidities had succumbed to the virus in the district, of whom two were in their 70s, 13 in their 60s and seven in their 50s. Incidentally, none of the deceased COVID-19 patients had history of foreign travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-private-doctors-asked-to-help-with-treatment-protocol-824077.html
11-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: Man kills himself over coronavirus scare||Pratik Raju Kumavat, a resident of Chehedi area of Nashik Road, allegedly hanged himself from the ceiling of his home on Saturday and left a suicide note stating that he might have contracted coronavirus, an official said. Kumavat, who worked as a plumber, reportedly suffered from a throat ailment and was taking treatment from a private doctor in the area, he said, adding that the deceased feared that he had contracted the deadly infection. The Nashik Road police called in health officials, who collected swab samples from the deceased, before sending the body to the district civil hospital for post-mortem, the official said. A case of accidental death was registered in this regard and further probe is underway, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-man-kills-himself-over-coronavirus-scare-824080.html
11-04-2020||West||Gujarat govt allows fishing, allied activities from April 11 amid coronavirus lockdown||Amid the lockdown for the novel coronavirus outbreak, the Gujarat government on Saturday allowed fishing and allied activities of processing, packaging, maintenance of cold chains and transportation, in the process bringing relief to those employed in the sector, a senior official said. From Saturday, fishermen can go out in the Arabian Sea, said Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the chief minister. "Related activities of processing, packaging, maintenanceof cold chains, and transportation of fish and prawns have also been allowed from today," he said. "The state government has also decided to extend the benefit of Rs 1000 ex-gratia payment to widow pensioners, that is Rs 500 each in the months of April and May, as relief during the lockdown to non-BPL beneficiaries," he added. The Gujarat government will pay Rs 35 crore to around 3.46 lakh such beneficiaries, and the Centre will contribute Rs 9.74 crore to give Rs Rs 1000 each to 97,474 widows from the BPL category, Kumar said. Kumar also informed that seven people were arrested under the Prevention of Black Marketing Act for diverting food grains meant for distribution among the poor in Prantij in Sabarkantha district. He said around 3.10 lakh passes have been issued for movement of essential commodities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-allows-fishing-allied-activities-from-april-11-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-824110.html
11-04-2020||West||Lockdown in Maharashtra extended till April 30||The ongoing lockdown in Maharashtra has been extended till April 30.  The modalities and details would be announced on April 14,  the day when the initial India lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi ends. Making an announcement at a webcast, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said it was imperative in view of the prevailing circumstances and the increasing number of COVID-19 cases and casualties in the state.   Thackeray's announcement came hours after Modi held a meeting with all CMs through video-conference. "At least till April 30, lockdown will continue in Maharashtra. There could be some places where these restrictions could be eased but there will also be some areas where this will be strengthened even more. We will come out with more details on April 14," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-in-maharashtra-extended-till-april-30-824119.html
11-04-2020||West||Maharashtra extends coronavirus lockdown till April 30: Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray||With continuous spike in COVID-19 cases, the Maharashtra government on Saturday decided to extend the ongoing lockdown till April 30. Making the announcement, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the lockdown can be relaxed in certain areas while on others it will become stricter. He also said that the decision on lifting the curbs completely after April 30 will be taken depending upon the prevailing situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-till-april-30-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-824123.html
11-04-2020||West||Goa wants coronavirus lockdown extended, govt offices to start from April 13||The Goa government has recommended to the Centre that the lockdown due to the coronavirus outbreak should continue till April 30, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Saturday. Speaking to reporters in Panaji, Sawant said the state government will resume certain activities/establishments including government offices from Monday. Fishing has restarted in the state from Saturday. Sawant took part in video conference of chief ministers with Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier in the day. Goa government requested the Centre not to resume rail and air traffic as well as allow movement of vehicles on roads expect for those carrying goods from other states, he said. "The Centre will come out with common guidelines about lockdown. They will be applicable to all the states," he said, adding that the states may consider giving certain relaxations, as per local conditions. Government offices in Goa will reopen on Monday and they will be fully functional from Wednesday after sanitisation, he said. All the Outpatient departments of Primary Health Centres, Community Health Centres and district hospitals will start from Monday except Goa Medical College and Hospital, he said.  "Fishing activity will resume in the entire country along with Goa. There will be restrictions on fishermen that they should not mingle with community members from other states in mid-sea," the chief minister said. "Chicken and mutton imports would be allowed in Goa except from Karnataka and Kerala," he said. The state government was also contemplating making wearing masks compulsory in public places, Sawant added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-wants-coronavirus-lockdown-extended-govt-offices-to-start-from-april-13-824187.html
11-04-2020||West||Gujarat reports three more deaths from coronavirus, toll rises to 22||Gujarat reported three fresh deaths from coronavirus on Saturday, taking the death toll to 22 while, it recorded fresh 90 positive cases in the state which shot the total figure to 468. The biggest number of cases were detected in Vadodara||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-reports-three-more-deaths-from-coronavirus-toll-rises-to-22-824202.html
11-04-2020||West||Ambedkar Jayanti: Prohibitory orders issued till Tuesday||he Mumbai Police on Saturday issued prohibitory orders till Tuesday night restricting movement as well as assembly of five or more persons for the coronavirus outbreak, officials said. Ambedkar Jayanti will be celebrated on Tuesday and the state government had banned gatherings in order to maintain social distancing to combat the virus outbreak. The order, issued under the Maharashtra Police Act, prohibits assembly of more than five persons and processions, as well as use of loudspeakers, musical bands and the bursting of crackers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambedkar-jayanti-prohibitory-orders-issued-till-tuesday-824209.html
11-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: After tweet from desperate mother, Indian Railways delivers camel milk for her autistic child||The railways transported 20 litres of camel milk to a family in Mumbai after a woman tweeted about its non-availability for her three-and-a-half-year-old autistic child, who is allergic to goat, cow and buffalo milk. "20 lts. camel milk reached Mumbai by train last night. The family has kindly shared part of it with another needy person in the city. Thanking Sh.Tarun Jain, CPTM, North-West Railways who ensured an unscheduled halt to pick the container," Bothra said in a tweet. Renu Kumari, the mother of the child, had tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a tweet, in which she highlighted her son's plight. "Sir I have a 3.5 yrs old child suffering from autism and severe food allergies. He survives on Camel Milk and limited quantity of pulses. When lockdown started I didn't have enough camel milk to last this long. Help me get Camel Milk or its powder from Sadri (Rajasthan)," she had said in the tweet. People from all across the country put forward several suggestions on Twitter, including Bothra, who contacted Advik Foods, the first brand of camel milk products in the country based in Rajasthan. The company offered its camel milk powder for the child. However, sending it to Mumbai was an issue.  "The matter came to our notice when Bothra tweeted about it. I discussed the issue with senior DCM, Ajmer, Mahesh Chand Jewalia. We decided that parcel cargo train no. 00902, running between Ludhiana and Bandra in Mumbai, will be stopped at the Falna station in Rajasthan, although it does not have a scheduled halt there, the package will be picked up from Falna and delivered to the woman in Mumbai," Chief Passenger Traffic Manager, North Western Railway (NWR), Tarun Jain told PTI. He said through Jewalia, instructions were sent to Chief Commercial Inspector Akhil Taneja to co-ordinate with the operating department and the supplier to ensure that the camel milk is loaded at Falna. "After taking permission from the appropriate authority, the train was stopped and the camel milk was delivered to the woman at Bandra. For us at the Indian Railways, this is not the time to look at commercial gains. We have been asked to help out wherever possible in whichever way we can. Our (NWR) trains run through 18 districts of the country and we will do whatever is needed to help people out," Jain said. PTI ASG RC||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-after-tweet-from-desperate-mother-indian-railways-delivers-camel-milk-for-her-autistic-child-824212.html
11-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Mumbai cops subject violators to 'murga' punishment||The Mumbai police on Saturday subjected several lockdown violators to 'murga' (rooster) punishment, an act in which a person has to assume a submission position resembling a rooster by squatting and holding the ears from behind the knees. Several people who ventured out during the lockdown in place for the coronavirus outbreak without valid reason, and some for not wearing masks despite it being compulsory, were punished with the 'murga' pose in south Mumbai's Bhendibazaar area, officials said. While the 21-day nationwide lockdown was to end on April 14, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday announced that it would be extended in the state till April 30. Maharashtra has the highest number of COVID-19 patients in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-mumbai-cops-subject-violators-to-murga-punishment-824229.html
