12-04-2020||Kalaburagi||Karnataka: Two-year-old boy tests positive for coronavirus in Kalaburagi||Deputy Commissioner B Sharat said the boy is the son of a bookseller at Wadi Railway Station and contact tracing is in progress. The Madhya Pradesh-based family was staying in the Pilakamma area of Wadi town. They visited Madhya Pradesh three months ago, he explained. After the child began showed COVID-19 symptoms, the family, along with the child, was shifted to ESIC hospital on Saturday. Meanwhile, tension gripped the town after the news spread. The area where the family was residing has been sealed off.    A 24-year-old woman has also tested positive for the virus. She is the daughter-in-law of the 65-year-old fruit vendor who recently died recently in the city. On Saturday, a 38-year-old woman, working at the Bahmani hospital where the city's second COVID-19 victim was initially admitted, also tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/karnataka-two-year-old-boy-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-in-kalaburagi-824531.html
12-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kodagu administration allows sale of meat, fish three days in a week||Finally, Kodagu district administration has given permission for selling fish and meat for three days in a week from April 13.  The sale of fish and meat were banned in the district for the last 20 days. DC Annies Kanmani Joy said that meat and locally available fish can be sold every Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 6 am to 12 noon.  She has urged the sellers to maintain cleanliness in the shop and also ensure social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodagu-administration-allows-sale-of-meat-fish-three-days-in-a-week-824342.html
12-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Big relief to Mysuru as seven coronavirus patients recovered||In a big relief to Mysuru, seven coronavirus affected persons recovered and discharged from hospital on Sunday. Of seven, six are Jubilant Generic related and one foreign returnee. With this a total of nine persons recovered. The district had a total of 47, which has now reduced to 38.   Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar confirmed it and also thanked the entire hospital team, all field teams (police, health and local body functionaries), quarantine monitoring team and surveillance teams for their support and cooperation in the entire operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/big-relief-to-mysuru-as-seven-coronavirus-patients-recovered-824363.html
12-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||KSRTC stops ticket bookings indefinitely||A day after Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said the state government would extend the lockdown till the end of April, the KSRTC went a step ahead and stopped all ticket bookings for an "indefinite period". The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) had allowed booking for the journey after April 14 but the extension of lockdown has forced officials to stop bookings with immediate effect. A KSRTC official said passengers had booked 5200 tickets for dates post-April 14. "Out 5200 tickets  4600 tickets were booked for April 15 itself, all tickets stand cancelled and refund process initiated. Till further orders, we have cancelled further bookings," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksrtc-stops-ticket-bookings-indefinitely-824399.html
12-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru teenager takes friend to apartment in suitcase amid coronavirus lockdown||In a bizarre incident, a teen in Mangaluru got so bored of being confined indoors that he decided to smuggle his friend into his apartment in a suitcase. The suitcase heroics proved costly as the police registered a case against the two minors. Both will be produced before the Juvenile Justice board, said the police. The incident happened in an apartment complex located on Arya Samaj Road. The apartment association had prohibited outsiders from entering the complex. The teen was so bored out of his mind that he kept pestering the association to allow his friend into his flat. When his requests fell on deaf ears, he hatched an ingenious solution to sneak his friend into the apartment. On Sunday, the boy packed his friend into a huge suitcase and decided to wheel him in. But things didn’t go as planned. When the suitcase was being taken into the apartment complex, residents noticed the boy struggling with the suitcase. Whenever the suitcase hit a bump, the minor inside the suitcase began moving.  Growing suspicious, elderly residents insisted that the teen open the suitcase. When the suitcase was opened, the surprise package spilled out to everyone’s shock and disbelief. Later, the police arrived at the apartment after being tipped off about the incident. Residents in the apartment complex told DH that the teenager, who is from an affluent family, had been residing alone in the flat. He wanted his friend to stay with him until the end of the lockdown period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-teenager-takes-friend-to-apartment-in-suitcase-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-824616.html
12-04-2020||National||DH Exclusive: UAE firm-funded Dharavi makeover project to combat coronavirus may take off soon||The redevelopment plan of Dharavi in Mumbai — Asia’s largest slum — costing Rs 28,500 crore is likely to take off soon, with the change of guard in Maharashtra and the coronavirus outbreak in the city. Three sources in the know confirmed to DH that there has been substantial progress in the redevelopment talks between Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and executives from Dubai-based urban revitalisation firm SecLink Technologies Corporation (STC), which is funded by the royal family of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). “We are expecting a contract letter to come anytime now. The company held various meetings with the CM, and they were positive. Due to the COVID situation, it might get delayed though,” a source in the company said. There has been a clamour for the redevelopment of the slums in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, as the country has realised that the threat of the pandemic’s spread can increase manifold in congested slums. According to the plan, which was approved in 2018, the families in Dharavi will get a minimum 350 sq feet if they are currently living in 300 sq feet homes. Tenements above 350 sq ft would get 405 sq ft homes and above 500 sq ft, the owners will get 35% extra area. As part of the social responsibility project, the company on Friday wrote to the Maharashtra chief minister offering masks and sanitisers in the township along with random testing.  “Given the scale of the problem, we will need to mobilise a lot of resources quickly to make this happen. SecLink is backed by social impact investors whose vision is human upliftment through urban revitalisation,” the letter to the CM, in possession of DH, stated.   The project has faced a lot of hiccups. In February, the company had warned that it will seek a compensation of Rs 2,299 crore ($320 million) if the project was not awarded on time -- forcing the Prime Minister’s Office and Commerce Ministry to swing into action. Interestingly, the company had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in July 2019 (which is in possession of DH), after which Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri met the executives from the company -- but no decision was taken. The STC had bagged this project in the tendering process as it quoted Rs 7,200 crore, outbidding its competitor Gautam Adani-controlled Adani Infrastructure, which bid at Rs 4,539 crore. In the letter dated March 8, 2019, the company was told by the Slum Rehabilitation Authority that they were the highest bidders and had invited members from the royal family to finalise the negotiation.   The STC is a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV), which will get Rs 28,500 crore in funds to revamp 600 acres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-exclusive-uae-firm-funded-dharavi-makeover-project-to-combat-coronavirus-may-take-off-soon-824266.html
12-04-2020||National||Next 3-4 weeks critical in COVID-19 battle, says Modi||The 21-day nationwide lockdown to check the fast-spreading COVID-19 outbreak is set to be extended at least for two weeks across the country, after 10 states made a strong pitch for maintaining restrictions during a video conference meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. The Prime Minister may announce the government’s decision either on Sunday or Monday. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal gave an indication of what is to be expected when he tweeted, “PM has taken the correct decision to extend lockdown. Today, India’s position is better than many developed countries because we started lockdown early. If it is stopped now, all gains would be lost. To consolidate, it is important to extend it.” Later, Maharashtra and Telangana announced they were extending the lockdown up to April 30, following the lead of Odisha and Punjab, which have already extended the restrictions up to April 30 and May 1. And more states are likely to join the list. Modi also indicated a shift in the government’s strategy on COVID-19, defining the government’s motto as ‘jaan bhi, jahaan bhi’ (Life and Livelihood) from the earlier ‘jaan hai to jahaan hai’ (If there’s life, there’s a world), and suggested specific measures for agriculture and allied sectors, including modification of APMC laws to facilitate sale of farm produce. On Saturday, Modi had a four-hour-long video conference meeting with 11 chief ministers, and there was a consensus among 10 of them that extending the restrictions was the best way to contain the pandemic.  Following the meeting, Modi said that the next three to four weeks were critical in determining the impact of steps taken to curb the spread of the virus. The Prime Minister also indicated that the lockdown could be extended further if the situation warranted as “saving lives is the priority”. Noting the consensus among states on extending the lockdown, Modi observed that while the combined effort of the Centre and the states helped reduce the impact of COVID-19, constant vigilance was paramount. The government will now issue new guidelines on graded exit from the lockdown and will come out with relaxations for industries and address the distress of workers. The focus will be on working out a healthy employment strategy without compromising the fight against the disease. The meeting saw a number of Chief Ministers raising questions on the issue of testing facilities. Suggestions made at the meeting included announcing a special package for states, non-resumption of train and flight services, money to augment hospitals and kits and reduce farm distress, ensuring stringent lockdown in hotspots while giving some relaxation in unaffected districts and door to door screening in highly affected areas. One suggestion was to completely lockdown districts which have many hotspots. The Prime Minister batted strongly for installing the Aarogya Setu app as an essential tool in the fight against COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/next-3-4-weeks-critical-in-covid-19-battle-says-modi-824267.html
12-04-2020||National||Red, orange, green zones may come up during extended coronavirus lockdown||The Centre is likely to categorise the country into red, orange and green zones depending on the number of COVID-19 cases during the proposed extended period of lockdown and might allow limited services to function in the safe zones. Officials privy to the discussions during the four-hour-long conference with chief ministers, convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said that schools and colleges would remain shut but some small scale industries and liquor shops may be allowed to function. There was near unanimity in extending the ongoing 21-day lockdown, which is till April 30, and the central government is likely to categorise the country into three zones -- red, orange and green -- depending on the number of COVID-19 cases, an official, speaking on condition of anonymity, told PTI. There will be no activity in the red zones -- the districts where sizeable number of cases were detected or areas which were declared hotspots. In the orange zones -- where only a few cases were found in the past with no increase in the number of positive cases -- minimum activities like opening of limited public transport, harvesting of farm products will be allowed. Green zones will be in the districts where there is no COVID-19 case. The chief ministers were against large scale inter-state movement of people, sources said. Liquor shops are likely to be allowed to open as many chief ministers strongly pitched for it arguing that it is a major revenue generating way for the states, the sources said, adding restaurants and malls won't open. However, some MSME industries falling under the green zone -- in the districts where there is no COVID-19 case -- will be allowed to function with in-house lodging facilities for employees with proper maintenance of social distance. Agricultural activities are also set to be allowed in green and orange zones with strict maintenance of social distance. Limited domestic air and train services may be allowed in select sectors with 30 per cent or less passengers while limited metro services may also be started in cities like Delhi with 30 per cent passengers. Currently, in major cities like Delhi, 30 per cent of DTC and cluster bus services are operational for those working in essential services. The city public transport services will be enhanced from minimum to optimal, another sources said. The chief ministers are strongly opposed to any mass scale movements of people between states saying they don't have the capacity to put thousands of people in quarantine together, the sources said. After the marathon meeting, the prime minister is believed to have directed top officials to work out on the guidelines -- on the restrictions and exemptions -- which may be announced either on Sunday or Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/red-orange-green-zones-may-come-up-during-extended-coronavirus-lockdown-824292.html
12-04-2020||National||Exponentially increase testing for COVID-19, provide PPEs for health workers: Yechury to govt||With the lockdown set to be extended in the country, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Saturday said the government should exponentially increase testing for coronavirus and provide PPEs for health workers over the next two weeks. India has witnessed a sudden spike in the coronavirus infections with 1,035 fresh COVID-19 cases and 40 deaths due to the disease being reported in the last 24 hours across the country, which is under a 21-day nationwide lockdown since March 25. In a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, most of the chief ministers suggested that the lockdown should be extended by two more weeks, an official statement said. The Centre is considering a request made by most states to extend the ongoing nationwide lockdown by two weeks beyond April 14, a government spokesperson said. Yechury in a tweet said, "We are still not testing enough. The whole purpose of a 21-day lockdown is being defeated without aggressive testing. Centre has been unable to explain why it is unable to make enough testing kits and capacities available, even after so many days.” The CPI(M) general secretary listed a slew of measures that the government should follow in order to ensure the lockdown period is utilised effectively to contain the pandemic. "It is clear that the lockdown will continue for another 2 weeks. Irrespective of the Centre’s ‘guidelines’ the following measures are the barest minimum that are non-negotiable #COVID__19,” he said. "Health workers with PPEs on a war footing, execute cash transfers of a minimum of Rs 5000 per month to all Jan-Dhan accounts and BPL card holders Free distribution of surplus food grain stocks to the needy. Provide full administrative and financial support to states in executing their medical and humanitarian plans," Yechury added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exponentially-increase-testing-for-covid-19-provide-ppes-for-health-workers-yechury-to-govt-824294.html
12-04-2020||National||JNU research scholar from Manipur held for writing 'provocative' article||A research scholar of the Jawaharlal Nehru University, who is from Manipur, was arrested for writing an article in a local daily, that authorities claimed could "incite communal disharmony", officials said on Saturday. In the article published in a vernacular newspaper, Md Chingiz Khan accused the state's BJP government of discriminating against a particular community. Police suo motu registered an FIR against Khan and arrested him from his residence in Mayang Imphal town in Imphal West district, officials said. Khan, who has been pursuing PhD in history, has been remanded to six days' police custody by a court. A senior government official said the research scholar raked up a two-year-old issue in his writing when the state is fighting against the COVID-19. The article published on April 6 could incite communal disharmony and he was arrested on Thursday, he said. Several organisations such as the JNU Student Union, Delhi Association of Manipur Muslim Students and the Manipur Students Association Delhi have condemned the arrest of Khan and demanded his immediate release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jnu-research-scholar-from-manipur-held-for-writing-provocative-article-824300.html
12-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Special trains to transport perishable food items||The government on Saturday said that Indian Railways is running special trains to transport perishable food items and seeds across the country for ensuring availability of these products during the lockdown. "Indian Railways has identified 67 routes (134 trains) for Parcel Special Trains since the start of the lockdown for perishable commodities including fruits, vegetables, milk and dairy products and seeds for agriculture purpose," the agriculture ministry said in a statement. 62 routes have been notified and 171 time-tabled trains are being run on these routes. The special trains have been planned to connect all the major cities of the country. "Trains are being run even on those routes where demand is less, so that no part of the country remains unconnected. Trains have been given en-route stoppages at all feasible locations, so that maximum possible clearance of parcels may be done," the statement said. A video conference has been organized with Secretaries and Mission Directors of Horticulture of all State/ UTs regarding availability of special trains. "All the State Mission Directors and Concerned Secretaries of States/UTs were requested to mobilize all their resources to take advantage of these trains being run by Railways," it said. Addl. Member (Commercial) Railway Board has offered to start new route or stoppage if there is any demand. Link for details regarding Parcel Special trains is available on Indian Railways website, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-special-trains-to-transport-perishable-food-items-824301.html
12-04-2020||National||Centre must help NRIs stuck in COVID-19 hotspots: Cong||The Congress on Saturday accused the central government of ignoring the plight of Indians stuck in COVID-19 hotspots abroad and sought immediate measures to safeguard their lives. In a statement, AICC general secretary K C Venugopal said the Centre must ensure their testing and provide medical help to them on an urgent basis in this humanitarian crisis. "The central government is callously ignoring the plight of COVID-19 positive Indian citizens living abroad," he said. The Congress leader said it is a matter of concern that Indian embassies and missions abroad are woefully lacking a comprehensive and practical approach to deal with this unprecedented global health crisis. He said many countries have taken extraordinary efforts to rescue their citizens stranded abroad, including in India, during the present global lockdown by sending special aircraft. "The Indian government cannot leave the NRI citizens at the mercy of fate and it should take immediate measures to safeguard the citizens stranded in the COVID-19 hotspots abroad," the Congress leader noted. Venugopal said there has been substantial increase in coronavirus cases in the gulf and west Asian countries, particularly Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. "India's large expat population working in these countries are consequently affected by the virus and the Government of India ought to take extraordinary measures on a war footing to ensure medical care to these people stranded abroad," he said. “Since a vast number of them working in the informal sectors have been living in makeshift labour camps, they have been facing difficulties to follow even the social distance protocol amidst this global pandemic,” the Congress general secretary said. Venugopal added that the fear of community transmission and lack of access to immediate medical help, including testing as well as treatment, have put their lives in great peril.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-must-help-nris-stuck-in-covid-19-hotspots-cong-824306.html
12-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 12, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.  Stay healthy, stay safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-12-2020-edition-824290.html
12-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 12||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 9,107 as of April 12. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 316 Andhra Pradesh: 6 Assam: 1 Bihar: 1 Delhi: 24 Gujarat: 24 Himachal Pradesh: 2 Haryana: 3 Jammu and Kashmir: 4 Jharkhand: 2 Karnataka: 6 Kerala: 3 Madhya Pradesh: 34 Maharashtra: 149 Odisha: 1 Punjab: 12 Rajasthan: 8 Tamil Nadu: 11 Telangana: 11 Uttar Pradesh: 5 West Bengal: 9 Coronavirus in India: States/UTs with confirmed positive cases (Details are updated as we receive information) Kerala: 376 Punjab: 170 Delhi: 1154 Jammu and Kashmir: 245 Ladakh: 15 Rajasthan: 796 Uttar Pradesh: 480 Maharashtra: 1,982 Karnataka: 232 Tamil Nadu: 1075 Telangana: 504 Haryana: 181 Andhra Pradesh: 420 Himachal Pradesh: 32 Gujarat: 516 Uttarakhand: 35 Odisha: 50 West Bengal: 134 Chandigarh: 19 Chhattisgarh: 18 Madhya Pradesh: 532 Bihar: 64 Puducherry: 7 Manipur: 2 Mizoram: 1 Goa: 7 Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 11 Jharkhand: 17 Assam: 29 Arunachal Pradesh: 1 Tripura: 2 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 504      While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-12-824309.html
12-04-2020||National||IHC, Taj's owner, says some staff tested positive for coronavirus||Indian Hotels Company, which runs the Taj properties chain, on Saturday said an unspecified number of its employees in the financial capital have tested positive for coronavirus. The company, which is hosting at its premium hotels doctors and other health workers who are on the frontline of the battle against coronavirus pandemic in the city, conducted tests on approximately 500 employees, it said. Without specifying the number of infected employees, the company said in a statement that most of them were "asymptomatic showing absolutely no signs of illness". "However, staff testing positive and symptomatic were duly hospitalized and others who were in contact with them have immediately been put in quarantine," the company said. The iconic Taj Mahal Palace and Tower hotel of the company in south Mumbai does not have any guests at present and only minimal staff are present to ensure upkeep of the property, it said. When contacted, a senior official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation could not give any information as to how the civic body was treating the IHC properties where staff tested positive. In some cases the BMC sets up containment zones around buildings where coronavirus patients are found.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ihc-tajs-owner-says-some-staff-tested-positive-for-coronavirus-824322.html
12-04-2020||National||May this Easter give us added strength to successfully overcome COVID-19: PM||"Best wishes to everyone on the special occasion of Easter. We remember the noble thoughts of Lord Christ, especially his unwavering commitment to empowering the poor and needy," the prime minister wrote on Twitter  Best wishes to everyone on the special occasion of Easter. We remember the noble thoughts of Lord Christ, especially his unwavering commitment to empowering the poor and needy. May this Easter give us added strength to successfully overcome COVID-19 and create a healthier planet. "May this Easter give us added strength to successfully overcome COVID-19 and create a healthier planet," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/may-this-easter-give-us-added-strength-to-successfully-overcome-covid-19-pm-824328.html
12-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Non-BJP CMs pour out their woes before Modi||From over-stretched resources to over-reach by governors and Lt. Governors, non-BJP chief ministers presented a litany of woes during their virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to assess the COVID-19 situation. During the four-hour meeting, 13 chief ministers shared their concerns and challenges faced by them in the fight against the COVID-19 outbreak and sought a bailout package from the Centre to tide over the situation. Top among the concerns of the chief ministers was the loss of revenue due to the complete halt of economic activity in the states due to the lockdown announced to arrest the spread of the viral infection that has claimed over 250 lives across the country. Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao told the Prime Minister that the state government used to earn revenue of Rs 40,000 crore every month and now it has been reduced to Rs 4,000 crore.   “Chief Ministers were worried about the economy of the country and they wanted additional grants from the Government of India,” Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy told reporters. Narayanasamy said chief ministers also raised the issue of migrant labourers and poor people losing their livelihoods and sought steps from the Centre to help them. He said West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee raised the issue of governors and lieutenant governors (L-Gs) interfering with the day-to-day administration in the middle of the COVID-19 crisis and urged the Prime Minister to “control them”. Chief Ministers sought a six-month moratorium on the debt repayment to the Centre and also pitched for relaxation in the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, that bind the state and the central governments to maintain fiscal discipline. “The Government of India should extend the FRBM norms from 3% to 5% of the GSDP,” Narayanasamy said. He said Modi assured the chief ministers on amending the APMC Act to allow farm gate procurement of farmers’ produce, instead of it being brought to the wholesale markets. “Even in Parliament he does not reply to the MPs, he did not reply to the chief ministers either,” Narayanasamy said when asked about the Prime Minister’s response to their concerns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-non-bjp-cms-pour-out-their-woes-before-modi-824337.html
12-04-2020||National||Death toll due to coronavirus rises to 273; cases climb to 8,356||The death toll due to the novel coronavirus rose to 273 and the number of cases to 8,356 in the country on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry. While the number of active COVID-19 cases is 7,367, as many as 715 people were cured and discharged and one had migrated, it said. As many as 34 new deaths have been reported since Saturday evening, the ministry said. So far, Maharashtra has reported the most coronavirus deaths at 127, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 36, Gujarat at 22 and Delhi at 19. Punjab has registered 11 deaths while Tamil Nadu reported 10 fatalities and Telengana nine. Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka have reported six deaths each while West Bengal has registered five deaths. Jammu and Kashmir and Uttar Pradesh have reported four and five deaths respectively. Haryana and Rajasthan have recorded three deaths each. Two deaths have been reported from Kerala. Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand and Assam reported one fatality each, according to the health ministry data. The death toll on Friday evening was 242.  However, a PTI tally of numbers reported by various states as on 9 pm on Saturday showed at least 287 deaths due to COVID-19. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of cases announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states. According to the ministry's data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 1,761, followed by Delhi at 1,069 and Tamil Nadu at 969. The cases have gone up to 700 in Rajasthan, followed by 532 in Madhya Pradesh, 504 in Telengana and and 452 in Uttar Pradesh. Kerala has reported 364 cases and Andhra Pradesh 381. Gujarat has 432 positive patients so far. Novel coronavirus cases have risen to 214 in Karnataka, 207 in Jammu and Kashmir and 177 in Haryana. Punjab has 151 positive patients so far while West Bengal has 124 cases. Bihar has reported 63 cases and Odisha 50. Thirty-five people were infected with the virus in Uttarakhand while Assam has 29 patients, followed by Himachal Pradesh with 32 cases. "State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation," the ministry said on its website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-due-to-coronavirus-rises-to-273-cases-climb-to-8356-824338.html
12-04-2020||National||UK to get paracetamol shipment from India on Sunday||The UK will receive the first batch of 3 million paracetamol packets from India by Sunday as it expressed gratitude to the Indian government for approving this “important shipment” after New Delhi lifted its export ban amid the coronavirus pandemic. Lord Tariq Ahmad, the Minister of State for South Asia and the Commonwealth in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), on Friday said the shipment is symbolic of the cooperative way both countries have been working through this unprecedented global crisis. “The UK and India continue to work in close partnership to respond to the COVID-19 threat. My sincere thanks on behalf of the UK government to India for approving this important shipment,” Ahmad said.   The shipment, set to arrive on a plane by Sunday, will coincide with a series of charter flights laid on by the UK to ferry thousands of Britons stranded in India. “We have been working very closely with the Indian authorities in London, the Ministry of External Affairs, and at state level in India to put in place all the necessary requirements for British nationals wanting to return to the UK,” Ahmad said. “The sheer logistics of this exercise involves every individual who has registered on to our central database being sent detailed information about booking their seat on the flights as well as local support for them to be able to get to the airports in the particular states, given the lockdown and curfews in place,” he said. The travellers are set to be flown out from Goa, Mumbai, Delhi, Amritsar, Ahmedabad, Thiruvananthapuram via Kochi, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Chennai via Bengaluru over the coming week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-to-get-paracetamol-shipment-from-india-on-sunday-824344.html
12-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Masks saving not only lives but also helping women earn livelihood during lockdown||Mala in Alleppey, Rashmi in Sitamarhi and Sarita in Damoh are busy making masks to protect thousands from coronavirus and at the same time are supporting their family financially during the lockdown period. Several self help groups, NGOs and local administration have joined hands to ensure that masks -- a very essential means of protection from the infection-- reach everyone in the country. The move has not only helped in protecting others but has also given livelihood opportunities to several women specially during the period of lockdown when most of them from the unorganised sectors have lost their jobs. In Kerala, over 300 women-led micro enterprises under the Kudumbashree – State Poverty Eradication Mission in Kerala -- have manufactured more than 14.50 lakh cloth masks,  a representative from the Gram Panchayat of Veeyapuram said. Priced between Rs 10 and 15 depending on the layering in the mask, the micro enterprises have by that measure grossed a turnover of around Rs 2 crore through these units to meet the demand for masks and providing a reusable option in cloth, he said. The masks are being sought through bulk orders by government departments and essential service providers, he added.    Child rights body Save the Children said they had provided support in setting up the apparel training centre in 2018 and women are beneficiaries. "These women were trained, provided material support and currently they are making masks. This unit is self sustainable and at this crisis time this is not only providing service to the community but this is also a livelihood support for the marginalised and BPL category women," said Anindit Roy Choudhury, Director Programmes, Save the Children. These masks are not only ensuring protection of people from coronavirus but also giving a means of livelihood for people like Mala. Mala has got Rs 8000 so far by for stitching masks under the initiative. She says she can stitch up to 200 masks every day. "Sale of the masks is a means of livelihood in this period of lockdown. Earlier, I was not contributing to my family but now I am able to support them financially," she told PTI. In Assam's Dibrugarh district, the masks are manufactured by Partner NGO of Save the Children, SEWA. The masks are being made as per request of the district administration. Till now 800 pieces which have been made will be distributed in the tea estate, Chaudhary said. As per SEWA's request the district administration issued a general order to shop owners to supply raw material to SEWA.  "A worker can produce 40 to 50 masks per day. The main aim is to promote the use of masks amongst the common people and also to make the masks available for poor and vulnerable people," he said. In Damoh in Madhya Pradesh, around 156 women have been involved in production of masks and have made over 50,000 masks till now which are ready for distribution, a local administration official said. Sarita, who used to earlier work as a daily wager, is now stitching masks in Damoh. "This way, I can support my family till things return to normal. She says she knew basic training and it is helping her now," she said. In Bihar's Sitamarhi, women are making masks with support from the government and supplying it to primary health centres. "We are selling one mask for Rs 20. It is our way to ensure that these affordable masks reach every one," said Rashmi, a volunteer, involved in stitching these masks. In east Champaran district and Gaya too, Save the Children is involved in the production of masks. "In east Champaran district, our partners have received the approval from the government on helping spread the awareness on COVID-19 and on the importance of lockdown and physical distancing. The masks were also made and distributed on the basis of same approval," said Choudhury. In Gaya, an adolescent group of girls prepared the masks at a local level on the basis of specifications advised by the government and distributed in their community, he said. He said the materials were procured locally from local vendors. Due to non-availability of materials they couldn't make many masks. He said around 3500 masks were made in two days in Gaya and east Champaran. "The aim of this program is to orient and make aware children and communities on COVID-19 and its preventive measures. The focus is to mitigate the risk factors related to COVID-19 transmission," he added He said the move not only aims at providing immediate respite to communities through food (dry ration) baskets, hygiene and dignity kits, but also provide livelihood support to make sure that families can deal with the economic blow that the pandemic has brought on to them, said Choudhury. India is currently under the biggest lockdown with around 1.3 billion people asked to stay home in view of the coronavirus outbreak, which has claimed 273 lives and infected more than 8,000 people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-masks-saving-not-only-lives-but-also-helping-women-earn-livelihood-during-lockdown-824368.html
12-04-2020||National||An Easter of Facebook live prayers sans church visits in Kerala during lockdown||This was a day which used to be marked by special prayers, church visits, cooking of traditional delicacies from grandma's recipe books and joyful get-togethers at relatives' houses. But empty churches, virtual prayers, live-streaming of holy mass and Facebook live/YouTube speeches of bishops and priests marked the Holy Week and Easter Sunday in Kerala this time, cutting across villages and cities due to the lockdown to halt the spread of COVID-19. Easter marks the end of the Holy Week of prayers and penitence recalling the final phase of Christ's life from his arrest and crucifixion, followed by resurrection. The virus outbreak and precautionary lockdown have gifted an unprecedented Easter Sunday to the traditional Christians in Kerala, where the occasion would have otherwise been celebrated with religious fervour and colourful festivities. According to the 2011 census, Christians comprise 18.38 percentage of the total population of Kerala. Adhering to the government's lockdown norms, people, even the ardent laity, kept away from churches and confined themselves in front of television sets or were glued to their mobile phones to catch a glimpse of holy services at churches. Instead of sumptuous feasts with an array of ethnic mouth-watering non-vegetarian delicacies, many families limited their menu to usual items. Giving a go by to house visits, a large number depended on WhatsApp video calls to get connected during the occasion. Sexagenerian Mariyamma Samuel was sad this morning as she could not go to her nearby parish in Ranni, a high range hamlet in the central district of Pathanamthitta and offer prayers, a practise she had been religiously following since childhood. For the first time, she was seeing an empty church courtyard on Easter morning, which normally bustles with the hymns of Jesus Christ and the joyful chats of parishioners. A retired school teacher, she and her husband waited eagerly this morning for their neighbouring children to watch the Facebook live of the Easter prayers in their mobile phone. "We don't know how to operate smartphones. So we have sought their help to watch the church services and special prayers. Parishioners were informed by the church that it will be live on the Facebook," she told PTI. As their son and daughter were away from home and no relatives could visit them due to lockdown restrictions, special delicacies were not prepared this time. People in Ranni were extra vigilant as three Italy returnees had tested positive, along with six relatives, including an elderly couple aged 93 and 88, in the second wave of the virus outbreak in the state, hailing from there. 86-year-old Rebecca Mathew from Chathannur in Kollam felt "strain" to watch church services on the cellphone. "This was a very different Easter from the usual.We could not attend Easter service in the church. Some hymns and webcasts of services are available online, but I find it a strain to watch them on the small cellphone screen," she told PTI. She said normally they have a 'sibling get-together' on Easter with three families meeting at one house by turns for each meal of the day. Each family would either bring a dish or make a full meal, cooking up something special, she said, adding they would also make up food gift parcels to give their maids and other household help. "This year, the families remained in their individual homes. The traditional non-vegetarian dishes were also not there" Rebecca, who retired as Deputy Controller of Patents and Designs, a government of India company, said. "Our two children and grandchildren have not been able to make it here it due to the lockdown and my husband and me were hoping so much to see all of them," she said. An ardent devotee and regular church-goer, 32-year-old Riya from Thodupuzha didn't hide her despair and sadness that she missed church services and other festivities this time. "Otherwise,we used to be at the church throughout the Holy Week. My family is very particular that we should not miss any ritual. But there was no feeling of Easter this time...no church visits...no guests...and a very simple and normal lunch...," she told PTI. Detailing the lip-smacking Easter delicacies, she said all kinds of meat, from chicken to pork,would be bought to prepare traditional dishes. The dishes and its combinations would be different in various Christian pockets in the state, she said. "We used to prepare chicken and egg curry, duck roast, pork vindaloo and so on.. stew and rice would also be there. But this time, we limited it to chicken only," the woman said. There was a shortage of pork and beef in the local market, maybe due to the lockdown, she said, adding that the quality of the meat also could not be ensured. In some places on the eve of Easter, heavy rush was noticed ay meat shops with police even using lathies to chase away people, who flouted the social distancing norms. The traditional feast is served in Christian homes this day, marking the end of the 40-day period of Lent when believers shun luxuries and widely pleasures. Meanwhile, major church denominations have given prior information to devotees about the live telecast of Easter mass and church services through the YouTube channel and Facebook page and their own devotional channels. Only a very limited number of people, including bishops and senior priests, took part in the church services and gave messages of spiritual revival.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/an-easter-of-facebook-live-prayers-sans-church-visits-in-kerala-during-lockdown-824370.html
12-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Anxiety levels up among employees as appraisals get delayed||A lot many are fearing loss of a job, some have already seen pay cuts and appraisals are getting delayed almost for everyone. The COVID-19 crisis and the ongoing lockdown has left employees feeling anxious and worried about their future, prompting many corporates to look for ways to keep the staff motivated. Some are roping in psychologists to conduct ''happiness sessions'' for staff members over video conferencing, others have decided to keep communicating with them regularly about business updates and a few are also promising necessary steps to safeguard their career progression along with additional perks for ''performers'' during such difficult times. Experts said there is high stress that the current crisis has brought upon employees as well as organisations, and with the lockdown not looking to end soon, the emotional challenges employees are confronting have increased manifold. "Yes, there is some amount of anxiety as it is a situation many of us including organisations have never been faced with. In terms of appraisals, it is too early to say on the stand of the organizations as COVID-19 has an impact on the employer as well in terms of business," Sudeep Sen, Business Head- Industrial Manufacturing and Engineering & General Staffing, TeamLease Services, said. On top of it, some retail touchpoints have remained open during the pandemic and employees who are still working onsite in industries such as healthcare, food services and critical manufacturing operations will have different stress levels and concerns than those working from home. Onsite employees are under the extreme worry of being infected by co-workers or customers. They are worried if the organization will be able to provide sufficient workplace safety and one of their biggest worries is to travel to work without being stopped by cops. At times like this, some employers are going the extra mile and rewarding their onsite employees in essential sectors with appreciation allowance, besides taking several steps to ensure employee safety including regular sanitisation of high-touch surfaces, provision of masks, installing sanitisers stations and conducting temperature checks for all associates. "We are particularly grateful to associates who work in our stores and are selflessly serving the community at this time. In recognition, we will provide every field associate an appreciation allowance of Rs 200 per day over and above their pay for every day of attendance during the lockdown period," a Walmart India spokesperson said. "We are also committed to ensuring safe transport for our store associates and are providing conveyance reimbursement to them in the absence of local transport," the spokesperson added. In order to survive these tough times HR leaders and people managers are encouraging and supporting employees, communicating with them regularly about the business updates, positive news and actions organizations are taking to come out of the situation. Many companies are also conducting special online sessions for the staff to keep them motivated and stress-free. Psychologist and 'happiness coach' Sakshi Mandhyan, who was been roped in by various corporate houses for such online 'happiness classes', said we get anxious when we think about the future that is actually unpredictable and uncertain. "If we talk about the current situation, many people would have made plans for April and the coming months on the basis of appraisals they were expecting this month. But sadly that is not happening," she said. Mandhyan, who was earlier associated with Max Hospitals and now runs her own Mandhyan Clinic in Gurgaon, said what people need to do is trying to change things that are in their own hands, rather than worrying about things outside their control. "For example, whether one would have the job or not is not entirely in one''s control in such a scenario, but how to manage whatever finances one has got right now is something in one''s own hand. So, spending smartly is the key point here. "The good part is expenses have gone down due to people staying home mostly and therefore the way forward can be learning to get back to basics -- that is learning to manage with basic necessities and cut down on the unnecessary or avoidable luxuries going ahead. We need to understand that if we go a few generations back, such kind of expenditure was not happening and people were still happy," Mandhyan said. "The best trait humans have is their ability to adapt to things and to manage to survive in every kind of situation. There will be initial difficulties, but gradually, we all will get used to it and we will make peace with the changing situations. Having the natural survival instincts, human being adapt to any given situation. There would be changes in the way we wind down, such as we may start having card parties at home rather than going to a party outside our homes," she added. Many organisations are offering online toolkits and resources so all employees have what they need to operate productively. Some companies have also taken to this time to drive their Learning and Development initiatives. "Organisations are equally worried about their employee well-being, positive mental state and ability to remain stable and loyal. This worry is more so for employees who perform well or are potential performers," said Ashissh Kaul - Associate Director, Advisory Services, SHRM India. Providing these employees a clear and proper roadmap of their career post COVID-19 times has also been a priority, Kaul said adding that many organisations are offering coupons to order meals, ensuring benefits like access to online yoga classes etc as an incentive. "This is a time of responsibility from both employers and employees. Corporates must show more empathy towards their staff, being transparent with business conditions and helping set clear expectations will help ease out stress," global executive recruitment organisation Antal International India Managing Director Joseph Devasia said. Devasia further said that "in these tough times, corporations will care more about those who have contributed to the growth of the organisation". He noted that every organisation will be faced with downsizing at some point over the next 12 months, hence reviewing salaries, perks, benefits and knocking off bonuses or increments would be normal. In such circumstances loyalty and retention take a second stand, versus ensuring sustainance of business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-anxiety-levels-up-among-employees-as-appraisals-get-delayed-824371.html
12-04-2020||National||60-yr-old man dies due to coronavirus in Jharkhand||A 60-year-old man died due to COVID-19 here on Sunday, the second death due to the virus in the state, a senior official said here. The man from Hindpiri had come in contact with another COVID-19 patient in the area. "He was admitted to a hospital two days ago after he exhibited symptoms of the disease. The 60-year-old's condition deteriorated, following which he was put on ventilator. He died this morning," Principal Secretary (Health) Nitin Madan Kulkarni said. The first case from Hindpiri locality was reported when a 22-year-old Malaysian woman tested positive for the disease on March 31. Earlier, on April 8, a 72-year-old man had died due to COVID-19 in Bokaro district. Jharkhand has reported 17 COVID-19 cases so far - eight in Ranchi, six in Bokaro, two in Hazaribag and one in Koderma district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/60-yr-old-man-dies-due-to-coronavirus-in-jharkhand-824372.html
12-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Jammu & Kashmir has no data to prove or disprove community transmission||As Jammu and Kashmir has crossed 200-mark of COVID-19 positive cases, there is no data available to prove or disprove whether there has been community transmission or not. Even though experts have been flagging concerns of community transmission, Kashmir has not tested any sample from admitted SARI patients for COVID-19 infection, leaving concerns of community spread sans statistical support. Dr Parvaiz Koul, head internal and pulmonary medicine at super-specialty SKIMS hospital in Srinagar said there was “anecdotal evidence of limited community spread.” “It does not look like it is widespread but we definitely have some community spread as is evident from cases we are seeing very often now,” he said and added the testing currently undergoing in J&K was “essentially of those with close contact history or travel.”    He stressed on the need for “more aggressive testing” to catch trends in the spread of the virus earlier. “That can be a game-changer,” he said. On Friday, Indian Council of Medical Research said over one percent COVID-19 positive cases across the county were among patients reporting with SARI. The data sourced from the network of COVID-19 laboratories set up across India is a peep into community transmission of COVID-19. The regulatory body had directed all states to test samples of patients admitted with respiratory tract infections for COVID-19 infection. However, J&K is yet to provide the data. Nine out of 10 districts of Kashmir have registered COVID-19 cases so far. Only Anantnag district in south Kashmir has no positive case. Srinagar district stands at the top with 58 positive cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-jammu-kashmir-has-no-data-to-prove-or-disprove-community-transmission-824376.html
12-04-2020||National||Three Indian nationals test positive for coronavirus in Nepal||Three Indian nationals, staying at a local mosque in southern Nepal, have tested positive for the novel coronavirus, a media report said here on Sunday. The three Indian nationals were staying in Birgunj due to the nationwide lockdown which has been extended by another eight days till April 15 to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus in the country. With the three fresh cases, the total number of infections in the country has gone up to 12, a local news channel reported. After a preliminary report in Hetauda-based Vector Borne Disease Research and Training Center came positive, the samples were sent to Kathmandu-based National Public Health Laboratory (NPHL) for confirmation, the Avenues Television reported, quoting Health Ministry sources. The Kathmandu-based laboratory also confirmed that the test report was positive on Saturday evening, it said. The three Indian nationals had reportedly entered Nepal for a Muslim mass gathering held in Saptari district in March in which hundreds of people from Nepal and India participated. Meanwhile, the local administration has put 26 people, who were residing in the mosque, under quarantine, the report said. The Nepal government decided to extend the nationwide lockdown at a Cabinet meeting on April 6 after the country entered into the second phase of the coronavirus outbreak with the first case of locally transmitted person confirmed in Western Nepal. It was the second time that the government extended the lockdown. The government had initially announced a week-long nationwide shutdown on March 24. On March 29, it was extended till April 7. Globally, the novel coronavirus that originated in China in December has killed 108,862 people and infected over 1.7 million people globally. The US has the highest number of infections at 529,887, according to Johns Hopkins University data. The US on Sunday overtook Italy as the country with the highest number of deaths due to COVID-19 pandemic with the fatalities crossing 20,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-indian-nationals-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-nepal-824382.html
12-04-2020||National||Some doctors moving away from ventilators for coronavirus patients||As health officials around the world push to get more ventilators to treat coronavirus patients, some doctors are moving away from using the breathing machines when they can. The reason: Some hospitals have reported unusually high death rates for coronavirus patients on ventilators, and some doctors worry that the machines could be harming certain patients. The evolving treatments highlight the fact that doctors are still learning the best way to manage a virus that emerged only months ago. They are relying on anecdotal, real-time data amid a crush of patients and shortages of basic supplies. Mechanical ventilators push oxygen into patients whose lungs are failing. Using the machines involves sedating a patient and sticking a tube into the throat. Deaths in such sick patients are common, no matter the reason they need breathing help. Generally speaking, 40 per cent to 50 per cennt of patients with severe respiratory distress die while on ventilators, experts say. But 80 per cent or more of coronavirus patients placed on the machines in New York City have died, state and city officials say. Higher-than-normal death rates also have been reported elsewhere in the US, said Dr Albert Rizzo, the American Lung Association's chief medical officer. Similar reports have emerged from China and the United Kingdom. One U.K. report put the figure at 66 per cent. A very small study in Wuhan, the Chinese city where the disease first emerged, said 86 per cent died. The reason is not clear. It may have to do with what kind of shape the patients were in before they were infected. Or it could be related to how sick they had become by the time they were put on the machines, some experts said. But some health professionals have wondered whether ventilators might actually make matters worse in certain patients, perhaps by igniting or worsening a harmful immune system reaction.  That's speculation. But experts do say ventilators can be damaging to a patient over time, as high-pressure oxygen is forced into the tiny air sacs in a patient's lungs. “We know that mechanical ventilation is not benign," said Dr. Eddy Fan, an expert on respiratory treatment at Toronto General Hospital. “One of the most important findings in the last few decades is that medical ventilation can worsen lung injury — so we have to be careful how we use it.” The dangers can be eased by limiting the amount of pressure and the size of breaths delivered by the machine, Fan said. But some doctors say they're trying to keep patients off ventilators as long as possible, and turning to other techniques instead. Only a few weeks ago in New York City, coronavirus patients who came in quite sick were routinely placed on ventilators to keep them breathing, said Dr. Joseph Habboushe, an emergency medicine doctor who works in Manhattan hospitals. But increasingly, physicians are trying other measures first. One is having patients lie in different positions — including on their stomachs — to allow different parts of the lung to aerate better. Another is giving patients more oxygen through nose tubes or other devices. Some doctors are experimenting with adding nitric oxide to the mix, to help improve blood flow and oxygen to the least damaged parts of the lungs. “If we're able to make them better without intubating them, they are more likely to have a better outcome — we think,” Habboushe said. He said those decisions are separate from worries that there are not enough ventilators available. But that is a concern as well, Habboushe added. There are widespread reports that coronavirus patients tend to be on ventilators much longer than other kinds of patients, said Dr. William Schaffner, an infectious diseases expert at Vanderbilt University. Experts say that patients with bacterial pneumonia, for example, may be on a ventilator for no more than a day or two. But it's been common for coronavirus patients to have been on a ventilator “seven days, 10 days, 15 days, and they're passing away,” said New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, when asked about ventilator death rates during a news briefing on Wednesday. That's one reason for worries that ventilators could grow in short supply. Experts worry that as cases mount, doctors will be forced to make terrible decisions about who lives and who dies because they won't have enough machines for every patient who needs one. New York State Health Commissioner Dr. Howard Zucker said Wednesday that officials are looking into other possible therapies that can be given earlier, but added “that's all experimental." The new virus is a member of the coronavirus family that can cause colds as well as more serious illnesses. Health officials say it spreads mainly from droplets when an infected person coughs or sneezes. There is no proven drug treatment or vaccine against it. Experts think most people who are infected suffer nothing worse than unpleasant but mild illnesses that may include fever and coughing. But roughly 20 per cent — many of them older adults or people weakened by chronic conditions — can grow much sicker.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-doctors-moving-away-from-ventilators-for-coronavirus-patients-824383.html
12-04-2020||National||Man arrested for posting derogratory photos of Crucifixion in Kerala||A 20-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly posting a derogatory photo of the Crucifixion of Jesus Christ on social media, police said here on Sunday. Jyothish allegedly posted a nude picture of a woman in place of Jesus in the photo of crucifixion, hurting the religious sentiments of the Christian faithful during the Holy Week celebrations, police said. After the photo was allegedly circulated on social media, a number of the faithful protested. Acting on a complaint, the man was arrested from his residence at Nilambur in Malappuram district on Saturday. He has been charged under Section 153(A) of the Indian Penal Code (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc. and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-arrested-for-posting-derogratory-photos-of-crucifixion-in-kerala-824391.html
12-04-2020||National||Two persons die after consuming spurious liquor in Kanpur||Two persons died after consuming spurious liquor in Mawai Bachchan village in Sajeti area of the city, police said on Sunday. Sajeti's Station House Officer (SHO) Mukesh Solanki said six others, including village head Randheer Yadav, who had also consumed spurious liquor were being treated at the Lala Lajpat Rai (LLR) hospital. The deceased have been identified as Ankit Sachan (32), a health worker, and Anoop Sachan (30), a truck driver. Solanki said prima facie it appears that the victims had consumed the spurious liquor on Saturday night and then started developing complications. "We are trying to find out from where Anoop had purchased spurious liquor during the lockdown period," he added. District Magistrate Dr Brahmdeo Ram Tiwari and Senior Superintendent of Police Anant Deo Tiwari visited LLR hospital to take stock of their health and investigate the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-persons-die-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-in-kanpur-824395.html
12-04-2020||National||Haryana's BJP-JJP govt focusing more on liquor factories than coronavirus crisis: Surjewala||"The Khattar-Chautala government, whose aim should be welfare of 2.5 crore people of Haryana, is in a hurry to get liquor factories running,” he said while addressing a press conference through video conference. During the proposed extended period of lockdown, liquor shops are likely to be allowed to open as many chief ministers have strongly pitched for it arguing that it is a major revenue generating way for the states, sources had said on Saturday after a conference of state chief ministers with the PM. Citing a circular from the Excise and Taxation Commissioner dated April 11, he said, “The circular from the Excise and Taxation Commissioner (addressed to Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioners) says they are directed to ensure operations of distilleries, bottling plants-- Indian Made Foreign Liquor, breweries, wineries situated in their districts are resumed with immediate effect. “(For wholesale and retail operation), the order then says this may be treated as a step in the direction of full scale operations of wholesale and retail licenses after the lockdown period is over,” he said quoting from the order. Surjewala, a former Haryana Minister, said in the lockdown period, “priority of this government should be fighting the coronavirus, arming our doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, police personnel, safai karamcharis and essential services employees with personal protection equipment, N-95 masks and other gear and not bothering to start distilleries with immediate effect”.    “Is the government working for welfare of the people of Haryana or are they working for profiteering of liquor distillery owners and wholesale and retail liquor operators. That's a question they need to answer,” he said. Surjewala said that earlier too the state government had shut down liquor vends in the state from March 27 after heavy criticism from people and the opposition for keeping the outlets open despite a nationwide lockdown to check spread of COVID-19. Claiming that bootlegging was going on despite the entire state being under lockdown, he said it indicates a failure of the ruling dispensation on the law and order front. Haryana police had last week said that it had launched a crackdown against bootleggers and arrested 449 people for involvement in illegal storage/transportation/sale of liquor and over 1 lakh bottles of illicit liquor had been seized during the lockdown period. The Congress leader also voiced concern over “fewer” COVID tests being carried out, saying on an average only 51 tests were being conducted per day in a state having population of over 2.5 crore, which indicates failure of the government.       “To fight the corona pandemic, testing is key to prevention.. but I am deeply saddened that the Khattar government is neither comprehending nor understanding the gravity of the issue,” he said. He said that out of over 25,000 people who had been put on surveillance, as per government's own medical bulletin, only 3,663 have been tested in 71 days between February 1-April 12.    Reports of over 1,000 people who have been tested is still awaited, he said. “We are all together with the Khattar government in fighting the coronavirus, but they need to pull up their socks and get their act together and not leave the people of Haryana at the mercy of God,” he said. Meanwhile, he claimed that while the Centre has recommended use of sodium hypochlorite for disinfecting of public places, the state government was using “bleaching powder, which is not enough even to kill mosquitoes”. He said that if Congress workers can use sodium hypochlorite spray in Kaithal and Narwana the government should have also used it to disinfect public places across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryanas-bjp-jjp-govt-focusing-more-on-liquor-factories-than-coronavirus-crisis-surjewala-824401.html
12-04-2020||National||Lawyers write to CJI on rise in child abuse cases during coronavirus lockdown||The letter written by two lawyers, Sumeer Sodhi and Aarzoo Aneja, said that during the lockdown though overall rate of crime had gone down, incidents of abuse and violence faced by children have risen. “Under normal circumstances, it is not considered safe for abused children to stay at home as it might result in further suffering at the hands of their own family members. However, during the lockdown the danger to these children is exacerbated, as they are unable to leave their homes. The isolation has further shattered support networks, making it even more difficult for the victims to seek help or escape,” the letter said. It said child abuse incidents have already risen in India due to the lockdown and will keep increasing if steps are not taken immediately to protect and support the victims of child abuse. “This Court is therefore requested to take cognizance of the issue of protecting rights of children and their safety in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The need of the hour is to issue guidelines to various authorities for protecting children from violence and abuse, which is inflicted upon them by their own family members/ relatives/care takers, taking measures to ensure that counselling is made available to them. The NGOs/ Organizations which work in the field of child welfare need to be mobilized at this time of child abuse pandemic. Hence the present letter petition,” it said.    The lawyers, said that the basis of their letter are articles published in media in which it has been reported that hotlines are lighting up with cases of child abuse and the childline India Helpline has received more than 92,000 calls asking for protection of children from abuse and violence in the past few days during the lockdown period. “It was further stated that number of calls have increased by 50 per cent since March 24, 2020, i.e. the day of imposition of lockdown. It is further stated that confinement is fostering tension and strain created by security, health, and money issues. This sudden surge in the number of such incidents which are being reported and those which go unreported is not confined to India, as per various reports in international dailies,” the letter said. It said that the person committing the abuse is putting in danger the life of a child, and clearly violating the fundamental right of life and the right to live with dignity of that child, which is a facet of Article 21 of the Constitution of India as held by this court in plethora of cases.   It said that the top court has recently held that since COVID-19 is intensifying in India, it is important that urgent measures are taken on priority basis to prevent the spread of virus to Child Care Institutions and has directed positive measures, which has to be taken by child welfare committees, Juvenile Justice Boards and Children Courts, Government amongst others. The letter said that the top court has by its recent orders acknowledged that violence, including sexual violence may be exacerbated in context of anxiety and stress produced by lockdown and fear of the disease. “The need for further orders on the subject arise in view of the fact that the order dated April 3, is restricted to preventing spread of COVID-19 in Child Care Institutions and Foster Homes, whereas further orders are required to be passed to ensure that the children otherwise who are being subjected to domestic and sexual violence are protected from the wrath of the frustration that possibly comes with the lockdown,” it said The letter further stated that no notification/guidelines/positive measures have been taken by the Government until now for protecting the children from abuse during this period of lockdown and there are children who need care and attention. It said that the COVID -19 pandemic situation is the greatest challenge of our times and as the pandemic is intensifying in India, there are chances that the lockdown would be extended. “If positive measures are not taken urgently for protecting rights of the children, their fundamental right to live with dignity and their right to safety would be violated as the children would be exposed to danger. "Though there is also an increase in the number of cases being reported of domestic violence, but since there is a possibility of a grown up woman fighting for her rights as opposed to a child who possibly does not even know what rights he/she has, the present letter is being restricted for welfare of children,” the letter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyers-write-to-cji-on-rise-in-child-abuse-cases-during-coronavirus-lockdown-824413.html
12-04-2020||National||Aggressive contact tracing underway in Udhampur after first coronavirus death in Jammu||So far 106 contacts, both direct and indirect, have been traced and sent to administrative quarantine from Tikri, the native village of the 61-year-old woman who suffered from arthritis before succumbing to COVID-19, the officials said. They said 46 high-risk contacts were subjected to COVID-19 test, of whom six family members and a pharmacist, who visited the woman to deliver medicines, have tested positive for the virus.    No person is allowed to move out or enter the village after it was declared a red zone. The areas surrounding the village have been declared “buffer zones”. “The drive is still on to identify all contacts of the woman and other positive cases in the village,” Deputy commissioner Piyush Singla said.   Seeking cooperation of people, he said wearing masks has been made mandatory in the red zone, where astrict lockdown is being implemented. “Only medicine outlets in Gole Market area and opposite district Hospital in Udhampur town shall be allowed to open,”he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aggressive-contact-tracing-underway-in-udhampur-after-first-coronavirus-death-in-jammu-824414.html
12-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Govt seeks inputs from industries on expected output, logistics if made operational||The government has sought inputs related to production, labour and logistics from clusters in five key sectors to ascertain expected output if they are made operational within a fortnight and procedural support required, sources said. These five sectors are textiles, chemicals, electronics, steel and pharmaceutical. The four-point questionnaire sent through an industry body may also provide critical inputs to the Centre for drawing up a blueprint, entailing a lockdown exit strategy for businesses to limp back to normalcy. Apart from the expected output value if a cluster is made operational within 15 days, the Centre has sought responses regarding the procedural support required for facilitating it's functioning in terms of raw material sourcing, labour movement, distribution, connectivity to gateways and handling of its cargo at gateways, the sources said.    The questionnaire routed via the industry body also seeks responses on whether the clusters' labour resides or moves within a five km radius and if they can be operated with 70 per cent of the labour supply, amid large-scale migration of labour to their native places, which may impact manufacturing and production in the near future.   Among other issues, it also seeks to know if the cluster has a raw material dependence of more than 50 per cent on other districts or countries, apart from the preferred mode for raw material sourcing (road/rail/air) and markets for the cluster's output.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-govt-seeks-inputs-from-industries-on-expected-output-logistics-if-made-operational-824419.html
12-04-2020||National||SC lawyer writes to CJI suggesting ways courts can remain functional amid coronavirus lockdown||He suggested that all courts can sit with 25 cases and no client should be allowed in the court. "Closing courts for long is a self-destructive idea. Courts are sentinels of fundamental rights. There are backlogs. Vital interests of the people are involved and the cases are in quarantine. Video conferencing is like putting the court in ICU on oxygen. So how do we go about to restore a slightly better functioning," the lawyer wrote to CJI Justice S A Bobde on Saturday. He has suggested that judges and lawyers wear masks as well as gloves and as judges sit on the dais, they are separated from lawyers by a good distance. They themselves can sit five feet apart, he suggested. "All courts sit with 25 cases each. On hearing days 5 cases and 5 final disposals. Employees can be divided into two groups, each working for a week. They can be tested beorefhand and sanitized. Very few employees should approach the judges. Preferably not more than 2. Cases should be further divided hourly basis. 5 cases per hour. So lawyers in court are few. "For Every case only 2 seniors with one junior should be allowed entry. No client should be allowed in court. Lawyers must leave court once their case is over. Their clerk too. Filing can be by internet only. No intern should be allowed. In my view with suitable changes this scheme can work with safety," he wrote adding that all lawyers chamber, canteens and library may remain closed.   Dwivedi said that keeping the Supreme Court closed or in conference mode for long may not be in national interest. "With little functioning of the court the checks and balances is absent. Amidst the pandemic war the Apex court must remain Awake to the maximum extent possible," he said in his letter sent through the Supreme Court Registrar.    The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) Saturday had appealed to the CJI and his companion judges to declare cancellation of summer vacation and treat it as working period of the apex court in the larger interest of the litigants and interest of Justice in view of ongoing nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The lawyers’ body said that now that the first phase of lockdown is drawing to an end on April 14, 2020, and there is a strong possibility of similar or varying restrictions continuing thereafter, it believes that it is time for the Chief Justice of India and the companion Judges to take further proactive measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-lawyer-writes-to-cji-suggesting-ways-courts-can-remain-functional-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-824420.html
12-04-2020||National||Supreme Court to hear PIL against setting up of PM-CARES Fund on April 13||The Supreme Court would hear a PIL seeking quashing of the Centre's decision to set up the PM CARES Fund to deal with the situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic, where citizens can donate money, on Monday. On March 28, the Centre set up the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund with the primary objective to deal with any kind of emergency situation like the one currently posed by the coronavirus outbreak and provide relief to those affected. The prime minister is the ex-officio chairman of the fund and the defence, home and finance ministers are its ex-officio trustees. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and justices L Nageswara Rao and MM Shantanagoudar would hear the PIL filed by lawyer M L Sharma against the setting up of the PM CARES Fund through video-conferencing. "That cause of action arose to the petitioner on March 28, upon having press release for the formation of impugned PM CARES Fund and appeal by the Prime Minister of India to donate funds in that trust to fight COVID-19 and aid healthcare in future without any ordinance and gazette notification by the Government of India," the public interest litigation (PIL) petition said. The PIL, which has made all the trustees of the fund as well as the prime minister parties to it, has sought a transfer of the donations received so far in the fund to the Consolidated Fund of India, besides a court-monitored SIT probe into the setting up of the fund. It said the trust had to be created in accordance with Articles 267 and 266(2), which deal with the contingency and Consolidated Funds of India, of the Constitution.  "Impugned trust has not either been created by Parliament/state legislator within Art 267. It is neither passed by Parliament nor approved by the President of India. There is no ordinance/gazette notification in this regard," the PIL said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-hear-pil-against-setting-up-of-pm-cares-fund-on-april-13-824424.html
12-04-2020||National||Our godowns have enough food grains for nine months: Paswan on food distribution amid coronavirus lockdown||The central government has enough grains to feed over 81 crore beneficiaries of the public distribution system (PDS) for nine months, Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan said on Sunday, expressing confidence that its granaries, expecting a boost from a "bumper" wheat crop, will have adequate stock for a much longer period. As of April 10, the government-run godowns have 299.45 LMT (lakh metric ton) rice and 235.33 LMT wheat, totalling 534.78 LMT of the two major grains supplied to the poor, Paswan told PTI in an interview. The per month supply through the PDS amounts to 60 LMT, he said. Coarse grains and pulses are also supplied through the PDS in a limited quantity. "There is no shortage of grains. We now have a bumper rabi harvest and our estimate is that we will have adequate stock for up to two years," he said. Though the extended lockdown may have sparked a variety of concerns, including about economy, but any shortage of essential grains like wheat and rice is the least of them. Paswan said in a lighter vein that the condition is akin to "the lawyer (Centre) being more keen about the case than the client (states)", with the Union government constantly asking states to lift their quota of rations in time after it was announced that all PDS beneficiaries will get three months of supply free.   What has been seen is "unprecedented and historic", he said about the mechanism put in for the distribution of grains, with trains playing a key role. Recently in one day, over 20.19 LMT of grains were moved through trains, a record, he noted. The government has also made it easier for agencies, public or private, to purchase grains from it at a subsidised rate if they are involved in helping the poor. "If in this lockdown there had been any issue regarding the supply of food grains, then it could have created a havoc. So the biggest satisfaction and relief is that it has all gone well," Paswan, a member of the Group of Ministers overseeing the lockdown exercise, said.    Following the start of the three-week lockdown from March 24 midnight, the government had announced three months of free ration for the PDS beneficiaries and also allowed them to purchase their usual monthly quota on credit for three months. The antyodaya (poorest in the lot) beneficiaries, who get 35 kg of food grains per month irrespective of their family size, were allocated an additional 5 kg per head in the family. These measures have been of huge help in ensuring that nobody goes hungry during the lockdown, and the government's steps to combat the pandemic get maximum support, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/our-godowns-have-enough-food-grains-for-nine-months-paswan-on-food-distribution-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-824430.html
12-04-2020||National||Need to convert COVID-19 into opportunity; restart highways construction on war footing: Nitin Gadkari||Turning 'crisis into opportunity', India needs a renewed focus on infrastructure in the wake of the damage caused by COVID-19 and talks are on with state governments to re-start highway construction projects where migrant labourers can be gainfully employed, union minister Nitin Gadkari said. In a video-conference with PTI, the road transport, highways and MSME minister said talks are on with state governments for facilitating safe return of migrant labourers, an estimated 20 lakh of whom are in shelters pan-India. "I had a meeting with road sector officials. Work can be re-started at projects with condition that adequate measures are taken for safeguard against coronavirus. We have to follow guidelines. At some places collectors have given permission, some not. We are doing a follow up along with the chief secretaries of the states," the minister said. He said an estimated about 20 lakh migrant labourers are stuck in shelters or have gone back to villages and in view of the Disaster Management Act being in place, district collectors can take a decision on it. "As I have said and believe, we can turn any problem into opportunity, we need to focus on highways building with renewed vigour...Highways sector has faced much obstacles due to coronavirus. In coming years we will have to give the highest priority to the infrastructure sector. To accelerate the economy, infrastructure is needed," Gadkari said. He said plans are afoot to boost the highways sector. A committee has already been set up, he said, adding that work needs to be commenced on a war footing on highway projects, including the Rs 1 lakh crore Delhi-Mumbai new expressway which would usher in the development of backward and far-flung areas of Rajasthan, Haryana, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Reiterating that the government has saved a massive Rs 16,000 crore on land acquisition as it is on a new alignment, the minister urged companies to come forward for setting up manufacturing hubs and clusters along the highway to boost economic growth. Besides, work on some other stretches also needs to be accelerated, like the Dehradun-Haridwar highway in view of the upcoming Kumbh Mela as it would not be possible to widen the highway during the event, the minister said. He said there are six-seven flyovers which are required to be built on the Dehradun-Haridwar highway and talks are on with the state government officials for permission to start work while following all norms, including social distancing and sanitisation to prevent COVID-19. "As soon as we get permissions from the state government, we will start the construction work. Contractors will work in adherence to the norms while keeping safe for coronavirus. We will adhere to all guidelines," he said. Gadkari said the highways ministry plans to construct more than double the highways constructed in the last fiscal. "We have plans to do more than double or thrice the work we did this year (2019-20). To accelerate economy, road sector will do good work. In view of the lockdown the government will soon decide how to resume work as once rain comes highways construction gets difficult," he said. "The NHAI has accomplished construction of 3,979 kms of national highways in the financial year 2019-20. This has been the highest ever highway construction achieved in a fiscal by NHAI. It had recorded construction of 3,380 km in the 2018-19", an official said. The government has envisaged an ambitious highway development programme -- Bharatmala Pariyojana --which includes development of about 65,000 kms of national highways. As far as supply chain and transporters' issues are concerned, Gadkari said all chief ministers have already been requested to streamline transport, while Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust has started exporting containers also.  "By and large transport has started....We are in constant touch. For smooth supply of goods cooperation from drivers, cleaners and other stakeholders is needed. We will win the coronavirus fight and convert the problems into opportunity," the minister said. Claiming that livelihood of about 1 crore truckers was in peril due to the lockdown, transporters had demanded an immediate relief package for the sector. The outbreak of coronavirus pandemic and the resultant lockdown has led to idling of more than 90 per cent of about 1 crore truckers, they have said. More than 4 lakh truckers with goods under non-essential categories are still stranded across India, while goods worth about Rs 40,000 crore are lying in vehicles in the absence of unloading mechanism as well as reluctance on part of godowns, owners and others, the All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-convert-covid-19-into-opportunity-restart-highways-construction-on-war-footing-nitin-gadkari-824434.html
12-04-2020||National||Indian Railways has distributed 10 lakh cooked meals to needy people since March 28, across the country||IRCTC, RPF (Railways Protection Force), along with Zonal Railways and  GRP (Government Railways Police) supplied food to stranded passengers, migrant workers and needy people in 133 locations in different parts of the country. The IRCTC is operating all its base kitchens across the country to prepare food for lunch and dinner to supply in paper plates as well as food packets. Of the total meals distributed,  over 60 % have been provided by IRCTC, about 2.3 lakh meals have been provided by RPF from its own resources and nearly 2 lakh meals have been donated by NGOs working with the railway organisations, said railways in a statement. The railway already converted 2500 coaches as isolation wards to treat COVID-19  patients. It aims to convert a total of 5000 coaches as isolation wards. The railway plans to send these coaches to remote areas where people have little access to the hospital.   The national transporter already kept 40,000 beds in its hospitals to treat corona hit patients. Besides it already assigned its 2500 doctors to the task. The railways also planning to recruit more doctors on a contract basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-has-distributed-10-lakh-cooked-meals-to-needy-people-since-march-28-across-the-country-824436.html
12-04-2020||National||Ensure cargo movement of all goods: MHA to states||Amid hiccups in movement of goods in the country, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Sunday once again asked states to ensure that inter-state and intra-state movement of cargo of all goods are allowed during COVID-19 national lockdown. In a letter to state Chief Secretaries and Union Territory administrators, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said it has come to the notice of the MHA that its instructions related to cargo movement are not followed in "letter and spirit" and this could have the "potential of creating shortage of essential commodities". Bhalla's letter came against the backdrop of reports of trucks carrying essential and non-essential goods being detained, workers needed for running units manufacturing essential items not getting movement passes, states not honouring the pass issued by another state and disallowing working of cold storage and warehouses. The Home Secretary made it clear that inter-state and intra-state movement of trucks and other goods carrier vehicles with one driver and an additional person is allowed, "irrespective of the nature of the cargo, whether essential or otherwise" and no further permit or approval is required. "Empty trucks/goods carriers should also be allowed to operate while on way to pick up goods, or returning after completing a delivery. Hence, there is no cause to stop empty trucks provided they have valod documents such as driving licence and road permit etc," he said. Bhalla made it clear that local authorities should actively facilitate movement of drivers and cleaners from their place or residence to location of their trucks. Similarly, the states have also been asked to issue movement passes without fail for workers with manufacturing units dealing with production of essential services. Units involved in manufacture of essential items like wheat flour, pulses and edible oils should be allowed to function without any hindrance. The letter also said that godowns and cold-storages should be allowed to function during the lockdown, as these services are exempted from lockdown guidelines.  "These stipulations will apply to all areas other than the areas requiring containment, quarantine and surveillance measures (hotspots)," he said. MHA Joint Secretary Punya Salila Srivastava said situation regarding essential commodities is under control. In the MHA Control Room, officials of Ministries of Civil Aviation, Consumer Affairs and Railways have been working in coordination with states to resolve logistics problems, she said. Some Army units are also on the ground helping in food distribution in villages and helping in spreading awareness of COVID-19 among villagers. she added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-cargo-movement-of-all-goods-mha-to-states-824439.html
12-04-2020||National||Lockdown extension meaningful only if COVID-19 testing intensified: Akhilesh Yadav||"The demand to extend the lockdown will be meaningful only if COVID-19 testing is intensified, health workers get protection and the public gets access to essential items,” the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi. “To end the problem of cash crunch, arrangements have to be made at village and colony level along with banks." In another tweet, the SP chief took a jibe at the state government for changing the emergency response number from 100 to 112. "Even after changing the name or the number, those who are helped, those whose lives are saved, they always remember the original motivator. The success of these public welfare systems gives immense satisfaction about our own work," he tweeted.    On October 26, last year Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had launched an all-encompassing emergency helpline number '112' to access police, fire brigade, ambulance and other services under the Emergency Response Support System here. He also launched a senior citizen safety initiative ‘Savera’. ‘Dial 100’ was launched by the Akhilesh Yadav government in 2016.   "This single helpline number 112 will reduce the response time. Route chart of 112 should be prepared and positioning at district, station level should be done," Adityanath had said at the launch event. He said people do not need to remember different numbers for different tasks now. All emergency services have been integrated for the task.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-extension-meaningful-only-if-covid-19-testing-intensified-akhilesh-yadav-824463.html
12-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Consumers still facing essential commodities shortage||Despite the government claiming that it has ramped up the availability of essential commodities, a large number of consumers are still unable to get their goods both offline and online, says a latest survey. After showing some improvement for a week, the availability of essential goods starts dipping again both offline and online, says latest survey conducted by LocalCircles, a community social media platform, during April 9-10. About 35% of consumers were unable to find essentials via local retail stores while the percentage of consumers unable to find essentials via ‘eCommerce’ apps increased to 50%, says the survey. Different lockdown extensions by different states could add uncertainty and worsen the situation, said the survey. The survey conducted in association with the Department of Consumer Affairs, Government of India to check availability/non-availability of essential goods in retail stores, as well as on eCommerce platforms received 16,000+ responses from consumers located in 181 districts of India.  About 39% of the consumers who placed an order for essential goods (wheat, rice, pulses, salt, sugar, etc) from an eCommerce app said they were able to get most items while 8% said they were able to get only some items. 25% said they were not able to get most items while 17% said they were not able to get anything. Only 11% said they were able to get everything easily. On the eCommerce platform front, the availability of essential goods showed some improvement in the past week but has now shown a decline in the last two days. On the local retail stores front, the availability of essential goods has also declined in the last 2 days. On April 5-6, 70% of the consumers were reportedly able to find essential goods at local retail stores. This number has gone down and stands at 65 % as of April 9-10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-consumers-still-facing-essential-commodities-shortage-824469.html
12-04-2020||National||Govt invites proposals to study effects of yoga, meditation in fighting coronavirus and similar viruses||The Department of Science and Technology has invited proposals to study appropriate intervention of yoga and meditation in fighting COVID-19 and similar kinds of viruses. Teams of scientists, clinicians and experienced practitioners of yoga and meditation who have a proven track record in the field of yoga and meditation research are being encouraged to submit concept notes on the proposal. The proposals have been invited under the Science and Technology of Yoga and Meditation (SATYAM) programme of the DST, a department under the Ministry of Science and Technology. According to the ‘Call for Proposals’ uploaded on the Department of Science and Technology's website, concept note should cover aims and objectives of proposed work, existing literature, methodology, expected outcome, budget requirement and details of host institutions along with detailed biodata of the principal investigator with latest publications included in scientific journal databases. It states that the project may address improving immunity, improving respiratory system and interventions to overcome respiratory disorders and other dimensions like stress, anxiety and depression-related issues due to isolation, uncertainty and disruption in normal life. "The aim of this special call is to provide assistance to our society in today's critical condition arising due to pandemic COVID-19. Since this is a need-based call, therefore, proposed work should be completed within 6-12 months,” it said. Elaborating on the concept, DST Secretary Ashutosh Sharma said that SATYAM is a cognitive science programme. “COVID-19 usually has three dimensions -- related to stress (worry, sitting at home), respiratory and the immune system. “But this (how can yoga and meditation) has to be scientifically investigated. Sometimes, there is an empirical co-relation in something you do and something you see as an outcome, but you have to understand that scientifically,” he said.     He added clinicians, scientists and practitioners are expected to work together and make use of modern tools of life science and bio-sciences to understand if something works and if something does not. "If it works, what is the efficacy and in what conditions does it work," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-invites-proposals-to-study-effects-of-yoga-meditation-in-fighting-coronavirus-and-similar-viruses-824475.html
12-04-2020||National||Cyber-criminals are on prowl, beware of what you do online||From the elementary tip of compulsory change of default passwords to disabling remote access when not needed and not sharing meeting links through messaging Apps, cyber experts in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) have issued a slew of measures to be followed. With several offices now resorting to meetings in the virtual world using video apps and services, the advice is not to share links inviting for meeting publicly or through social media platforms and to use only "trusted" apps as approved by the employer for video conferencing or collaborative work. The advisory cautions not to be fooled by phishing emails and always check the link or email properly before opening it, and not to use the same device for work and leisure activities, and to use devices provided by the company for official use instead of personal devices. One must keep the remote access apps that allow accessing a computer in the network elsewhere, disabled until and unless required. When used, the security of the network should be ensured. Using open or free wi-fi network is dangerous, the advisory warns as it recommends changing the default password of home wi-fi and admin passwords and updating operating systems and anti-virus applications regularly.  The audacity and speed of cybercriminals in attempting to cash in on the pandemic was seen soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced setting up of PM-CARES to collect funds for COVID-19 and a UPI for payment. Soon after, several fake UPI ids similar to the official ones have flooded the cyberspace, prompting banks and other official channels to issue warnings. Earlier, Delhi Police and several state police forces have issued warnings, saying COVID-19 has given a new avenue for cybercriminals trying to cash in on the fear people have about the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyber-criminals-are-on-prowl-beware-of-what-you-do-online-824481.html
12-04-2020||National||HRD Ministry launches portal to monitor, record initiatives of its depts, academic institutions||The HRD Ministry on Sunday launched a portal to monitor and record initiatives, especially related to COVID-19, taken by its various departments and academic institutions. YUKTI (Young India Combating COVID with Knowledge, Technology and Innovation) will cover various initiatives and efforts of institutions in academics and research, social initiatives by institutions and measures taken for the betterment of students, Union Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said. "The portal will cover both qualitative and quantitative parameters for effective delivery of services to the academic community at large," he said. "It will also allow various institutions to share their strategies for various challenges which are there because of the unprecedented situation of COVID-19 and other future initiatives. We hope the portal will give inputs for better planning and enable us to monitor effectively our activities for coming six months," Nishank added. The portal will also establish a two-way communication channel between the ministry and the institutions so that necessary support system can be provided to the institutions. "We are confident that this portal will help in critical issues related to student promotion policies, placements related challenges and physical and mental well-being of students in these challenging times. The web platform will epitomise its name and prove to be a great enabler in taking the research to the ultimate stakeholders, the citizens of our country," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hrd-ministry-launches-portal-to-monitor-record-initiatives-of-its-depts-academic-institutions-824500.html
12-04-2020||National||Cong MP writes to MEA on Kabul Gurdwara attack: Ensure no Pak interference in probe||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Pratap Bajwa has urged the government to work with the Afghan authorities to ensure there is no Pakistani interference in the probe into the Kabul Gurdwara attack last month. In a letter to Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar, Bajwa urged the government to ensure all efforts are taken for a fair investigation in the March 25 attack that left 25 Sikhs dead and eight injured. Pakistan had earlier demanded that Afghan authorities hand over Aslam Farooqui, the alleged mastermind and the leader of the ISIL-Khorasan wing, to it. But Afghanistan had declined the request. Pakistan has claimed that Farooqui is wanted for conducting “anti-Pakistani” activities. Bajwa believed that this demand is an attempt by Pakistan to hide information regarding their involvement in the terrorist attack. The attempt to coerce Afghanistan into handing over the main accused to Pakistan would negatively impact the investigation and further harm the safety and security of Sikhs in Afghanistan, he said. Bajwa also said if Farooqui is given to Pakistan, the nascent NIA case on the attack could also be impacted. Therefore, he urged the Minister to take all steps to ensure the non-interference of Pakistan in these investigations. A heavily-armed Islamic State-Khorasan suicide bomber stormed the gurdwara in the heart of Afghanistan's capital on March 25, killing 25 Sikhs and injuring eight others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-mp-writes-to-mea-on-kabul-gurdwara-attack-ensure-no-pak-interference-in-probe-824528.html
12-04-2020||National||7 held for setting ablaze three shelter homes in Delhi||Seven people have been arrested for allegedly setting ablaze three shelter homes near Kashmiri Gate, police officials said on Sunday. A fire broke out at the shelter homes near Kashmere Gate around 6 pm on Saturday following which five fire tenders were rushed to the spot and they managed to douse the flames. Officials said that no one got injured in the incident. Police had on Saturday stated that six people were arrested in connection with the incident, but later revised the figure to seven. A case was registered for rioting, assault on public servant and damage to public property, a senior police official said, adding the seven arrested have been sent to 14-day judicial custody. The people who were staying at the shelter home have been shifter to other facilities. According to the police, those arrested were among the people who created ruckus earlier on Saturday over the death of a man who stayed in one of the shelter homes. The man had allegedly jumped into the Yamuna on river Friday after he, among others, was asked to maintain social distance while standing in a queue for getting food. A body was fished out from the river on Saturday morning by the people living in shelter homes. They claimed that it was the body of the man who jumped into the river on Friday, police said. A day before the fire incident, the residents at the shelter and civil defence volunteers had clashed over "food distribution", they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/7-held-for-setting-ablaze-three-shelter-homes-in-delhi-824586.html
12-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: 'Suraksha Stores' to meet daily needs on anvil||Ahead of extending restrictions on the mobility of goods and persons, the government plans to set up a chain of 20 lakh retail shops called 'Suraksha Stores' across India which will provide daily essentials to citizens while maintaining stringent safety norms. The Suraksha Stores initiative will convert the neighbourhood kirana stores into sanitised retail outlets selling daily essentials while adhering to safety norms such as social distancing and sanitisation to control the spread of the novel coronavirus, sources with direct knowledge of the development said. The government will rope in private firms to implement this plan, which seeks to ensure that proper protocol is followed in the entire supply chain, right from manufacturing units to retail outlets, to combat COVID-19. Consumer Affairs Secretary Pawan Kumar Agarwal has held at least one round of discussions with the top FMCG companies to implement this ambitious plan through public private partnership, the sources said.  The government is targeting to earmark 20 lakh retail outlets as 'Suraksha Stores' over the next 45 days. Each FMCG company might be given one or two states to execute this plan in an effective manner and enable every store to fight coronavirus.  When contacted, Agarwal said the government is "working" on the 'Suraksha Store' plan but declined to share any detail. To become a 'Suraksha Store', a retail store will have to comply with a health and safety checklist, which includes social distancing of 1.5 metres outside the shop as well as billing counters, use of sanitiser or handwash by consumers before entering shops, provision of masks to all staff and sanitisation of high touch areas twice a day.  The 'Suraksha Store' will not only be for groceries but also consumer durables, apparel and salons.  A top official at a leading FMCG firm confirmed the development.  "The government is planning to create Suraksha Store and Suraksha Circle to ensure hygiene and safety norms across the supply chain. More than 50 top FMCG companies have been approached. We are with the government and we have already given our approval to actively participate in this exercise," said the official, who wished not to be identified.  FMCG companies will be asked to provide training and mobilise health kits (masks, gloves and sanitisers) to enable retail outlets to become 'Suraksha Stores', the official said, adding that big industries would similarly help wholesalers and other smaller units.  As per the plan, each retail outlet will have to prominently display that it is a 'Suraksha Store' to customers. Educational posters related to hygiene and safety should also be displayed in the store.  Similarly, the Consumer Affairs Ministry is working on creating 'Suraksha Circle' where lead manufacturing plants will help their business partners and smaller factories in their vicinity in order to ensure a safe environment across the product supply chain.  Each lead manufacturing plant is expected to adopt 10 SMEs (small and medium enterprises) and one village in order to achieve the target to bring 50,000 SMEs and 5,000 communities under Suraksha Circle.   According to the plan, an online training certification programme will be created for Suraksha Stores and Suraksha Circle to ensure awareness about COVID-19 protocols for the supply of essential commodities as per the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-suraksha-stores-to-meet-daily-needs-on-anvil-824591.html
12-04-2020||National||28 more coronavirus cases surface in Uttar Pradesh; total count 480||Twenty-eight more coronavirus cases surfaced in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, taking the count in the state to 480, a state government official said. Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said so far 480 cases have been reported from 41 districts of the state. “Forty-five patients have fully recovered and discharged,” he said, adding that an improvement in the sampling mechanism has been made in the state. "On Saturday, 1,640 samples were tested. Initially, 150-200 samples were tested, which was then increased to 800. Now, this figure has crossed the 1,600-mark. Soon, we will cross the 2,000-mark," Prasad said. The official said the doctors who want to offer tele-consultation will be registered. “Voluntary registration for doctors will be started on the Health Department's website. Advice can also be sought from helpline 18001805145 and counsellors have been engaged for this,” he said. “We are also planning to make a pool of serving and retired government doctors and start taking their services for tele-consultation in the next a couple of days," the principal secretary added. He said it has also been decided to impart training to doctors and paramedical staff from where coronavirus cases have been reported as a doctor in Agra was found infected with the infection. At present, there are 576 patients in isolation wards while 8,084 are in quarantine facilities, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/28-more-coronavirus-cases-surface-in-uttar-pradesh-total-count-480-824593.html
12-04-2020||National||909 new coronavirus cases, 34 deaths reported in 24 hrs: Health Ministry||As many as 909 COVID-19 cases and 34 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of such cases to 8,356 and the death toll to 273 in the country, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday, while asserting that the government is "extra prepared" if there is an exponential rise in the number of coronavirus patients. Addressing a press briefing, Joint Secretary in the ministry Lav Agarwal said the government is expanding the COVID-19 testing capacity in state-run as well as private medical colleges. "The total number of COVID-19 cases has risen to 8,356 and the death toll to 273. A total of 909 new cases and 34 deaths have been reported since Saturday. The good news is that 716 people have recovered and have been discharged so far. Seventy-four people have been cured since Saturday. The government is extra prepared if the number of cases rises exponentially," he said. "We are working on an urgent basis to expand the capacity for COVID-19 testing in government and private medical colleges across the country. Fourteen mentor institutes, including the AIIMS and NIMHANS, have been identified to mentor the medical colleges and expand the coronavirus testing capacity," Agarwal added.  He said the recent resurgence of COVID-19 cases in China, Japan and Korea is a cause of concern and emphasised on the importance of social distancing, terming it the "social vaccine" against the dreaded virus. "The recent resurgence of positive COVID-19 cases in China, Japan and Korea is a cause of concern for us too. We should, therefore, ensure that we continue to follow our containment and social-distancing measures as we have been doing so far. Irrespective of the lockdown, it is important that we adopt a behavioural change and focus on social distancing, as it is an important component of managing the infectious disease," Agarwal said. Briefing about the preparatory measures taken by the government, he said the focus is on increasing the capacity of the primary medical infrastructure, which includes dedicated hospitals, isolation beds, ICU beds and quarantine facilities. "As of Sunday, while the requirement of beds for 8,356 cases is estimated to be 1,671 for 20 per cent of the confirmed cases with moderate to severe or critical clinical symptoms, the present availability of beds is 1,05,980 in 601 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals across the country. The number of isolation beds in these hospitals is being further augmented. "Dedicated hospitals for management of COVID-19 patients have increasingly been set up across the country. Along with government hospitals, various private hospitals, public sector units, military hospitals and the Indian Railways are contributing to these efforts. The Ordnance Factory Board has manufactured specialised tents to augment the medical infrastructure in remote areas," the official added. Agarwal further said training the health staff through institutes of national importance such as the AIIMS and NIMHANS is also a focus area. "Online training modules and webinars for ventilator management, clinical management, infection prevention control, bio-medical waste management and epidemiology have been organised by these institutions. To prepare the frontline medical workers, mock drills too have been held," he said. According to ICMR officials, a total of 1,86,906 samples have so far been tested across the country, of which 7,953 have been found to be positive for COVID-19. "In the last five days, on an average, 15,747 samples were tested per day and 584 of those were found to be positive per day," an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) official said at the press briefing. Responding to a question on development of vaccines, he said, "There are 40 plus candidate vaccines that are under development but none of them has reached the next stage." The Health Ministry also informed that 20,000 train coaches will be converted into isolation wards. "In the first phase, 5,000 coaches are being converted," Agarwal said. According to government spokesperson KS Dhatwalia, the Group of Ministers (GoM) has approved the release of hydroxychloroquine to 13 countries after an assessment of stocks. "Some countries have requested India for the supply of HCQ. After making an assessment of the domestic requirements and keeping a buffer, the release of HCQ to 13 countries has been approved," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/909-new-coronavirus-cases-34-deaths-reported-in-24-hrs-health-ministry-824597.html
12-04-2020||National||ICMR seeks participation in trial to study efficacy of convalescent plasma in COVID-19 patients||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has sought participation in a randomised controlled study to assess the safety and efficacy of convalescent plasma to limit complications associated with COVID-19. Similarly, it has also sought participation in the study on therapeutic plasma exchange in improving the clinical status of COVID-19 patients. Convalescent plasma is an experimental procedure for COVID-19 patients. As per the guidelines, hospitals and institutions planning to provide this modality of treatment should do so in a clinical trial with protocols which are cleared by the Institutional Ethics Committee. At this moment, the ICMR does not recommend this as a treatment option outside of clinical trials. "ICMR is inviting a letter of intent from institutions with the equipment and infrastructure available to participate in a clinical trial to study the safety and efficacy of convalescent plasma in COVID-19 patients, subsequent to necessary approvals and clearances. "Institutions which are interested to collaborate with ICMR on undertaking this trial intervention may express their interest by providing the details," the ICMR said.  In convalescent plasma therapy, antibodies from the blood of patients who have recovered from COVID-19 are used to treat severely infected patients. The study is aimed at assessing the efficacy of convalescent plasma to limit complications in COVID-19 patients and to evaluate the safety of treatment with anti SARS-CoV-2 plasma in coronavirus-infected patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-seeks-participation-in-trial-to-study-efficacy-of-convalescent-plasma-in-covid-19-patients-824622.html
12-04-2020||National Politics||Lockdown delayed to topple Madhya Pradesh government: Kamal Nath||Senior Congress leader Kamal Nath on Sunday trained his guns at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, accusing him of delaying the nationwide lockdown to fight the COVID-19 only to topple his government in Madhya Pradesh. Kamal Nath, who lost his chief minister’s post last month after a rebellion in the Congress, claimed former Congress President Rahul Gandhi had sounded the alarm bells on the COVID-19 crisis way back in February but the Modi government chose not to act on it. "Rahul ji had on February 12 drawn the attention of the government to the threat posed by coronavirus. However, the Centre delayed action because it was more interested in toppling the government in Madhya Pradesh,” he said addressing the media through a video link.  He said Parliament continued to function despite several state assemblies having adjourned in view of the spread of COVID-19. This was done to make the case for the functioning of the Madhya Pradesh assembly, which was adjourned for 10 days by the Speaker citing the COVID-19 outbreak. Kamal Nath also accused Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan of mishandling the COVID-19 situation in the state by not having a dedicated health minister to deal with the fast unravelling situation in the state.  “Madhya Pradesh is the only state which has no health minister and no home minister...Shivraj Singh Chouhan took oath as chief minister on March 23. The situation with regard to COVID-19 is so serious, there is no cabinet. It is akin to making a joke of the people,” he said. Senior Congress leader Vivek Tankha has written to President Ram Nath Kovind to impose President’s Rule in Madhya Pradesh on the grounds of the breakdown of constitutional machinery in the state as the chief minister has been unable to constitute his council of ministers. Kamal Nath, a former Union Commerce Minister, said the country was facing an economic crisis and with the Centre's revenues and collections from goods and services tax (GST) falling, India may well have to approach the International Monetary Fund. “I see a situation where India may have to go back to the IMF as we did in 1980. When we took an IMF loan at that time there were such conflicting views,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lockdown-delayed-to-topple-madhya-pradesh-government-kamal-nath-824398.html
12-04-2020||National Politics||J P Nadda asks BJP members to distribute ration kits, masks on Ambedkar Jayanti||BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday asked party state heads and chief ministers to release a video message, and urged all party members to distribute ration kits and face covers to the poor to mark the birth anniversary of Dalit icon B R Ambedkar on April 14. In a message to party workers, Nadda said they should put garlands on Ambedkar’s photograph at their homes and share the same on social media. He said the party members should take a pledge to uphold the ideals and tenets of the constitution, and obey the advisories and instructions of the government to fight COVID-19. "Distribute ration kits to every home in at least two poor settlements under the 'Feed the Needy' programme and face covers under the 'Wear Face Cover Stay Safe' programme in each mandal of a state. Do ensure to follow public hygiene and social distancing norms," the BJP president said in the message. Nadda also asked party leaders and workers to run awareness campaigns in every poor settlement on good health practices to keep it free of coronavirus and build a healthy society. He said they should write essays on Ambedkar and his ideas on the constitution, social equality and harmony. They should share and spread on social media the measures and decisions taken by the Union government, party and its leadership for the emancipation of downtrodden communities, upholding their dignity and ensuring their all-round development, the senior BJP leader added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/j-p-nadda-asks-bjp-members-to-distribute-ration-kits-masks-on-ambedkar-jayanti-824406.html
12-04-2020||National Politics||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri demands 'exemplary punishment' for Nihangs who chopped off policeman's hand||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri demanded an “exemplary punishment” for the members of a Sikh sect who chopped off a policeman's hand with a sword and injured two others on being asked to show curfew passes in Patiala on Sunday. Condemning the inhuman attack, the Union housing and urban affairs minister said “such criminals and anarchists” should be brought to justice at the earliest. The Nihangs severed a hand of an assistant sub-inspector and injured two of the policeman's colleagues after their vehicle was stopped outside a vegetable market and they were asked for curfew passes. "The inhuman attack on policemen in Patiala needs to be condemned in the strongest of terms. Such criminals & anarchists should be brought to justice at the earliest. They deserve exemplary punishment. I pray for speedy recovery of the injured policemen," Puri tweeted. The inhuman attack on policemen in Patiala needs to be condemned in the strongest of terms. Such criminals & anarchists should be brought to justice at the earliest.They deserve exemplary punishment. I pray for speedy recovery of the injured policemen. Hours after the incident, police arrested seven men, including five of the attackers, from a gurdwara in Balbera village in Patiala district. Punjab Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta described the incident as “unfortunate”. "In an unfortunate incident today morning, a group of Nihangs injured a few police officers and a mandi board official at sabzi mandi, Patiala. ASI Harjeet Singh whose hand got cut-off has reached PGI Chandigarh," Gupta tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/union-minister-hardeep-singh-puri-demands-exemplary-punishment-for-nihangs-who-chopped-off-policemans-hand-824446.html
12-04-2020||National Politics||BJP-JJP govt in hurry to get liquor factories running: Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala||Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Sunday hit out at the BJP-JJP coalition government in Haryana, saying it was in a hurry to get liquor factories running at a time when all its focus should have been in fighting COVID-19 and arming those who were at the forefront of this battle. "The Khattar-Chautala government, whose aim should be welfare of 2.5 crore people of Haryana, is in a hurry to get liquor factories running,” he said while addressing a press conference through video conference. During the proposed extended period of lockdown, liquor shops are likely to be allowed to open as many chief ministers have strongly pitched for it arguing that it is a major revenue generating way for the states, sources had said on Saturday after a conference of state chief ministers with the PM. Citing a circular from the Excise and Taxation Commissioner dated April 11, he said, “The circular from the Excise and Taxation Commissioner (addressed to Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioners) says they are directed to ensure operations of distilleries, bottling plants-- Indian Made Foreign Liquor, breweries, wineries situated in their districts are resumed with immediate effect. “(For wholesale and retail operation), the order then says this may be treated as a step in the direction of full scale operations of wholesale and retail licenses after the lockdown period is over,” he said quoting from the order. Surjewala, a former Haryana Minister, said in the lockdown period, “priority of this government should be fighting the coronavirus, arming our doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, police personnel, safai karamcharis and essential services employees with personal protection equipment, N-95 masks and other gear and not bothering to start distilleries with immediate effect”. “Is the government working for welfare of the people of Haryana or are they working for profiteering of liquor distillery owners and wholesale and retail liquor operators. That's a question they need to answer,” he said. Surjewala said that earlier too the state government had shut down liquor vends in the state from March 27 after heavy criticism from people and the opposition for keeping the outlets open despite a nationwide lockdown to check spread of COVID-19. Claiming that bootlegging was going on despite the entire state being under lockdown, he said it indicates a failure of the ruling dispensation on the law and order front. Haryana police had last week said that it had launched a crackdown against bootleggers and arrested 449 people for involvement in illegal storage/transportation/sale of liquor and over 1 lakh bottles of illicit liquor had been seized during the lockdown period. The Congress leader also voiced concern over “fewer” COVID tests being carried out, saying on an average only 51 tests were being conducted per day in a state having population of over 2.5 crore, which indicates failure of the government.   “To fight the corona pandemic, testing is key to prevention.. but I am deeply saddened that the Khattar government is neither comprehending nor understanding the gravity of the issue,” he said. He said that out of over 25,000 people who had been put on surveillance, as per government's own medical bulletin, only 3,663 have been tested in 71 days between February 1-April 12.    Reports of over 1,000 people who have been tested is still awaited, he said. “We are all together with the Khattar government in fighting the coronavirus, but they need to pull up their socks and get their act together and not leave the people of Haryana at the mercy of God,” he said. Meanwhile, he claimed that while the Centre has recommended use of sodium hypochlorite for disinfecting of public places, the state government was using “bleaching powder, which is not enough even to kill mosquitoes”. He said that if Congress workers can use sodium hypochlorite spray in Kaithal and Narwana the government should have also used it to disinfect public places across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-jjp-govt-in-hurry-to-get-liquor-factories-running-congress-leader-randeep-singh-surjewala-824576.html
12-04-2020||National Politics||Govt musn't allow foreign interests take control of Indian corporate during coronavirus crisis: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said that the economic slowdown has weakened Indian corporates and urged the government to ensure that no foreign interests take control of any such corporate at a time when the country is fighting the COVID-19 crisis. His concerns came following reports that some foreign institutions had bought stakes in Indian companies in the wake of the stock market downturn. "The massive economic slowdown has weakened many Indian corporates making them attractive targets for takeovers. The government must not allow foreign interests to take control of any Indian corporate at this time of national crisis," Gandhi tweeted. There were also reports that China's central bank has bought 1.01 per cent stake in Housing Development Finance Corporation, India's biggest housing mortgage lender.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-musnt-allow-foreign-interests-take-control-of-indian-corporate-during-coronavirus-crisis-rahul-gandhi-824577.html
12-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: Congress leader Ahmed Patel rues spread of hatred on social media||Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel on Sunday took a dim view of what he called the spreading of hatred in society by certain groups amid the coronavirus outbreak, and demanded strict action by the government. In a video message posted on Twitter, Patel said it was regrettable that some groups are trying to raise sensitive issues at the time of the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. "In such a time the administration needs to be very cautious. I feel that those groups or individuals trying to spread sensitive issues should be identified and action taken against them," Patel said in a message posted in Gujarati. Though he didn't take any names, the Congress veteran was apparently referring to instances wherein some right wing groups have targetted a particular community over the Tablighi Jamaat meet held at the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi last month and its connection to the sperad of the novel coronavirus. "If we are going to fight with each other then we cannot defeat coronavirus. Many use social media for spreading good messages, but some use it to spread hatred. Government should curb such usage," Patel said. He also appealed to leaders of various political parties against doing politics over the current crisis triggered by the coronavirus. Patel, a Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat, also criticised the government over the alleged shortage of the Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) for frontline health personnel. "The government has made available PPE for doctors and nurses, but they are not enough. All those fighting on the frontline should be given PPEs," he said. Patel also demanded PPE kits for conservancy workers. "It is the duty of the government and us to ensure that sanitation workers get PPE kits," he said. The Congress leader further said that migrant labourers have been very badly affected due to the lockdown and that it is the duty of the affluent section of society to help such poor people. "Migrant workers are stranded at many places. At the start of lockdown they started their journey on foot to reach their homes. Some of them reached their homes, some were stopped mid-way while others remained stuck at their work places," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-congress-leader-ahmed-patel-rues-spread-of-hatred-on-social-media-824581.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Foreigners made to write 'sorry' 500 times for violating coronavirus lockdown||A group of foreigners was made to write "sorry" 500 times for flouting the lockdown guidelines here on Saturday. Ten foreigners from different countries were caught taking a stroll in the Tapovan area here amid the ongoing 21-day lockdown to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus and not maintaining social distancing, Sub-Inspector Vinod Kumar Sharma said.  Each one of them was made to write a sentence of apology 500 times as a punishment, he added. "I did not follow the rules of lockdown so I am so sorry," each one of them wrote 500 times, Sharma said. Around 500 foreigners are staying in the Tapovan area these days and they are often seen violating the lockdown rules, throwing caution to the wind, he added. The operation to penalise them was conducted to send out a strong message to those who tend to take the lockdown lightly, Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/foreigners-made-to-write-sorry-500-times-for-violating-coronavirus-lockdown-824293.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Delhi govt to give one-time financial aid to drivers of paratransit vehicles||The Delhi government will provide one-time financial help of Rs 5,000 to drivers of autos, taxis, e-rickshaws and other paratransit vehicles to tide over the financial crisis caused by coronavirus pandemic. “The assistance will be given to drivers of autorickshaws, taxis, Gramin Sewa, Phatphat Sewa, maxi cab, eco-friendly Sewa, e-rickshaws and school cabs,” an official statement said on Saturday. The paratransit service providers will need to fill a simple online application form to avail the benefit, it said, adding the registration for the same will start from Monday. The drivers will also require public service badges (PSVs) and valid driving licence of paratransit vehicles, it said. "The financial help will be given through direct benefit transfer in the Aadhaar-linked bank accounts of eligible beneficiaries. The applicants will have to furnish PSV badge number, driving licence, mobile number, date of birth and gender,” the statement said. “The benefit will be given to all PSV badge holders who have been issued such badges till March 23 this year. Further, in case of persons whose driving licences have expired on or after February 1, 2020, their cases will also be considered for grant of benefit,” it said. “The applicants can file online applications within 15 days of opening of the portal from Monday at 10 am onwards. The link is available on the website of the Transport Department of Delhi government,” the statement said. Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said, “The Delhi government is committed to help drivers of public transport vehicles like autos, e-rickshaws, taxis etc in the extraordinary circumstances created by the lockdown owing to coronavirus.” "The process would be quick and the money would get transferred directly into the bank accounts. This will greatly help the drivers in these times of distress,” he said. According to the government, a helpline service will also be available for answering the queries of PSV badge holders. “The applicants can seek any clarification from 9 am to 6 pm on the helpline numbers- 011-23930763, 011-23970290, barring Sunday,” the statement added. The transport services in the national capital have been stopped amid the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the deadly coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-delhi-govt-to-give-one-time-financial-aid-to-drivers-of-paratransit-vehicles-824299.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||3 coronavirus patients recover in Himachal Pradesh||They are admitted to Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) here, Additional Chief Secretary (health) R D Dhiman said. All three are residents of Uttar Pradesh and had tested positive for the virus on April 4. With this, a total of nine patients have been cured in the state so far. The number of cases in the state rose to 33 after two more people tested positive on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-coronavirus-patients-recover-in-himachal-pradesh-824312.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Three more test positive for coronavirus in Bihar, total count 64||Three more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Bihar, taking the total number of such cases in the state to 64, a top official said. Of the three, one is a 16-year-old girl from Nawada and the other two are men, aged 40 and 63, from Begusarai district, Sanjay Kumar, the principal secretary of state health department, said on Saturday, adding that officials were trying to trace those who came in contact with them. Earlier on Saturday, a 45-year-old man, also from Nawada, was found to have contracted COVID-19. Bihar has reported one death so far, while 18 have recovered from the disease. A 38-year-old man from Munger, with a travel history to Qatar, had died at AIIMS, Patna, on March 21. Test reports, confirming that he was COVID 19- positive, arrived a day after his death. According to the State Health Society's bulletin, issued on late on Saturday, 6,250 samples have been examined so far, of which 6,182 tested negative and four have been rejected. Siwan, which has been identified as a hotspot for COVID-19, has accounted for 29 cases, followed by Munger and Begusarai with seven each, Patna and Gaya with five each, Gopalganj and Nawada with three patients each, Nalanda with two cases, and one each in Lakhisarai, Saran, and Bhagalpur. The total number of cases in the state nearly doubled during the week after 20 members of a family tested positive for the disease in Panjwar village of Siwan district, officials here said. The village has been completely sealed, with bamboo barricades erected on the streets and drones deployed to ensure people do not venture out of homes. NDRF personnel have been pressed into service to fumigate the area, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-bihar-total-count-64-824333.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Bulandshahr doctor dies of coronavirus in Delhi; family alleges cremation delayed||A middle-aged doctor from Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahr has died due to coronavirus at a hospital here, official sources said on Saturday. The family of the 58-year-old doctor has alleged that when his body was taken for cremation at the Nigambodh Ghat in the national capital on Saturday, they had to "wait for many hours" before it could finally be done. The man was brought to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi from a facility in Bulandshahr, and he died in the emergency ward, an official source said. His sample was taken which tested positive on Saturday, the source said. The wife and son of the deceased man alleged that they had to face a "lot of hassles" at the Nigambodh Ghat.  The cremation was to be done in a CNG-based crematorium, but there was no operator there and people were trying to avoid us, the wife alleged. Finally, after a couple of hours, an operator came from Bawana and the cremation could be carried out, she said. Officials of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, which administers this crematorium, could not be immediately reached for comments. Sources at Safdarjung Hospital also said authorities at the facility in Bulandshahr where he was taken first to, have been informed about his sample testing positive. His clinic and its surrounding areas have also been sealed by the UP Health Department, said Shashi Shekhar, the in-charge of a community health centre in Bulandshahr's Shikarpur area. The number of coronavirus cases in Delhi on Saturday rose to 1069, with five fresh deaths reported in a day, taking the toll from COVID-19 here to 19, authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bulandshahr-doctor-dies-of-coronavirus-in-delhi-family-alleges-cremation-delayed-824345.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: 'Nihangs' cut off ASI's hand in an attack on policemen in Punjab||An officer’s hand was chopped off with a sword and two other Punjab policemen injured Monday when a group of Nihangs attacked them after being asked to show curfew passes at a vegetable market in Patiala district, police said. Seven people, including five attackers, were arrested hours later after an exchange of fire at a gurdwara where the group fled after the 6.15 am incident in Sanaur town. One of the arrested men suffered gunshot wound, police said. A `mandi’ official was also hurt earlier. A video clip on social media appears to show Assistant Sub Inspector Harjeet Singh seeking help. A man picks up the severed hand and gives it to the officer. He is then taken away from the scene on a two-wheeler. The ASI was rushed to Rajindra hospital nearby and then referred to PGIMER in Chandigarh where he was undergoing surgery, police said. The other injuresd policemen include Sadar Patiala’s station house officer. With a lockdown in place to contain the spread of COVID-19, barricades were put up outside the wholesale market and entry restricted to those with curfew passes. The Nihangs -- members of a Sikh sect whose adherents carry traditional arms and wear blue robes -- arrived in an SUV and were told to stop by ‘mandi’ officials, police said "They were asked to show passes. But they rammed the vehicle against the gate and the barricades," Patiala’s Senior Superintendent of Police Mandeep Singh Sidhu said. The group then attacked the police personnel and fled to Gurdwara Khichri Sahib managed by them in Balbera village, around 25 km from Patiala city. In their operation, policemen led by Inspector General (Patiala Zone) Jatinder Singh Aaulakh stopped the movement of people a kilometer away from the gurdwara and surrounded it, police said. Several policemen took positions in nearby fields. Special Operation Group SOG) of Punjab Police was involved. Media was barred from going near the gurdwara. “Seven persons have been arrested,” Punjab Director General police Dinkar Gupta later told PTI. Three pistols, petrol bombs, swords, sacks of poppy husk and LPG cylinders were recovered from gurdwara, the DGP said, adding that the searches were still on. “We requested them through the public address system to surrender but they refused,” he said. The Nihangs inside hurled abuses at the policemen Local people, including a sarpanch, also went inside to talk to them but they did not relent, police said.  The Nihangs threatened to set fire to the cooking gas cylinders if police entered, said DGP. The DGP said an exchange of fire also took place. Earlier Punjab's Special Chief Secretary K B S Sidhu said police acted in a respectful manner when they entered the gurdwara. “The police party observed full Maryada while entering the Gurdwara premises. There were also women and children inside, who were unharmed, and have been left secure within the Gurdwara as before,” he tweeted. In an unfortunate incident today morning, a group of Nihangs injured a few Police officers and a Mandi Board official at Sabzi Mandi, Patiala. ASI Harjeet Singh whose hand got cut-off has reached PGI Chandigarh. Sidhu said five of the seven arrested men were a part of the gang that launched “an unprovoked murderous assault on a police party, with sharp-edged weapons”. Earlier DGP Gupta tweeted that the injured ASI was undergoing surgery at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh "In an unfortunate incident today morning, a group of Nihangs injured a few Police officers and a Mandi Board official at Sabzi Mandi, Patiala. ASI Harjeet Singh whose hand got cut-off has reached PGI Chandigarh," Gupta tweeted. "I have spoken to Director PGI who has deputed top Plastic surgeons of PGI for surgery, which just started. The Nihang group will be arrested and further action taken soon," he said. In another tweet, Gupta said, "Grateful to PGI for full support. Director PGI tells me that surgery has already started by 2 senior surgeons who will do their best. All of us praying to Waheguru for his full recovery!"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-nihangs-cut-off-asis-hand-in-an-attack-on-policemen-in-punjab-824365.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Quarantine wards set up at Corbett to save wildlife from coronavirus||Transmission of the novel coronavirus to a tiger at a zoo in the US has led authorities at the Corbett Tiger Reserve in Uttarakhand to set up quarantine wards in its ranges for tigers, elephants and sniffer dog squads to protect them from the virus. Quarantine wards have been set up at Kalagarh and Bijrani ranges of the reserve in compliance with the guidelines of the National Tiger Conservation Authority, CTR Director Rahul told PTI. Apart from that, 40 video mode cameras and 450 still mode cameras have been installed at the peripheries of the reserve to keep a tab on any abnormal behaviour by animals which might suggest they have contracted the COVID-19 contagion, he said. The reserve staff have been asked to stay put at the posts and they are being supplied with essentials there to prevent the possibility of their getting infected with COVID-19 and then passing it on to the animals that they have to handle, the official said. Patrolling staff have also been asked to keep an eye on any abnormal behaviour by the wildlife at the reserve, he said. Elaborate arrangements have also been made at the Rajaji Tiger Reserve to save tigers and other animals at the facility from the novel coronavirus infection, its  Director PK Patro said. "The reserve is under complete lockdown. The food for captive animals is sanitised at the gates before being brought in to be served to them. Zoo keepers who handle them are also being subjected to regular thermal screening to check if they have any symptoms of corona," Patro said. He said if the need to quarantine animals arises the rescue centres can be used for the purpose. Strict guidelines have been issued to the staff to inform the authorities if they spot the carcass of an animal within the reserve or at its peripheries. They have been asked to inform the Director if they see signs of illness in an animal, he said. According to an official estimate there are around  250 tigers and 1100 elephants in Corbett Tiger Reserve while there are 38 tigers and 450 elephants in Rajaji. The Uttarakhand forest department has 22 captive elephants and two sniffer dog squads.    GB Pant High Altitude Zoo, Nainital Director Biju Lal said the guidelines issued by the Zoo Authority of India after a tiger tested positive for coronavirus at a zoo in New York have been implemented with immediate effect.  "The zoo is closed. Sanitisers are being used and the animal enclosures are being regularly cleaned. Biologist of the Zoo Rekha Suyal is keeping a watch on the behaviour of animals," Lal said.   There are two tiger reserves, six national parks, seven sanctuaries, four conservation reserves, two big zoo and one small zoo besides two animal rescue centres in Uttarakhand.   "The wildlife wing of Uttarakhand forest department is taking all preventive measures to protect the animal world from the deadly virus by keeping a close watch on them. All arrangements have been made as per NTCA guidelines," Chief Wildlife Warden Rajiv Bharatari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/quarantine-wards-set-up-at-corbett-to-save-wildlife-from-coronavirus-824373.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Restrictions due to COVID-19 continue in Kashmir||They, however, said the curbs were tightened across the valley after Baseer Ahmad Khan, the adviser to the lieutenant governor and incharge of coronavirus control efforts in Kashmir division, directed deputy commissioners to enforce 24/7 strict lockdown in their respective districts. Khan issued these directions while chairing a high-level meeting on Saturday to review the arrangements and preparedness to combat deadly coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in the Valley, the officials said.  The adviser directed the deputy commissioners to plug all loopholes immediately and take strict action against those who try to violate the lockdown. Khan asked the deputy commissioners to involve religious heads so that they can advise their followers against holding any congregations and spread awareness about observing social-distancing norms to prevent the transmission of the COVID-19. Following the directive, the security forces sealed off main roads in most places in the Valley and erected barriers at several other places to check the unwanted movement of the people, the officials said. Only persons with valid passes were allowed to move. The markets across the Valley were shut and public transport was off the roads, with only pharmacies and groceries allowed to open, according to the officials. Educational institutions across Kashmir are closed, while all public places, including gymnasiums, parks, clubs and restaurants, were shut down more than a week before the nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. While the Prime Minister announced the lockdown on March 24, the union territory administration had on March 22 declared it across Jammu and Kashmir till March 31 as part of its efforts to contain the spread of the pathogen.  Restrictions were first imposed in many parts of the valley on March 19 to contain the spread of the deadly infection after the detection of the first positive case in the Valley. The number of COVID-19 cases in the union territory has risen to 224, out of which 180 were in Kashmir and 44 in Jammu. Four have died, while six recovered. More than 48,000 people have been kept under surveillance. The government has marked 77 red zones -- 12 in Jammu and 65 in Kashmir -- for containing COVID-19 and tracking the suspects at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restrictions-due-to-covid-19-continue-in-kashmir-824379.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||2 more succumb to coronavirus in Indore; city toll rises to 32||Two more persons have died of coronavirus infection in Indore, taking the toll in the Madhya Pradesh city to 32, officials said on Sunday. After the death of the two patients, aged 75 and 65 years, their sample test reports came out positive for coronavirus, Indore's Chief Medical and Health Officer Praveen Jadiya said. He did not immediately disclose the date of death of both the patients. In the last 48 hours, 49 new cases of coronavirus have been found in the city, including a doctor from a private hospital and a nurse. With this, the number of COVID-19 patients in Indore, the state's industrial hub, has gone up to 298. Of these, 32 people, or 10.74 per cent of the total patients in Indore, have succumbed to the viral disease. The death rate of COVID-19 patients in the city has remained higher than that at the national level for the last several days. The city administration has imposed curfew in the urban limits of Indore since March 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-more-succumb-to-coronavirus-in-indore-city-toll-rises-to-32-824384.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Cop hitchhikes 1100 km from Chhattisgarh to reach village in Uttar Pradesh after mother's death||For Santosh Yadav, overcoming the hardships caused due to coronavirus outbreak was no less daunting than battling Maoists in the jungles of Chhattisgarh. Amid the nationwide lockdown, the 30-year-old Chhattisgarh Armed Force (CAF) jawan, posted in the naxal-hit Bijapur district, travelled over over 1100 km in three days using goods trains, trucks and river boat, to reach his village in Uttar Pradesh after his mother's death. I just wanted to reach my village Sikhar after I learnt of her death. Both my younger brother and a married sister live in Mumbai and it was not possible for them to reach the village due to the lockdown," Yadav told PTI. "I could not leave my father alone in such a situation, he said. Yadav's wife and two kids also live in the Mirzapur village in Uttar Pradesh where he reached after his mother's death. Yadav, who joined the CAF in 2009 and is deployed in its 15th battalion, was busy with his routine schedule at his camp in the outskirts of Bijapur on April 4, when he got a call from his father that his mothers condition had deteriorated. He suggested his father to shift her to a hospital in Varanasi. She was admitted to a hospital in Varanasi the next day but the same evening Yadav's father called to inform that she was dead. Unavailability of transport facilities due to lockdown was not an issue for the inconsolable Yadav who embarked on the long journey home on April 7 morning after receiving the relieving letter from the commandant. "I just wanted to make it to the state capital Raipur from where I was confident of arranging something for further journey," he said. Yadav took a lift on a paddy laden truck from Bijapur to reach Jagdalpur. He waited there for around two hours before spotting a mini truck which dropped him in Kondagaon, around 200 km from Raipur. "In Kondagaon, I was stopped by police personnel but I explained my situation to them. Luckily an official deployed there was familiar to me and helped me in my travel up to Raipur in a vehicle carrying medicines," he said. "From Raipur, I boarded a goods train with the help of a friend posted in the Railway Protection Force (RPF). Then, I changed at least eight goods trains to reach Chunar, the nearest railway station to my village, on April 10 morning, thanks to all station masters and my friends working in Railways," he said. Yadav said he then walked for 5 km to reach Ganga river and took a boat ride across to reach his village. He said he was stopped at several places by police and railway personnel due to the lockdown but was allowed to proceed on humanitarian grounds. "As many as 78 men from my village are working in Railways and I was aware that they could be of great help to me during the journey," he said. Unmindful of his not-so-smooth journey, Yadav says he supports the lockdown as it has been imposed for the safety of people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-cop-hitchhikes-1100-km-from-chhattisgarh-to-reach-village-in-uttar-pradesh-after-mothers-death-824386.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Seven arrested for attacking police team in Punjab, chopping ASI’s hand||Seven people, including five Nihang Sikhs, were arrested from a gurdwara in Punjab on Sunday, hours after an attack on a police team in Patiala in which an assistant sub inspector’s hand was chopped off, police said. The seven people included five who were allegedly part of the attack outside a wholesale vegetable market in Patiala early on Sunday morning, officials said. With a lockdown in place, barricades were put up outside the market and police personnel were regulating entry by asking for curfew passes. A group of four-five 'Nihangs' (a sect of Sikhs whose members are armed with traditional weapons and dressed in loose blue robes) were travelling in a vehicle and were asked to stop at a vegetable market by officials of the ‘mandi’ around 6.15 am, police said. "They were asked to show (curfew) passes. But they banged the vehicle against the gate and barricades put up there," Senior Superintendent of Police, Patiala, Mandeep Singh Sidhu said. The attackers fled to Balbera close by and were arrested from a gurdwara there, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seven-arrested-for-attacking-police-team-in-punjab-chopping-asi-s-hand-824388.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||8 arrested for gambling amid coronavirus lockdown in Rohini||Police have arrested eight people for gambling in Rohini sector 16 while a lockdown is in place to contain the spread of coronavirus, officials said on Sunday.  During a raid on a house, eight persons were found gambling, they said, Rs 95,600 in cash and five new packets of playing cards have been recovered, police said. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the Delhi Gambling Act, section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, a senior police official said. The accused have been identified as Vinod Kumar (36), Amit (41), Sunil (52), Kamal Kishore (59), Pradeep (32), Suresh Kumar (48), Rajesh Malik (52) and Satbir (27).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/8-arrested-for-gambling-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-in-rohini-824394.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Haryana coronavirus positive cases rise to 179||The number of coronavirus cases rose to 179 in Haryana on Sunday, with seven of the total 14 fresh cases being reported from the worst-hit Nuh district, according to the state health department. Kurukshetra district, which had so far remained COVID-free, reported first of its two cases while Faridabad and Yamunanagar districts also reported two cases each. Nuh and Karnal reported seven and one case, respectively. Out of total positive cases, the total number of active COVID-19 cases in the state now stands at 151, the state health department's daily bulletin said, adding 26 patients have been discharged. The state has recorded two COVID-19 related deaths. As many as 3,675 samples have been tested so far, out of which 2,472 have tested negative. However, report of 1,026 samples is still pending. Among the total coronavirus cases reported in Haryana, 10 are foreign nationals while 64 are from other states, as per the bulletin. The worst affected districts of the state with maximum number of positive cases are Nuh (45), Gurugram (32), Faridabad (31) and  Palwal (29). Among other places in the state, containment orders have been issued by Deputy Commissioners concerned for 140 villages including 104 buffer zones in Nuh district. Health Minister Anil Vij has maintained that the spike in positive cases was due to a number of Tablighi Jamaat members testing positive. He said earlier that over 100 of the Jamaat members had tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-coronavirus-positive-cases-rise-to-179-824408.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: FIR against J&K resident for concealing travel history to Nizamuddin||Acting tough, the Jammu and Kashmir police have registered a case against a north Kashmir resident for allegedly concealing his travel history after attending a religious gathering at Nizamuddin in New Delhi. The individual, a resident of Kupwara, had returned home on March 22, and was tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. Two close contacts of the person also tested positive on Saturday. A police official said the case against the person was registered for concealing the travel history and exposing the local population to the deadly virus. “The person had traveled to Nizamuddin and came back to his home (Kupwara) on March 22. He kept roaming in his immediate neighbourhood for more than 15 days,” he said. The authorities have declared his native place as a red zone. Health officials said aggressive contact tracing was done, during which his family members including the relatives and some contacts were put in quarantine.  Among the contacts, two of his relatives have tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, while the whole population is still under the tight grip of fear since the locals claimed that the boy was seen roaming freely in the area and was part of several cricket matches and drove several vehicles. Police had asked people with travel history to report to quarantine centres on their own, failing which they were warned of strict action as per the law. The police have learnt that after returning home the boy had argued with the local sarpanch and magisterial team to go under quarantine. Following the same police swung into action and registered a case against him for concealing the travel history.  The religious gathering at Nizamuddin in mid-March is being linked to many COVID positive cases in various parts of the country, including J&K. A 65-year-old religious preacher of the Tablighi Jamaat, who became the first coronavirus casualty in J&K, according to officials, had also visited Nizamuddin before the three-day conference started. Last week six more coronavirus positive cases in Kupwara were traced to the Tablighi congregation. Till April 11 evening, a total of 207 confirmed COVID-19 cases have been reported in Jammu and Kashmir with four among them dead and six others recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-fir-against-jk-resident-for-concealing-travel-history-to-nizamuddin-824412.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Total cases in Bhopal reach 135, 2 deaths so far||Three people tested positive for coronavirus in Bhopal on Sunday, while one died of the infection, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases to 135 and the deaths to two, Madhya Pradesh health officials said. The new cases are of two men and a woman, while the report of an 80-year-old man who died earlier returned positive for the infection on Saturday night, said Chief Medical and Health Officer Prabhakar Tiwari. "The men are 61 and 53 years old while the woman is 49. Their reports were received on Sunday morning. The number of COVID-19 cases in Bhopal is now 135. This includes two deaths," he said. "The 80-year-old man who died earlier was suffering from asthma. His samples were collected after his death at Hamidia Hospital and they tested positive on Saturday," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-total-cases-in-bhopal-reach-135-2-deaths-so-far-824416.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Mobile phones, sim cards recovered from high security jail in J&K||The Jammu & Kashmir Police in a surprise raid conducted inside Central Jail Kot Balwal, Jammu have recovered mobile phones and SIM cards from the possession of militants lodged inside. Sources said that a police team raided the jail and recovered three mobile phones and some SIM cards from the possession of Pakistani militants lodged there. The raid was carried out after the arrested of a Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) over-ground-worker (OGW) by the Police from RS Pura area on Saturday morning “During questioning the arrested OGW made important disclosures relating to links with militants inside the jail. Subsequently, a case FIR no 63/2020 US 13,17,39 UAPA and 121-A IPC was registered and investigation took up,” they said and added that the mobile phone recovered from him led the police to the jail. “Vital leads were developed by investigation teams during questioning of the arrested OGW following which police under the supervision of SSP Jammu raided the high-security Kot Bhalwal Jail,” the sources said and added the searches were carried out after the OGW disclosed that he was in constant touch with the detained militants via phone. A senior police official said they cannot rule out the involvement of the jail staff in providing mobile phone facilities to militants and other hardcore criminals in the prison. In January 2019, in a similar raid, police had recovered mobile phones, sharp-edged weapons and deep freezers from Kot Bhalwal jail.  The high-security prison, where the UN-designated terrorist, Masood Azhar, was once detained, has over 500 prisoners, including Pakistani and local militants. In February 2018, the Centre had asked the J&K government to fully review the security measures inside jails and transportation of inmates after a Pakistan militant, Naved Jatt, who was subsequently killed in an encounter with security forces, managed to escape.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mobile-phones-sim-cards-recovered-from-high-security-jail-in-jk-824418.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Woman throws her five children into Ganga after quarrel with husband||A woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Bhadohi allegedly threw her five children into the Ganga following an argument with her husband, police said on Sunday. Efforts are on to trace the children, they said. Superintendent of Police Ram Badan Singh said the incident took place in Jahangirabad village under the Gopiganj police station area late on Saturday night. He said Manju Yadav and her husband Mridul Yadav often quarrelled in the past one year. “Hence, she thought of killing her children by throwing them into the river," he said. On Saturday night after an argument with her husband, Manju allegedly threw her children Aarti, Saraswati, Maateshwari, Shivshankar and Keshav Prasad into the river. The SP said the river near the Jahangirabad ghat where the incident took place is deep. "The search for the children is on," he said. Police said when the woman came to the ghat, the children raised an alarm but the fishermen there fled believing her to be a witch. They said the woman did not leave the spot after the incident and herself told people about it on Sunday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-woman-throws-her-five-children-into-ganga-after-quarrel-with-husband-824427.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan: Tablighi Jamaat member tests positive for COVID-19, booked for defying lockdown||A Tablighi Jamaat member has tested positive for coronavirus and he was booked for allegedly flouting the lockdown orders and concealing travel history in Rajasthan's Jaisalmer district, police said on Sunday. Police learnt about the association of the man with the organisation through a source, and also about his activities defying the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the pandemic, they said. He was taken for the medical examination and was confirmed for COVID-19, police said. "He had left Pokaran village on March 13 and travelled to various places attending various Tablighi Jamaat congregations. He returned to Jaisalmer on March 17, but he hid his travel history from police," Station House Officer Surendra Kumar.  "Instead of confining himself to home, he continued travelling around and meeting people in areas like Badli, Ujlan, That, Gomat and other areas of Pokaran even after the lockdown was invoked," Kumar added. A case was registered against him for flouting the lockdown orders and also becoming a carrier of the disease, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-tablighi-jamaat-member-tests-positive-for-covid-19-booked-for-defying-lockdown-824428.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Scare in Uttar Pradesh after first case of COVID-19 detected in migrant workers||A migrant worker from Bihar, who had been quarantined in Uttar Pradesh along with thousands of others, who had migrated from Delhi, Noida, Gujarat, Mumbai and other places after the lockdown, tested positive for coronavirus setting off alarm bells in the authorities here. The 18-year old migrant worker, who hailed from Katihar in Bihar, had been living at the quarantine centre at Bhadohi town, about 250 kilometres from here, along with over one hundred other migrant workers. According to the officials in Bhadohi, the migrant worker was shifted to the isolation ward at the district hospital in the neighbouring Mirzapur district after being found infected with the virus on Saturday. The youth was part of a group of 32 migrant workers, who were apprehended from the near a level crossing in Bhadohi on March 31. All of them worked at a plastic factory in Delhi and were walking along the railway tracks to reach their destination in Bihar. The officials said that it was the first case of COVID-19 among the migrant workers and that it was a worrying sign. The officials have sent swabs of 80 other persons, who had also been living at the quarantine centre, for testing.   Around two lakh migrant workers and their families, who included both residents of the state and Bihar, had arrived in different parts in the state after the 21-day lockdown was declared. While many of them succeeded in reaching their homes in UP, a large number of others were stopped by the police and were put up at temporary camps and quarantine centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scare-in-uttar-pradesh-after-first-case-of-covid-19-detected-in-migrant-workers-824445.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||PWD community kitchens feeding needy in all districts of Uttar Pradesh during COVID-19 lockdown: Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya||The Public Works Department (PWD) of Uttar Pradesh has been serving food to the needy and the poor twice a day in all 75 districts of the state since the lockdown was imposed to combat coronavirus, Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said on Sunday. Community kitchens have been set up for this purpose at PWD guest houses in the districts and care is being taken to ensure the quality of food and adherence to social distancing norms, Maurya, who also holds the PWD portfolio, told PTI here. "The community kitchens are providing food to the needy persons in the districts twice a day. Dry rations are also being distributed from these community kitchens. These will continue to operate as long as the lockdown exists," he said. The community kitchens run by the PWD, the Bridge Corporation and the Rajkiya Nirman Nigam (an UP government undertaking) are also coordinating with the officials of the district administration, Maurya said. The UP deputy chief minister said the nationwide lockdown was essential to curtail the spread of the deadly virus and secure the future of the country. He urged people to follow the guidelines issued by the government and obey the lockdown norms.  "The Centre and the state government have already made arrangements to provide essential items to the public so that no one faces any problem," he said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pwd-community-kitchens-feeding-needy-in-all-districts-of-uttar-pradesh-during-covid-19-lockdown-deputy-cm-keshav-prasad-maurya-824447.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Special e-pass initiative introduced to facilitate patients in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur||A special e-pass initiative has been started in Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir for the convenience of patients, a move appreciated by the local residents amid the ongoing lockdown to combat coronavirus. Under the initiative, started by Deputy Commissioner Piyush Singla, patients are no longer required to visit the DC office for movement passes, and instead have to apply online for the same which is subsequently issued through the same channel, officials said. The district administration has received 217 applications under the scheme, out of which 150 applications have been disposed off till Saturday evening, they said. Strict restrictions are in place across Udhampur district where a 61-year-old woman died of novel coronavirus last week. The district has 17 COVID-19 positive cases. Nearly two dozen villages in the jurisdiction of three police stations - Rehamble, Ramnagar and Chenani -have been declared containment or red zones in the district. The special e-pass initiative has also attracted the attention of Union minister Jitendra Singh who took to Twitter to appreciate the step. “Appreciate DC #Udhampur, JammuAndKashmir, for launching E-pass service for patients. Any patient in need of movement pass can apply online at epassudhampur.nic.net.in,” he said. National volleyball player Raj Guru, a resident of Udhampur town, also hailed the district administration for taking a slew of people-friendly measures. “We have seen 'ration on wheels', packed food for thousands of stranded people, massive fumigation drive and now the e-pass initiative… these are very good steps taken by the local administration which needs to be appreciated,” he said. Guru said people need to understand the seriousness of the problem and extend all possible cooperation to the administration by staying at their homes and following the guidelines. The district officials said the major thrust of the administration is on the hotspots and strict directions have been passed to ensure that no one visits or comes out of these red zone areas spread over three-kilometer radius. Special teams are visiting every house in the red zones and adjoining villages to look for contacts of COVID-19 positive cases besides undertaking the fumigation drive, they said. The deputy commissioner has already directed all departments to put in place necessary arrangements for the delivery of essential items in these areas through frontline workers and volunteers. Special duty magistrates have also been deployed in these areas to monitor the situation closely, the officials said. Udhampur Deputy Commissioner Piyush Singla himself visited the red zone areas to assess the situation and is closely monitoring the working of all and gets regular updates from all departments concerned, they said. The officials added that large scale awareness through various platforms, including panchayati raj institutions, social media and folk songs, is being done among the common people for practicing social distancing, using masks and following the health advisory issued by the government from time to time. The district administration is also planning to distribute four lakh masks among the people during the next 10 days. “Poor people will be provided masks free of cost,” the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-special-e-pass-initiative-introduced-to-facilitate-patients-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-udhampur-824448.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Pay tributes to Ambedkar at home amid coronavirus lockdown: Mayawati asks BSP members||Ahead of the birth anniversary of B R Ambedkar, BSP chief Mayawati has appealed to party workers to follow lockdown restrictions and pay tributes to him in their homes in view of the spread of coronavirus. B R Ambekdar was born on April 14, 1891. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Mayawati said, "A symbol of humanistic thought and sacrifice, Babasaheb Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar is a source of motivation for his followers especially BSP workers. But in the current Corona pandemic scenario, it is an appeal to all to follow restrictions imposed by the government, and celebrate the anniversary in their homes and pay tributes." In another tweet, she asked party workers to seriously deliberate upon the poor condition and harassment of Ambedkar's followers during the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pay-tributes-to-ambedkar-at-home-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-mayawati-asks-bsp-members-824453.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Plea filed in SC for CBI probe into assembly of people at Nizamuddin Markaz and bus terminal in Delhi||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a CBI probe into the assembly of people at Delhi's Anand Vihar bus terminal and Nizamuddin Markaz after the lockdown was imposed due to Covid-19 pandemic. In a PIL, Supriya Pandora, a resident of Jammu, contended that there was "inaction" on the part of the Centre and Delhi government to secure the life of people from coronavirus. The petitioner contended the Delhi government had failed to explain till now why a large number of people were allowed to assemble at Anand Vihar Bus Terminal and Markaz in Nizamuddin, putting other citizens to Novel Coronavirus risk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-filed-in-sc-for-cbi-probe-into-assembly-of-people-at-nizamuddin-markaz-and-bus-terminal-in-delhi-824461.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Earthquake of 3.5 magnitude with epicentre in Delhi, tremors felt all over national capital region, none damaged||An earthquake of magnitude 3.5 with epicentre in Delhi shook the region, prompting panic-stricken people to rush out of their residences. According to the National Centre for Seismology, the quake occurred at 5.45 pm. Its epicentre was in NCT Delhi at the depth of 8 km. There was no immediate report of any damage.   More details awaited...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/earthquake-of-35-magnitude-with-epicentre-in-delhi-tremors-felt-all-over-national-capital-region-none-damaged-824464.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Water consumption in parched Bundelkhand up 60% due to coronavirus: Study||The average water consumption per person has increased by more than 60 per cent in urban areas of Bundelkhand region in Uttar Pradesh because of heightened sanitisation concerns amid the coronavirus pandemic, a study by a voluntary group has found. The preliminary analysis by 'Jal Jan Jodo Abhiyan' showed the average water consumption per person was 75 litres before March 15 but it increased to 125 litres owing to repeated handwashing, home cleaning, washing of clothes, national convener of the programme Sanjay Singh told PTI in an interview on phone. "We have based our projections on the rough estimates of water supply provided by Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam and Jal Sansthans to Bundelkhand. We are waiting for a detailed data set from these organisations which will be possible only after the lockdown is lifted. Then we will have a clearer picture. “Going by the data provided so far, we can safely say the per capita water consumption has increased by at least 60 per cent from the average consumption," Singh said.  Known as "the waterman" in the parched Bundelkhand region, Singh has worked to conserve water for over 20 years. He initiated a novel concept of "Jal Saheli" under the voluntary group "Parmarth Samaj Sevi Sansthan" with which he has been associated for 25 years. The initiative brought women from nearly 150 villages to the forefront of water conservation, a scarce commodity in the region. "Nowadays, on average, a person is washing hands five to seven times a day. People are also cleaning their homes. Using more water to clean vegetables and even in some extreme cases packets of milk and other commodities which has increased consumption. This is evident in the preliminary water procurement supply data," he said. The Bundelkhand region has seven districts spread across Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh with seven rivers flowing, 20 dams and numerous reservoirs, some of them over hundreds of years old. Still, it grapples with a water shortage because of its unique granite-base topography, which does not allow rainwater to seep and recharge the groundwater, Singh said. Most of the water supply comes from dams, which are also affected with silting requiring repeated maintenance, he said. Singh said the water problem is likely to get severe in coming days, but repair of hand-pumps and supply lines is halted because of the lockdown to contain COVID-19, he said. "After the harvest season, work to repair ponds and reservoirs used to begin, but because of the pandemic there is a delay, which will affect the water conservation efforts to tap the rainwater during the monsoon," he said. Singh said 70 per cent of water is used in agriculture while about 12 to 15 per cent is used in industries and personal consumption. "If the problem of COVID-19 continues to increase, it will keep on increasing water consumption. With dwindling natural resources for water, it will be an uphill task to meet the promise of tap water in every home by 2024 because of increased demand" he said. People will have to change their lifestyles to adapt to pandemics like COVID-19withlimited water usage, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/water-consumption-in-parched-bundelkhand-up-60-due-to-coronavirus-study-824465.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||21 fresh COVID-19 cases take J&K’s tally to 245||The number of COVID-19 cases mounted to 245 in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday as 21 more persons tested positive for the novel coronavirus. “21 new cases of Covid-19 reported in J&K today. 17 from Kashmir Division and 4 from Jammu Division. The total number of positive cases now 245. Details follow in the daily bulletin (sic),” J&K government spokesman, Rohit Kansal, tweeted. The new patients are mostly contacts of already confirmed cases and those with travel history to outside Kashmir. Over the past few days, there has been a sudden spurt in the COVID-19 positive cases in J&K that has already registered four deaths, including a woman.  On Wednesday the highest cases were recorded when 33 patients tested positive for the COVID-19. Srinagar tops the list of positive cases among all districts of J&K forcing the administration to declare 14 areas as red zones, where all entry and exit points have been sealed. The curbs were tightened across the valley after Baseer Ahmad Khan, the adviser to the lieutenant governor and in charge of coronavirus control efforts in Kashmir division, directed deputy commissioners to enforce 24/7 strict lockdown in their respective districts.  Following the directive, the security forces sealed off main roads and lanes in most places in the Valley and erected barriers at several other places to check the unwanted movement of the people, reports said. The government has marked 77 red zones; 12 in Jammu and 65 in Kashmir, for containing COVID-19 and tracking the suspects at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/21-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-jk-s-tally-to-245-824471.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Women self help groups in Kota stitch face masks on mission mode amid coronavirus outbreak||Facing a surge in demand for face masks amid the outbreak of COVID-19, women self-help groups (SHGs) in Kota have supplied more than 51,000 masks to frontline workers and public alike in the last few weeks fetching them a handsome sum of money. Under the aegis of the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana – National Urban Livelihood Mission (DAY–NULM) and the Kota Municipal Corporation (KMC), 39 women SHG members have earned over Rs 5 lakh by dispatching 51,200 masks so far. They have received bumper orders for 62,000 more masks, officials said. DAY-NULM is a government scheme that aims to reduce poverty and vulnerability of the urban poor households by enabling them to access gainful self-employment and skilled wage employment opportunities. As per data available online on mask making by DAY-NULM SHGs till Friday, Kota district is at the top in the state with more than 50,000 masks with Jhunjhunu district in distant second with 10,000 masks followed by Dungarpur district with 9,000 masks.  Impressed by the performance of the women SHGs in Kota, Director and Ex–officio Joint Secretary, Local Self Government, Ujjwal Rathore, had issued a letter on Thursday to commissioners/executive officers of all local bodies of the state directing them to get SHGs of DAY–NULM engaged in making masks in the wake of rising requirement for the same. At the centre of this record number of face masks is Dr Hemlata Gandhi, social development manager of DAY-NULM at KMC. "We never presumed that a small effort by a few members of SHGs would fetch them such big orders and revenue," Gandhi said. On March 18, a week before the nationwide lockdown was imposed, she uploaded a video on the SHG Whatsapp group - Nari Shakti - on a mask making competition. A small number of masks were made for the competition which were sold out very soon and more importantly provided good income in the hands of the SHG members, she said. Encouraged by the response, the SHG members expressed keen interest in making more such masks. Later on March 21, Gandhi uploaded another video of ready-made masks on a Facebook page and orders started flooding in within hours. Gandhi then sought guidelines for standards of face masks from the Health department and instructed the SHG members to tailor 18 X 8 cm, three-layered cotton masks but getting the necessary cloth and other materials for stitching the masks proved to be difficult. When Gandhi took up the issue with KMC Commissioner Vasudev Malawat, he took special efforts to procure the materials from a shop in Indira Market in the city. "Kota District Collector Om Kasera and Commissioner Vasudev Malawat extended huge support and cooperation to make it possible for SHGs to make the face masks even in the lockdown," Gandhi pointed out. "Currently, 39 women of 11 SHG groups of NULM are employed in making masks and they have made nearly 52,000 face masks out of which 51,200 masks that were ordered have been delivered generating an income of over Rs 5 lakh to them," she further said. A single piece of elastic stringed mask costs Rs 8 while a mask with thread string is priced at Rs 10. These SHG members, who were otherwise deprived of earning money from daily labour due to the lockdown, are now getting Rs 300-400 per day by making masks, the NULM manager said. The current demand is for 62,000 masks and they have been receiving orders from other districts also but unavailability of transportation during the lockdown is a hurdle in delivering the masks, Gandhi said. Amid the spread of COVID-19, special emphasis is being laid on social distancing while making the masks and each member of the SHG is making masks individually at their home and the prepared masks are collected at their home. With the success of selling face masks, the SHGs are now gearing up to stitch personal protective equipment (PPE) uniforms and full face masks for frontline medical staff. Besides, the women have been deployed in other creative online competitions at their respective homes that include 'making best out of waste' and gardening and videos on promoting sanitisation, personal hygiene, frequent hand washing have also been uploaded online, Gandhi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/women-self-help-groups-in-kota-stitch-face-masks-on-mission-mode-amid-coronavirus-outbreak-824484.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Jaipur cops warn coronavirus lockdown violaters they will face the music: Masakali 2.0 on loop||Think twice before violating the coronavirus lockdown in the Rajasthan capital: Jaipur Police will inflict Masakali 2.0 on you. Police here have warned on social media that they will confine violators to a room and then play the song, a recent remix of the original Masakali from Delhi-6, over and over again for those found “roaming unnecessarily” during the lockdown to fight coronavirus. The remake has not gone down well with many, including A R Rahman, the composer of the original for the Abhishek Bachchan-Sonam Kapoor-starrer a decade back. It was sung then by Mohit Chauhan. Original lyricist Prasoon Joshi has also gone on social media, making clear that he is not happy with the Masakali 2.0 music video starring Sidharth Malhotra and Tara Sutaria. Jaipur Police are not necessarily taking sides in the row over the remake. It’s just that the lyrics are apt. “Mat Udiyo, Tu Dariyo… Na Kar Manmani, Manmani… Ghar Par Hi Rahiyo, Na Kar Nadani”, the lyrics say. Don’t be stubborn, don’t be stupid, stay at home, the lines say. On twitter, Jaipur Police warned, “If you are unnecessarily roaming outside, we will put you in a room and play Masakkali 2.0 on loop." The post also carried a cartoon making the same point. “That's a savage. Killing lot of birds with shot. Great sense of dark humour…Can't stop laughing,” Vivek Shah reacted on Twitter. Shashi M Nair tweeted, “Awesome thinking. Masakkali 2 music deadliest than coronavirus. It's better to be at home rather than listening the song.” Deputy Commissioner of Police Kavendra Singh Sagar, who handles social media, said they decided to use humour to get the message across to people.  By Sunday afternoon, Jaipur alone had reported over 300 cases of coronavirus. Police have barricaded 262 location in the city to prevent movement of unauthorized people. They have seized over 8,100 vehicles so far and arrested 131 people for flouting prohibitory orders. Drone cameras are in use and their live footage monitored to check if the lockdown is being followed, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jaipur-cops-warn-coronavirus-lockdown-violaters-they-will-face-the-music-masakali-20-on-loop-824487.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Minor among three killed in Pakistan shelling along LoC in Kashmir||A minor and a woman were among three civilians killed as the Pakistani army violated the ceasefire by resorting to the firing of small arms and mortar shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Sunday. The deceased were identified as Shameena Begum, Javeed Khan and Zayan, an 8-year-old boy. Sources said Pakistan targeted Shararat post, Jal Black Rock, and Anil posts along the LoC and resorted to heavy mortar shelling. Several shells landed in civilian areas, damaging houses and killing three civilians, they said. This comes just a day after massive cross border shelling was reported in the area. An army official earlier said that this afternoon Pakistan resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation creating fear among the local population and targeted Indian army posts. They said that the initial fire started from Hajitara, Dhani and later the firing spread in the areas like Manzgam, Malikpora, TCP, Hafrada, Kralpora and Tumna Hachimarg Chowkibal. He said the shelling was started by Pakistan and Indian army responded in equal proportions. Senior Superintendent Police (SSP) Kupwara, Shriram Ambarkar confirmed the killing of civilians in the shelling. “The assessment and evacuation process is underway and people are being moved to safer places,” he said. With coronavirus pandemic spreading chaos everywhere, a source said, Pakistan army was trying to take advantage of the crisis and push militants into Jammu and Kashmir. In the recent days, several attempts were made by the infiltrators with Pakistani army giving them covering fire along the LoC in Kupwara and Poonch and Rajouri districts of Jammu region.There were a total of 646 incidents of ceasefire violations along the International Border (IB) as well as the LoC between January 1 and February 23 this year, Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik said in March. Over 3,200 ceasefire violations by Pakistan troops were recorded in 2019. There is 198 km IB and over 510 km of LoC with Pakistan in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-among-three-killed-in-pakistan-shelling-along-loc-in-kashmir-824489.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Tiger found dead in Kanha reserve||A tiger was found dead in the Kanha Tiger Reserve of Madhya Pradesh, a forest official said on Sunday. A patrolling team spotted the carcass in Chimta forest range on Saturday, Kanha Tiger Reserve's field director L Krishnamurthy said.  The carcass had injury marks, he said, adding that preliminary probe suggests the tiger died after a fight with another big cat. The viscera was sent to a laboratory for examination, he added.  The Kanha National Park is spread across Mandla and Balaghat districts of Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-tiger-found-dead-in-kanha-reserve-824493.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Lockdown in UP extended for fortnight, tally reaches 480||Uttar Pradesh recorded 28 coronavirus positive cases on Sunday taking the state tally to 480 even as the 21-day lockdown period, which would have ended on Tuesday, was extended for a fortnight. Additional chief secretary, home, Avaneesh Awasthi told reporters here that Agra, with 104 cases, had the maximum number of Coronavirus positive people. He also said that around 80 per cent of the total cases of infection had been reported from the hotspot areas in the state. The government has identified 133 hotspots in 16 districts in the state. Awasthi said that 46 patients had completely recovered and discharged from the hospitals. Meanwhile, according to the sources, the state government has decided to extend the lockdown period for another fortnight from Wednesday. Sources said that 41 of the 75 districts in the state were affected by the virus infection. In the other 34 districts, the government was likely to give some relaxation. There would however be a complete ban on inter-district movement of vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-in-up-extended-for-fortnight-tally-reaches-480-824495.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Baraat stuck in Aligarh for three weeks due to coronavirus lockdown||Savitri cannot go to her marital home despite the baraat waiting for three weeks and some baraat members have started to lose patience. But no one is able to do anything and Savitri does not say much but she must be confused. Vidhipur villagers say none of them would ever forget this marriage. Savitri’s baraat arrived on March 21 and it was to return to Dhanbad district in Jharkhand on March 23, but then the nationwide lockdown was announced and it got stuck, along with the bride and the groom. Savitri’s family has been hosting the guests since and arranging their meals. The district administration has pitched in to help the family by providing one meal a day. The 12 baraat members have been tested for coronavirus and they were found negative for it. They told mediapersons that they did not have the slightest idea the trouble they will find themselves into when they left their hometown on March 20. It’s not clear when Savitri and the baraat will leave for Dhanbad. The lockdown is set to end on April 14 but states have pitched for an extension.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/baraat-stuck-in-aligarh-for-three-weeks-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown-824496.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 breaks narcotics supply chain in Punjab||The COVID-19 outbreak has delivered unexpected benefits to Punjab which has been battling the scourge of drug addiction for years together. “The only good thing that has come out of COVID is that the drug supply line has broken. So we are happy,” Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said in an interaction with the media. Singh has been at the forefront in the battle against drug addiction since he became chief minister in March 2017. He has set up a special task force against the drug menace with one thousand policemen headed by an Additional Director General of Police-rank officer. “I have been informed that the supply line of the drugs has been broken. So heroin and all these things which were being smuggled are no longer happening,” Singh said. The state’s border with Pakistan was the major transit route for drug trafficking into India and over the years, Punjab had emerged as a major consumer state, making drug abuse a political issue in the assembly elections in 2017.  Singh had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year to frame a national policy to check the drug menace. Recently, the Centre had identified 272 districts across the country as hugely affected by the drug menace and was planning to implement an ‘addiction-free India’ initiative to address the issue. According to the Narcotics Control Bureau, 18 out of Punjab’s 22 districts were in the grip of drug menace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-breaks-narcotics-supply-chain-in-punjab-824499.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh DGP warns people against violating home quarantine||Himachal Pradesh DGP Sita Ram Mardi on Sunday warned people against violating the mandatory home quarantine, saying such people will be sent to the isolation facilities set up by the administration. In a recorded video statement amid the coronavirus outbreak, the DGP said it had come to their notice that several people had "jumped home quarantine". If any such incident occurs in future, such person will be kept in the institutional quarantine, he warned. On April 7, Kangra Deputy commissioner Rakesh Prajapati had said that 24 suspected COVID-19 patients had escaped from home quarantine in the district.  Mardi also asked people to desist from sending and forwarding hate messages. If anyone found doing this, legal action will be taken against him, he added. The DGP said nine coronavirus patients have been discharged from hospitals after treatment in the state so far. Discrimination or social boycott of such persons should not be done, mere maintain social distance, he advised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-dgp-warns-people-against-violating-home-quarantine-824508.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||3 civilians killed in ceasefire violation in Srinagar||Three civilians, including a minor, were killed in a ceasefire violation by Pakistani troops along the Line of Control in Keran sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, officials said on Sunday.   "Pakistani troops initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation around 5.00 pm,  targeting civilian population," the officials said.  Last Sunday, Keran sector was the scene of a deadly operation in which five elite army commandos laid down their lives while eliminating a group of infiltrating militants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-civilians-killed-in-ceasefire-violation-in-srinagar-824511.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Devendra Fadnavis asks Maharashtra govt to seek money from cash-rich bodies||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday asked the Uddhav Thackeray-led state government to borrow money from the cash-rich Mumbai civic body and MMRDA to buy the equipment required in the fight against coronavirus. Money should not be an excuse for delay in procurement of such items, he said speaking to a Marathi news channel. "The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) have bank deposits worth thousands of crores, which can be utilised for raising money during the ongoing fight against the coronavirus outbreak," the senior BJP leader said. The BMC is controlled by the Shiv Sena, which is headed by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Fadnavis said the state can utilise these funds for buying more testing kits, personal protective equipment (PPE- needed by health staff) and other necessary equipment. "Once wheels of the economy start moving after some months, the borrowed money can be refunded. In any situation, money should not be an excuse for delay in procurement of such items, the leader of opposition in the state Assembly said. On the state government's approach to curb spread of the viral disease, he said, "The containment zone (system) seems to be working out. It is an important stage before we enter the third phase of community transmission, he said. He said the State Reserve Police Force can be used more effectively to keep people indoors during the lockdown. "At times, the state will have to be strict and unpopular in some decisions, but such strictness is necessary in the larger interest of society. We are with this government," he said. He also said the state needs to work on the recommendations of the exit policy chalked out by the Centre, where it could offer some relaxations in areas where no coronavirus cases have been reported. "The Centres recommendations are self-explanatory, but the state being the implementing agency, the (Thackeray- led) government needs to take some steps," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/devendra-fadnavis-asks-maharashtra-govt-to-seek-money-from-cash-rich-bodies-824514.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 containment zones in Delhi rises to 43||The number of coronavirus containment zones in the national capital rose to 43 on Sunday, with southeast Delhi having the most such zones at 12. There were 33 COVID-19 hotspots in the city on Monday. With the announcement of 10 more containment zones, the respective district authorities have started to seal those areas to stop the spread of the virus. According to a Delhi government official, Chief Secretary Vijay Dev has directed officers to strictly monitor the containment zones and follow all laid down procedures. Close on the heels of southeast district, East Delhi has nine coronavirus containment zones, followed by Shahdara at five and West Delhi at four. While south, southwest and central Delhi have three containment zones each, New Delhi and North district each have two such zones. Mansara Apartments in Vasundra Enclave, Street Number 9 in Pandav Nagar and Vardhaman Apartments in Mayur Vihar Phase-1 Extension are among 43 containment zones. On Friday, the number of coronavirus cases in Delh mounted to 1069, with 166 fresh cases and five deaths being reported in a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-containment-zones-in-delhi-rises-to-43-824521.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Finnish national among 354 women in labour pain rushed to hospitals in Delhi||With ambulances and other vehicles not available, women in Delhi in labour pain now have a friend in the city police. A Finnish national was among 354 women in labour pain who were taken to hospital in the past 18 days of Covid-19 lockdown. Twice, the woman from Finland had called the police and twice it had responded. First time when she called earlier this month, police reached her residence in three minutes. They rushed her to the hospital in south Delhi's Qutub Institutional Area, the doctors told her that there was time left for delivery. She returned and only to return to the hospital again two days later. This time too, she made a call to the Delhi Police Control Room (PCR), which helped her reach the hospital in one of its vehicles. "She was admitted in the same hospital where she gave birth to a baby boy," Deputy Commissioner of Police (PCR) Sharat Kumar Sinha said. Among the 354 women whom police took to hospitals, 45 cases were of critical nature. On Sunday alone, 35 women in labour pain were shifted to hospitals. "The distress calls are received at odd hours as well as from remote areas. Out of the calls received, nine calls came between 11 PM and 5 AM and some places were as far as 16 km from nearest multi-speciality hospitals. The staff displayed professionalism and dedication b shifting these women to appropriate hospitals safely in quickest possible time," Sinha said. Attending to these calls were besides other distress calls. At least 845 people have also been shifted to various hospitals in the city, including two senior citizens who suffered heart attack. Sinha said PCR vehicles are being increasingly used as ambulances are overburdened in dealing with various emergencies. "The PCR vehicles are prepared to provide assistance to people requiring emergency hospitalisation like women in labour pain, heart attack patients or any other persons in need emergency hospitalisation due to life-threatening medical issues," Sinha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/finnish-national-among-354-women-in-labour-pain-rushed-to-hospitals-in-delhi-824522.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi govt to sanitise city's red, orange zones from Monday, says Kejriwal||The Delhi government will launch a massive sanitisation drive in the city's COVID-19 containment areas, declared as red zones and high-risk zones, identified as orange zones from Monday onwards, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said. The chief minister said areas where positive COVID-19 cases are being found, will be declared as containment zones. Till Sunday afternoon, 34 hotspots in the national capital were identified as COVID-19 containment zones. Addressing an online briefing, Kejriwal said, "We have declared COVID-19 containment zones as red zones and high-risk zones as orange zones. We have identified more containment zones in the national capital." The chief minister said he was concerned about the increasing number of coronavirus cases in the city. However, he assured that steps were being taken to contain the spread of the deadly virus. Talking about the sanitisation drive, Kejriwal said 10 technologically-advanced machines from Japan along with 50 Delhi Jal Board sanitisation machines will be used as part of 'Operation SHIELD'. According to the chief minister, the operation launched by the Aam Aadmi Party government has been successful in Dilshad Garden which was a hotspot area until now. "No new case of COVID-19 has been reported in Dilshad Garden in the last 10 days due to Operation SHIELD," he said.  Sealing, home quarantine, isolation and tracking, essential supply, local sanitisation and door-to-door checking are the key aspects of 'SHIELD' in any containment area. "Operation SHIELD will be implemented in all areas which have been declared as containment zones... I know people would be facing difficulties in these areas, but it is necessary for saving their lives," Kejriwal said. On the recent announcement of giving Rs 5,000 to every autorickshaw, gramin-sewa and taxi driver in wake of the ongoing lockdown, he said they can apply for the fund from Monday through transport department's website after submitting their bank account details. "An applicant who has valid driving license and badge will be able to avail the benefit under the scheme," the CM said. He that the government has been giving free-ration to 72 lakh people, adding that around 23 lakh people, who don't have ration cards, are also being provided with ration. The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital on Friday mounted to 1,069, with 166 fresh cases and five deaths being reported in a day, according to the Delhi government authorities. Of the total cases, 712 are those who have been brought to hospitals through special operations. Government authorities had last month carried out measures to quarantine people who were related to a religious congregation held in Nizamuddin area in March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-govt-to-sanitise-citys-red-orange-zones-from-monday-says-kejriwal-824524.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi govt to sanitise city's red, orange zones from April 13, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||The Delhi government will start a massive sanitisation drive in the city’s COVID-19 containment zones, declared as ‘Red Zones’ and the high-risk zones, identified as ‘Orange Zones’ from Monday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said. According to the government, 34 hotspots in the national capital have been identified as COVID-19 containment zones. Addressing an online briefing, Kejriwal said, "We have declared COVID-19 containment zones as 'Red Zones' and high-risk zones as 'Orange Zones'… We have identified more containment zones in the national capital.” The chief minister said he was concerned about the increasing number of coronavirus cases in the city. However, he assured that all steps were being taken to contain the spread of the deadly coronavirus. On Saturday, the total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital mounted to 1,069, with 166 fresh cases and five deaths being reported in a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-govt-to-sanitise-citys-red-orange-zones-from-april-13-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal-824525.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||27 lakh coupons to be issued to farmers for bringing wheat crop to mandis amid coronavirus lockdown in Punjab||About 27 lakh coupons will be issued to wheat growers for bringing their crop to grain markets for procurement, starting from April 15, as part of the measures to prevent overcrowding in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. As the state government has already decided to stagger wheat procurement by extending the procurement season till June 15, it is estimating to procure 135 lakh metric tonnes of crop for the Rabi marketing season 2020-21, officials said. To keep a check on overcrowding in mandis, the number of purchase centres has also been expanded to around 3,691 in the state by involving 1,824 rice mills. Last years, the number of purchase centres stood at 1,840, they further said. "The market committees will issue coupons to Arthiyas (commission agents) who in turn will give them to farmers, who are associated with them, for bringing their crop to mandis," a senior official of Punjab Food and Civil Supply Department said. "A total of 27 lakh coupons will be issued for wheat procurement," said an official of Punjab Mandi Board on Sunday. "One coupon will be meant for one tractor trolley for a specific mandi on a given day. If a farmer requires more trolleys for transporting wheat to mandis, then each trolley will be issued separate coupon," the official said, adding that Arthiyas will give coupons to farmers while keeping their output in mind. A farmer shall be entitled to take multiple coupons each day or on different days depending on space in the purchase centre in order to avoid rush in the mandis, the official said. The coupons with holograms will allow farmers to bring their crop to mandis in their tractor trolleys. To ensure social distancing at grain markets, the ground space at mandis has been divided into 30X30 feet for 50 quintals of crop, the official added. Curfew restrictions are in place in Punjab in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. Farmers will be required to bring minimum possible persons with tractor trolley in order to avoid gathering at grain markets. "Minimum of 1 metre distance will be maintained between persons at mandis and if anybody sleeps at mandis then distance should be 2 metres," said the official.  The Punjab Mandi Board has also developed a mobile app ePMB which will help it to track the movement of tractor trolleys, issuance of passes and utilization of space at mandis. Harvesting operations by combines will be allowed between 6 am to 7 pm, the official said. The state government has already written to the Centre seeking incentives for farmers who delay bringing in the wheat produce to the mandis to May and June. It has proposed no incentive for farmers bringing in grain at the mandis from April 15-30, but an incentive of Rs 100 per quintal and Rs 200 per quintal in addition to the MSP of Rs 1,925 for those bringing in the produce in May and June, respectively. Meanwhile, Additional Chief Secretary (Development) Viswajeet Khanna said all the requisite arrangements are in place by the Mandi Board well in advance for the procurement which will begin from April 15  and continue till May 31, and if need be till June 15. The Centre has fixed Rs 1,925 per quintal as minimum support price for wheat. Khanna said wearing masks and use of sanitisers will be ensured at mandis. Over 1 lakh masks and 25,000 litres of sanitizer has so far been received for use in purchase centres. Against the total requirement of 4.82 lakh gunny bales, 3.05 lakh have already been made available, he said. Likewise, arrangements for 47,000 tarpaulins have already been made. Khanna further said that farmers will be paid through Arthiyas within 48 hours of the lifting of produce.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/27-lakh-coupons-to-be-issued-to-farmers-for-bringing-wheat-crop-to-mandis-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-in-punjab-824532.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||12 more COVID-19 cases reported in Punjab; tally at 170||Twelve people tested positive for coronavirus in Punjab on Sunday, taking the total in the state to 170, officials said here. Among the fresh cases, seven are from Jalandhar, three from Mohali and one each from Kapurthala and Faridkot, a medical bulletin said. Twelve people have died due to the disease so far in the state, it said, adding that currently, two patients are on oxygen support and 23 have been discharged. Mohali district continues to top the COVID 19-tally in Punjab with 53 confirmed cases so far, as per the bulletin. Jalandhar has reported 22 cases, followed by 19 in Nawanshahr, 16 in Pathankot, 11 each in Mansa and Amritsar, 10 in Ludhiana, seven in Hoshiarpur, four in Moga, three each in Rupnagar and Faridkot, two each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Sangrur, Patiala, Kapurthala and Barnala, and one in Muktsar. A total of 4,281 samples have been taken so far for testing. Out of these, 3,590 have come out negative and reports of 521 samples are still awaited. Meanwhile, two people tested positive for the virus in Chandigarh on Sunday, taking the total to 21.  They are the mother and the daughter of a 40-year-old man who had earlier tested positive for the infection. A total of 279 samples have been tested in Chandigarh so far, of which 247 tested negative and reports of 10 samples are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/12-more-covid-19-cases-reported-in-punjab-tally-at-170-824533.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||BJP welcomes J-K govt decision on 'Darbar Move', terms Omar's objection 'childish'||The Jammu and Kashmir unit of the BJP on Sunday welcomed the government's decision on the upcoming 'Darbar Move' and termed former chief minister Omar Abdullah's criticism of the order as "childish and irresponsible". Abdullah, also the National Conference vice-president, on Friday criticised the Jammu and Kashmir government's order of keeping the Move offices functional in both regions of the Union territory, saying it would create confusion among the people. The BJP called upon people to stand with the government's decision "to save their lives and expose politicians trying to promote anarchy and bringing disaster at the door steps of public". The government has ordered the formal opening of the annual Darbar Move offices in summer capital Srinagar on May 4, but said employees would work on a "as is where is" basis. The practice of 'Darbar Move', under which the government functions from Jammu during the six months of winter and in Srinagar during the summer, was started by Maharaja Gulab Singh in 1872 to escape the extreme weather conditions in the two regions. "In view of the extraordinary circumstances due to COVID-19 pandemic, the Civil Secretariat at Jammu shall continue to remain functional and the employees shall work on as is where is basis i.e. Kashmir-based staff shall work from Srinagar and Jammu-based from Jammu,” the Friday's order of the General Administrative Department (GAD) had said. The decision drew strong criticism from the NC leader, saying "this order regarding the bi-annual 'durbar move' is just mindless rubbish at worst & needless tokenism at best." "So the offices can't shift to Srinagar because of #Covid19, I get that. What I don't get is what Srinagar secretariat will do without files or senior officers," Abdullah had said, demanding withdrawal of the order and delay of the exercise till the threat of coronavirus is overcome.  BJP chief spokesperson Sunil Sethi said the criticism of Omar is "childish” and bereft of any "actual truth". “By such irresponsible statements he is trying to push the masses toward coronavirus and death for some cheap publicity,” Sethi said in a statement here. He said the BJP welcomes the "timely decision" of the government for limiting Darbar Move this year in view of the coronavirus pandemic. "This decision has been taken to stop the spread of coronavirus more rapidly among the people particularly as the government employees apart from saving huge expenses during this time of Corona induced recession,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-welcomes-j-k-govt-decision-on-darbar-move-terms-omars-objection-childish-824538.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||7 from Nuh among 16 fresh COVID-19 cases in Haryana, total rises to 181||The number of coronavirus cases rose to 181 in Haryana on Sunday, with seven of the 16 fresh cases reported from the worst-hit Nuh district, according to the state health department. Kurukshetra district, which had so far remained COVID-19 free, reported its first two cases. Faridabad (2), Karnal (1), Nuh (7), Yamunanagar (3) and Jind (1) also reported fresh cases. Out of the total positive cases, the total number of active COVID-19 cases in the state now stands at 149, the state health department's evening bulletin said, adding that 30 patients have been discharged. The state has recorded two COVID-19 related deaths. As many as 3,903 samples have been tested so far, out of which 2,513 have tested negative. However, the reports of 1,204 samples is still pending. Among the total coronavirus cases reported in Haryana, 10 are foreign nationals while 64 are from other states, as per the bulletin.  The worst affected districts of the state with maximum number of positive cases are Nuh (45), Gurugram (32), Faridabad (31) and Palwal (29). Among other places in the state, containment orders have been issued by the deputy commissioners concerned for 140 villages, including 104 buffer zones in Nuh district. Health Minister Anil Vij has maintained that the spike in positive cases was due to a number of Tablighi Jamaat members testing positive. He said on Sunday that 107 of the Jamaat members had tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-from-nuh-among-16-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-haryana-total-rises-to-181-824540.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Ex-serviceman tests COVID-19 positive in Muzaffarnagar||An ex-serviceman tested positive for COVID-19 here on Sunday taking the total number of cases in Muzaffarnagar district to six. Sub Divisional Magistrate Inderkant Dwivedi told PTI here that the retired Army jawan is a resident of Wajidpur village under Khatauli police station area of the district and works as a security guard in a nursing home in Delhi. His samples were sent to Delhi but he has been residing in his native home in the village since the lockdown. The patient was shifted to Muzaffarnagar Medical College, Berajpur while his wife and son were home quarantined at Wajidpur village. The entirevillage has been sealed and no one is allowed to enter or leave the place. A total of 480 people have tested positive for the virus in the state so far, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-serviceman-tests-covid-19-positive-in-muzaffarnagar-824541.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 cases in Delhi rise to 1,154; death toll 24||Five more persons died in the national capital due to COVID-19 on Sunday while fresh cases rose by 85 even as Delhi government put three more localities in containment zones. With fresh deaths, the total toll has now risen to 24 while the cases have touched 1,154. On Saturday too, there were five deaths. Of the 1,154 cases, 746 are related to those who were detected during special operations, including the one at Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in south Delhi's Nizamuddin. Authorities are also yet to ascertain the contact history of 83 patients who have tested positive. At present, there are 1,102 people still in hospitals. According to the health bulleting issued on Sunday evening, there are 2,426 people staying in 17 quarantine centres. While 58 persons were released from these centres, 127 were shifted to hospitals after they showed symptoms for COVID-19. Three more localities were sealed following it turning a hotspot, taking the total number of containment zones in the capital to 33.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-in-delhi-rise-to-1154-death-toll-24-824543.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: With 'roti and chutney', life in Hindu refugee camp goes on without much help from outside||Sitting near the mud stove in her makeshift semi-pukka house on the banks of the Yamuna, Rani Das is wondering what if the lockdown is extended. Does she have enough ration to feed her family? For now, she has enough rice, flour and sugar which will help them have two meals each day for another week. Rani's family is one among such 140 households in the Hindu Refugee camp near Gurudwara Majnu Ka Tila. Most of them fled their homes in Pakistan, escaping discrimination and religious persecution, and came to India between 2011 and 2013. "But there is very little of lentils and vegetables left. There is no money, so there is no gas. The policemen are not letting us collect firewood from the banks of the river," Rani says, as she flips a sugar-stuffed roti on the hotplate. "We don't have fodder for our famished cows. Earlier, we would collect it from the jungle. Now, even that is now allowed due to the lockdown," she says, adjusting the only small wooden log inside the ‘chulha' to keep the fire burning. Rani's daughter-in-law Jamuna is pregnant with her first child and has been eating just two meals a day – mostly sugar-stuffed roti or rice with salt and ‘green chutney'. Her neighbour, Gomti, 52, says a few people came to them with cooked food but the residents of the camp did not take it, fearing it might spread the coronavirus in the locality. "How do we know it is safe? We do not have a machine, which they show on television, to ascertain if it has the virus," she says. Gomti says her family will choose to have "noon-roti" (salt and roti) or die of starvation, rather than get infected. "We saw it on mobile phone, even the families of those dying due to coronavirus do not accept the bodies and cremation grounds return them," she says. Dharamveer, 42, the ‘Pradhan' or community representative, says most men in the camp earn their living doing odd jobs. "All the daily wagers, agricultural labourers, and those who sell mobile covers on the roadside are out of work," he says. "Some people came here with cooked food but we did not accept it. We can cook our food on our own. All we need is that credible government agencies give us dry ration," Dharamveer, who has been leading the fight for India citizenship for community members, says. He says families have been bathing and washing clothes without any soap. "There is no soap. How do we wash our hands? We have been wearing the same clothes for 3-4 days on the trot," he says. Dharamveer says the policemen had been asking them not to go to vegetable markets or even to the wheat fields across the Yamuna to find some work. "They are right. Death due to hunger is much better than this disease. If one person catches the virus, it will lead to the death of everyone in the camp," he says. Sukhnandan, who is watching epic 'Ramayana' on his battery-operated television, asks, "Is it possible one or two residents can get curfew passes so that they can go out and buy essentials for everyone?" "Police say application for passes are being processed online. We do not know how to do that," he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-with-roti-and-chutney-life-in-hindu-refugee-camp-goes-on-without-much-help-from-outside-824546.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Former soldier injured after getting shot at by militants in Kashmir||Suspected militants shot at and injured a retired Army man in Redwani area of South Kashmir's Kulgam district on Sunday evening. A police official said suspected militants fired upon Abdul Hameed, a retired army man at Buchroo, Kulgam, 72 kms from here, late Sunday evening. He suffered bullet wounds and was immediately shifted to a nearby hospital, he said. Immediately after the incident, reports said, security forces launched a hunt to nab the attackers. Several civilians have been killed in Kulgam and neighboring Anantnag district in tbe last two weeks by suspected militants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-soldier-injured-after-getting-shot-at-by-militants-in-kashmir-824548.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||MEA to send out lockdown advisories to foreign missions||After a senior diplomat of the Embassy of Uruguay in New Delhi flouted the lockdown imposed in the national capital, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) is likely to once again send out advisories to the foreign missions, reminding them to adhere to the curbs imposed to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. Valentina Obispo, Head of Administration at the Embassy of Uruguay, had an altercation with officials of Delhi Police when they spotted her cycling on Paschimi Marg road in Vasant Vihar without wearing a mask. The cops told the diplomat that she was violating not only the lockdown norms, but also the directive of the Delhi Government that made it mandatory for all to wear masks while venturing out for unavoidable reasons. Obispo, however, told the Delhi Police that the embassy had not received any advisory regarding the norms during the lockdown or about wearing masks being made mandatory. Sources said that the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) had been regularly issuing advisories for the foreign missions to ensure that their diplomats and other officials strictly adhere to the lockdown guidelines. The MEA had only issued a few curfew passes to the foreign missions to help the diplomats and other officials to continue doing essential works during the lockdown, added the sources. Sources said that the government would continue to advise the diplomatic community to adhere to the lockdown guidelines in the interest of the well-being of all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mea-to-send-out-lockdown-advisories-to-foreign-missions-824554.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Attack by Nihangs amid coronavirus lockdown: ASI's hand reattached at Chandigarh's PGIMER||Doctors at the Chandigarh’s PGIMER successfully reattached an ASI’s hand chopped off in an attack by a group of Nihangs in Punjab’s Patiala on Sunday, officials said. Assistant Sub-Inspector Harjeet Singh’s hand was cut with a sword while three other Punjab policemen and a mandi official sustained injuries when the Nihangs attacked them after being asked to show curfew passes at a vegetable market in Patiala district. The Punjab Police has arrested 11 people, including a woman, in connection with the attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/attack-by-nihangs-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-asis-hand-reattached-at-chandigarhs-pgimer-824556.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Woman gives birth in police van on the way to hospital in Jammu||A 32-year-old woman, hailing from Bahraich district of Uttar Pradesh, gave birth to a baby girl while being shifted to a hospital here in a police van on Sunday, police said. Sonia Devi, who presently lives in Channi Himmat locality here, experienced labour pain around 2 am Sunday when her husband Raj Kumar, a migrant labourer, made a distress call to Police Control Room (PCR), seeking help, a police official said. He said the PCR immediately passed on the information to the police station concerned and a van was rushed to take Devi to SMGS hospital. However, the woman gave birth to a female baby en route to the hospital, the official said, adding the woman was taken to her home after being given first aid. Both the mother and child are in good health, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-gives-birth-in-police-van-on-the-way-to-hospital-in-jammu-824570.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||'Corona warrior' lies to parents, travels 1,500 km to help with coronavirus testing||One of the many ‘corona warriors’ on the frontlines of the fight against COVID-19, Ramakrishna literally dropped everything he was doing back home in Telangana and headed 1,500 km to Lucknow when he got a call from his guide requesting that he return to his ‘post’ – his laboratory. The PhD scholar at the microbiology department of Lucknow's King George Medical University was helping his parents farm their land in their village in Khammam district when his head of department Amita Jain phoned him. His help was needed in testing samples for the infection that was spreading rapidly. And like a soldier called back in war-time, Ramakrishna said he immediately packed his bags and even lied to his parents, worried like everybody else about the spread of the infection. In an hour he was ready. "I initially told my parents I will be staying with my friends from the village who are studying in Hyderabad. Now, with the attention I got, they know I am working in Lucknow in this fight against coronavirus and they are fine with it," the 29-year-old microbiologist told PTI. It was March 21 and Ramakrishna set off immediately, telling his parents that he was going to Hyderabad to write his thesis at a friend’s place. His parents were not too convinced, unwilling to let their son make even the 270 km journey to the city but finally agreed. He reached Hyderabad on March 22, the day of the ‘Janta curfew’ when all routes to Lucknow or anywhere else were blocked. Before daybreak, in the early hours of March 23, he headed to the airport. The going was not easy there either. Ramakrishna said he was stopped by police. However, when he explained his reason for heading to the airport, they helped him get there.  He caught a flight to Lucknow, much to the delight of his guide and the team at KGMU that is tirelessly working to test more and more samples each day. Ramakrishna, who hit the public spotlight when Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted about him, insisted he was just doing his duty like all the others in the medical fraternity to fight this pandemic. The PhD scholar had completed his project six months ago and returned to his village. He was working on his thesis and also helping his parents in farming. Jain, head of department, microbiology, KGMU, said she had called four of her students for help. Two were in Lucknow and joined immediately, while Ramakrishna and one more person were away and immediately came to help.  Asked what she told Ramakrishna on the phone, Jain said, "I told him that we need him if he can help. He asked for an hour to convince his parents and within an hour, he said he is coming." "Their research scholars helping out in testing) commitment is akin to soldiers reporting to their battalions in times of war. This time soldiers wore masks," Jain told PTI. Ramakrishna's contribution and commitment came into focus when Priyanka Gandhi sent him an appreciation letter last week and also tweeted about his selfless act. Hailing the microbiologist, she said they are lakhs of such "soldiers" in India who should be honoured and encouraged. Jain also appreciated the dedication of Ramakrishna and many others who have come to help at the KGMU's microbiology department, saying all of them just came without once asking about remuneration or incentives. "All of them will be paid, but they never asked about it, such is their commitment," the head of the microbiology department said. The virology laboratory at KGMU has been testing suspected samples for COVID-19 under the headship of Jain since February. The laboratory's technicians, virologists and scientists, attendants and research scholars have been working on a war footing 2X7 to deal with the pandemic. Uttar Pradesh has reported 452 cases of coronavirus and five fatalities, according to Health Ministry data. The disease has infected more than 8,000 people and claimed at least 273 lives across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/corona-warrior-lies-to-parents-travels-1500-km-to-help-with-coronavirus-testing-824574.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh COVID-19 cases at 572; death toll at 44||With 40 more persons testing positive for coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday, the total number of COVID-19 cases in the state climbed to 572, Health department officials said. Simultaneously, four more persons have died in the state, taking the COVID-19 death toll to 44, they said. Two deceased each hailed from Indore and Bhopal. All the four tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection after their deaths, the officials said. Of the total 572 coronavirus positive cases, Indore has reported the highest number of 306 cases, with 25 new additions on Sunday, they said. Meanwhile, Bhopal recorded eight more COVID-19 cases, taking the number of the affected people in the state Capital to 139. On Sunday, Satna district reported two cases. Satna Collector Ajay Katesaria has said that two prisoners, arrested under the National Security Act (NSA) in Indore and shifted here, have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The contacts of the two cases are being quarantined, he said, adding that the two affected prisoners were shifted to the Rewa-based Medical College.  New cases were reported from Itarasi (5) in Hoshangabad district, taking the overall COVID-19 tally in the district to 15, officials said. According to the officials, of the total 44 deaths reported from across Madhya Pradesh so far, 32 were from Indore alone, followed by Ujjain (5), Bhopal (3), Khargone (2), and one each in Chhindwara and Dewas. The virus footprint has been expanded to 23 out of 52 districts. Morena district has recorded 14 cases, Jabalpur nine, Ujjain 16, Hoshangabad 15, Khargone 14, Barwani 14, Gwalior six, Khandwa six, Dewas four, Vidisha 13, Chhindwara, Sheopur, Satna and Shivpuri two each and Betul, Shajapur, Raisen, Dhar, Sagar, Mandsaur and Ratlam one each, while one patient hails from another state. So far 41 patients have recovered and returned home, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-covid-19-cases-at-572-death-toll-at-44-824575.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Farmer commits suicide after no labourers to harvest crop||A farmer reportedly ended his life here over non-availability of labourers for harvesting his wheat crop due to the lockdown imposed across the country to prevent the spread of coronavirus, police said on Sunday. “Rambhavan Shukla (52) committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree on the outskirts of Jaari village,” Additional Superintendent of Police Lal Bharat Kumar Pal said. According to the family of the deceased, Shukla had been searching for labourers since the past few days, but he could not find any due to the lockdown. They alleged that he went out to look for labourers on Saturday, but ended his life. The police said the body was handed over to the family after postmortem. The matter is being probed, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-farmer-commits-suicide-after-no-labourers-to-harvest-crop-824579.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh to be divided into 6 zones for lockdown exit plan: CM Jai Ram Thakur||Himachal Pradesh will be divided into six zones as part of the strategy to end COVID-19 lockdown measures, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Sunday. At a meeting with senior officers here, the chief minister said: "As per the threat of COVID-19 and cases found in Himachal Pradesh, the state will be divided into six zones including a red zone, four orange zones and a green zone for drafting exit plan from COVID-19 lockdown." Thakur said the exit plan would be initiated only when there is initial flattening of coronavirus curve followed by tapering of the curve with the tendency to reach a 'stage zero' infection. The identified hot spots will be entirely isolated from the other parts and supply of food and other essential commodities will be entrusted to the police and the local administration, he said. The capacity of the state's health care system to guard public life, personnel discharging essential services and medical professionals against the epidemic during the days to come and capacity to build resilience against the diseases will be taken into consideration, he added. Effectiveness in preventing the spread and impact of the current lockdown on the state's economy and its likely extension, its impact on the poor and other vulnerable sections and fiscal capacity of the state to compensate the economically most vulnerable sections will also be taken care of, he said further.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-to-be-divided-into-6-zones-for-lockdown-exit-plan-cm-jai-ram-thakur-824582.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Farmers should be given relief from coronavirus lockdown to harvest crop: Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath||Farmers should be given relief from the lockdown to harvest crop, and the Uttar Pradesh government would encourage institutions and agencies to purchase food grains directly from the growers at minimum support price (MSP) or higher, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday. He directed officials to start online classes for students of higher education, technical education, nursing and paramedical studies, so that their academic schedule is not wholly disrupted. Online counselling of students was also discussed at a meeting of officials chaired by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Teachers should be trained for this. On the instruction of Adityanath, the work of providing e-content has been started in all universities. Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University in Kanpur has implemented e-education smoothly according to this order. "At the meeting, the chief minister said since harvesting season is on, farmers should be allowed to move. Apart from government purchasing centres, if other institutions and agencies want to buy crops directly from farmers, they would be encouraged to do so provided the price is on par with the MSP or above," Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi told reporters here. About arrangements made for the Tablighi Jamaat congregation members traced in the state, he said, "Provisions to quarantine people related to the Tablighi Jamaat have been made so as to stop further spread of COVID-19. Foreign Jamaatis have also been given medical treatment after putting them in quarantine. So far, passports of 259 persons have been seized." A total of 133 COVID-19 hotspots have been identified in 15 districts in the state, 342 positive coronavirus cases have been detected and 2,986 people suspected to have contracted the virus have been put in quarantine facilities, the additional chief secretary said. Awasthi said so far 15,378 cases have been registered against 48,503 people for violation of the lockdown and 2,144 vehicles impounded. He also said the cyber cell was probing 201 instances of fake news that have till now come to the fore, of which 46 were reported on Saturday. He said that the chief minister has appealed to all the people of the state to download the Arogya Setu App. Up to 40 lakh people have downloaded the app so far. Awasthi said after a few days a lot of festivals and anniversaries are coming up regarding which Adityanath has directed that special attention should be paid to not organise a mass gathering during such time. The chief minister has also appealed to the people of the state to celebrate Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar's birth anniversary at their homes. Adityanath has directed a three-day campaign against illegal sale of liquor in the state. Awasthi informed that hand sanitisers are being manufactured by 70 companies in the state. So far, 11 lakh litres of sanitiser has been distributed, while 6 lakh litres has been sold from the market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-should-be-given-relief-from-coronavirus-lockdown-to-harvest-crop-uttar-pradesh-chief-minister-yogi-adityanath-824588.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Critically ill UP woman dies after failing to get ambulance, taken in hand-cart to hospital||A critically ill 40-year-old woman died here for want of timely medical care here after the ambulance helpline allegedly did not respond and she had to be taken in a hand-pulled 'thelaa' (cart) to the hospital, prompting the district administration to institute an inquiry. Guddi Devi (40) fell ill on Sunday morning. Her husband Laxmi Rathore and son were in Jaipur and could not return because of the ongoing lockdown due to coronavirus, according to local residents. Her neighbours gave a call to 102 for ambulance but they were told to contact 108 and yet she could not get an ambulance, they claimed. Guddi Devi was rushed to the district hospital on a 'thelaa'. At the hospital she was not provided stretcher and was taken to the emergency ward on the cart where the doctor pronounced her brought dead, they said. After the shocking case was brought to the knowledge of the District Magistrate Mahendra Bahadur Singh, he instituted an inquiry into it. Singh told PTI that Chief Medical Officer Ashok Kumar Pandey has been directed to enquire into the matter, take stern action against the erring persons and submit a report to him within three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/critically-ill-up-woman-dies-after-failing-to-get-ambulance-taken-in-hand-cart-to-hospital-824604.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Indore: 7 more coronavirus patients discharged after recovery||Seven more COVID-19 patients admitted to a hospital here were discharged on Sunday after their repeat samples tested negative for coronavirus, officials said. With this, the number of patients, who have recovered from the deadly infection after treatment in the hospitals in Indore, has gone up to 35, they said. Seven patients, including three women, who were admitted to Government Manorama Raje TB (MRTB) Hospital, were discharged. Their two consecutive coronavirus test reports confirmed that they are no more infected, the officials said. According to them, of these seven patients, two were from the neighbouring Khargone district. One of them had returned to Khargone from Paris last month. At the time of their discharge from the hospital, the doctors and other health staff clapped and cheered for them. The officials said that 28 other COVID-19 patients admitted to different hospitals in the city were discharged earlier after their recovery. However, as a precautionary measure, all such patients have been advised to remain isolated in their houses for 14 days after the discharge. Indore is one of the COVID-19 hotspots in the country. According to the government data, the number of such patients in the city has increased to 298 in a span of 19 days. Of these, 32 people have died during treatment. This makes the death rate of COVID-19 patients in the city 10.74 per cent. Analysis of the data shows that the death rate among Indore's COVID-19 patients has remained higher than the national average in the last several days. The administration has imposed curfew in the urban areas of the district since March 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indore-7-more-coronavirus-patients-discharged-after-recovery-824610.html
12-04-2020||North and Central||Cutting across party lines, politicians condemn attack on police by Nihangs for stopping against lockdown violation in Punjab||Political leaders cutting across party lines on Sunday condemned the brutal attack on police by a group of Nihangs in Punjab's Patiala and sought strict action against perpetrators of the crime. An officer’s hand was chopped off with a sword and two other Punjab policemen injured when a group of Nihangs attacked them after being asked to show curfew passes at a vegetable market in Patiala district. Seven people, including five attackers, were arrested hours later after an exchange of fire at a gurdwara where the group fled after the 6.15 am incident in Sanaur town. Reacting to the incident, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh asked police to take strict action against law-breakers. “Police Party on Naka duty was attacked today in which one ASI's hand was cut off & 6 were injured. Police cornered the culprits & have taken them into custody. Have given instructions to the @PunjabPoliceInd to deal with anyone breaking the law in strictest possible manner,” the CM tweeted. Akali stalwart and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal too condemned the attack. “There is no place for violence in a civilised society,” Badal said in a statement here. He said police throughout the country have been performing a difficult task most selflessly. The five-time CM urged people to cooperate with the Centre and the state government against the coronavirus outbreak. Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Gobind Singh Longowal also flayed the brutal attack and asked people to follow the curfew restrictions. Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal described the incident as barbaric and sought action against “those who break the law”. “The barbaric attack on cops by anti-social elements at Subji Mandi in Patiala is condemnable. All necessary steps should be taken to maintain law & order & everyone should cooperate with authorities. Those taking law into their own hands like this should be dealt with severely,” Sukhbir tweeted. Aam Aadmi Party state unit chief and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann demanded “strictest action” against the accused. Senior advocate and AAP's former Dakha MLA H S Phoolka sought “exemplary punishment” for the accused. “As culprits are arrested now, file charge sheet in 2 days & request court to complete trial within a week. It's attempt to murder with injury, Life Imprisonment is maximum punishment. Culprits should be awarded life imprisonment to send a message,” Phoolka tweeted. Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal demanded strict time-bound action against the accused and urged people to cooperate with the authorities amid the lockdown.   “The shocking #attack on cops by anti- social elements at Sabji Mandi in #Patiala has shaken everyone. Strict time bound action & punishment should be given to these goons. I appeal to everyone to cooperate with the civil & police admn in these difficult times,” she tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cutting-across-party-lines-politicians-condemn-attack-on-police-by-nihangs-for-stopping-against-lockdown-violation-in-punjab-824612.html
12-04-2020||Opinion||The parallel emergency of rural India||At the turn of the millennium, a few chief ministers of India had brought out Vision 2020 documents. Brimming with optimism that India’s future lay in the cities, they coolly noted that the proportion of people living in villages had to come down, the way it had in Western countries. In 2020, their total lack of vision couldn’t be clearer. The millions of migrant workers fleeing the cities to reach their homes in the wake of the lockdown is a painful pointer to the policy neglect of rural India. The various efforts of the government and non-government organisations and individuals and families to aid those affected are at best short-term relief measures. The real challenge is to see what needs to be done to not force people to leave villages in search of jobs in cities. The ‘migrant worker’ that India has woken up to recently is an anonymous figure. But he or she belongs to a village, a locality. They belong to a community with its own festivals, a spiritual life. Only desperate circumstances in their native villages could have made them relocate to a city for work.   Around ninety percent of the migrant workforce, the male migrant workers, especially those from other states, are able to visit their parents, wives and children back home only once or twice a year. Almost every migrant worker I have talked to over the years wished to return to their families after putting away enough savings. The trade-off they had settled for in the meantime was a sad one: loneliness, hellish living conditions in the city. The long-standing neglect of the agricultural sector cannot go on. The economists who argue that the share of the rural population has to slip along with the slip in the share of agriculture in India’s GDP are being pseudo-scientists. “Half of India’s population will live in cities by 2050” is commonly offered as a precise forecast but it can become true only as a consequence of current economic policies. Alternative policies can mean a different destiny for the country’s cities and villages. If farmers got a fair price for their crops, if the market access is made stable and the middlemen eliminated, if local credit is made easily available, if good quality primary healthcare centres and schooling facilities were locally present -- all old, elementary demands -- the government will have done a lot to secure contentment in rural areas already. Add to this the new measures needed for making agriculture ecologically sustainable, such as preventing groundwater depletion through rainwater harvesting and other water conserving methods and increasing soil fertility by curbing the use of chemical fertilizers. Random loan waivers and small yearly stipends are at best palliative measures. Durable measures for making rural life secure are what are needed. When farmers in several villages of HD Kote taluk in Mysuru district couldn’t access their weekly payments sent by a milk cooperative from the ATMs following the lockdown, the local unit of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (Nanjundaswamy) swung into action and helped install a barter system which let farmers exchange rice for ragi, milk for vegetables and fruits. Landless labourers get food grains and fresh produce in return for some work. This new barter cooperative system was then embraced over dozens of villages in the taluk. Why do we not see the economists and policy planners show similar inventiveness in their proposed measures? The glib talk of a cashless, digital economy presumes the globalised financial system as the only model of an economy when so much space is available for working with alternative models of economic exchange and marketing. Clearly, economic planning cannot be left to economists alone. Besides endangering public health, the Covid-19 virus has given a blow to the neo-liberal imagination of the economy that asked governments to allow maximum play for the private sector. Everyone is looking to the government to help rein in the virus. During this time, the flight of the migrant workers has revealed the parallel emergency in rural livelihoods. Will everyone ask the government to do something about this emergency too?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-parallel-emergency-of-rural-india-824272.html
12-04-2020||Opinion||Tear down this wall!||You might have thought that a pandemic which makes no distinction between one nationality and another would bring nations together. Alas, you’d have been wrong. Welcome to the Global Hunger Games: Move over global cooperation; the world now has global competition. Governments are raising walls, barriers and blockades in a desperate bid to save their own people. It all began in Washington. President Donald Trump had pish-poshed the virus early on and claimed that it would simply leave over the summer, like a teacher dealing with a petulant schoolchild. But that policy went just as well as you would expect – and the president is now scrambling to cover up the lack of preparedness. Last week, the US was accused by Germany, France, Brazil and others of stealing their medical supplies en route from China. After that, Trump came out swinging against Narendra Modi, threatening retaliation if India didn’t send him its own supplies of hydroxychloroquine. His tirade did not go down well even with the otherwise fawning right-wing nationalists in India. The shortage of medical supplies around the world is itself a product of Trump’s walls and barriers. Trump’s trade wars had disrupted supply chains around the world, which meant that ideas produced in American labs had lesser chance of being realised in Chinese factories. In its scramble to produce something (anything!), China has been shipping off faulty medical equipment abroad, much of which is now being returned by irate doctors in Europe, Australia and elsewhere. On its part, China has turned the whole affair into an attack on its own ego. It has gone after journalists who pointed out how Beijing covered up early cases of the infection (China’s considered policy towards whistleblowers is to make them magically disappear). One American lawyer even filed a $20 trillion(!) lawsuit against the Chinese for these transgressions. Meanwhile, back home in India, barriers and blockades have been making their way back up after a short break in divisiveness. The inevitable lockdown left behind some shocking revelations about class disparities: While middle-class professionals geared up to work from home, migrant workers in the big cities found themselves stranded with no work and no home. Regional divides have also been flaring up: For the past several days, Karnataka had a blockade in place along its border with Kerala, leading to the death of patients who were trying to cross into Karnataka for treatment. The matter was only resolved after extensive mediation from New Delhi. In the age of walls and barriers, can religious divides stay far behind? Sure enough, the inexcusable religious congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat, which led to a spike in cases, brought back communal rhetoric, with some folks terming it ‘Corona Jihad’ – a grand and well-thought-out conspiracy by Muslims. India also seems set to ramp up trade protectionism in the months ahead. At a Union cabinet meeting recently, ministers explored promoting ‘Make in India’ as “the country needs to lessen its dependence on other nations.” Promoting manufacturing at home is a great idea; locking down trade in order to do so is not. Trade is vital to keeping the engines of the economy humming, which in turn is vital to reducing poverty in developing countries. The inevitable lesson from any pandemic is that nobody is safe unless their neighbours are also healthy. It isn’t sufficient for the rich to have access to great healthcare; the poor in their midst must have the same, lest an infection spread from among them. That means cooperation – across countries, provinces and communities. As another American president in another era said, “Mr Gorbachev, tear down this wall!”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/tear-down-this-wall-824273.html
12-04-2020||Opinion||Kaliyuga, saar, Coronayuga! Please wash your hands||Tradition tells us that different kinds of texts teach us moral lessons differently. The scriptures are compared to a lord and master, or your boss, if you will, who simply commands you to do something. The epics are said to be like a friend who counsels you into some course of action; and poetry is like a lover, who gently coaxes you into doing as she suggests. This is likely why we go back to stories and poetry in fraught times. We build, narrate, and return to stories to make sense of our own lives. In times of crisis like the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant global lockdowns, no wonder the Ramayana and Mahabharata are in the news so much. With the popular television series based on the epics playing every day on the television, many of us are discovering and rediscovering the epics to much hilarity. Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro recently requested India for supplies of hydroxychloroquine by comparing India to Hanuman rescuing Lakshmana (Brazil) with the Sanjivani herb. The coronavirus has been compared to any number of demons, and the lockdown to a war, in the rhetoric of politicians and world leaders, as well as in the news and on social media. Legend goes that when the goddess was battling with the asuras to protect the gods, there emerged Raktabija, an asura who posed a particularly difficult challenge. When even a single drop of his blood touched the ground, thousands of asuras, equal to him in might and power, rose from that blood. However much the goddess wounded him in battle, the might of his army only grew. Finally, the goddess manifested as the fearsome Kali, who licked the blood of Raktabija before it could touch the ground. Nice analogy to the exponential spread of the coronavirus, isn’t it? The moral of the story: Don’t mess with Raktabija if you don’t have Kali to fight your battles for you. Another interesting parallel is the episode of the Narayanastra from the Mahabharata. When Ashwatthama, the son of Drona, releases this missile in the war, the Pandavas are in great trouble because there is no missile that could counteract the effects of the Narayanastra. As it blazes on, Krishna advises them that the only way to combat it is to put down all their weapons and surrender to it. Krishna’s idea is met with resistance from Bhima, but finally, the strategy works when every single warrior throws down his weapons. That seems to be pretty much what we are doing in the lockdown. Finally, we have my favourite story that no one has caught on to yet. The Mahabharata tells us that the evil Kali -- not the goddess with the long ‘a’ and long ‘i’, but the personification of the dark and depressing age we live in -- bore a grudge against the king Nala. Unfortunately for Kali, until Nala did something wrong, Kali would have no way of entering into him and messing up his life. So, Kali waited patiently for twelve years, watching Nala for the slightest hint of wrongdoing. Kali’s patience was rewarded when Nala once answered nature’s call and cleaned up, but did his rituals without washing his feet. Kali got his chance, possessed Nala, and then made him take a series of bad decisions that resulted in exile and losing his wife. So you know what I am saying — wash your hands (and feet too, if you like) with soap for twenty seconds, and don’t touch your face, please.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/kaliyuga-saar-coronayuga-please-wash-your-hands-824274.html
12-04-2020||Opinion||Zooming from class to class||At one point in time last week, there were four simultaneous Zoom meetings going on in the Pai household. Five concurrent live-streaming sessions, if you count Victor playing Minecraft with his friends on his iPad. Wife and I had work meetings. Fairy’s school started online classes and she’s been ‘going’ to school regularly. Airy’s music and language lessons Zoom effortlessly.  I have taught live online classes for over eight years and have tons of feedback from my working-adult graduate students, but I was curious to know what the two digital-native girls felt about the whole business. Despite their differences in attitude, taste and temperament, the girls both thought that their learning experience was actually better online. Fairy said there were fewer disturbances as both teacher and students could focus on the lesson. Airy agreed and noted that she could easily give the teacher undivided attention. The divas of the devices were engaging with their teachers on their own turf.  Were they not chatting with their classmates? Talking to your buddies is also a very important part of the learning experience, especially when the conversation is broadly about the topic currently being taught. It teaches you the important life skill of being loud enough to be heard but quiet enough not to be caught.  Surprisingly, they both said they don’t talk in class. I raised a single eyebrow as high as I could, but they stuck to this story. I fear that they are on the verge of abandoning the time-honoured tradition of talking-in-the-class-while-the-teacher-is-teaching. That would be ironic, because teenagers text each other most of the time. Maybe it was the illicit thrill of passing chits under the noses of our teachers that made my generation build elaborate, ad hoc person-to-person communications networks in our school days. Perhaps the girls are not chatting in class because it’s so easy, undetectable and therefore not a big deal.  Some of their classmates have discovered the “my mic is not working” excuse of online classes. This is the 21st century equivalent of “dog ate my homework”. It happens in the classes that I teach. Even adults think this excuse is believable. They don’t realise that what appears to be a clever new trick to them is not at all so for their teachers, who’ve seen it all before. I suppose the undeniable plausibility of it makes it an excuse of first resort for the underprepared student.  What the girls said they missed were the extra-curricular activities and social life of school. I was relieved to hear this. Braving spousal disapproval, I often tell them the real reason to go to school is to hang out with friends, although the classes can sometimes be useful.  There’s a school fest to be organised, games to be played and class trips to be made. Both girls were looking forward to some of these things and are already quite disappointed with the prospect of the event calendar being cancelled or abridged this year. That hasn’t stopped Fairy and her classmates from having serious video conferences planning the scheduled gigs. And Airy doesn’t like the idea of the first day of high school being spent in front of a computer. Schools should continue online sessions even after the coast is clear of the coronavirus. Some classes can well be conducted remotely, reducing the number of days children have to turn up at school. Road traffic, carbon emissions and early morning rushes will come down. Not all classes and not all schools will be able to do this, but those that can, should give it a shot.  I suspect kids will actually like it, especially if their mics sometimes mysteriously do not work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/zooming-from-class-to-class-824275.html
12-04-2020||Opinion||Saving India from capitalists who've suddenly turned socialists||People of the same trade seldom meet together, even for merriment and diversion, but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public,” wrote Adam Smith in Book 1, Chapter 10 of The Wealth of Nations. Smith is an economist who is oft quoted and rarely read these days. But the above line from Smith’s most famous tome finds a way to make a comeback into public memory, now and then, especially at times when an economic crisis is about to happen. Right now is that time. Capitalists who otherwise want lesser government all the time, want to be bailed out the moment they smell an economic crisis brewing. Given that there is only so much money that any government has, if the government chooses to bailout capitalists, as it often does, it comes at the cost of the public. Money used to bail out capitalists could have easily gone towards something else. As the economic crisis because of COVID-19 spreads, Indian capitalists have already started demanding that the government rescue them and the economy in the process. “We need a stimulus of over $200 billion, with an ability to go up to $300 billion, with $100 billion provided immediately, $100 billion in 4 months and the last $100 billion in 8 months,” Niranjan Hiranandani, the president of the industry body of real estate developers Naredco and the business lobby, Assocham, recently demanded. Assuming one dollar is worth Rs 76.3, $200 billion amounts to Rs 15.26 lakh crore and $300 billion amounts to Rs 22.89 lakh crore. To give a sense of proportion, the central government hopes to earn Rs 24.23 lakh crore as gross tax revenue in 2020-21. Given that it has to share a part of this revenue with state governments, the net tax revenue that the central government hopes to earn stands at Rs 16.36 lakh crore. Of course, the government came up with these projections in February, when the budget was presented. A lot has changed since then and the chances of the government being able to earn what it has projected are minimal. In this scenario, it is safe to say that Hiranandani wants the government to spend 100% or even more of the taxes it earns in providing a stimulus to the economy. The idea of an economic stimulus – or, the government spending money to revive an economy during an economic crisis -- goes back to the British economist John Maynard Keynes, who first suggested this in the aftermath of the Great Depression of 1929. In that sense, Hiranandani is basically following economic tradition. Trouble is, where will the government get Rs 15.26-Rs 22.89 lakh crore from? This is an important question to ask, given that some sort of economic stimulus is expected. The government has already decided to deposit Rs 500 in Jan Dhan accounts of women for three months. A whole host of other small steps have also been announced. There is talk about a support package for the micro, small and medium enterprises. Big business, given its superior lobbying capabilities, is also going to get its pound of flesh. If the lockdown is extended, the government may want to put more money into Jan Dhan accounts. There are 38.08 crore Jan Dhan accounts in total. If the governments puts Rs 3,000 in total in each of these accounts, it’s going to run up a bill of Rs 1,14,240 crore. But where is this money going to come from? As economic activity will slowdown in 2020-21, there is no way the government will end up earning what it has projected. As economic activity slows down, collections of excise duty and goods and services tax, will fall. Further, as companies fire employees, cut salaries, postpone the joining of new hires and freeze new jobs, salaried incomes are bound to take a hit. This will have an impact on the income tax collected. One option is to borrow more. The government borrows more by selling bonds. Selling more bonds will mean that bond market investors will demand a greater rate of return on these bonds. In fact, that has already started to happen, with the bond yield or the return on the 10-year government bond going up from 6% to 6.5% between March 27 and April 9. The government bond yield acts as a sort of a benchmark for interest rates in the economy in general because lending to the government is the safest form of lending. If government bond yields go up, interest rates charged by banks for lending will also go up, or at least not fall as the RBI and the government expect them to. If interest rates go down, the hope is, people will borrow and spend more, businesses will borrow and expand, and this will help economic growth. While it is inevitable that the government will end up borrowing more to finance its expenditure in 2020-21, it shouldn’t go overboard with it. In this scenario, it is important that the government tries to alleviable the pain of individuals, from migrant workers to daily wage labourers, rather than try to bailout corporates. It is also important that it spends money towards building a better public health infrastructure. In fact, even venture-capital funded startups, which have blown up a lot of money over the years, want the government to pay “50% of the salary bills and contract wage bills for a period of April to September.” With due apologies to Raghuram Rajan, it is important that the government saves itself from the capitalists who have suddenly discovered socialism, and does the right things to help the common man.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/saving-india-from-capitalists-whove-suddenly-turned-socialists-824276.html
12-04-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus: Biggest chance to reform tax and debt since 1918||By Andy MukherjeeFor 100 years now, capitalism has had a pro-leverage bias. Unlike dividends, which are paid only after the state has taken its share of earnings, interest is deducted from pretax profit, shrinking the pie available to the government.  Industrial losses may need to be socialized en masse to get displaced workers back on the job and prevent the global economy from spiralling into depression. To manage the backlash against using public money for private gains, more countries are likely to follow the US Congress and the UK banking regulator, which have pushed for a halt to buybacks and dividends. But corporate rescue this time may also involve a rewriting of accounting rules to encourage deleveraging, so that bailouts are needed less often and are less costly.  It was in 1918, when economists were likening the global spread of an excess profit tax on wartime corporate income to the deadly outbreak of the Spanish flu, that the US relented and allowed all interest paid to be deducted from taxable profit. It was a temporary measure to give firms relief, but although the extra tax burden went away in 1921, the favourable treatment of interest income stayed and was copied around the world.  The debt bias is very real. In the late 1950s, academics Franco Modigliani and Merton Miller controversially asserted that corporations should be indifferent to the mix of debt and equity in their capital structure. Five years later, the professors issued a correction, acknowledging that a dollar of debt would raise the value of a firm by 50 cents, the then-prevailing corporate tax rate (Modigliani went on to win the Nobel prize in 1985; Miller would get it five years later). The idea of a withholding tax on interest payments has done the rounds since at least 1982, but how does a foreign investor or a tax-exempt local investor get credit? No country would want foreigners to shun its corporate debt and go where there's no withholding. Developing economies have also been ambivalent. Their tax authorities hate it when multinationals give loans to their profitable subsidiaries, thus reducing their taxable income in poor nations. On the other hand, it didn’t take long for local firms in Asia, Latin America or Eastern Europe to figure out that they, too, could attract large pools of Western savings by souping up shareholder returns with higher leverage. It helped that the cost of the debt was tax-deductible. To the extent the borrowings came from state-owned local banks, the lenders’ interest income flowed to the government as taxes and dividends.  After the 2008 crisis, policymakers looked aghast at the debt-financed expansion in banking over the previous three decades. But beyond specifying higher regulatory capital, they couldn’t do much to shake the inertia. As McKinsey & Co. noted in 2010, replacing the stock of financial sector debt with equity in just 14 countries would have required more than 60% of the then-existing global equity capital.   No wonder, then, that the world economy has kept accumulating debt. China stepped up borrowings to hold on to high growth in a slow-speed world; India wrecked its finance industry to achieve China-like expansion. On the supply side, as banks retreated under regulatory pressure for more capital, private credit from insurers, pension funds and other non-banks took their place, growing to a $300 billion industry by 2018 from $100 billion in 2010.   The additional corporate value garnered with cheap debt isn’t a free lunch. An International Monetary Fund staff discussion note warned in 2011 that “costs to public welfare are larger — possibly much larger — than previously thought.” The 2017 overhaul of the US tax code restricted interest deduction to 30% of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization as an offset for slashing the corporate rate to 21% from 35%. The UK, too, put a limit. But then came the coronavirus. The sheer scale of economic disruption and job losses means that governments and central banks will join hands. Japan’s near-$1 trillion fiscal spending has set the tone for outsize government borrowing. But while assuming a more active economic role, governments will also want to show that they aren’t running a Ponzi scheme. Disallowing interest deduction will generate resources as well as play into the zeitgeist for more public welfare.  As independent strategist Gerard Minack noted recently, our world is primed to maximize financial returns on the assumption that nothing will go wrong. When things do, not just once but twice in 12 years, politicians must ask whether a smaller, more resilient firm, valued a little less than before, is better than a large but fragile enterprise. Minack also believes that temporary restrictions on stock buybacks could be accompanied by changes to the tax treatment of debt.  With industries of all hues begging governments for survival capital, rebates and even employee wages, bargaining power of firms is at rock bottom. The unfinished tax reform agenda has a chance. Given that suppliers of debt financing are spread all over the world, a withholding tax on interest payments could cause dislocations. “A less disruptive option,” as law professors Michael Graetz and Alvin Warren, Jr. argued in a 2016 essay, “might be to deny deductions for all or part of interest payments at the corporate level.” Overcoming entrenched resistance to a once-in-100-years change won’t be easy. The only time to even attempt it is when faced with a disaster not encountered since the Spanish flu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-biggest-chance-to-reform-tax-and-debt-since-1918-824350.html
12-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu awaits Centre’s lockdown extension decision||Tamil Nadu Cabinet on Saturday decided to accept Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision on extending the 21-day lockdown to contain the spread of novel Coronavirus contending that only a “nationwide decision would be effective.” Briefing reporters after the Cabinet meeting, Chief Secretary K Shanmugam said Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami reiterated the need for extending the lockdown in Tamil Nadu for two weeks in the meeting. “The lockdown needs to be implemented nation-wide as state-wide lockdowns won’t be effective. That is the reason why we have decided to wait for the Prime Minister’s announcements,” Shanmugam said, adding that Modi will address the nation at 8 pm. However, he made a volte-face within a few minutes saying there was no “official word” on PM’s address. In his speech at the video-conference meeting with Modi, Palaniswami said train and flight services should not be resumed, while suggesting that inter-state passengers' movement should not be allowed. He also asked for additional funding and allotment of essential commodities to support unorganized sector workers and agricultural labourers. State reports 58 fresh COVID-19 cases Shanmugam said the state has reported 58 fresh cases on Saturday with 54 of the patients having contact with patients who were already tested positive. The remaining four patients have inter-state travel history. The Chief Secretary also admitted the delay in getting rapid test kits from China saying the country had sent first set of consignments to the US and has promised to send the second consignment to India. The state was expecting 1 lakh rapid test kits to arrive on Friday.    “Almost 4 lakh kits were ordered. The problem is only a few Chinese companies manufacture these kits and they have limited supply. One consignment has been sent to the US. The second consignment will come to India out of which they will give us some,” Shanmugam said. He also said the rapid test kits are helpful only to screen larger population and the current system of PCR will be used to confirm the infection in family members of those already tested positive. He also claimed the state has enough PCR test kits and the Centre has been sending them enough supply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-awaits-centre-s-lockdown-extension-decision-824263.html
12-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu COVID-19 patient booked for breaking hospital glass||A 27-year-old COVID-19 positive patient was booked by the Coimbatore Police for breaking a window glass at the isolation ward of a hospital after he was not allowed to eat food brought by his wife. The incident took place at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital in Coimbatore on Friday night. The patient broke a window glass after authorities refused to allow him to eat chicken biriyani cooked by his wife saying outside food was not allowed inside the isolation ward. As authorities refused permission, the patient threw a fire extinguisher on the glass window and damaged it. A case was filed against him by police after the hospital management file a complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-covid-19-patient-booked-for-breaking-hospital-glass-824269.html
12-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu man dies after consuming hand sanitizer as liquor alternative||A 35-year-old man, a habitual drinker, died on Saturday after he allegedly consumed hand sanitizer as a substitute for liquor, police said. E Bernard, 35, who worked as a gas delivery boy in Coimbatore was upset that he could not have alcohol for the past two weeks due to the closure of TASMAC shops. He consumed hand sanitizer as an alternative for alcohol, police said. He was found unconscious at his home on Saturday morning and was declared brought dead at the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-man-dies-after-consuming-hand-sanitizer-as-liquor-alternative-824278.html
12-04-2020||South||COVID-19 patient discharged called back as 2nd test result shows weak positive||A COVID-19 patient discharged from a state-run hospital here after he tested negative was called back after after a second test result turned out to be weak positive, a medical official said on Saturday. "The patient, who tested positive on March 23, was discharged after the test result came out negative. But it came weak positive in a second test. So we called back, admitted him in the hospital and again sent (the samples) for testing, the official said. The man was discharged on Thursday and was again admitted to the hospital on Friday, he said. The patient did not go around much and those who came in contact with him have been put in quarantine, the official said. An enquiry was held and a report on the matter had been sent to the authorities concerned, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-patient-discharged-called-back-as-2nd-test-result-shows-weak-positive-824295.html
12-04-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown should be lifted in a phased manner: Kerala CM Vijayan||Kerala's stand on the nationwide lockdown is that it should be lifed in a phased manner and the state is prepared to accept all restrictions proposed by the Centre beyound April 14, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Saturday. Briefing reporters on details of the discussions with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the video conference with chief ministers, Vijayan said he had also sought the centre's intervention to operate special flights to to bring back Keralites stranded due to the lockdown in various countries where they had gone on a visiting visas. Vijayan also wanted all Indian embassies to issue medical bulletins to allay the fears of expats. "We presented our demands before the centre. We have said we will accept all restrictions to be imposed by the centre after April 14. The Prime Minister also said that we need to be more careful in the coming weeks", Vijayan said. The state had suggested that it was not ready to go back to the pre-lockdown situation. "We need to be careful and the lockdown should be withdrawn in a phased manner after evaluating the situation closely", he said. The Chief Minister said the state had given certain suggestions with regard to the lockdown. "The official decision of the centre is yet to be announced. The state will take a decision accordingly. In our opinion, some districts need the restriction but some do not. So let's wait for the centre's decision on the lockdown in the country and we will act accordingly." The Chief Minister said there was a possibility of community spread if uncontrolled public travel is allowed in Kerala, which has a high population density. Kerala, he said, also suggested that restrictions in the seven hotspots -- Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Thrissur, Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram, which accounts for most of the cases from the state-- continue till Apr 30. The states must be given authority to allow certain activities at other places, while strictly practicing social distancing, he said. Vijayan said the state also requested the Prime Minister to arrange for a non-stop train from Kerala for the 3.85 lakh migrant workers who wanted to leave for their states once the lockdown was lifted. The state also requested a separate package for the unorganised sector fot three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-should-be-lifted-in-a-phased-manner-kerala-cm-vijayan-824303.html
12-04-2020||South||This 4-drug mix for treating coronavirus can work wonders, claim Kerala doctors||A four-drug mix for COVID-19 patients, who are at the initial stage of developing pneumonia, is proving quite effective in saving lives in a Kerala hospital and could even become an international model for treating the pandemic, doctors have said. COVID-19 patients require intensive observation and prompt tests, but this pioneering treatment, based on a four-drug mix, is earning global recognition following success stories at the Government Medical College (GMC), according to doctors at GMC, Ernakulam. Citing an example, top physicians at the hospital recalled the case of British national Brian Lockwood who was admitted to the hospital last month. The 57-year-old tourist was brought to the hospital at Kalamassery on March 15 just ahead of boarding a flight to Dubai. A 17-day isolation at the hospital helped Lockwood recover from COVID-19. In a statement issued by National Health Mission (Arogya Keralam), Dr A Fathahudeen and Dr Jacob K Jacob of GMC pointed out that Lockwood had no signs of serious ailment when he was admitted to the hospital, having been brought from the international airport at Nedumbassery. "He (Lockwood) had only low fever and mild cough. He came walking in, recalled Dr Fathahudeen about the Britisher, who had arrived in Kerala on March 10 and visited the scenic Munnar hills. The patient underwent an X-ray test. Seeing the report, we sensed all wasnt well. We referred him for a CT scan. That step proved decisive in Lockwood's recovery. In the process, he became the first COVID-19 patient in India to undergo a CT scan," the doctor said. Dr Jacob, who is with GMCs Internal Medicine Department, referred to another milestone in Lockwood's path to recovery at the hospitals ICU. That was on March 17 when he was given a unique mix of four medicines following breathing trouble for which the patient was first provided respiratory support Within hours, Lockwood was administered a mix of four drugs: two varieties of HIV anti-virus, and hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin. This treatment is less likely to have the desired result on a patient with advanced stage of coronavirus. In the Britisher's case, fever came down by the eighth day. That was the first sign of the patient recovering, said Dr Fathahudeen. He cited the instance of the 69-year-old Malayalee who died in GMC of COVID-19 on March 28. The Kochi resident was already diabetic and had a heart problem. The man recently returned from the Gulf where he contracted coronavirus, and had let his new disease aggravate by remaining homebound for a few days before getting admitted to the hospital, observed Dr Fathahudeen. The driver of the cab that had earlier picked the man from the Kochi airport, too, went on to contract the virus. He was young, and so we could ensure his recovery. The patient can be discharged only if both two tests held 24 hours apart show coronavirus-negative, he said. Dr Thomas Mathew, principal of the 1999-founded GMC, is the coordinator for the treatment of coronavirus patients at the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/this-4-drug-mix-for-treating-coronavirus-can-work-wonders-claim-kerala-doctors-824304.html
12-04-2020||South||Kerala CM denies allegation of COVID-19 data leakage||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has dismissed the allegations of leakage of data regarding COVID-19 patients in the state. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala had on Friday alleged that the LDF government had entrusted a US company with the task of collecting the data regarding the virus infected patients and that it was a violation of their fundamental rights. The data, collected using government machinary, was being uploaded not in the government server but in that of the foreign company, Chennithala had said . "This was not a PR company as was alleged. No money was given to them for the services being rendered. It is an NRK- run company which is helping the state," Vijayan told reporters here. The data would be on an Indian server, Vijayan said and dismissed the allegation of leakage. Chennithala had slammed the government saying that such secret data is considered as 'protected health information' by other countries and handing it over to a foreign private agency was a "serious" issue, he said. "The ward-level committees, set up by the government for the anti-coronavirus fight, was collecting information in this regard and uploading it in the server of the private agency," the Congress leader had alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-denies-allegation-of-covid-19-data-leakage-824305.html
12-04-2020||South||Decision on coronavirus lockdown hinges on neighbouring states stand: Puducherry CM||Territorial Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Saturday said the Puducherry government would decide on extending the lockdown beyond April 14 only by taking into account the stand of the governments of neighbouring Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. In his message to mediapersons at the end of the cabinet meeting held after a video conference with the Prime Minister, the Chief Minister said the constituents of the Union Territory - Puducherry, Karaikal, Mahe, and Yanam - are enclaves in the three neighbouring states. He said the territorial government could not, therefore, take on its own any decision on the issue of lockdown as that depended on the stand of the neighbouring states. "We have considered this at the cabinet meeting and adopted a resolution that an appropriate decision will be taken and announced shortly," he said. On the video conference the Prime Minister Narendra Modi had with the Chief Ministers of several states earlier in the day, Naryanasamy said, "When Chief Ministers of states and the National capital territory of New Delhi were invited to air their views, I was not called to express my views." He said he had already written a letter to the Prime Minister seeking an opportunity at the video conference to enable him to speak on lockdown but he was not invited to speak. Narayanasamy said," Had I been given an opportunity, I would have reiterated the territorial government`s plea to the Centre to grant an interim COVID-19 relief of Rs 300 crore to Puducherry, a grant of Rs 995 crore to strengthen the infrastructural facilities in hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients in the Union Territory." Puducherry was already awaiting sanction of Rs 360 crore by the Centre to compensate for the loss the Union Territory suffered because of GST (goods and services tax). The Centre had also been repeatedly urged to earmark as grant Rs 300 crore to Puducherry and Rs 1,800 crore for implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission report for government staff. "But no opportunity was given to me as I was not invited to speak at the video conference," he said. He said with Puducherry and other regions of Union Territory closely intertwined with the bigger states in the neighbourhood, "our decision on the lockdown would be dependent on the other states' stand." The Chief Minister said the Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao was away in his home constituency of Yanam and the PWD Minister A Namassivayam could not be present as he was indisposed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/decision-on-coronavirus-lockdown-hinges-on-neighbouring-states-stand-puducherry-cm-824314.html
12-04-2020||South||Ensure return of stranded Indians, Congress leader tells PM||Opposition leader in the Kerala Assembly Ramesh Chennithala on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to facilitate the return of Indians stranded across the globe in the wake of the extended coronavirus lockdown. Chennithala said any decision to extend the lockdown which ends on April 14 was welcome, but it was imperative to ensure that people's needs are taken care of. In a letter to the Prime Minister, the opposition leader said the expatriate communities stranded in different countries, especially in the Gulf, are in great difficulty. People in labour camps and flats are extremely vulnerable and are facing a shortage of food, essential medical needs, among others, he further said. Even the people who have contracted COVID-19 are not given adequate medical or ambulance facilities, he said and sought a special economic package for NRIs to help the needy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ensure-return-of-stranded-indians-congress-leader-tells-pm-824317.html
12-04-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown should be lifted in a phased manner, says Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala's stand on the nationwide lockdown is that it should be lifted in a phased manner and the state is prepared to accept all restrictions proposed by the Centre beyond April 14, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Saturday. Briefing reporters on details of the discussions with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the video conference with chief ministers, Vijayan said he had also sought the centre's intervention to operate special flights to to bring back Keralites stranded due to the lockdown in various countries where they had gone on a visiting visas. Vijayan also wanted all Indian embassies to issue medical bulletins to allay the fears of expats.  "We presented our demands before the centre. We have said we will accept all restrictions to be imposed by the centre after April 14. The Prime Minister also said that we need to be more careful in the coming weeks", Vijayan said. The state had suggested that it was not ready to go back to the pre-lockdown situation.  "We need to be careful and the lockdown should be withdrawn in a phased manner after evaluating the situation closely", he said. The Chief Minister said the state had given certain suggestions with regard to the lockdown. "The official decision of the centre is yet to be announced. The state will take a decision accordingly. In our opinion, some districts need the restriction but some do not. So let's wait for the centre's decision on the lockdown in the country and we will act accordingly." The Chief Minister said there was a possibility of community spread if uncontrolled public travel is allowed in Kerala, which has a high population density. Kerala, he said, also suggested that restrictions in the seven hotspots -- Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Thrissur, Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram, which accounts for most of the cases from the state-- continue till Apr 30. The states must be given authority to allow certain activities at other places, while strictly practicing social distancing, he said. Vijayan said the state also requested the Prime Minister to arrange for a non-stop train from Kerala for the 3.85 lakh migrant workers who wanted to leave for their states once the lockdown was lifted. The state also requested a separate package for the unorganised sector fot three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-should-be-lifted-in-a-phased-manner-says-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-824336.html
12-04-2020||South||BJP leaders in TN feeding needy through Modi Kitchens initiative||Heeding the call by party chief J P Nadda to reach out to the poor during the ongoing lockdown, various BJP leaders in Tamil Nadu are feeding many needy through the 'Modi Kitchens' initiative. The state's first Modi kitchen was launched on March 30 in Coimbatore by party's state general secretary Vanathi Srinivasan and it caters to about 500 people. Senior party leader and former MP C P Radhakrishnan keeps alive two kitchens in Coimbatore and Tiruppur in westernTamil Nadu to feed 1,000 persons totally, while Meena Dev runs a similar kitchen in Nagercoil to provide food to 500 individuals daily. "Our party leader (Nadda) has asked us to take care of the poor, especially those who can't afford their daily meals. So, depending on our individual resources, we have pooled in manpower and sourced groceries to prepare food through the Modi kitchens and deliver it at people's doorsteps," Radhakrishnan told PTI.  The joy of M V Sasidharan, BJP's Tiruvallur district general secretary knew no bounds when Nadda called him two days ago to enquire about his well-being. "Are you safe? Is your family safe?" the BJP chief enquired about Sasidharan, one of the many party functionaries who are operating Modi Kitchens. In his district neighbouring Chennai, Sasidharan was instrumental in setting up 13 such kitchens. "Naddaji asked all of us to help the people without risking our lives," he said, adding "the very question of our survival is at stake. We should ensure the coronavirus doesn't spread." The beneficiaries of the initiative are happy that the ruling party at the Centre is reaching out to them in such difficult times. Kans Ram, a construction worker stranded in Maduravoyal near the city, said the BJP functionaires initially gave them cooked food, but on request later provided dry ration. "We sought rice and vegetables as we have facilities to cook. They (BJP members) were not rigid. They obliged and gave us rice bags, onion, tomatoes and potatoes for us to cook our own food," he said. Now they have five days' stock to manage. Gomathy, a small time flower vendor in Velachery said: "With no business and no money to buy rice, the Modi kitchen has enabled my family of three to get decent food daily." The party even responded to a request from an attendant at a hospital on Egmore High Road. "As I could not step out of the hospital leaving my father alone, I requested help from local BJP members, who responded by delivering us food," said Krishnan.  Besides the Modi Kitchen, the Tamil Nadu government's flagship Amma Canteens, low cost eateries catering to the needy and poor, have turned out to be much sought after ones. The highly subsidised Amma Canteens, run by the civic bodies, have been receiving a steady trickle of high profile visitors in recent days, including Chief Minister K Palaniswami. The Chief Minister visited a canteen here and tasted the food to instill confidence among the people that the fare provided through the canteens are hygienic, prompting his cabinet colleagues to follow suit and visit the eateries in their respective constituencies. State ministers visited the Amma Canteens to encourage the people to buy the subsidised food, as restaurants and hotels have also been closed due to the curfew.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-leaders-in-tn-feeding-needy-through-modi-kitchens-initiative-824359.html
12-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: As Kerala felt safer place, many French nationals stay back||In further recognition to the health care sector of Kerala, several French nationals preferred to stay back in the state even as the French embassy and the government made arrangements for the foreign nationals stranded in Kerala to return. While the French embassy had initially prepared a list of 127 nationals of their country stranded in Kerala and nine in Puducherry, only 112 had returned in the special flight operated by the Kochi international airport on April 4. According to Kerala Tourism department officials, as many as 24 of them preferred to stay back as they felt safe to be in Kerala. Many of them were at Mata Amritanandamayi Ashram in Kollam district as well as some other ashrams in the state, while some of them were undergoing Ayurveda therapy's. They were having valid visas and hence, there was no legal hurdle in them staying back here.   Kerala Tourism joint director K Raj Kumar said that arrangements were being made for the return of 250 odd UK nationals stranded in Kerala by April 15. A decision on return of seven UK nationals, who recovered from COVID-19, was still pending as they were still under the mandatory quarantine period. Around 210 Russian nationals in Kerala were also exploring the option of returning. Some persons from Switzerland would also be returning soon.  Already one flight to Germany with 236 tourists, which included around 200 German nationals and around 30 from some other European countries, had left from Thiruvananthapuram airport. A few tourists from countries like Singapore, Malaysia and Brazil left through other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-as-kerala-felt-safer-place-many-french-nationals-stay-back-824396.html
12-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Andhra reports 1 more COVID-19 death; total cases 420||The cornavirus toll increased to seven with the death of a 52-year old man while the total positive cases to 420 in Andhra Pradesh, the state government said on Sunday. As many as 15 new cases were added since Saturday night, according to the latest government bulletin. One more patient has recovered, it said adding total number of people cured in the state has risen to 12. The 52-year-old man died of coronavirus in Dachepalli of Guntur district after midnight on April 10. He was primarily a tuberculosis patient and had tested positive for COVID-19, the bulletin added. A 65-year-old man in Vijayawada, who underwent treatment in the government hospital upon his return from Mecca on March 27, has recovered and was discharged on Sunday. The total active cases in the state now stood at 401, according to the bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-andhra-reports-1-more-covid-19-death-total-cases-420-824410.html
12-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Allow states to directly borrow from RBI, says Kerala FM Thomas Isaac||While expressing optimism that Kerala will get nod for issuance of pandemic bonds, Isaac also warned that the current limitations on the fiscal policy front could push states into a "debt trap". In a telephonic interview to PTI, Isaac said states should not be forced to go to the capital markets at this time and the Centre should first raise the fiscal deficit limit as well as permit direct borrowing from the Reserve Bank. On Tuesday, Kerala had to offer an interest rate of 8.96 per cent for Rs 6,000 crore market borrowing for state development loan for a 15-year period. "All states are going for a lower amount and a shorter period. Now, the coupon rate is an average of eight-plus. The question is why the market is behaving like this... there is a freeze in the credit market. "There are limitations due to the fiscal policy. Government of India should directly borrow from the Reserve Bank, monetise the debt and also allow states to borrow from the Reserve Bank," he said. Otherwise, Isaac said the situation would put all state governments in a debt trap. "When the crisis ends, all state governments will be in serious unsustainable debt situation. GDP is going to be negative and paying around 9 per cent interest, then that is unsustainable. This policy will push state governments into a fiscal crisis," he said during the interview on Friday. Kerala, which has put in place stringent measures to curb spreading of coronavirus infections and flatten the curve, has come out with a Rs 20,000 crore package to deal with the current situation by front loading borrowings. "The central government is forcing state governments to cut their expenditure. This is a very crazy policy. In a slump, you are forcing state governments to cut expenditure," he said. Presently, a state is permitted to borrow up to 3 per cent of its Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). "We already have hard budget constraints... We are permitted to borrow 3 per cent of the GSDP. We have front loaded our borrowings so that we are able to meet demands due to the crisis "... unless you provide basic necessities to the entire population who are under the lockdown you are not going to get compliance. This is what is proved by the experience in the major cities in India with flights of lakhs of people undermining the very motive of the lockdown," he said. Asserting that printing of money is "absolutely" practical and fits the time, Isaac cited the examples of the US Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank and said that is the pattern all over the world. The Federal Reserve and many other central banks are directly purchasing bonds as part of efforts to ensure liquidity in the market. While noting that the state government would be going to the market for raising a lower amount, Isaac stressed that if one is serious about fighting the coronavirus pandemic, then better that the money is available and there is no point in getting the money after one month when the whole country has gone to the dogs. On Wednesday, the minister said Rs 6,000 crore borrowed from the market on Tuesday is Kerala’s share in the first tranche of the Rs 1.27 lakh crore market borrowing that the Centre allowed for the states in 2020-21. Paying 8.96 per cent interest for 15 years on this loan would leave the state in a deep debt trap from which it would be difficult to come out, Isaac had said. Emphasising that the central government should understand and be more liberal in its fiscal policy and support, the minister said more needs to be spent on relief. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding proposal to issue pandemic bonds, which will have a lower interest rate. When asked whether he was optimistic about getting the Centre's nod for issuance of pandemic bonds, Isaac replied in the affirmative. "Yes. Pandemic bonds will be specially for Covid related measures. It should be at a lower interest rate because it is not going to have any capital expenditure or revenue expenditure for giving relief to people...," he said. Pandemic bonds would effectively work like monetisation of fiscal deficit -- which means the central bank prints more money to pay for government debt by buying up government bonds and booking the same on its balance-sheet. To a query on whether any other practical option was being planned in case pandemic bonds issuance does not happen, Isaac said the central government has to change its policy. "I am certain that compulsions of the current situation will force the central government to change its fiscal policy which is as idiotic as the demonetisation policy," he noted. Later this month, Issac said he would be convening a webinar with representatives from states to discuss states' finances as well as the coronavirus situation. The webinar is scheduled to be held on April 27 and 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-allow-states-to-directly-borrow-from-rbi-says-kerala-fm-thomas-isaac-824421.html
12-04-2020||South||45-year-old woman dies of coronavirus, toll goes to 11 in Tamil Nadu||A 45-year-old woman has died of coronavirus at a hospital here, taking the toll in the state to 11, the health department said on Sunday. She was admitted to the Omandurar Government Medical college hospital here on April 5 and tested positive for the coronavirus. "The woman passed away at 7.30 PM on April 11 as her difficulty in breathing intensified", the bulletin said. Tamil Nadu has so far recorded 969 positive cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/45-year-old-woman-dies-of-coronavirus-toll-goes-to-11-in-tamil-nadu-824423.html
12-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu woman moves SC to bring back 860 fishermen, including husband stuck in Iran||A woman from Tamil Nadu has approached the Supreme Court to 860 Indian fishermen, including her husband, stranded on boats, in life-threatening situation, in the coast of Iran, following the suspension of flights and travel in view of Covid-19 pandemic.  A Salem resident, Santha Muthulingam deprecated the government's stand that it would bring back only those who are tested negative of Coronavirus, terming it as "British or Nazi German way of things".  The top court is to take up the matter on Monday, along with similar pleas to evacuate citizens stuck in other countries, including the USA.  In a writ petition, she contended no help was forthcoming from either the Embassy or Iran government to 860 fishermen from Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Gujarat as they remained stranded for about 25 days in temporary sheds and anchored boats in the coast of Bandar-e-Moqam, a village and Lavan Island in Hormozgan province of Iran, the second epicentre of the pandemic. Her plea stated the only way to fight Coronavirus was to let the human body create antibodies. So these fishermen must be brought back and kept in necessary quarantine condition with food and water, which is a primordial requirement for recovery.  "Allowing the citizens of India to perish in a foreign country out of starvation and dehydration, much less than the infection, to say the least, is inhuman, step-motherly and completely contrary to Article 21 of the Constitution," her petition filed by advocate K Paari Vendhan stated.   While France and the US were expatriating 14,000 citizens but she was informed that the Ministry of External Affairs stated that they would bring back only those citizens who were tested negative of Coronavirus, her petition claimed. The petitioner pointed out the Union government had already evacuated pilgrims from Iran and other citizens from China and Italy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-woman-moves-sc-to-bring-back-860-fishermen-including-husband-stuck-in-iran-824438.html
12-04-2020||South||Not just lockdown, intense testing, contact tracing equally crucial to fight coronavirus: Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac||Ramping up efforts to "stamp out" coronavirus cases in the state, Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac has said that not only lockdown but intense testing of people and tracing of their contacts are also equally important in the fight against the outbreak. Kerala, which was the first state in the country to report a coronavirus infection in late January, has also prepared a time table for coming out of the lockdown and there would be district-specific strategies to tackle the situation while the number of cases are on the decline. In efforts to curb spreading of coronavirus infections, the country is under a 21-day lockdown till April 14 and many states have sought an extension amid rising number of cases. Kerala has proposed extending the lockdown and gradual phasing out after proper assessment. "Lockdown should go on till we stamp out entire infections. Now, it is not enough to have lockdown. Equally important is that we should have intense testing, tracing and isolating (of people with coronavirus infections)," he told PTI in a telephonic interview. The government is closely monitoring the situation and there would be region-specific or district-specific strategies in place to tackle the outbreak, he said.  Against the backdrop of the lockdown that has also disrupted economic activities, Isaac said an exit strategy is being prepared and restrictions are being relaxed in certain segments, including agriculture. "The number of patients is coming down (in the state). We hope that in the coming days, the decline will be much more faster," he said during the interview late Friday. On Saturday, the Kerala government said there were a total of 373 confirmed cases of coronavirus infections and 228 patients were under treatment in various hospitals in the state. Keeping the trend in the last few days, the number of people under observation has come down to 1,23,490. So far, 14,613 samples from people with symptoms were sent for testing and the results of 12,818 samples have come negative, the government said in a statement on Saturday. Indicating that there would be a calibrated exit from the lockdown, Isaac said the withdrawal would depend on three main factors, including the count of cases and the percentage of people who are under observation. While emphasising that people must also be fed during the lockdown period, Isaac also said a time table is being prepared by the state to come out of the lockdown. Even as strict measures are being implemented to deal with the current situation, the state is also preparing for a possible third wave of coronavirus cases. Three students, who had returned from the Chinese city of Wuhan, were tested positive. They were also the first such cases, to be reported in January-February period, and have recovered. Wuhan was the epicentre of coronavirus infections before it spread to other countries. Later, there was a second wave of infections in Kerala. According to the minister, the possibility of a third wave has also been considered for the exit strategy. "A lot of Malayalees are expected to come back from outside the state. We will welcome them... before that, we want to stamp out all Covid cases in Kerala. Flatten the curve completely so that when these people from outside, they will be quarantined, they will be tested and only then they will be able to integrate with the rest of the community," he said. The Kerala government's measures, including extensive testing and efforts to trace people who came in contact with coronavirus-infected persons, have helped in curbing spreading of infections. The state's public healthcare system has also been appreciated in various quarters. "People are health conscious. There is a demand for quality healthcare services and the response to this demand has been strengthening of the public healthcare system. We have a robust public healthcare system," the minister emphasised. On April 9, Isaac tweeted about low level of coronavirus spreading in the state. "International norm for Covid spread is 2.6 per 1 Covid patient. Total number of primary Covid infected who arrived in Kerala from abroad is 254. The secondary spread has been limited to 91. The international mortality rate is 5.75. With just 2 deaths, rate in Kerala is 0.58," he had tweeted. Death toll due to the coronavirus increased to 273 and the number of cases to 8,356 in the country on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/not-just-lockdown-intense-testing-contact-tracing-equally-crucial-to-fight-coronavirus-kerala-finance-minister-thomas-isaac-824444.html
12-04-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh to provide each of its 5.3 crore people with three COVID-19 masks||The Andhra Pradesh government has decided to distribute 16 crore masks with each of the 5.3 crore people in the state provided with three masks.  In a COVID-19 review meeting on Sunday, Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has instructed the officials to expedite the distribution of the masks, “which provide some safety from the virus.”  The focus on masks is as studies suggested that persons showing no symptoms are also testing positive later, spreading the virus in the meantime.    The state has, till Sunday morning, recorded 417 COVID-19 cases. While 25 are those of foreign returned and their contacts, 360 cases i.e. 86 percent of the total cases are connected to the Nizamuddin Markaz. 32 cases are those who had travelled to other states etc.  According to officials, a third round of health survey covering 1.43 crore households out of total 1.47 crore households in the state has identified 32,349 people for medical examination. While COVID-19 tests were prescribed for 9,107 among them, the Chief Minister “unwilling to take any chance in these testing times has asked officials to conduct tests on all the 32,349 people,” a CMO official said.  To assess the virus infection, the health department is planning 45,000 tests across the state focusing on the COVID-19 prevalent zones. The state has quarantined people in 141 containment clusters, spread in 11 districts that reported Covid-19 cases, to prevent further spread of the virus.   Calling for a special focus in the zones where COVID-19 is rife, the Chief Minister instructed officials to prioritize high-risk patients like senior citizens, diabetics.  Reddy for total lockdown extension in Red Zones only    In his Saturday’s video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Reddy said that out of 676 mandals of the state, 37 were declared as red zones and 44 as orange zones. “No effect of Coronavirus on 595 mandals in the green zone.” “As the economic activity should go on, we are of the opinion that lockdown be implemented in red zones while social distancing etc., measures are maintained in other places,” Reddy has said, according to a CMO statement.  AP has set up one COVID-19 hospital in each of the 13 districts and isolation centres with 26,000 beds. Reddy advocated “a lockdown with a human touch.” While committing support to any decision of the Centre, Reddy at the same time opined that “the economy’s wheel should be kept moving though at a slower pace.” “Agriculture, aqua and horticulture are badly hit as farmers are unable to sell their produce because of the transport restrictions. Godowns are full, making further storage a problem, the CM told the PM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-to-provide-each-of-its-53-crore-people-with-three-covid-19-masks-824456.html
12-04-2020||South||Ambulances in Kerala come under scanner for ferrying people amid coronavirus lockdown||As the nationwide lockdown continues in the state, ambulances have come under police scanner after a few were seized for transporting people, instead of patients. A case was registered against an ambulance driver by the police on Sunday at Parassala station near Tamil Nadu border in Thiruvananthapuram district for transporting people after charging them a huge amount. "The driver initially told officials at the check-post that the vehicle was empty, but they found five passengers in the ambulance who were picked up from Pattom, a place inside Thiruvananthapuram city," police said. During the lockdown period, the ambulance was ferrying people from Kerala to Tamil Nadu and back, police said adding the vehicle was apprehended on Saturday midnight. A case has been registered against the driver, Vijesh, and the five people who had violated the lockdown protocols. "The ambulance has a sticker of Vaikunta Swami Dharma Pracharanasabha (VSDP), a local political party but the party officials denied that it belonged to them," police said. Another ambulance was caught on Saturday at Kozhikode district, which was transporting people from Ernakulam to Kasaragod. "The ambulance travelled for around five hours and when it reached Kozhikode, police saw two people boarding it. This caused suspicion. The ambulance was seized by Elathur police after Kozhikode police informed them about their doubt," police said. The ambulance had nine people including two drivers. Five passengers were from Ernakulam and two were from Kozhikode. "A case has been registered against the driver and other passengers under various Acts including the Indian Penal Code, The Epidemic Act and the Motor Vehicles Act," police said. The ambulance was modified in such a manner that it looks like an ambulance but was able to transport people too, police said. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had yesterday said strong action would be taken against those who misuse the essential services including ambulances. "There was a news about certain persons who were caught at Kozhikode for travelling in an ambulance during the lockdown period. The vehicle was seized," Vijayan had said.  The lockdown has left many people stranded at various parts of the state due to lack of public transport. "The ambulance drivers were trying to make money in this situation," a senior police official from Kozhikode said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ambulances-in-kerala-come-under-scanner-for-ferrying-people-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-824466.html
12-04-2020||South||Coronavirus patient booked for spitting on doctor in Tamil Nadu||It was a serious crime under the present conditions with so many restrictions in force to prevent the spread of coronavirus, they said. The patient, admitted to the hospital's coronavirus ward on Saturday, also removed his mask and threw it at the doctor, enraging the hospital staff and other patients. Eversince his admission in the ward, he has not been cooperating with the medical staff, they added. Meanwhile, reports from Nagapattinam district stated that a 65-year-old doctor, running a private clinic at Kadambadi in the district has tested positive for the virus after his return from the US three weeks back. The district administration has appealed to the people who received treatment from the doctor to voluntarily come forward and subject themselves to medical examination.    People could contact the officials on 9751425002 and 9500493022 to pass on information in this connection, it said. Tamil Nadu has reported the third highest number of positive coronavirus cases in the country after Maharashtra and Delhi, with a total of 969 confirmed cases, and 11 deaths so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-patient-booked-for-spitting-on-doctor-in-tamil-nadu-824472.html
12-04-2020||South||36 in Kerala, including 28 from Kasargod, recover from coronavirus||Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said that the number of coronavirus infected persons under treatment in the state could be brought down to 194 out of the 375 found infected. As many as 179 tested negative so far, while three persons, including a Mahe native, died. The recovery rate in Kerala reached 48 percent. 'Of the 166 Kasargod natives infected, 61 recovered so far - a recovery rate of 37 per cent,' the Kasargod district administration said. However, the state would continue being on high alert against COVID-19 as about 816 persons with symptoms were still under observation in hospitals and test results of over 1,000 persons are yet to come.    Tight vigil was enforced in some areas of Kasargod where the number of cases was comparatively higher. Police also carried out door-to-door checking to ensure that people did not violate lockdown norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/36-in-kerala-including-28-from-kasargod-recover-from-coronavirus-824482.html
12-04-2020||South||Kerala reaching out to its emigrant population as COVID-19 claims lives of over 20 Malayalis abroad so far||While Kerala is already in the forefront in taking care of the migrant workforce from other states in Kerala, the state is now extending helping hand to the lakhs of emigrants from Kerala in various parts of the world. Even as the number of COVID-19 casualties in Kerala is kept to a lower rate of only three deaths so far, already over 20 Malayalis died in various parts of the world, including US, UK and Gulf countries.  As distress calls started coming in from Malayalis in various countries, the state government already initiated setting up of help desks in Gulf countries with the support of overseas Malayali associations and respective missions. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take steps to ensure the welfare of the expats. While the actual number of emigrants from Kerala was not available, a study in 2018 estimated that there are 21.2 lakh Malayali's in various countries, of which 18.5 lakh are in Gulf countries. US, UK and Australia are among the other countries with considerable Malayali population, according to the Centre for Development Studies.  NORKA-Roots, the field agency of Non-Resident Keralites Affairs Department, is getting distress call for various countries over the last couple of week. NORKA-Roots Chief Executive Officer Harikrishnan Namboothiri K told DH that most of the persons who rang up for help wanted to know whether there was any option for them to return to Kerala. Running out of medicines, the requirement for medical assistance and financial crisis owing to non-payment of salaries and job loss jobs were among the major concerns being raised.  Help desks were set up in most of the Gulf countries in association with the Malayali Associations and voluntary organisations and with support of the Indian mission officials. Assistance like supplying food and other essential items could be carrying out to some extent with the available resources. With cargo flights starting operation from Kerala to Gulf countries, the possibilities of sending relief materials from Kerala was also being explored, said Mr. Harikrishnan. Meanwhile, the state government was also preparing itself to face a mass exodus of expats once the flight restricts were lifted. Facilities for mass quarantining and digital passes to check violation of quarantining were being considered by the Kerala government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reaching-out-to-its-emigrant-population-as-covid-19-claims-lives-of-over-20-malayalis-abroad-so-far-824483.html
12-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu's Tiruppur knits its way out of crises with coronavirus help||Several state governments, including Tamil Nadu and Kerala, NGOs and other agencies like Rotary Club that are involved in the efforts to contain COVID-19 have placed huge orders for protective medical gear as around 125 companies have upped their shutters to do their bit in times of crisis. Fabric masks, which can be washed and re-used, gloves and PPE for doctors, paramedics and sanitary workers are some of the products that are manufactured by exporters here, in what is seen as a blessing in disguise. Utilizing the opportunity The industry, which was suffering due to a slew of factors including tough competition from countries like Bangladesh and Vietnam in apparel export, feels manufacturing of technical apparel could be a viable option to survive in the future. Tiruppur alone accounts for 46 per cent of India’s exports in the sector and the exporters face loss to the tune of crores of rupees due to Covid-19 outbreak in key apparel markets like the US and EU.   “We have got an order for making 20 lakh fabric masks which are reusable from Seva Bharti. We will be supplying 3 lakh masks to be sent to Meghalaya and other north-eastern states on Monday. We hope to complete the order by the end of April,” K G Ganeshan, Partner, Swell Knit, told DH. Ganeshan says the fabric masks being manufactured by his firm is different from surgical masks and can be reused any number of times. “We designed a few two-layer masks and all of them were approved by a leading textile testing lab. These masks are designed for the general public who can wash and reuse them,” he added. Fabric masks are being recommended by doctors for the general public as they feel surgical masks are only for those providing medical care.  This is the first time that exporters’ in Tiruppur are manufacturing PPEs and medical gear, but the factories say they get their designs approved by testing labs and are doing it a very low-cost price without “looking at any profit.”    Another manufacturer, who wished to remain anonymous, told DH that apart from producing fabric masks, his factory also manufactures PPEs for paramedics and sanitary workers. “We cannot produce PPEs for doctors as the material used for it is not available easily in the market now. However, we produce PPEs for paramedics and other support staff with the material available with us,” he said. The district administration has also imposed strict restrictions on the manufacturing units that are allowed to operate during the lockdown period. “We follow social distancing by providing a gap between machines and ask labourers to maintain personal hygiene by washing their hands regularly. Also, they are asked to wear masks while working,” Ganeshan added. Loyal Textile Mills Ltd, which has manufacturing units across the state, produces 4,000 PPE kits and 1 lakh surgical masks a day. “We have been supplying protective medical gear to hospitals, rotary clubs and several pharmacies across the country. We follow the standards prescribed and we ensure that every rule is complied with,” D. Manohar – General Manager (Technical Textiles), told DH. Medical gear as an option for the future Exporters feel manufacturing medical gear and getting into the technical textile sector would be beneficial for the industry in the future, as it faces a lot of domestic and global challenges. What began as a “service” in the first few days of lockdown is likely to transform into a big opportunity for manufacturers who don’t hesitate to adopt new methods to survive in the ever-changing industry. “This could be a new business model for the future. Even in the crisis, we have found a positive factor that could help manufacturers in the long run. We think this is the first step towards moving to Technical Textile Arena (TTA) and we are happy that the seed has been sown in Tiruppur,” Raja M Shanmugham, President, Tiruppur Exporters’ Association (TEA), told DH. He said switching to TTA would be a major boost to the knitwear cluster in Tiruppur, which is facing tough competition from Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Vietnam and Cambodia due to cheaper price and free market access that these countries possess. Another manufacturer said some 30 to 40 per cent of manufacturers would get into producing medical gear along with their existing business model even after COVID-19 is contained. “This crisis has shown us another opportunity. And producing medical gear would also throw up export opportunities and if it is profitable, most would switch to that,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-tiruppur-knits-its-way-out-of-crises-with-coronavirus-help-824492.html
12-04-2020||South||In Tamil Nadu, vans to collect COVID-19 samples from patients' doorstep||The mobile sample collection vans launched by Thoothukudi and newly-formed Kallakurichi districts would save time and energy of both patients and lab technicians as the vehicle can be taken to any remote part, especially in containment zones, without much difficulty.  While Tiruppur, the knitwear cluster, was the first to launch a sample collection kiosk at the Government Hospital, Thoothukudi, known as South India’s Pearl City, and Kallakurichi have gone one step ahead by setting up a sample collection centre inside vans. Thoothukudi District Collector Sandeep Nanduri told DH that the mobile sample collection centre will be useful for testing potential secondary contacts of positive patients in the containment zones. The van has been modified to protect the privacy of people whose samples are collected. “These vans are quite helpful in reaching the entire district. The idea was to ensure the whole district is covered and the patient’s privacy is protected. He will get into the vehicle to give his samples as some may not like giving it in the open like in a kiosk,” Nanduri said.    Since Thoothukudi has seven containment zones spread across the district and kiosks cannot be set up everywhere, the mobile kiosk can be taken anywhere, he said. Explaining the process of sample collection from the specially-modified van, Nanduri said the lab technician is completely protected inside the mobile collection centre and will not have contact even with the driver. “The lab technician doesn’t even need any personal protective equipment (PPE) as the mobile collection centre itself comes with all needed protection. Once the sample is collected, he will have to just drop the sample into the box that has been providing for storing them,” he said, adding that the van was used to lift samples of 46 people on Saturday alone. Increasing the number of sample collection kiosks While Thoothukudi has gone for a mobile sample collection method, neighbouring Tirunelveli has set up a kiosk at the government medical college. Similar kiosks have come up in Stanley Medical College in Chennai, while the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has opened a few booths in its jurisdiction. “Walk in testing kiosk has been set across medical colleges in Tamil Nadu for easier testing and saving PPE’s too for RT-PCR of throat swabs. We have given instructions to other government medical college hospitals to set up such kiosks. Also, districts like Thoothukudi and Kallakurichi have gone for mobile kiosks,” K Senthil Raj, Mission Director, National Health Mission, Tamil Nadu, told DH.   The Tiruppur sample collection kiosk was different from the one set up in Kerala on the lines of those in South Korea. This model has two kiosks -- clinical and sample collection – patients are first screened and sent to the second kiosk for testing only if the medical team concludes that their symptoms are related to Coronavirus. “In a country like ours, we cannot have direct testing kiosks because of the population. So, we decided to have a screening kiosk where people will first be checked to ascertain whether they need a test,” Tiruppur District Collector Dr K Vijayakarthikeyan told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-tamil-nadu-vans-to-collect-covid-19-samples-from-patients-doorstep-824503.html
12-04-2020||South||COVID-19 woman gives birth to 'healthy' baby boy in Tamil Nadu||A coronavirus positive woman has given birth to a 'healthy' baby boy at a government medical college hospital near here, where she has been undergoing treatment, officials said on Sunday. A team of doctors carried out the cesarean delivery at the Perundurai IRT Government Medical College Hospital, designated facility for COVID-19 cases, on Saturday night, they said. She is among 14 women undergoing treatment at the hospital for coronavirus. The new born was 'healthy', officials said. Of the 60 COVID-19 cases detected in Erode district, as many as 56, including six from Thailand, are being treated at the hospital in Perundurai, about 18 kms from here. Four others are at the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore. The Thailand nationals have been arrested on charges of indulging in religious preaching in violation of their tourist visa norms. In all, a group of seven Thailand nationals came here some three weeks ago, stayed at Kollampalayam Housing Unit complex and engaged themselves in preaching. One among them died due to kidney ailment at a government hospital in Coimbatore. The remaining six tested positive for coronavirus, prompting authorities to launch a massive contact tracing of those who had attended the preaching sessions and others, leading to detection of most of the other 54 cases. More than 1.66 lakh people belonging to 33,330 families in ten localities here have been kept under home quarantine and health, police and revenue officials are maintaining a strict vigil to prevent further spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-woman-gives-birth-to-healthy-baby-boy-in-tamil-nadu-824504.html
12-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 tally crosses 1,000; focus now on aggressive testing||Tamil Nadu reported another massive spike in the number of positive COVID-19 patients with swab samples of 106 persons rendering positive on Sunday alone even as the state changed its gears by announcing that its focus now is on “aggressive testing”. The state’s tally now stands at 1,075 next only to Maharashtra including 11 deaths – a 45-year-old woman passed away on Saturday night, but the news was made public on Sunday – and 50 discharges. The number of positive cases in Tamil Nadu has witnessed an exponential increase in the past 13 days – the state had just 67 positive patients on March 30 but climbed to 1,075 on April 12. Majority of the cases are related to a “single source event”, which is an oblique reference to a religious congregation in Delhi held last month. The health bulletin released every evening had no mention of “single source event” and details about it on Sunday. As the number of positive cases increase every passing day, the state’s strategy in handling the pandemic has undergone a major change with Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh saying that the focus is now on “aggressive testing.” “Our focus is now on aggressive testing. We want to test more people and we request people who have symptoms of COVID-19 to report to hospitals. We have enough RT-PCR test kits. As of today, we have 24,000 test kits and we will be getting another 90,000 kits very soon. We are testing primary and secondary contacts,” the Health Secretary told the daily press briefing.      She also said the rapid test kits, whose arrival is being delayed, is just a screening test while RT-PCR tests are more accurate, while assuring the people that the state has adequate number of kits to test a greater number of people. The Health Secretary also appealed patients to be strong, in response to a question on alleged misbehaviour by some patients with hospital staff. “We can easily face this disease. We do have nurses and staff equipped to talk to the patients during this difficult time,” Beela Rajesh said. The bureaucrat also said the government has decided to bear the cost of COVID-19 tests done at private hospitals in the state. As on Sunday, the state has 23 testing centres – 14 in government hospitals and the remaining nine in private sector.   The state currently 58,189 passengers under home quarantine for 28 days and 162 asymptomatic passengers from highly affected countries are being quarantined in quarantine facilities near airport and 1,890 are under hospital isolation. “Till now 10,655 samples have been taken from the passengers. 1,075 persons are tested positive till date and testing of 1,207 samples are under process,” an update from the Health Department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-1000-focus-now-on-aggressive-testing-824516.html
12-04-2020||South||COVID-19 positive woman delivers baby boy in Tamil Nadu||A 32-year-old woman, who tested positive for Covid-19, has delivered a baby boy on Saturday night at a government hospital in Erode district.  The woman delivered the baby through cesarean on Saturday night at the IRT Perundurai Medical College in the district. "Both the mother and baby are fine. They are being constantly monitored," a source at the hospital said.  Health Department officials said the woman contracted Coronavirus from her husband, who attended a religious congregation in Delhi. She was admitted to the hospital on April 9 after she tested positive for Covid-19. Before being admitted to the hospital, the woman was under home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-positive-woman-delivers-baby-boy-in-tamil-nadu-824527.html
12-04-2020||South||106 fresh coronavirus cases in Tamil Nadu, total mounts to 1,075||Tamil Nadu reported 106 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the total number of those infected to 1,075 on Sunday, the state government said. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said of the 106, as many as 16 had "inter-state travel" history and the remaining were their contacts. With the latest addition, the total number of coronavirus positive patients in the state increased to 1,075, she said. Rajesh also said six people have been discharged, taking the total number of those cured to 50 in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/106-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-tamil-nadu-total-mounts-to-1075-824549.html
12-04-2020||South||36 coronavirus patients recover in Kerala, 2 fresh cases reported||In a relief to Kerala, as many as 36 COVID-19 patients were cured of the disease and only two fresh positive cases detected on Sunday, state Health Minister K K Shailaja said. The is the highest number of recovered patients for a single day in the state where a total of 179 had been cured with only two deaths reported due to COVID-19 so far. With the two new cases from Kannur and Pathanamthitta districts, both with foreign travel history, the number of active coronavirus cases in the state stood at 194. Of the 36 recovered, Kasaragod, the COVID-19 hotspot in the state with the highest number of cases, accounted for a majority of 28 people who were cured of the virus infection, the Minister said. "Out of the total 36 cured today, 28 are from Kasaragod, six from Malappuram, one each from Kozhikode and Idukki districts. As of now, there are 194 patients under treatment across various hospitals in the state. At least 179 were cured in Kerala till now," Shailaja said in a release. The new patient from Pathanamthitta had arrived in the state from Sharjah in UAE and the other from Kannur had a travel history to Dubai, she said. A total of 1,16,941 people were under observation in the state out of which 816 in isolation wards of various hospitals, the release said. The state has till now sent 14,989 samples for testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/36-coronavirus-patients-recover-in-kerala-2-fresh-cases-reported-824555.html
12-04-2020||State||DK 'Corona Warriors' fight fake COVID-19 news with facts in WhatsApp||Fishermen idling in their homes were a worried lot after a video clipping showing people dying from coronavirus being dumped in the sea and people being infected with COVID-19 virus after consuming seafood, went viral on social media. As fishermen were bracing up for the worst, ‘DK Corona Warriors’ swung into the act by declaring the video clipping as fake and ensuring that it had no impact on those passionate about seafood. The team also declared that the bodies washed ashore were infact, African migrants who had drowned when the boat had toppled near Libyan coast in 2014. The team also designed a message to counter the fake video clipping. “Experts have assured that well cooked food (70 degree) including seafood was safe,” informs Sudeep Ghate posted the message on his neighbourhood’s WhatsApp group. Sudeep, serving as a post doctoral fellow in Yenepoya (deemed to be) university, is one among the four members in the Warrior’s core group. This is not the first time 'Corona Warriors' are investigating and busting fake news in the district, informs Naren Koduvattat a member of Warriors core group. Recently messages on Hindus keen on celebrating Rama Navami during lockdown was declared as fake. “Of the total 25 fake alerts, detected between March 31 to April 6, Warriors had busted six local fake news,” informs Naren. DK Corona Warriors with 483 volunteers, registered with department of Information and Public Relations (DIPR) and Indian Red Cross society, have been organised into nine taluk groups. Naren says Corona warriors are not another WhatsApp group. Though we do not know each other, we are united by our passion for voluntary social service, adds Naren.The team also played a role in implementing social distancing rules and usage of masks. The team is ready to do fieldwork, stresses Naren. Prior to the launch of DK Corona Warriors, four core members including Sahana, who is the master volunteer, agreed on a common project, a process of fighting fake news and broadcasting helpful information to citizens across the district. “Even by a conservative estimate, Corona Warriors reaches a minimum of 2,64,000 people each day,” Naren declares.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dk-corona-warriors-fight-fake-covid-19-news-with-facts-in-whatsapp-824318.html
12-04-2020||State||KCCI appeals to exclude Dakshina Kannada from list of coronavirus hotspot areas||Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has appealed to the Additional chief secretary to Karnataka government Jawaid Akhtar to exclude Dakshina Kannada district from hotspot/ red zone area pertaining to coronavirus.  KCCI president Isaac Vas in an appeal said that DK district has not reported any new case of COVID-19 in the last five days. Of the 12 cases reported in the district, six are from Kasargod and one from Bhatkal. None of the patients suffering from coronavirus are in ICU or put on ventilator, he said.    Further, he said the effective implementation of lockdown has controlled the spread of coronavirus in the district. People are also maintaining social distancing along with wearing mask and using hand sanitisers. However, people in the district are facing hardship due to lack of employment and money. Hence, the district should be kept out of the red zone area, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kcci-appeals-to-exclude-dakshina-kannada-from-list-of-coronavirus-hotspot-areas-824325.html
12-04-2020||State||Pandemic Podcast: Food shortage looms large on Karnataka||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast gives you a bird’s-eye view of the COVID-19 situation in India, while focusing on one chosen issue in every episode. In this episode, DH journalist Anitha Pailoor talks about the impending food crisis in Karnataka if the government does not take steps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pandemic-podcast-food-shortage-looms-large-on-karnataka-824374.html
12-04-2020||State||17 coronavirus cases reported in Karnataka, tally rises to 232 in state||As many as 17 new cases of coronavirus were confirmed on Sunday in Karnataka, taking the total number of infected to 232, the health department said. This includes six deaths and 54 discharges. According to the bulletin issued by the health department, six cases were reported from Vijayapura, four cases in Belagavi, three each in Bengaluru city and Kalaburagi and one in Mysuru. Among the 17, four people are suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) -- two of whom are in Bengaluru and one each in Vijayapura and Kalaburagi, the department said. Following the sudden spurt in cases in Vijayapura, the department has initiated contact tracing. Ever since the outbreak of COVID-19, Bengaluru continued to top the list with 76 cases, followed by Mysuru with 48 cases, Belagavi with 14 cases, Kalaburagi with 13 cases and Dakshina Kannada with 12 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/17-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-karnataka-tally-rises-to-232-in-state-824409.html
12-04-2020||State||COVID-19: Government warns against use of children's photos to raise funds||The Women and Child Welfare Department has warned of action against those raising funds for relief during COVID-19 lockdown by using photos of children. In a release, the department said that several non-governmental organisations and voluntary groups were using the photographs of children to collect donations.  Under the centrally-sponsored Integrated Child Protection Scheme, the department has registered about 1000 government and private institutions have been registered to provide help to children in need.   "It has come to our notice that NGOs are using photos of children to raise donations. However, this is against the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act," the director of the ICDS scheme stated in a release. The release urged the NGOs and the public to contact the department for obtaining government help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-government-warns-against-use-of-childrens-photos-to-raise-funds-824426.html
12-04-2020||State||H D Kumaraswamy appeals to Centre to announce rent rebate scheme to benefit tenants||Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Sunday appealed to the Central government to announce the rent rebate scheme for the benefit of tenants in the wake of economic activities coming to a grinding halt due to COVID-19 related lockdown. In a series of tweets, Kumaraswamy said people are facing difficulty in paying rent as usual and hence the rent rebate scheme should be initiated. "Many countries have already announced rent rebate scheme for tenants during COVID19 emergency. It is surprising that Indian Govt has not announced any such relief even to residential tenants. I urge the PM to immediately come to the rescue of everyone living in rented housing," Kumaraswamy tweeted. He said a considerable workforce and students in metropolitan cities live in hostels and rented houses. As all economic activity has come to a grinding halt, it is very difficult for them to pay the rent as usual. The Prime Minister must announce rent rebate scheme, he added. Highlighting the plight of the tenants, Kumaraswamy said, "If the landlords insist on rent, the tenants cannot even go searching for new accommodation due to the emergency. Hence the government intervention is essential. The PM must announce a comprehensive national rent rebate scheme for COVID-19 emergency."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/h-d-kumaraswamy-appeals-to-centre-to-announce-rent-rebate-scheme-to-benefit-tenants-824441.html
12-04-2020||State||Army men join cops in enforcing lockdown||As many as 20 soldiers of the Indian Army who are either retired or on leave and have come back home to Kunigal taluk are helping out the local police in maintaining security during the Covid-19 lockdown.  Army man Koothahalli Shivanna approached the DySP Jagadish recently and offered to help the police in their work. Police agreed to take the help of the soldiers during the lockdown period.  On Sunday, a meeting was called and the soldiers were briefed about the role they need to play in maintaining security especially at checkpoints at district borders. Now the soldiers are stationed along with the police at the Anchepalya check post.  As of now, the soldiers are on guard once a week in two shifts (24/7) and are checking the unnecessary movement of people and vehicles at the border check post. If people disobey the ban on movement, the soldiers are handing over the rule violators to the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/army-men-join-cops-in-enforcing-lockdown-824442.html
12-04-2020||State||Liquor being sold secretly in Tumakuru despite lockdown||Though liquor shops in urban areas of the district are all closed due to the country-wide Covid-19 lockdown, those in rural areas are thriving secretly.  Though the police and Excise departments have carried out raids in some places, liquor is still being sold in many other places. While liquor shops are closed, alcohol is being sold in petty shops and from the houses of liquor shop owners. Thereby, they have avoided getting caught in raids. High prices A 90 ml pouch priced at Rs 40 is being sold at Rs 150. A 180 ml tetra pack which costs Rs 80 is being sold at Rs 300. Though gutka and cigarette sales are banned in Pavagada taluk, a pack of cigarettes costing Rs 165 is being sold at Rs 200.    S Nagarajappa, deputy commissioner, Excise, cautioned that if liquor is being sold despite the ban, by shop owners, their licenses will be canceled. He said that since the lockdown, 22 shop owners had been booked in raids. "Even the sale of Neera from Andhra Pradesh has been stopped," he added.  Recently a burglary in a liquor shop was reported. People say that it a false narrative created by the shop owner to open his shop shutters and shift the liquor stock elsewhere and sell it at sky-high prices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/liquor-being-sold-secretly-in-tumakuru-despite-lockdown-824443.html
12-04-2020||State||Two arrested for poaching pangolin||The police arrested two persons on the charges of poaching pangolin, at Hiregadde. The arrested are Dinesh and Shivappa. Acting on a tip-off, the police raided and arrested the duo. Other accused Ramesh and Ravi are still at large. According to police, the arrested had killed a pangolin weighing 12 kg. A case has been registered against the accused under the Wildlife Protection Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-arrested-for-poaching-pangolin-824452.html
12-04-2020||State||Pavagada: Drone camera to monitor lockdown violations||A drone camera survey was conducted in Pavagada town, YN Hoskote, and Tirumani on Sunday to monitor the unnecessary movement of people and vehicles during the Covid-19 lockdown which is in force.  DySP Praveen launched the drone camera survey at the Shani temple in Pavagada town. All movement and incidents that occurred in an 8 km radius were captured on camera. It is learnt that going forward, drones will be used in rural areas too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pavagada-drone-camera-to-monitor-lockdown-violations-824473.html
12-04-2020||State||Mandya police launch ‘M-Pass’ app||The Mandya district Police department has launched a new mobile app ‘M-Pass’, to facilitate the people to get emergency vehicle pass during the lockdown period. The M-Pass has been developed to prevent the people from lining up before the offices to get the emergency vehicle passes, said Superintendent of Police K Parashuram. The app has been developed on an experimental basis and can be downloaded from the Mandya district Police website, after following the necessary instructions. It would be available at the playstore soon, he said. In the first phase, the public should upload the personal information, address, contact number and photograph through the app. The details would be verified in the second phase. Only if the reason is genuine, the department would recommend to issue pass, otherwise it would be rejected citing reasons, he said. If the application is accepted, the pass can be downloaded. There is no need to get the print out. The person can show the pass in the mobile phone at the checkposts. This would be of great help for those visiting other districts and states on medical emergencies, the SP said. Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh launched the app. ZP CEO K Yalakki Gowda, Assistant SP Shobharani were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mandya-police-launch-m-pass-app-824552.html
12-04-2020||State||Covid-19: 7 discharged, positive cases decline to 39 in Mysuru||While seven Covid-19 patients recovered and discharged in Mysuru, one positive case has been reported, on Sunday. With this, the active cases has come down to 39. The district reported a total of 48 positive cases so far and nine people have been discharged. Of seven discharged on Sunday, six are linked with the Nanjangud-based Jubilant Generics Limited and one is a foreign returnee, said Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar. With the discharge of seven and inclusion of one fresh case, Mysuru has a total of 39 active cases now. It has to be noted that two persons, one foreign returnee and an employee of Jubilant, were discharged recently. Abhiram G Sankar thanked the entire hospital team, all field teams including the police, health professionals and local body functionaries, quarantine monitoring team and surveillance teams for their support and cooperation in the entire operation. The new case reported on Sunday, is a 32-year-old man, also an employee of Jubilant Generics. He is also primary contact of P88, also an employee of the Generics.  Following the rise in the cases linked to Jubilant Company, Nanjangud was declared as cluster case and two villages has come under total lockdown. As many as 1,531 persons are under home quarantine for Covid-19 and 39 are isolated in the district hospital. As per the communication released by Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, a total of 3,555 persons were observed till date.  Of them, 1,978 have successfully completed 14 days of home quarantine. The authorities have tested a total of 896 samples. While 48 tested positive remaining, 848 tested negative. The DC appealed to the people who have returned from Covid-19 affected countries or who has been in personal contact with such person to remain in home isolation for 14 days. He also urged to maintain personal hygiene, frequent hand wash with soap and water or hand sanitiser and suggested to avoid social gathering. The city police has intensified lockdown in the city and Police Commissioner Chandragupta ordered complete closure of shops after 6 pm across the city. Except essential services such as medical shops and clinics, no other shops are allowed to open. There will be no sealdown in the city, a police officer confirmed. However, no one are allowed to move unnecessarily in the city roads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-7-discharged-positive-cases-decline-to-39-in-mysuru-824558.html
12-04-2020||State||Loan dues should not be cut from govt benefits: Patil||Agriculture Minister B C Patil told the officials to take strict action against the bank officers, who deducted the loan due from the farmers’ accounts, from the money remitted by the government under various schemes. He was speaking at a meeting of farmer leaders at the Zilla Panchayat hall in Mandya on Saturday evening. Raitha Sangha district president Shambunahalli Suresh brought the issue to the minister’s notice. He explained that the farmers have sold their paddy at the procurement centres across the district. The government has remitted the amount to their bank accounts. But the Mahadevapura Bank in Srirangapatna taluk has been deducting the amount for their loan dues, he said. Minister Patil, who took exception to this, said the government has been releasing amount to the bank accounts of the farmers under various schemes. The money should be available for the farmers to manage the livelihood. Stern action should be taken against the bank officers, who have deducted the loan due from the government benefits, he said. Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh directed the Lead Bank Manager to take action against the official. The minister said the farmers can begin agricultural activities during the lockdown period. The officials should ensure there is no shortage of seeds, agricultural equipment and fertilisers, he added. He said the state has a stock of 22.50 lakh tonnes of fertilisers. The government is taking all steps to ensure the farmers are not affected due to the lockdown. There is no need for the farming community to panic, he assured. He warned that the licences of the shops selling seeds, pesticides and fertilisers in the black market would be cancelled. When farmer leader Sunanda Jayaram sought cold storage units that would help the farmers at the time of distress, District in-charge Minister K C Narayana Gowda said there are plans to set up cold storage units at 12 places in the state, each at a cost of Rs 3.5 crore. Mandya district would also get a cold storage unit, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/loan-dues-should-not-be-cut-from-govt-benefits-patil-824560.html
12-04-2020||State||No drinking water shortage this year||There is no need to worry about drinking water shortage this year, as the water level in the reservoirs of the Cauvery basin, including Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam, is sufficient to meet the drinking water needs till the beginning of the rainy season.  The water level of the dams as on April 9, is more compared to the corresponding day last year. Besides, the water level of the KRS dam, which is the lifeline of the people of Mandya, and supplies drinking water to Mysuru and Bengaluru cities, is 11 ft more compared to last year. Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Executive Engineer M B Raju said that there will not be any drinking water problem this year. The live capacity of the KRS dam is 18 tmcft. Hence, there is sufficient drinking water to supply to Mysuru, Mandya and Bengaluru, he said. Water is supplied to Bengaluru from KRS and Kabini dam. Every day, 600 cusec of water is being supplied. Priority is also given for the daily management and agriculture activities. We ensure that the crops are not affected, he said. While Kabini dam has 7.97 tmcft of water, Harangi has 2.95 tmcft and Hemavathy 15.21 tmcft. There is sufficient water in the dams due to good rains last year. The people of Bengaluru, Mysuru cities and 47 towns, 625 villages depend on KRS dam for drinking water. There is a need for 3 tmc ft of water every month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-drinking-water-shortage-this-year-824561.html
12-04-2020||State||Minister Suresh Kumar visits tribal hamlets||Primary and Secondary Education and District In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar visited the tribal hamlets at Biligiriranganabetta in the taluk, on Sunday. The tribals poured their grievances to the minister and explained that they have been deprived of wages and also other benefits like milk, which is being supplied across the state. “We are finding it very difficult to lead lives,” the womenfolk complained. Minister Suresh Kumar assured that the district administration has made all arrangements in this regard and they would be supplied all essential items from today. There is no need for panic, he said.  He also visited the houses of Soligas and interacted with them. He questioned the women on what programme they watch in Doordarshan channel and whether they have any problems related to drinking water and others. He also explained them about the spread of coronavirus, which has been claiming several lives across the country, and advised them to wear masks, while venturing out.  Suresh Kumar also interacted with a few children at Hosapodu hamlet and questioned them on how did they pass without writing the exams this year. It may be mentioned that the government has issued orders to pass all the students studying in primary school. He also visited the sericulture market in Kollegal. When he found that social distancing was missing, he warned them to follow the norms, otherwise it would be inevitable to close the market. MLAs N Mahesh and Niranjan Kumar, Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi, SP H D Anand Kumar, CEO Narayana Rao and others accompanied him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/minister-suresh-kumar-visits-tribal-hamlets-824567.html
12-04-2020||State||17 COVID-19 cases reported in Karnataka, tally goes up to 232||Karnataka on Sunday reported 17 new COVID-19 cases, the biggest spike in cases so far, taking the state’s tally to 232. Four of the fresh cases were children, with one being a two-year-old baby boy in Kalaburagi (Patient 227). The boy has been afflicted with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), an end-stage symptom of the COVID-19 disease.  In a worrying development, the virus made inroads into Vijayapura, untouched by the outbreak till now, as six cases were reported from the north Karnataka district. In five of the cases from Vijayapura, no contact history is known at all. Sources said these cases are all members of the same family, which includes two boys, aged 13 and 10, one girl, aged 12, a 49-year-old man and a 20-year-old woman. According to a source, Patient 221, a 60-year-old woman in Vijayapura, is unconnected to the five other cases, although all six hail from the same neighbourhood — Chapparband Galli, which is close to the world-famous Gol Gumbaz monument.  Triggering further panic in Vijayapura, the husband of Patient 221 died mysteriously on Sunday evening. The district administration has collected his blood samples and throat swabs for tests, while deciding to cremate the body as per government protocol. District officials declined to comment on the issue. However, Superintendent of Police Prakash Nikam rubbished claims that the family members got infected after they sneaked over the border to Maharashtra to attend a funeral. “That is completely false. Three of the affected cases are children. They were at home. What we know is that they have family across the Maharastra border and we believe that some members came before the lockdown. They could have been one of the carriers of the virus,” Nikam said.   A senior district official also pointed out the difficulty in closing the border.  “It is easy to say, sitting afar, that the borders be sealed. But this part of the state border is highly porous, and there are small village tracks that are impossible to monitor. Moreover, goods trucks are passing through the interstate border. Infected migrants riding these trucks could have also spread the infection,” he said. Other cases Among Sunday's cases, just one had a direct history of international travel. This is Patient 218, a 58-year-old man who was in Indonesia but returned to Bengaluru on March 21.  Significantly, four of the new cases have been afflicted with SARI. This includes Patient 221, who is the first case reported in that district.  Two others are contacts of Patient 172, a 65-year-old man who died of SARI-related complications brought on by COVID-19 on April 7 in Kalaburagi. Four positive cases are contacts of Tablighi Jamaat returnees, while one is affiliated with the Nanjangud pharma cluster outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/17-covid-19-cases-reported-in-karnataka-tally-goes-up-to-232-824596.html
12-04-2020||State||Two women, contacts of victim, contract Covid-19||Two women tested positive for Covid-19 in Kalaburagi, one of the hotspots for the virus in the state. Both the women are contacts of the 65-year-old man who died due to Covid-19, recently. The deceased man's daughter-in-law, aged 25, and 38-year-old Aaya of Bahmani Hospital, where the man was admitted. The infected women have been admitted to ESIC Hospital. The district has 12 active cases. Meanwhile, a two-year-old baby, a native of Madhya Pradesh and resident of Wadi, is said to have tested positive for Covid-19. Deputy Commissioner Sharath B has clarified that the illness of the baby could ascertained only after the test reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-women-contacts-of-victim-contract-covid-19-824599.html
12-04-2020||State||Pregnant woman among Dharwad-bound labourers rescued||A group of activists from Brahmavar on Sunday rescued 10 labourers, including a pregnant woman, who were walking towards their native in Dharwad district from Manipal.  “We were having meals only in the afternoon. With no work and money, we decided to walk towards our native village,” said one of the labourers.  Vishu Shetty from Ambalpady provided ration and informed the Udupi tahsildar. about the predicament of the labourers. Later, the labourers returned to Manipal in the tahsildar’s vehicle and were supplied with groceries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pregnant-woman-among-dharwad-bound-labourers-rescued-824605.html
12-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Govt studying in-depth consequences of coronavirus lockdown norms relaxation||The Karnataka government is studying in-depth the consequences of the possible relaxation of lockdown norms after April 14 and plans to come out with a clear roadmap in a day or two, a key Minister said on Sunday. Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, who is in charge of all matters related to COVID-19, told PTI that the pros and cons of any decision that the Government intends to take is being looked at in detail. "We are trying to understand how the situation would be of any action that we intend to take. We need to foresee the repercussions or results of our action. That we have to keep it in mind and make a decision. After-effects of the decisions we intend to take, that is more important, he said. You will have clarity (on the possible relaxation of lockdown norms) in a day or two. For everything (government decisions) we will give the reasoning for what action we would like to take; with the reasoning, we will give a decision," the Minister added. Government sources said some relaxation in liquor sales, stopped during the lock-down period, is likely after the ongoing 21-day national clampdown ends on April 14. Twelve of the state's 30 districts remain free from the COVID-19 pandemic. Till Saturday, Karnataka reported 215 COVID-19 positive cases, including six deaths and 39 discharges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-studying-in-depth-consequences-of-coronavirus-lockdown-norms-relaxation-824377.html
12-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Prompt steps by Centre checked coronavirus pandemic spread: BJP Karnataka chief Nalin Kumar Kateel||The spread of COVID-19 in the country has been contained through the prompt, effective and timely measures taken by the Centre, BJP Karnataka president and Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said on Sunday. The Centre brought in stringent regulations including the lockdown at the right time and ensured that the pandemic did not spread rapidly, he told reporters here. Kateel inspected the railway coaches which have been converted into isolation wards for infected patients at the central railway station here. He said 20 out of the 32 railway coaches re-designed into wards by Southern Railway's Palakkad division, will be stationed here. The wards are equipped with necessary medical equipment and facilities for doctors and paramedical staff. Kateel said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has shown how such difficult situations need to be handled. The lockdown was announced in time so that coronavirus spread was checked and all the central departments carried out their works efficiently to monitor the situation, he said. Mangaluru South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath was also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/prompt-steps-by-centre-checked-coronavirus-pandemic-spread-bjp-karnataka-chief-nalin-kumar-kateel-824526.html
12-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mandya police launch App for emergency vehicle passes||The Mandya district police department has launched a new mobile App 'M-Pass,' to help people in need of emergency vehicle passes during the lockdown period. M-Pass has been developed to prevent the people from lining up before the offices to get the emergency vehicle passes, said district Superintendent of Police K Parashuram. The App has been developed on an experimental basis and can be downloaded from the Mandya district police website, after following the given instructions. It would be available on the playstore soon, he said. In the first stage, the public should upload the personal information, address, contact number and photograph through the App. The details would be verified in the second stage. Only if the reason is genuine, the department would recommend the issue of pass. Otherwise, it would be rejected, citing reasons, he said. If the application is accepted, the pass can be downloaded. There is no need to get the printout. The person can show the downloaded pass on the mobile phone at the checkposts. This would be of great help for those visiting other districts and states for medical emergencies, the SP said. Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh launched the App. ZP CEO K Yalakki Gowda, Assistant SP Shobharani were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mandya-police-launch-app-for-emergency-vehicle-passes-824551.html
12-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Solar-powered vans to deliver fresh vegetables, fruits ||The Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR) has designed a vehicle that can use electricity and solar energy to carry fresh fruits and vegetables. The objective of the vehicle is to ensure freshness of agricultural and horticultural produces at least for two days. The IIHR’s Post Harvest Technology and Agricultural Engineering (PHTAE) designed the vehicle in 2018. At present, these vehicles are used by Horticultural Producers' Cooperative Marketing and Processing Societies (Hopcoms)  under Sujala scheme in Bengaluru, Gadag, Koppal, Mysuru, Bidar, Raichur, Tumakuru, Davanagere, Kalaburagi, Vijayapura and Chikkamagaluru districts. These vehicles are playing an important role in delivering fresh fruits and vegetables to public during the time of lockdown. Based on the state government’s instructions that the supply chain of fruits and vegetables should not be affected, the horticulture department and the Hopcoms have started procuring produces from farmers for sales to the public directly. “The evaporating cooling technology in the vehicle keeps produces fresh, hygienic and dust-free,” says G Senthil Kumaran, Principal Scientist at the IIHR’s PHTAE division, says. There is storage facility to keep leafy vegetables, fruits and vegetables. The trays have cooling chamber. The LED television facility in the rear part of the vehicles displays prices of produces. The audio system in the vehicle helps announcement facility. The vehicle has computerised billing facility and an electronic weighing machine. The GPS-enabled vehicle has a battery that can be charged for emergency usage. The solar panels on top of the vehicle helps control temperature. The technology enables to keep temperature required for produces to be fresh. The solar energy may be used for other purposes “We may use the van to spread social messages and information to farming community,” he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/solar-powered-vans-to-deliver-fresh-vegetables-fruits-824553.html
12-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HDK demands rent rebate scheme||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy has demanded a rent rebate scheme by the Central government for tenants during the Covid-19 lockdown. "Many countries have already announced rent rebate scheme for tenants during Covid-19 emergency. It is surprising that the Indian government has not announced any such relief even to residential tenants. I urge the PM to immediately come to the rescue of everyone living in rented housing," he said in a tweet. The former chief minister said a large proportion of workforce and students in metro cities were living in either hostels or rented accommodations. With all economic activities coming to a grinding halt, they were facing difficulties in paying rent as usual. "The PM must announce rent rebate scheme. If the landlords insist on rent, the tenants cannot even go searching for new accommodation due to the emergency. Hence, the government intervention is essential. The PM must announce a comprehensive national rent rebate scheme for Covid-19 emergency," Kumaraswamy tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hdk-demands-rent-rebate-scheme-824557.html
12-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Cotton growers of North Karnataka rue their fate, leave crops to rot||A severe shortage of labourers due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown has left the cotton growers in north Karnataka districts high and dry. Many farmers in the region have recorded a bumper yield of cotton, a major rabi crop in the northern districts. But non-availability of labourers, price crash and no access to market have prompted the farmers to let the acres of crop rot at the farm. Fakeeraiah, a farmer from Kusugal in Hubballi taluk, has registered a bumper crop at his eight acre farm, but is struggling to harvest the crop. "Before lockdown, we harvested cotton twice. But after it was clamped, labourers stopped coming. We depend on outstation labourers. We are ready to arrange for vehicle to bring labourers, but fearing infection, they are not willing to come. My wife and children are plucking cotton now, hoping to salvage something," the farmer rued. The slump in cotton price has only added to the growers' woes. "Two months back, cotton sold at Rs 4,000 per quintal. Now its is slumped to Rs 2,500. The farmers are suffering back-to-back setbacks, The farmers are left to fend for themselves in this hour of crisis, Siddappa Hebasur, a farmer from Hubballi taluk, lamented. With the ready-for-harvest crop lying on farms, the lockdown extension will only deliver a death blow on the farmers, small and marginal farmers in particular. First, it was incessant rain and flash floods, last October, that destroyed crops. Now, the pandemic has left the farmers in knee-deep crisis. Spare a thought for the hapless cotton growers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cotton-growers-of-north-karnataka-rue-their-fate-leave-crops-to-rot-824559.html
12-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka writes to ICMR for plasma therapy approval||The Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute's (BMCRI’s) ethics committee has cleared convalescent plasma therapy for treating critically ill COVID-19 patients using blood donated by those who have recovered from the disease. As many as 54 patients have been discharged so far in Karnataka and all are potential donors. The idea is to use the antibodies that recovered patients have developed (present in their blood), in response to fighting COVID-19, for patients who are on ventilator, as they are not in a position to fight the disease on their own because of weak response from their immune system.   Recently, BMCRI wrote to Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Karnataka, to get the approval of the Indian Council of Medical Research for the same. "There are two steps. One, an approval from the ethics committee, which BMCRI has already given. Second, permission from the ICMR, for which I have written to them. We applied three days ago. I wrote another letter to the Government of India, to ask the ICMR to expedite the approval," he said.   SARI patients BMCRI currently has three patients in the ICU. One of them has severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). "The antibodies in a recovered patients' blood will be used to treat critical patients with SARI, if they stop responding to conventional treatment," said Dr C R Jayanthi, dean, BMCRI and member secretary of the ethics committee. Karnataka's application comes after Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Delhi's pleas to the ICMR to give them permission for the therapy. Kerala's Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute of Medical Sciences reportedly got the ICMR approval to conduct a clinical trial. The ICMR is reportedly in the process of finalising the protocol for conducting a clinical trial after which the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) has to give a go-ahead.  "Those who have recovered have to go through tests for HIV and Hepatitis B. After these diseases are ruled out, we have to work out a model as to how much plasma should be given to which patient, who is eligible for it and select the eligible patients. The idea is SARI patients with COVID-19 will recover faster. We have to see if we can broaden the inclusion criteria. Based on how Indian patients react to the therapy, ICMR has to work out a uniform protocol," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-writes-to-icmr-for-plasma-therapy-approval-824562.html
12-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Device for isolation ward secured from varsity lab||The government officials on Sunday rushed to Karnatak University (KU) and took away the required equipment after the university authorities failed to respond to a request made by the district administration to handover some equipment to be installed at the isolation ward in the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS).  A team of officials, led by assistant commissioner Mohemmed Zuber, went to Microbiology Department laboratory situated in the Geology Department building and took away the Leminar Airflow instrument following a direction from the district administration.  Zuber told DH that the KU authorities were approached in the morning after the request for the instrument came from KIMS doctors. "The university authorities were not cooperating with the district administration. Hence, we were directed to go to the department and secure the equipment” he said. According to experts, the process of testing for Covid-19 involves three phases. In the first phase, the Ribo Nucleic Acid (RNA) is extracted from the swab or blood sample of patients by using specific kits and chemicals and in the second, it is converted into Complimentary DNA (C-DNA). In the third phase, the C-DNA is run with the help of RtPCR (Real-time Polymerase Chain Reaction) machine. It gives amplification if the result is positive. Otherwise, it does not give amplification, the experts said. After this, the Pathology Department announces the result of the test. Karnatak Institute of DNA Research (KIDNAR), an autonomous institute with state-of-the-art facilities, could be used to conduct virology tests by just adding some more facilities. This will help to test the samples of people from 13 districts of north Karnataka fast, KIDNAR director Pramod Gai said. “To do the diagnosis of viral disorders, like Covid 19 and other infectious diseases, it needs upgradation with some more equipment and lab. Already the Roche Company has prepared kits for RNA sequencing diagnosis containing primers and provided them to different virology testing labs. Along with this, we need RtPCR machine. All this will cost about Rs 50-60 lakh and we can start testing within a week”, Dr Gai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/device-for-isolation-ward-secured-from-varsity-lab-824565.html
12-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Elderly diabetic woman discharged||A 70-year-old diabetic woman, who had tested positive for Covid-19, was discharged on Sunday. The woman had arrived at Calicut from Saudi Arabia on March 9. She was admitted to KMC hospital on March 20 after complaining about cough, fever and shortness of breath. Her throat swab tested positive for Covid-19.  She was then shifted to the isolation ward and was given treatment. Her throat swabs were again tested on April 7 and 8 and turned negative to the disease.  The elderly woman was then discharged from the hospital but was advised to stay in home quarantine as per the guidelines, officials said. Since the Covid-19 outbreak, seven patients have been discharged. The reports of 32 sample are awaited. As on Sunday, 38,865 people had been screened, a press release stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-elderly-diabetic-woman-discharged-824566.html
12-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Five discharged from Covid-19 ward in Chikkaballapur||Deputy commissioner R Latha on Sunday said that eight out of 12 people infected by novel coronavirus had been discharged from the district hospital after they fully recovered. Addressing reporters here on Sunday, she said, ”A total of 12 cases have been reported from the district so far. Of them, a 72-year-old passed away. Three people were discharged recently. Five others were discharged on Sunday from the district hospital.”   As a precautionary measure, four of them had been kept at a hostel and four others at government hospital in Gauribidanur. They would be sent home after some days, the DC said. “At present, one is undergoing treatment at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, Bengaluru, and two others at district hospital in Chikkaballapur. They will be discharged soon,” she said. Latha said that there was no need to panic, but people should be cautious. Nobody should venture out till April 14 in the wake of lockdown. “The district administration has been able to prevent the outbreak of Covid-19 in the district. Efforts are on to completely eradicate novel coronavirus from the district,” she said. SP G K Mithun Kumar said that people in the district should follow lockdown guidelines issued by the government. “The police are acting tough against those violating the guidelines. The police have seized a total of 464 vehicle,” he said. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Fouzia B Taranum, additional deputy commissioner Arati Anand, assistant commissioner A N Raghunandan, district health officer Dr B M Yogesh Gowda were present. Situation at the Covid-19 ward at the district hospital reminded a farewell function. The hospital staff clapped, besides presenting flowers and fruits to the five people while discharging them. The patients said that they received good treatment. They said that they were treated like any other patients in the hospital and that they got food and medicine. They thanked the health department staff for their medical services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/five-discharged-from-covid-19-ward-in-chikkaballapur-824568.html
12-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Hit hard by lockdown, priests appeal govt for help||Priests of temples that do not come under Muzrai department have appealed to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to provide them relief during the lockdown. Noting that thousands people eked out a living by performing poojas in small temples, K N Rajakumar Shastri of Mahalakshmi Gurukula said the closure of such temples hasdmade it difficult for them to make ends meet. "Priests in both in urban areas and rural areas,depended on the offerings of the devotees for all expenses - from paying house rent, water and electricity bills, school fee of the children etc. The lockdown has put an end to all the earnings, leaving them in dire straits," he said. Shastri said some of the priests working in Muzrai departments had also not been paid their monthly honararium by the government. Both the Veerashaiva Jangama and Brahmin purohit associations have appealed to the chief minister for help. Stating that priests who have served for decades were suffering to make ends meet, Shastri appealed for the urgent intervention of the chief minister to extend relief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hit-hard-by-lockdown-priests-appeal-govt-for-help-824569.html
12-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM visits parts of Bengaluru||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa paid a surprise visit to some parts of the city to inspect the lockdown measures. During his visit, the members of the public were appreciative of the measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic and traders rued over the decline in sales. The chief minister visited Gorguntepalya, Jayadeva Junction, Kamakshipalya, Yeshwanthpur, Vijayanagar and other parts of the city. At Govindarajnagar, a grocery store vendor urged the chief minister to ensure the free supply of essential goods, hampered due to the lockdown. Yediyurappa assured to address the issue. The chief minister also interacted with police officials and reviewed the law and order situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-visits-parts-of-bengaluru-824598.html
12-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||RSS distributes 1.40 lakh food packets||Around 1.4 lakh food packets were distributed among the migrant labourers and the poor in the State during the lockdown, according to a release by the RSS. While 1.1 lakh food packets were supplied in South Karnataka, around 30,000 was distributed in the North Karnataka districts. During the period, nearly one lakh masks and 85,000 ration kits were distributed by the organisation. “The RSS karyakartas are also assisting the police in Channarayapatna of Hassan district to maintain social distancing among the public. They have been providing these services to remote villages around Sakleshpur,” the release said. The organisation is assisting farmers in vegetable procurement and is reaching out to migrants for assistance during the period. Pranth Prarthana Diwas Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa observed the RSS’ Pranth Prarthana Diwas on Sunday. In a tweet, he urged others to take a pledge and serve voluntarily with the Sangh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rss-distributes-140-lakh-food-packets-824600.html
12-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Five of Vijayapura family contract coronavirus||The COVID-19 cases have continued to surge in the state, which reported as many as 17 cases on Sunday alone. Two districts from north Karnataka - Vijayapura and Belagavi - combined have reported 10 confirmed cases. Vijayapura district, which had, so far remained, coronavirus-free, on Sunday reported six cases, including five of a family testing positive for COVID-19. Five members of a family based at Chapparband near Gol Gumbaz in the city, have returned positive for COVID-19. A 10 year-old boy (P230), 12-year-old girl (P229), 13-year-old boy (P228), 20-year-old girl (P232) and a 49-year-old man (P231) are the infected, said Deputy Commissioner Y S Patil. However, the swab samples of the other seven members of the family have returned negative, he said. A 60-year-old woman (P221) has tested positive. She is put on ventilator. Her husband, aged 69, is said to be in critical condition. His sample has been sent for testing and report awaited. Family members of the couple have been placed in isolation at the district hospital, the DC informed. The district authorities suspect that both the families might have contracted the illness from Maharashtra. The health and police personnel are investigating the Maharashtra link, the DC said. The DC has ordered sealing of the area which falls under Gol Gumbaz police station limits. Tablighi link to Belagavi cases Meanwhile, four new cases in Belagavi district has sent shockwaves in the region. Hirebagewadi, the COVID-19 hotspot in the district, reported one confirmed case while Raibag saw three of a family test positive for virus on Sunday.  Incidentally, all four aged 19, 25, 38 and 55, were in contact with those who had attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin. While Hirebagewadi man was in contact with P128, Raibag cases were in touch with P150, Health department sources said. The district administration has not revealed their travel history. The four new cases have taken the Belagavi district tally to 14. Belagavi MP and Minister of State for Railway Suresh Angadi, joined by the a host of district officials, took stock of COVID-19 control measures in several areas of Belagavi on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/five-of-vijayapura-family-contract-coronavirus-824602.html
12-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Fulfil needs of have-nots before extending lockdown, say activists||Workers’ unions and farmers’ associations have urged the government to evaluate the impact of the lockdown on daily wage workers, street vendors, migrant labourers and other people from the marginalised sector.  Extending the lockdown without considering the food security, livelihood and health of the marginalised sections of society will make the “cure worse than the disease”, according to the unions of garment workers, sanitation workers, street vendors, sex workers, autorickshaw and taxi drivers, along with the Hasiru Sene, Raita Sangha and Dalit associations.  The group urged the government to provide all families with groceries that will last them until the end of May and free meals to those who cannot cook. It also sought a monthly payment of Rs 9,600 to all BPL families, migrant workers, undocumented and marginalised communities from May 23 until the end of the lockdown. Additionally, they sought transport for health emergencies and a ban on evicting such families from rented/leased houses. Only private hospitals should provide Covid-19 treatment while public hospitals should be available for people having other health issues, they said. The group further said that the government should directly procure farm produce from villages and address the problems associated with the supply chain. The group also demanded protective equipment and transport facility to workers engaged in essential services, including pourakarmikas, hospital workers, shop assistants and bank staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fulfil-needs-of-have-nots-before-extending-lockdown-say-activists-824606.html
12-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Overseas kits costly, free testing not viable: Pvt labs||The Supreme Court has ordered private laboratories to test for free. But the private labs maintain that testing for Covid-19 will not be financially viable for them as the reagents and testing kits sourced from foreign nations are expensive.    "In Karnataka, Vydehi Hospital, Sakra Hospital, Cancyte Technologies Pvt Ltd, Neuberg Diagnostic Pvt Ltd and Apollo Hospital are the only five private Covid-19 testing facilities." Labs say since their reagents and testing kits come from Germany’s Altona, Switzerland-based Roche, and US-based Thermo Fisher, unless charitable organisations and philanthropists fund it, they cannot fund the tests from their coffers. In fact, Neuberg is already testing for free. “Neuberg Anand has already processed close to 300 free samples in Bengaluru. Our lab will continue offering Covid-19 testing free for all without any discrimination, using funds from charitable trusts,” said Aishwarya Vasudevan, Group COO, Neuberg Diagnostics Private Limited, in a statement. “We are also of the opinion that the government or corporates, through their CSR funds, should reimburse Rs 2000 - Rs 2500 per test, to the private labs so that their material costs are recovered. Alternatively, ICMR or state governments should provide testing kits, sample collection materials and PPE for private labs to do free testing. Also, MRP of PCR kits, RNA extraction kits and VTM sample tubes should be fixed. The routine business of all private labs have fallen by 70% - 80% and facilitating free Covid-19 testing must be supported by government,” she added. Neuberg Anand gets its testing kits from US-based Thermo Fisher, Pune-based Mylab Discovery Solutions and Chennai-based Trivitron, said its medical director Dr Sujay Prasad. Dr KN Sridhar, founder and Managing Director of Cancyte Technologies Private Limited, told DH that the testing kits for lab come from Germany’s Altona and hence are expensive. Vydehi Hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Uma Maheshwar said, “We have conveyed the Supreme Court’s decision to the management. The management is yet to give us a go-ahead on doing the testing for free. We haven’t tested any Covid-19 sample, so far.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/overseas-kits-costly-free-testing-not-viable-pvt-labs-824607.html
12-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa hits Bengaluru roads to inspect coronavirus lockdown implementation||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa sprang a surprise on Sunday when he went for rounds in the city to inspect the implementation of lockdown, without any prior information. The surprise tour comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a video conference with the CMs of all states to discuss the lockdown over COVID-19 pandemic. According to sources close to the CM, there was no pre-decided schedule for the city rounds but all of a sudden, the chief minister made the plan. Two days ago Yediyurappa had revamped the cabinet by assigning district level responsibility to the ministers and retained Bengaluru urban district with him. Yediyurappa went on the city rounds and travelled to various places such as Malleswaram, Yashwanthapura, Goraguntepalya, Nagarabavi. His convoy traversed through Malleshwaram, Yashwanthapura, Goraguntepalya, Dasarahalli, Sumanahalli, Nagarabavi, Kamakshipalya Govindarajanagar, Vijayanagar, Padmanabhanagar and other parts of the city. Empty roads greeted the Chief Minister at most of the places. A few vehicles engaged in supplying essential services were found plying on the roads as the convoy crossed them. On the way, he spoke to the policemen on traffic duty about the challenges they faced. He also interacted with some fruits, vegetable vendors and other traders about the difficulties facing them. A fruit vendor told Yediyurappa that passes have been a big issue, to which he directed the officials to ensure that the merchants and traders supplying essential goods should not be troubled. Some students and a few residents too got to speak to the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-chief-minister-b-s-yediyurappa-hits-bengaluru-roads-to-inspect-coronavirus-lockdown-implementation-824620.html
12-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: FCI supplies enough stock of foodgrains to Karnataka||The Food Corporation of India (FCI), amid the COVID-19 challenge, has ensured uninterrupted supply of foodgrains to Karnataka under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and the Centre's Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY) covering over 4 crore beneficiaries. As a result, the beneficiaries will be receiving an extra 5 kg of rice free of cost every month from April to June. This apart, another 5 kg of food grains per person per month for the next three months have been allotted to those who have been issued ration cards by the state government.   Facilitating the supply of food grains, the FCI machinery in Karnataka has roped in all its staff, labourers besides making transport arrangements in all its 71 depots amid the lockdown. Appointing about 3,000 labourers, the corporation is ensuring steady distribution of food grains on time through the Public Distribution System. The FCI Chairperson and Managing Director D V Prasad said, "FCI has a stock of 538.19 LMT food grains comprising of 301.73 LMTs of Rice and 236.46 LMTs of wheat in the country. Since the lockdown, FCI has brought in about 2.44 LMTs of foodgrains through 87 train loads into Karnataka. Further, a quantity of 2.76 LMT of Rice and 0.43 LMT of Wheat has also been released to the state during this period. FCI has another 6.40 LMT food grain available in the state meant for supply to state govt for distribution to the needy."  DV Prasad also said that a new beneficiary scheme has been introduced for the supply of food grains to charitable institutions/NGOs engaged in relief operations to provide cooked meals for various needy people including migrant labour/vulnerable groups at a subsidised rate of Rs.21 per kg for wheat and Rs. 22 per Kg of Rice. He appealed to NGOs to come forward and make full use of the scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-fci-supplies-enough-stock-of-foodgrains-to-karnataka-824621.html
12-04-2020||West||COVID-19 death toll in Pune district rises to 29||The number of COVID-19 fatalities in Pune district in Maharashtra rose to 29 on Saturday with three more deaths being accounted for by officials. Simultaneously, a total of 16 coronavirus positive cases were reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours, taking the overall number to 263 so far, he said. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) area has so far reported 222 cases while neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchvad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reported 29 cases and the Pune rural area 12 cases, the official said. While two coronvirus positive persons died on Friday, another succumbed on April 7, a PMC official said, adding there reports came subsequently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-death-toll-in-pune-district-rises-to-29-824302.html
12-04-2020||West||Hotels, restaurants body support coronavirus lockdown extension||The Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI) and  Federation of Hotel and Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI) have decided to support the extension of India lockdown by a fortnight.  "We support the lockdown and stand by the Government's decision as we understand that at present, the country's first priority is containing the spread of the disease any further. If we don’t succeed in containing the spread, it could be devastating for the country. We must also keep in mind that with every extension in the lockdown, though necessary, reviving the industry will get more and more difficult," Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, President, HRAWI and Vice President,  FHRAI, said. Kohli felt it may also be prudent in lifting the lockdown geographically, based on the health of its populace and the impact it would make to the economy by opening it up for business, while ensuring that the inflow and outflow of its populace are kept in check.   "The hospitality industry has been the worst hit. A lot of damage is already done and revenues have already hit rock bottom. As this extension goes on, besides the revenues of both; the industry and the government, jobs too will get more and more in danger. However, even this cannot be controlled or stopped unless businesses get back on their feet," he said. According to Kohli, it would be a long time for guests to trickle in as confidence is at an all-time low. "Now only timely Government intervention can give us a new lease of life. I would reiterate that as an industry, our hotels and restaurants are at the helm, assisting the authorities with the required rooms for doctors and healthcare workers and food for various sections so that no one goes unfed," he said. The body of hoteliers and restauranters reiterated that without government intervention now, the industry may well be heading towards a collapse which will be extremely difficult to revive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hotels-restaurants-body-support-coronavirus-lockdown-extension-824310.html
12-04-2020||West||Maharashtra to go for pool testing to defeat coronavirus||Having tested more than 40,000 swab samples and a strict contact-tracing mechanism in place, Maharashtra will go in for "pool testing" to achieve the zero COVID-19 goal.  While in Maharashtra, the spread has come down in places like Nagpur and Pune, the problem area is Mumbai and the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).  Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope has repeatedly said that the state would now go in for pool testing. "We are going in for the new concept of pool testing," Tope said.  The Maharashtra government has maintained that the state was in COVID-19 stage 2 and would at any cost avoid reaching stage 3.    With examples of Germany and Israel, the state government has sought permission from the Centre and the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to allow pool testing, particularly in places like the Mumbai-MMR area that is a hotspot of India's coronavirus crisis. The Uttar Pradesh government is also contemplating the idea of pool testing, reports reaching here said. During the video-conference meeting of CMs with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Thackeray had spoken about this. The pool testing method involves putting multiple swab samples together and testing them in a single real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test. If a batch tests positive, then everyone whose samples were a part of that batch would have to be tested separately. And if a batch tests negative, then everyone is in the safe zone. The purpose is to save time and kits and keep on eliminating the possibility area by area. The concept assumes importance as state's 61 per cent cases are in Mumbai, 10 per cent in remaining MMR, 20 per cent in Pune,  and nine per cent in rest of state.   Besides,  this needs to be noted that 70 per cent of the cases are asymptomatic,  25 per cent show mild symptoms and 5 per cent are critical that needed oxygen support.The state is also planning to divide the state in red, yellow and green zones . Mumbai and MMR areas like Navi Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, and Pune will fall under the "red zone" as they have reported 91 per cent of the cases. The red zones will include districts which have reported more than 15 COVID-19 cases, while the orange zones will cover the areas where 15 or less number of cases have been reported. The green zones will cover the districts which have reported 0 or one case.  Irrespective of zone,  social distancing would have to be maintained. According to Tope, the cumulative daily growth of positive patients is approximately 13 per cent, while the death rate is 5.5 per cent. The state government will categorise hospitals in three ways: COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) in which there will be 100 per cent asymptomatic patients and CoviCOVID-19 Health Centres which will treat persons with mild symptoms and COVID-19 Hospitals where severe and critical individuals will be admitted. Big hospitals like Seven Hills would be able to admit patients of all categories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-go-for-pool-testing-to-defeat-coronavirus-824331.html
12-04-2020||West||Rajasthan records 139 new COVID-19 cases; 25,000 people to be tested in single day||The virus has so far claimed nine lives in the state. “A 62-year-old man who was admitted at the state-run SMS Hospital on April 9 died on Friday. He was tested positive today. He was suffering from ischemic heart disease and hypertension. As many as 139 new cases have come up today," Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said. The total number of coronavirus positive cases in the state has risen to 700, he said.  Singh said 116 people have so far tested negative for coroanvirus after treatment and 58 people have been discharged. Among the fresh cases, 80 are from Jaipur, 20 in Tonk, 14 in Kota, 13 in Banswara, six in Bikaner, two in Jhalawar and one each in Dausa, Alwar, Karauli and Jaisalmer district, the official said. In Jaipur, most of the cases are from Ramganj area where curfew has been clamped, he said. The official said two Italian citizens apart from the 50 people brought back from Iran and quarantined at Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer are among the total COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan. The capital city of Jaipur has reported the highest number of coronavirus cases at 301. The desert state has been under a lockdown from March 22, three days before the nationwide restrictions were imposed, while large-scale survey and screening is underway to trace the contagion. Singh said more positive cases are being traced, especially in Ramganj area, due to aggressive testing to identify the real magnitude of the problem. "We will test about 25,000 by today evening which is one of the highest in the country," he said. The senior official also said that the recovery rate is pretty high in the state.  He said there are 10 places in Rajasthan where there are more than 10 cases and these are the real hotspots. The officer said most of the cases are asymptomatic. “The age profile of patients in Rajasthan is favourably disposed due to our demographic profile. Hence, most people will recover unless they have other health issues. Patients requiring critical care will be approximately 2-3 per cent of positive cases,” he said. “To measure community transmission in a scientific manner, we are soon starting a cluster-based sampling exercise to get a clearer idea of the magnitude of the incidence of COVID-19,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-records-139-new-covid-19-cases-25000-people-to-be-tested-in-single-day-824341.html
12-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: 35,000 cases of prohibitory orders, quarantine violation||Maharashtra Police have registered over 35,000 offences across the state against those violating prohibitory orders and quarantine guidelines during the lockdown imposed since last month, a senior official said. In an effort to contain the spread of coronavirus and strictly enforce the lockdown, the police started taking stern action since March 22 by registering cases against offenders under Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), he said. So far, the police have arrested at least 2,525 people across the state under IPC Section 188. Besides, there been 70 cases of assault on police personnel for which 161 people have been arrested, he said.  Also, nearly 475 people have been found violating the quarantine orders, the official said. Police have so far handled more than 61,000 calls at their various control rooms in connection with coronavirus and related issues, he said. Till Saturday, police registered 803 offences for illegal transportation, he said, adding that 19,675 vehicles were seized and Rs 1.23 crore fine was collected from their owners. So far, three police personnel on duty have tested positive for coronavirus in the state, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-35000-cases-of-prohibitory-orders-quarantine-violation-824343.html
12-04-2020||West||Tablighi event attendee who contracted coronavirus ends life||A 30-year-old man, who attended the religious gathering of Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi and later tested positive for coronavirus, allegedly committed suicide at a government hospital in Maharashtra'a Akola district, an official said on Sunday. The man, belonging to Nagaon district in Assam, was in Delhi between March 6 and 8 when he attended the religious congregation organised at Nizamuddin, Akola Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Dean Dr Apurv Pavde said. He was admitted to the GMCH here on April 7 and tested positive for coronavirus on Friday, Pavde said. "The man allegedly slit his throat with a blade around 5 am on Saturday. A hospital staff found him on the bathroom floor. He succumbed to his injuries around 8 am while undergoing surgery," he said. He was under stress during treatment and was counselled by medical experts, the official said. A senior official at the Kotwali police station here said it appeared to be a case of suicide and an investigation was underway. From March 9 to April 7, the man stayed at a madrassa in Balapur town here and those who came in contact with him during this period have been referred to GMCH, another official said. The funeral of the deceased will be held here after receiving written permission from his family members, Akola Collector Jitendra Papalkar said. So far, 13 people from Akola district have tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tablighi-event-attendee-who-contracted-coronavirus-ends-life-824349.html
12-04-2020||West||75-year-old coronavirus patient dies in Gujarat; state toll 23 in state||A 75-year-old coronavirus patient died in Ahmedabad, taking the COVID-19 death toll in Gujarat to 23, a senior health official said on Sunday. The man succumbed to the disease at LG Hospital here late Saturday night, state principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi said. He was also suffering from hypertension, she said. With this, there have been 11 deaths of coronavirus patients in Ahmedabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/75-year-old-coronavirus-patient-dies-in-gujarat-state-toll-23-in-state-824353.html
12-04-2020||West||Lockdown: British Airways to fly back 900 UK nationals from Gujarat||The British Airways will operate three flights from here in the next few days to take back 900 UK nationals stranded in Gujarat due to the lockdown, the Ahmedabad Airport authorities on Sunday. The Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) Airport here will facilitate the operation of three relief flights of the British Airways for transporting the British nationals who are standard in Gujarat, the airport said in a release. Flight numbers BA9113C, BA9117C and BA9117C will operate on April 13, 15 and 17, respectively, it said. "It is estimated that approximately 300 passengers will board each of these flights from Ahmedabad," it said.  Two aircraft will arrive here from the Heathrow Airport in London and leave for the UK capital on April 13 and 15. The third aircraft will arrive in Ahmedabad from Hyderabad on April 17 and depart for London the same day, it said. "Special care will be taken for the facilitation of passengers and social distancing, in line with directives of the Government of India," the release said, adding that the SVPI Airport has requested all the passengers to follow instructions of the staff on duty. SVPI Airport Director Manoj Gangal is in constant touch with the British High Commission to ensure no inconvenience is caused to the passengers, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-british-airways-to-fly-back-900-uk-nationals-from-gujarat-824357.html
12-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Rajasthan records 51 new cases||Rajasthan recorded 51 more cases of coronavirus on Sunday, taking the state's tally to 751, an official said. The virus has so far claimed nine lives in the state.  "As many as 51 new cases have come up today in eight districts of the state," Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said.  He said the total number of coronavirus positive cases in the state has risen to 751. Out of 51 cases reported today, 15 each are in Jaipur and Banswara, eight each in Jodhpur and Bikaner, two in Hanumangarh, one each in Jaisalmer, Churu and Sikar.  The total cases of coronavirus in Rajasthan include two Italian citizens, 50 people who have been brought from Iran to the army health centers in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. Jaipur has reported the highest number of 316 cases so far. Entire state is under lockdown from March 22 and massive survey and screening is underway to trace the contagion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-rajasthan-records-51-new-cases-824361.html
12-04-2020||West||Gujarat COVID-19 cases go up by 48 to 516: Govt||The number of coronavirus positive cases in Gujarat rose to 516 on Sunday with 48 more people testing positive for COVID-19, a state Health department official said. Of the 48 new cases being reported in the last 24 hours, 39 were from Ahmedabad, 6 from Vadodara and 3 from Anand, the official said..  "The total number of cases in Ahmedabad now stands at 282, followed by Vadodara which has reported 101 cases," said Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi. Meanwhile, the number of the patients who recovered from COVID-19 stood at 44.  The state has reported 24 deaths so far, Ravi said. "As many as 2,012 samples were tested in the state in the last 24 hours, out of which 48 tested positive, while report of 332 others is pending, she said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-cases-go-up-by-48-to-516-govt-824389.html
12-04-2020||West||134 new COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra; state tally goes up to 1,895||At least 134 people tested positive for coronavirus in Maharashtra on Sunday, taking the state tally to 1,895, said a state health official. Among the new cases, 113 have been reported from Mumbai city and seven from Mira Bhayandar civic area in neighbouring Thane district. Besides, four cases have been reported from Pune city, two each from Navi Mumbai, Thane city and Vasai-Virar in neighbouring Palghar district, and one each from Raigad, Amravati, Bhiwandi (Thane district) and Pimpri Chinchwad||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/134-new-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-state-tally-goes-up-to-1895-824392.html
12-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Wear masks or face fine/3-yr jail term, says Ahmedabad civic body||"Wearing masks has been made mandatory for everybody while stepping out of their homes, starting 6 am on Monday," Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra told reporters. Those who fail to comply with the order will be fined Rs 5,000 or sentenced to three years in jail, Nehra said. An order to this effect has been passed under the Epidemic Diseases Act, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-wear-masks-or-face-fine/3-yr-jail-term-says-ahmedabad-civic-body-824405.html
12-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Maharashtra man held for selling fake lockdown e-passes in Beed||Mahesh Ashok Fapal was held from Belora village in the district, an official said. "These passes, that allow movement of essential goods or people in case of medical or other emergency, are available online. However, Fapal was making fake ones on a mobile phone and selling it. We found 4-5 duplicate passes," the Dindrud police station official said. He was arrested for cheating and has been sent to judicial custody, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-maharashtra-man-held-for-selling-fake-lockdown-e-passes-in-beed-824460.html
12-04-2020||West||Gujarat policeman tests coronavirus positive||The lethal coronavirus cases crossed the 500 figure in Gujarat on Sunday with detection of 48 fresh cases in the last 24 hours. Among the new patients, is a police constable who was posted in one of the hotspot areas of the virus spread in Ahmedabad, making it the first instance of a policeman getting infected with the virus. On the other hand, the state recorded three more deaths since Saturday evening, taking the death toll to 25 in the state. Among the dead was a 27 years old male in Vadodara who passed away on Sunday evening. Vadodara collector Shalini Agarwal confirmed and said that the patient didn't have comorbid conditions. Meanwhile, the detection of COVID-19 in the police constable has left the government worried since the source of his infection remains a mystery. Officials said that the constable was posted with Kalupur police chowki and had developed some symptoms a few days back. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone-3, Makrand Chauhan confirmed that the constable has been tested positive and has been hospitalized, while the police chowki has been sealed.  He told DH, "We had sent his sample on April 9 after he showed some symptoms and the result came today. We have identified at least 12 persons till now including policemen who came in contact with him. We are tracing others as well."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-policeman-tests-coronavirus-positive-824510.html
12-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: 92 fined for not wearing masks in Aurangabad||A total of 92 people in Maharashtra's Aurangabad were on Sunday made to pay Rs 46,000 towards the fine for not wearing face masks in public places, civic commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey said. Wearing of masks in public was made mandatory by the municipal corporation in view of the coronavirus outbreak. "A civic squad on Sunday found 92 people moving in various areas of the city without wearing masks. Each person paid the fine of Rs 500. We recovered the total fine of Rs 46,000 from them," he said. Pandey also said that cases would be registered against the violators for flouting the lockdown norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-92-fined-for-not-wearing-masks-in-aurangabad-824519.html
12-04-2020||West||Mumbai witnesses biggest jump in number of coronavirus casualties||The state's tally of positive cases is 1,982. A total of 221 fresh cases were recorded on Sunday.  So far, 217 patients have recovered and were discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-witnesses-biggest-jump-in-number-of-coronavirus-casualties-824536.html
12-04-2020||West||Wadhawans cite health reason for Mahabaleshwar trip||The Wadhawan brothers - Kapil and Dheeraj - the promoters of housing finance family DHFL -  who are linked to the Yes Bank scam, on Sunday cited health reasons for the family visit to Mahabaleshwar. In a statement issued here, they said they took official permission before travelling from Khandala to Mahabaleshwar. Last week,  the Uddhav Thackeray-government sent on compulsory leave senior IPS officer Amitabh Gupta, additional director general of police, for issuing permission on his letterhead.  An inquiry has also been ordered against him by home minister Anil Deshmukh,  which would be headed by the additional chief secretary (home) Manoj Saunik. The Satara police has registered a case and sent 23 members of the Wadhawan family and extended family to quarantine. The CBI and ED have also joined the probe. The statement on behalf of Wadhawan brothers was issued by legal firm Rashmikant and Partners. "Recently, Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan, along with their mother and family, travelled from their rented accommodation in Khandala to their ancestral residence in Mahabaleshwar. The circumstances that necessitated their travel was a bonafide and genuine worry and concern for the health of their family members due to the rapid spread of Covid-19," it said.  The statement said that they had been reading in the newspapers about the rapid spread of Covid-19 in Mumbai -and also heard that there were possible cases in Khandala. "They were in Khandala along with their mother, aged 70 years, who has a multitude of health problems and their respective wives and children. Kapil Wadhawan suffers from high blood pressure and had recently been hospitalized in JJ Hospital. Dheeraj Wadhawan is also a heart patient and had undergone an emergency angioplasty in Switzerland in January 2018 and was once again hospitalized between 8th October 2019 to 5th November 2019 for a severe lung infection, for which he also had to spend several days in the ICU to the knowledge of ED," it said. Thereafter, while undergoing interrogation by the Enforcement Directorate,  Dheeraj Wadhawan had also suffered from chest pains and once again had to be admitted into Hinduja Healthcare Hospital. "Thus, Kapil Wadhawan, Dheeraj Wadhawan and their mother were highly susceptible to the Covid-19 which could pose a serious risk to their health in view of their medical conditions. Considering the circumstances, the Wadhawans thought it fit to travel further away from Khandala and Mumbai and thus decided to go to their ancestral residence in Mahabaleshwar. They obtained official permission to do so. The only reason for their travel was thus to protect themselves and their family," said the detailed statement. It added that the family cooperated with the authorities and are now in quarantine in Panchgani.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wadhawans-cite-health-reason-for-mahabaleshwar-trip-824539.html
12-04-2020||West||Pakistani soldiers shoot at 2 boats off Guj coast, fisherman injured||An Indian fisherman is said to have sustained bullet injury in his hand after the Pakistani Maritime Security Agency (PMSA) opened fire on a fleet of fishing boats near the international maritime border (IMB) off Gujarat coast on Sunday evening, security agencies in the know of the incident said. The incident comes barely 24 hours after Gujarat government lifted the ban from fishing and allied activities like processing, packaging, maintenance of cold chains and transportation in order to give relief to a large number of people who are dependent on fishing industry. After lockdown in view of coronavirus outbreak, state government had banned fishing in the Arabian sea and only on Saturday permission was granted. Sources said that the reason behind the firing is not known as yet but they said that in the shooting one fisherman identified as Rambauri Ramdhani, originally from Uttar Pradesh, was injured. He was part of eight member crew who had gone for fishing boat named "OMKAR" registered in Veraval, Junagadh district in the name of Dharmishthaben Rohit.  Security officials said that there were eight crew members in the fishing boat near the IMB along with a cluster of Indian fishing boats when the PMSA personnel started firing at them. One of the bullets hit Ramdhani in his hand. The incident is said to have happened at 5 pm in the evening. Sources said that the shooting stopped after the fishermen came back to Indian water and were accompanied by the Indian Coast Guard and Navy. Two of the boats returned to Jakhau coast accompanied by Coast Guard. Sources said that fishermen might have ventured into the sea on Saturday or Friday and they possibly crossed the IMB that triggered the shooting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pakistani-soldiers-shoot-at-2-boats-off-guj-coast-fisherman-injured-824573.html
