13-04-2020||First Edit||Coronavirus lockdown: Attend to needs of poor, daily wagers||The extension of the 21-day nationwide lockdown for two more weeks starting April 15 is a certainty as the fight against the deadly coronavirus is at a critical stage now and has to continue. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the state chief ministers, who held a video conference on Saturday, agreed on the extension, though the details are yet to be decided and announced. Some states, including Karnataka, have already made known their decision to go in for the extension. The Prime Minister stressed the importance of both life and livelihood and indicated that the second phase of the lockdown could see certain relaxations to aid a limited resumption of economic activities. The final decision is likely to be based on the recommendations of the task forces formed by the states and the Central government’s assessment of the situation.  The gains of the lockdown need to be consolidated and further extended. The government has said that the country would have seen 8.2 lakh COVID-19 cases till April 15 if the lockdown had not been imposed. It has managed to keep it at about 9,000 till now. It also had the advantage of an early start, though it would have been in a still better position if it had acted much earlier. But the extension will bring in the desired results only if there is more extensive testing, better preparations, and facilities are put in place to isolate and quarantine persons suspected of infection and treatment of infected persons, and better protection is offered to the medical personnel on the front lines. The country should be ready to meet the more difficult situation that might emerge after the lifting of the lockdown, which has to happen sooner or later. The figures given by the government in proof of its preparedness seem to be inadequate. We should hope for the best but be prepared for the worst.  While the lockdown should be implemented effectively wherever it is essential to do so, it should also be relaxed and tailored to the needs and situations in other areas. It has not had the same effect and impact all over the country. The Prime Minister has given an indication of this by saying that the country may be divided into different areas depending on the spread and intensity of the infection. He has also said the nature and severity of the lockdown may be graded and differentiated on that basis. It is also necessary to allow the resumption of economic activity wherever possible. Most importantly, the needs of those who have been worst affected by the lockdown, like the poor, the migrant workers and the wage earners, should be attended to by governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/coronavirus-lockdown-attend-to-needs-of-poor-daily-wagers-824658.html
13-04-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Coronavirus: Four, including 3 children, test positive for COVID-19 in Hubballi ||With this, the district has five active cases and one person who was discharged after treatment.  The four, includes 37-year-old man (P234), brother of P194, who was a part of the business trip that the brothers took to between March 16 and 20. They had visited Hyderabad, Delhi, Mumbai and back to Hubballi.   The three children are the first pediatric cases in the district. All the members were housed at the government quarantine facility and were shifted to Karnataka Institute of Medical Science, Hubballi isolation ward on Sunday late night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/coronavirus-four-including-3-children-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-hubballi-824765.html
13-04-2020||In Perspective||COVID-19: Fading faith in world trade||Global confidence in trade and integration has dwindled significantly with the emergence of coronavirus. The virus is disrupting trade and economic potentiality of not only individual countries but also regional groupings and world economy.  The most heinous and debilitating impact of this pandemic is the dislocation in the global supply chain. As China falters to provide smooth supply of intermediate products to feed the global supply chain, the future of global trade has come under threat. China accounts for almost one-fifth of global manufacturing. Intermediary products that are produced in China are predominantly in the categories of electronics, car, machinery and textile products. Non-involvement of Chinese inputs from these supply chains in some instances will lead to production coming to a grinding halt as has been the case with Hyundai Motor in South Korea.  In other instances, alternative or near solutions will be found but they may be sub-optimal and can lead to lower volumes of production with higher cost. In that case, such alternative plans will embed higher costs throughout the supply chains and could ultimately result in higher inflation. The picture is equally grim for countries which supply intermediary products to China’s shut factories. The two economies that are most affected are Taiwan and South Korea; their top export to China is the electronic integrated circuit, which accounts for 5% of Taiwan’s gross domestic product and 2% of South Korea’s. Having known that the flow of goods across borders has been jeopardised, the virus has also been highly disruptive in many services areas such as tourism, temporary movement of skilled workers to different countries and movement of professionals delivering expertise and advisory services.  Chinese tourists travelling to South East Asian countries such as Singapore, Philippines, Malaysia and Thailand have encountered large disruption in their movement. For instance, Chinese tourists in countries such as Thailand where Chinese tourism accounts for 2.7% of GDP, have witnessed a huge decline leading to a slowdown in the economy. One of the prominent long-term consequences of the coronavirus, however, might be its impact on the already faltering confidence in trade. Prior to coronavirus, though there was some semblance of trade conflict and trade skirmishes, business and government had never lost hope in trade and integration.  They had confidence in trade, in its ability to deliver mutual benefits, and in the ability of the multilateral trade system to reduce trade barriers, resolve conflict and inculcate a sense of stability and trade fairness. This confidence had allowed trade to grow at roughly twice the rate of global GDP growth for most of the post-war era and led to steadily deeper economic integration. Of late, however, this confidence in the benefits of trade and integration has suffered several blows. Persistent China-US trade war, US-Iran crisis, disagreement over production of oil between USA and Russia-Saudi Arabia, lack of global demand and global supply due to coronavirus crisis - all combined together will present a huge challenge in terms of trade and integration for several countries.  Regaining momentum Such a perception did not happen overnight or was precipitated by a single development. It has been the gradual accumulation of several factors of which the coronavirus is deadliest and the latest in the series. It threatens to destroy all possibilities of regaining the momentum of trade and integration.  Consider what immediately preceded coronavirus. Global steel and aluminium tariffs imposed by the US in 2018 were a shock to the global trade system and produced almost immediate in-kind retaliation. The gradually escalating US-China trade war began to ramp up later that year, taking the average US tariff on Chinese imports from 3% at the onset to almost 20% now.  China’s exports to the US dropped 12.5% last year while China’s imports from the US plunged 20.9% in 2019 from a year earlier, according to data from China’s General Administration of Customs. The US continues to weigh other substantial trade actions that will surely beget commensurate retaliation. Given all this, it is perhaps unsurprising that last year, global trade suffered its worst performance ever outside a recession, growing by only 1%.  These bilateral trade tensions and disputes are unfolding as the multilateral trade system, to a large extent, is simply proving to be futile or breaking down. In the quarter-century of its existence, the WTO has failed to conclude even a single round of multilateral trade negotiation and its dispute settlement function has been derailed by an impasse over appellate judges. If we wish to ensure the sustainability of trade, the challenge will be to recognise and confront the new and sometimes uncomfortable realities of imbalanced trade outcomes, rather than rely on the assumptions, structures and conventional wisdom that have defined our approach to trade in the post-war era. (The writer is Professor, LBSIM and former Senior Faculty, IIFT Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/covid-19-fading-faith-in-world-trade-824660.html
13-04-2020||Kalaburagi||COVID-19: Kalaburagi Police arrest man for spitting on road||The Kalaburagi police on Sunday night took a man into their custody for roaming around and spitting on the road near Dhanvantri hospital here. The arrested has been identified as Rabbani, a resident of V K Salgar village in Aland taluk of the district. On seeing the man repeatedly spitting on the road, the residents of the locality gave a call to helpline desk and informed the officials.   The police rushed to the spot and took him to their custody. During interrogation, he changed his tone repeatedly. Hence, the man was immediately taken to GIMS for a health check-up.  The sister of Rabbani who arrived at the hospital claimed that her brother is mentally challenged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/covid-19-kalaburagi-police-arrest-man-for-spitting-on-road-824751.html
13-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Fishing activity resumes along Karnataka coast amid coronavirus lockdown||Fishing activity along the coastal region in Karnataka resumed on Sunday with traditional fishermen venturing into the sea after the government exempted the sector from the ongoing nationwide lockdown to check coronavirus spread. Fishermen from Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts resumed their operations, official sources said. Around 14,000 fishermen from these districts can resume their operations, bringing huge relief to the community. The Union Home Ministry had on Friday exempted operations of the fishing or marine aquaculture industry, including harvesting, sale and marketing activities, from the purview of the lockdown. However, it has said, as specified in the lockdown measures, social distancing and proper hygiene practices must be ensured. State Fisheries Minister and Dakshina Kannada district- in-charge Kota Srinivas Poojary welcomed the Centres nod to allow the state government to take decisions on the fisheries sector. He told reporters in Udupi on Saturday that only five crew will be allowed on a country boat, which can set sail in the morning and should return by evening. Restrictions on use of fisheries jetty, fishing ports and mechanised fishing will continue. Those undertaking fishing activities have been directed to strictly maintain social distancing. The fishermen have been asked to conclude the auction process by 11 am, officials said. The minister discussed the regulations to be adopted by fishermen with leaders of fishermen associations at Udupi on Saturday. Fisheries Federation president Yashpal Suvarna said he had requested the minister to supply kerosene for fishing activity and to extend the insurance facility for fishermen at the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fishing-activity-resumes-along-karnataka-coast-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-824626.html
13-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Use drones illegally in Mangaluru and face legal action||City Police Commissioner Dr P S Harsha has warned against the use of drones illegally by individuals.  He said it is observed that a few persons are illegally using drones to capture Mangaluru city.  Mangaluru is a sensitive region with a lot of vital installations.  Anybody using drones illegally will have to face legal action along with the seizure of drones.  The Commissioner has also urged media fraternity not to hire services of any drones to capture photos of Mangaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/use-drones-illegally-in-mangaluru-and-face-legal-action-824686.html
13-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Husband of coronavirus patient dies in Vijayapura||A 69-year-old man, husband of a 60-year old woman who tested positive for COVID-19 in Vijayapura, died on Monday, said Deputy Commissioner Y S Patil.  He said, the deceased had coronavirus symptoms. The results of his throat swab and blood samples are waited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/husband-of-coronavirus-patient-dies-in-vijayapura-824741.html
13-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus lockdown: Police seize 1,150 vehicles in Hassan||Police have so far seized 1,150 vehicles that had violated the lockdown norms and moving about unnecessarily on the roads, in Hassan district. The cops have also been involved in creating awareness drive on the lockdown to prevent further spread of the COVID-19 outbreak.  Traffic police have taken stern measures though Hassan has not recorded any positive cases till now. Except for the vehicles of volunteers serving as 'corona warriors', journalists and medical fraternity, the police seized hundreds of vehicles including two-wheelers and cars, plying on the roads ignoring their directions. Observing that the public had not taken their warning seriously, Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda, got into the operation and seized the vehicles. Those who are in need of pass in case of medical emergencies can call the Nodal officer on 94808 04707 or visit the website and get pass after uploading the necessary documents. The vehicles will not be released until the lockdown is lifted. The owners of the vehicles can get it released later after paying the necessary fine post the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-police-seize-1150-vehicles-in-hassan-824754.html
13-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus positive cases in Belagavi rise to 17||Coronavirus positive cases in the district increased to 17 with three more, who had come in contact with patient No 149, testing positive. The three positive cases reported on Monday are from Kuduchi town in Raibag taluk.  Patient No 243 (20), patient No 244 (14) and patient No 245 (45), all male, had come in contact with patient No 149. Their test reports were made known on Monday and have been admitted in designated hospital for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-positive-cases-in-belagavi-rise-to-17-824764.html
13-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Three more test positive for coronavirus in Mandya||While the Mysuru district did not register any new COVID-19 cases till noon on Monday, Malavalli, in Mandya district, has registered three new cases, including an 8-year-old girl.  With this, Mandya district has a total number of eight active cases. Patient 237 is a 60-year-old woman of Malavalli, mother of P179. Patient 238 is an eight-year-old girl, daughter of P179. Patient 239, an 18-year-old male, is the nephew of P179.  All are being treated at the designated COVID-19 hospital in Mandya. P179, a 35-year-old man, was in contact with the Tablighi Jamaat members and residents of Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-mandya-824786.html
13-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Youth in Udupi throws counterfeit notes amid lockdown||The residents at Vadiraja Cross Road in Udupi had a surprise on Monday morning when a youth in motorbike arrived and started throwing currency notes on the road. And then, he immediately left the area.  The notes were of the denomination of Rs 2000, Rs 500 and Rs 200. Some residents and people around tried grabbing the notes, while a few tried tracking the youth.  People realised that it was counterfeit notes. The youth fled towards Beedenagudde through a narrow lane of Boothaonee. Udupi town PSI Anil K told DH that a complaint is registered in the police station. The police are searching for the youth, who went missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/youth-in-udupi-throws-counterfeit-notes-amid-lockdown-824817.html
13-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Expecting central government to give some relaxation to industries: Jagadish Shettar||Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar expected that the Union Government may give some relaxation like allowing industries to function but with some restrictions, even if the lockdown is extended for some more days. "Representatives of industrialists have sought permission to run industries with some riders like engaging only 50% workforce and taking necessary precautions. I have conveyed this to Union industries and urban development ministers, and also to Union Chemicals & Fertilisers Minister D V Sadananda Gowda," Shettar said. As the Centre has collected our opinion, we expect that some relaxation would be given for industries to function, with a view to arrest further damage to the economy, he noted. On woman's death Shettar, who is also in-charge minister of Belagavi district, stated that an 80-year-old woman, who was a family member of a Covid-19 patient from Hirebagewadi, died due to cardiac arrest, as per primary information.  She breathed her last before she could be quarantined. Her throat swab is collected, for Covid-19 testing and her last rites would be conducted as per rules, Shettar said. Since April 4, 17 Covid-19 positive cases are reported in Belagavi district, mainly due to those who visited Nizamuddin in Delhi, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/expecting-central-government-to-give-some-relaxation-to-industries-jagadish-shettar-824849.html
13-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Lockdown not solution for corona problem'||JD(S) supremo and former prime minister H D Deve Gowda opined that the extension of lockdown will not solve Covid-19 problem. Addressing media persons here on Monday, Gowda appreciated the measures taken by the governments, to put a brake on the spreading of the pandemic. Gowda explained that the extension of the lockdown will cause a lot of problems to the farmers and daily labourers. Only lockdown will not help in controlling coronavirus, he said. Though several measures by the state and Union governments have helped in controlling the spread of the disease to an extent, farmers have to face serious issues than coronavirus, in the future. Farmers have already lost their crops and are facing heavy loss. If this continues, it may lead to farmer suicides, he lamented. The worst affected are the labourers of the unorganised sector and garment employees. Distribution of 10 kg rice and payment of Rs 1,000 will not solve their problems, he said. To a query, he said this is not the time to discuss politics. The government benefits has not reached all. I have already written a letter to the Chief Minister and the Prime Minister. But, I will not comment on their reply, he said. Pointing at Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s city inspection on Sunday, Deve Gowda said, he was accompanied by a lot of officials and police personnel. Where was social distancing? he questioned. MP Prajwal Revanna, JD(S) state president H K Kumaraswamy, MLAs H D Revanna, A T Ramaswamy, K M Shivalingegowda and C N Balakrishna were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lockdown-not-solution-for-corona-problem-824992.html
13-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Online concert by Mysuru-based violinist||Mysuru is often referred to as the ‘Cultural Capital’ of Karnataka and music is an integral part of this culture. Young violinist Sumanth Manjunath belongs to a reputed family of musicians. He is slated to perform live on Facebook, as part of Sanjeevani-2020, organised by California-based Hamsadhwani Carnatic Music Academy, to mark Tamil New Year, on Wednesday, as the nationwide lockdown is in force due to coronavirus or Covid-19 spread. Sanjeevani, as described in Ramayana, is a cure-all plant that can reverse even death. The series has been conceived at this time of crisis, to give hope through music. Legacy Sumanth is the son of renowned violinist Mysore Manjunath. His grandfather S Mahadevappa was a disciple of T Puttaswamiah, younger brother of legendary T Chowdiah. Mysore Manjunath’s elder brother Mysore Nagaraj is also a renowned violinist. Sumanth, a final semester BMusic student of University College of Fine Arts, under University of Mysore, said, “I was slated to perform at California, in a concert organised by Hamsadhwani Academy in June. There is uncertainty over the concert, due to the prevailing crisis. Meanwhile, the organisers contacted me and asked, if I can perform on Facebook Live as a Tamil New Year special concert, under the Sanjeevani series. I was glad and accepted.” Ramanavami live He said, “I have been performing along with my father and uncle since I was young. My first teacher was my grandfather. I performed online, Facebook live, recently, along with my father Manjunath to keep the tradition of Ramanavami concerts of Chamarajapet-based Sri Rama Seva Mandali Charitable Trust in Bengaluru. We performed from our house and the response was amazing. People watched the concert world-over.” Under Sanjeevani series, Hamsadhwani has organised nine concerts by young artistes, starting from April 11, by vocalist Gokul Iyer. Live streaming is on: https://m.facebook.com/HamsadhwaniCarnatic/ Sumanth’s concert is the Tamil New Year special. Other artistes are: Aparna Thyagarajan and Vignesh Thyagarajan (violin duet, April 18), Ananya Ashok (vocal, April 25), Srinivas Balaji (vocal, May 2), Sruti Sarathy (violin, May 9), Kamalkiran Vinjamuri (violin, May 16), Rakshith Prasad (mandolin, May 23) and Tejas Srinivasan and Yashes Srinivasan (vocal-mridangam, May 30). All concerts are for an hour and will be available in the FB page of Hamsadhwani forever. Concert on Wednesday Sumanth’s concert will be at 6 pm on April 14, to mark Tamil New Year as per the Pacific Standard Time (PST). However, it will be at 6.30 am on April 15 (Wednesday) in Mysuru. Sumanth will be accompanied by A Radesh on mridangam and S Manjunath on ghata.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/online-concert-by-mysuru-based-violinist-824994.html
13-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Another Jubilant employee discharged||With another person being discharged from the hospital, a total of 10 persons have recovered from coronavirus or Covid-19 infection, in Mysuru as on Monday. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar confirmed the discharge. The discharged person is an employee of Nanjangud-based Jubilant. Now, the total active case in the district has declined to 38 from 48. It has to be noted that as many as seven people were discharged on Sunday. Of them, six were linked with the Nanjangud-based Jubilant Generics Limited and one is a foreign returnee. Two persons, one foreign returnee and an employee of Jubilant, were discharged a few days back. The patient, who was discharged on Monday in his message, has thanked the DC and the team of doctors for providing him the best care. "All medical professionals, doctors and nurses, treated me with extraordinary care. I also thank my company Jubilant for lending support," he has said. Abhiram G Sankar thanked the entire hospital team, all field teams including the police, health professionals and local body functionaries, quarantine monitoring teams and surveillance teams for their support and cooperation in the entire operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/another-jubilant-employee-discharged-824995.html
13-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Senior Cong leader M V Rajasekharan no more||Former Union minister and senior Congress leader M V Rajasekharan passed away in a private hospital in Bengaluru on Monday. Rajasekharan (91) was suffering from prolonged illness. According to a family member, he was suffering from multi-organ dysfunction and was undergoing treatment in private hospital in the city. He is survived by his wife Girija Rajasekharan, two sons and two daughters. Rajasekharan served as Union Minister of State for Planning in the Manmohan Singh ministry. An agriculturist and rural development consultant, Rajasekharan was born on September 12, 1928, at Maralawadi in Ramanagara district. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who condoled the death of the Congress leader, remembered him as a politician with "simplicity, humility and great maturity". Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and other Congress leaders met Rajasekharan's family and paid their respects. The party held a condolence meet in the evening. Meanwhile, former prime minister H D Deve Gowda and his son, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy also condoled Rajasekharan's death. Recalling his contributions, Deve Gowda said Rajasekharan was a staunch Gandhian and with his demise, the country had lost a principled-politician who was committed to rural development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/senior-cong-leader-m-v-rajasekharan-no-more-824989.html
13-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Coronavirus lockdown: Congress criticise Sudhakar over swimming pool pic||The Opposition Congress on Monday demanded the resignation of Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar for tweeting a picture of him rejoicing in swimming with his children.   In the tweet, since deleted, Sudhakar said: “After a long time joined my children for swimming hope maintaining social distance here also (sic)..haha.” Taking exception to this, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee KPCC president D K Shivakumar asked Sudhakar to step down. “When the whole world is going through a health crisis, the Corona in-charge Minister Dr Sudhakar is behaving irresponsibly by spending time in a swimming pool,” Shivakumar said in a tweet with a screenshot of Sudhakar’s now-deleted tweet. “It’s a matter of moral & ethical standards. He must resign out of his own accord & CM should sack him from the Cabinet.” In a statement he issued subsequently, Shivakumar said he was aghast that Sudhakar, being a doctor, posted a picture of his personal life during the crisis. “Not just those from my party, BJP leaders themselves called me to ask why I have not demanded Sudhakar’s resignation yet,” he said. “Still, I will not press for his resignation. Even the CM or Governor should not sack him. According to me, Sudhakar himself will take moral responsibility and step down.”  A Congress delegation met Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa seeking Sudhakar’s sacking on grounds that he violated the lockdown, especially when all swimming pools across the country were closed.  Sudhakar hit back strongly at the Congress on this matter. “As a father I was attending to my kids after three months of rigorous work to contain the Covid-19. Am I not supposed to discharge duties as a father to my children?” he told DH. “I have not gone outside on picnic or tour. But stayed at home and joined them in their kids’ pool inside the house. Before meeting them, I had quarantined myself and only after the successful completion of quarantine that I spent a few hours with my children which I could not do since February as I was busy attending to all Covid-19 related emergencies,” he said, daring the Opposition to point out flaws in his work instead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-congress-criticise-sudhakar-over-swimming-pool-pic-825008.html
13-04-2020||Main Article||Coronavirus: Make MSMEs strong||COVID-19 has accelerated the thinking triggered by worldwide economic slowdown that it is better for each country to fall back on domestic economies and import substitution which had become a dirty word in the 1990s and 2000s. They have regained economic respectability, especially among members of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government.  The old, discredited mantra of ‘don’t import what can be made in the country’ which was such an attractive socialist slogan, is being adopted by expediency-driven politicians in the ruling party and many of the marginal left-leaning parties. The intellectual retreat from globalisation has been gaining ground ever since the 2008 financial meltdown, whose aftereffects continue to linger a decade later.  There seems to be every likelihood that the quarantine along national borders, necessitated by COVID-19, will become the conceptual framework of politicians and some of the industry and business folk as well for economic thinking in the immediate future.  There is cultural nostalgia for the old ways of life in smaller communities which is being romanticised as having shielded people from the apparently uncontrollable infectious diseases which jump over national and community borders.  It would not be right to dismiss the fear-based reactions because it seems the advances of medicine are incapable of fighting the new diseases, and that the advantage of air travel spawned by technological advancement has become a liability if not a curse.  Modi’s Make in India, American President Donald Trump’s America First and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s ardent faith in the virtues of Brexit seem to have gained a backdoor validation as it were from the outbreak of COVID-19. This might turn out to be the dangerous Sirens music which would come in the way of getting the global economy back on to the growth part even as the pandemic runs its course as any viral infection would.  Global coordination is a more effective way of combating coronavirus because research breakthrough in one country should be made available to the rest of the world in controlling it without delay. The instantaneous ripple effects seen in global financial markets born out of turbulence in one corner is also the paradigm of pandemics on the medical front.  It is global research teams that are needed to get quick and better results in finding medication for the virus before a vaccine can be made to prevent it. The world has a stake in China regulating its meat markets, especially involving wild animals, if that is indeed the cause of COVID-19. This requires global protocols and not a retreat into national cocoons. What is overlooked is the fact that national research agendas were driven by local needs. The Americans invested funds in malarial research as they were involved in the war in Vietnam in the 1960s to the mid-1970s. But they showed no interest in it after the United States withdrew from Vietnam.  China continued to have a stake in malarial research, again because of the war in Vietnam, and they hung on to it. The 2015 Nobel Prize for Medicine and Physiology, won by the traditional Chinese medicine researcher Tu Youyou for the antimalarial drug artemisinin, was a combination of Western scientific research protocols and traditional Chinese medicinal solutions.  The World Health Organisation (WHO) has adopted artemisinin as the antidote to malarial fevers worldwide. Though at present, it is the research teams in the United States and in China which are racing towards finding an anti-corona virus vaccine, it should become apparent to governments across the world that they have a stake in the anti-virus vaccine research.  India would need to pick up the baton along with teams across the world to find a solution to COVID-19. If the new disease frontier facing the world is that of viral diseases, then there should be worldwide research on viruses and the vaccines and medicines needed to combat them in the same way that antibiotics led the war against bacterial diseases. It cannot be the case that scientific research would be globalised but the economies would retreat behind tariff barriers across national borders. It is indeed the case that in this moment of panic as COVID-19 spreads like wildfire and the economies take a hard blow as a result, the concern of national governments would be to protect the micro, small, medium enterprises (MSMEs) in their respective jurisdictions.  Right of way The declarations of Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Union Minister for Commerce Piyush Goyal that what can be made by the MSMEs in the countries should be protected and duties raised against imports, when the right way of looking at the issue would be to make the MSMEs into an export-driven segment of the economy.  There is of course the short-term concern which might require protection of some kind or the other, but the long-term solution would be to make the MSMEs strong enough to compete in the global markets.  Self-contained economies, either at the regional and national levels, are not sustainable. A larger flexible system can withstand shocks, shortages, volatilities which would destroy a smaller system. It might be argued, and with much justification, that the advantages and disadvantages between small and big systems is equally balanced, and one does not have an edge over the other.  In a purely logical sense, that might be true. But in truth, the larger system has better chances of survival, sustenance and prosperity. Global economy is the better option because it brings with it the strengths of global networks which will help people in smaller communities.  There is virtue in hanging together and hanging on. National identities do not disappear but thrive in a globalised set-up because we have learned the invaluable ecological lesson that diversity is the keystone of any macrosystem. So, the thinking that India should gain from Chinese economic woes is avoidable negativity. (The writer is a New Delhi-based political commentator)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/coronavirus-make-msmes-strong-824657.html
13-04-2020||National||Supreme Court to hear plea seeking evacuation of 860 Indian fisherman from Iran amid coronavirus lockdown||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court urging it to direct the central government to bring back around 860 fishermen stranded on boats near the Iranian shore due to restrictions imposed globally to contain the coronavirus pandemic. The plea, scheduled to be heard through video-conferencing on Monday by a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, has also sought a direction to the government to send a medical team to conduct COVID-19 test on the fishermen. It has claimed that the fishermen, who are mostly from Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Gujarat, are stranded in boats on the shores of Bandar-e Moqam and Lavan Island in Hormozgan province of Iran. It has claimed none of the 860 persons have got COVID-19 infection so far but they are stranded in sub-standard human conditions without proper food or water. Their immediate evacuation is required to stop them from contracting the virus and also to prevent them from dying due to starvation or dehydration, the plea said. The plea, filed by the wife of one of the stranded fishermen, has sought that the Centre ensure adequate food, water and medicines are provided to them. "It is essential to state that even if they are infected, they should be brought back to India and kept in necessary quarantine conditions as they will at least be provided food and water which is a primordial requirement for recovery," the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-seeking-evacuation-of-860-indian-fisherman-from-iran-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-824638.html
13-04-2020||National||Three Indian related to Tablighi Jamaat test positive for coronavirus in Nepal||Three Indian nationals, who entered Nepal from India for a religious mass gathering and were staying at a mosque in the southern part of the country, have tested positive for the novel coronavirus, the health ministry here said on Sunday. The three Indian men, aged 37, 44 and 55 years, were staying at the mosque in Birgunj city, 135 kilometres south of the capital Kathmandu, due to the nationwide lockdown which has been imposed till April 15 to contain the spread of the deadly coronavirus in the country, the Ministry of Health and Population said. With the three fresh cases, the total number of infections in the country has gone up to 12. The three Indian nationals had reportedly entered Nepal for a religious mass gathering held in Saptari district in March in which hundreds of people from Nepal and India participated. According to a local media report, the Indian nationals are local religious heads and had taken part in a Tabligi Jamaat congregation in Delhi before entering Nepal in March. At least 9,000 people participated in the religious congregation in Nizamuddin last month, which has become the biggest hotspot for the spread of the coronavirus in India. The three Indian nationals, who tested for positive, are undergoing treatment and their condition is normal, said the Health Ministry. The ministry has also dispatched a team to trace people who came in contact with the three infected persons.  The local administration has put 26 people, who were residing in the mosque, under quarantine. The Nepal government decided to extend the nationwide lockdown at a Cabinet meeting held on April 6 after the country entered into the second phase of the coronavirus outbreak with the first case of locally transmitted person confirmed in Western Nepal. It was the second time that the government extended the lockdown. The government had initially announced a week-long nationwide shutdown on March 24. On March 29, it was extended till April 7. So far 5,184 tests have been conducted in the country, with 795 new tests conducted in the past 24 hour, according to Health Ministry spokesperson. Globally, the novel coronavirus that originated in China in December has killed 108,862 people and infected over 1.7 million people globally. The US has the highest number of infections at 529,887, according to Johns Hopkins University data. The US on Sunday overtook Italy as the country with the highest number of deaths due to COVID-19 pandemic with the fatalities crossing 20,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-indian-related-to-tablighi-jamaat-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-nepal-824641.html
13-04-2020||National||Digital payment infra enables prompt cash transfer of 28,256 cr under PM Garib Kalyan plan||Robust digital payment infrastructure helped more than 30 crore people to receive financial assistance of Rs 28,256 crore under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 26 to protect them from the impact of the lockdown, an official statement said on Sunday. A digital pipeline laid a few years ago -- through linking Jan-Dhan accounts as well as other accounts with the beneficiaries' mobile numbers and Aadhaar Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-Mobile (JAM) -- was instrumental in cash transfer under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package amid coronavirus pandemic. This infrastructure pipeline is providing the necessary backbone for DBT flows, adoption of social security/pension schemes, etc, the Finance Ministry said in a statement on Sunday. As part of Rs 1.70 lakh crore Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package relief package, more than 30 crore beneficiaries have been given support via direct benefit transfer through first installment during the last week. Two more installments of cash transfer will be done in May and June. Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) was launched in August, 2014 with an aim to provide bank accounts to unbanked persons, it said, adding out of around 126 crore operative CASA accounts as on March 20, 2020, more than 38 crore have been opened under PMJDY. As many as 19.86 crore women Jan Dhan account holders received Rs 500 each in their account. The total disbursement under the head was 9,930 crore, it said. Of the total disbursement, Rs 13,855 crore have gone towards payment of first installment of PM-KISAN. Under the scheme, nearly 6.93 crore out of 8 crore identified beneficiaries got Rs 2,000 directly in their account. National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) disbursed about Rs 1,400 crore to about 2.82 crore old age person, widow and disabled person, the ministry added. Each beneficiary received an ex-gratia cash of Rs 1,000 under the scheme. Talking about digital pipeline, it said, it has enabled interoperable, speedy and accurate transactions as the bank accounts are enabled to carry out both cash and digital transactions at bank branches, business correspondent (BC) points, merchant locations and on internet. The Digital Payment Ecosystem includes Bhim Adhaar Pay, RuPay debit cards and UPI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digital-payment-infra-enables-prompt-cash-transfer-of-28256-cr-under-pm-garib-kalyan-plan-824645.html
13-04-2020||National||States facing impediments in procuring rapid testing equipment: Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday said states have got little money from the Centre and are facing impediments in the procurement of rapid-testing equipment. Taking to Twitter, the former finance minister gave a "ground report" of the situation during the ongoing nationwide lockdown, saying banks are open but have stopped giving jewel loans to the middle class. "Here is a report from the ground: States have got little money from the Centre: GST compensation for Dec-Jan; first instalment of State Disaster Relief Fund; and a share of the Rs 15,000 crore Medical Infrastructure Fund. "Procurement of rapid testing equipment faces impediments," he wrote on the microblogging website. "While bank branches are open, many LIC offices are closed. Banks have stopped giving jewel loans, the mainstay for liquidity of middle class families," Chidambaram said. Another senior Congress leader and former Union minister Jairam Ramesh said a new political consensus is needed for addressing questions of administrative decentralisation and reordering of public expenditures that emerge out of big traumas. "Big traumas trigger fundamental questions. Those that come to mind are: Bold decentralization of administrative and financial authority. Complete reordering of public expenditures and radical reform of public service delivery. "But for all this a new political consensus is needed," he wrote on Twitter. The remarks of the opposition party leaders came as the country is grappling with the COVID-19 pandemic and a nationwide lockdown has been imposed to check the spread of the deadly virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-facing-impediments-in-procuring-rapid-testing-equipment-chidambaram-824649.html
13-04-2020||National||India ‘over-prepared’ for COVID-19 fight: Centre||Amid a huge surge in cases nationwide, the Union government on Sunday said it was “over-prepared” to handle the fast-spreading COVID-19 outbreak. India reported 1,000 new cases on Sunday, taking the total number of infected persons to 8,447, of which at least 1,671 were receiving critical care in dedicated hospitals across the country. But the government said the number of patients requiring critical care and oxygen support was at 20% of the total confirmed cases across the country which was, at this stage, “over-prepared” to handle the outbreak. “As of today, if we need 1,671 beds for COVID-19 patients, we have over 1.05 lakh beds available in 601 dedicated hospitals across the country,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry told reporters in New Delhi. In a presentation during the media interaction, Aggarwal said on March 29, when India had 196 COVID-19 patients under critical care, it had 41,974 beds ready in 163 dedicated hospitals across the country. “Though the number of COVID-19 cases has increased, the number of patients requiring oxygen support or critical care is around 20%. The government is over-prepared in managing the situation. There is no need for panic,” Aggarwal said. He said the government has also ramped up testing facilities further by roping in both private and public medical colleges, along with 14 mental health institutes across the country. “Fourteen identified institutes including AIIMS, NIMHANS will mentor medical colleges and expand COVID-19 testing capacity,” Aggarwal said. Providing a snapshot of preparations across the country, he said AIIMS, Delhi, had set aside 250 beds, including 50 ICU beds, for COVID-19 patients, while Safdarjang Hospital in the capital has dedicated one complete block comprising 500 beds to meet the emergent situation. Of these 500 beds, 100 are ICU beds. “We have provided 1,680 beds to Andhra Pradesh. As of today, there were 148 ventilators available. We provided 444 additional ventilators. One special medical officer is appointed in every state,” Aggarwal said. He also added that the military has set aside 9,000 beds across 10 towns across the country in addition to the 7,000 beds available in military hospitals. He said the Ordnance Factory Board has manufactured 50 specialised water-proof tents in Arunachal Pradesh to ensure that required medical facilities can be provided to people in far-flung areas of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-over-prepared-for-covid-19-fight-centre-824650.html
13-04-2020||National||Docs can now prescribe certain drugs used in psychiatry through video-consultation||Doctors can now prescribe certain drugs used in psychiatry through video-consultation following modifications in telemedicine practice guidelines in view of the ongoing lockdown due to coronavirus outbreak in the country. Directive in this regard was issued by the Board of Governors (BoG) vested with the powers of the Medical Council of India (MCI). According to a health ministry official, with unavailability of a hard copy of prescription due to lockdown, patients suffering from neurological conditions will be able to purchase certain psychiatry and neurological drugs online with the soft copy prescription. "The Board of Governors in super-session of Medical Council of India in discharge of their special responsibilities prescribed under guidelines 6.1 of telemedicine practice guidelines makes the following modifications in 'medicine lists'. "The following medicines shall be added to list A, of medicine lists after the existing entries: drugs used in psychiatry practice such as phenobarbitone, clobazam and clonazepam as first consult and as well as follow up," the public notice read. According to Telemedicine Practice guidelines, List A medications are those which can be prescribed during the first consult which is via a video link and are being re-prescribed for re-fill, in case of follow-up. "Due to lockdown, a majority of patients are not getting these anti-anxiety neurological drugs without doctors prescription. Even regular OPDs are not functioning. As a result, the patients were facing difficulties," a doctor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/docs-can-now-prescribe-certain-drugs-used-in-psychiatry-through-video-consultation-824673.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Why isn't Modi govt helping Indian students stranded abroad, asks Congress||Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill on Sunday questioned the Centre why Indian students stranded abroad are not being evacuated, while the government is in "active mode" to help foreign nationals stuck in India. He said the central government should give a definitive timeline for evacuation of Indian students stuck abroad. "The BJP government is in 'active mode' for foreign nationals and is in 'sleep mode' for Indian students stranded abroad in this hour of global crisis," Shergill said in a statement. The Congress leader said as per the Ministry of External Affairs, over 20,000 foreign nationals have been evacuated to different parts of the world by the Government of India on request of various nations in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. "When Air India can be deployed to send German nationals and other foreigners back to their home country then why is Air India not being used for children of India? Why is the BJP-Government in India not giving the same 'helpful' treatment to Indian students abroad?" he asked. Shergill questioned the MEA for "not giving a definitive reply to the worried parents of students stranded abroad with respect to the strategy and timeline of their evacuation". The Congress leader said there are approximately two lakh Indian students studying in the US. "When will they come home? When the Government of India can facilitate evacuation of 20000 foreigners then why not the same approach to Indian Students stranded abroad?” Shergill asked. "When the UK and the US are sending special flights to evacuate their citizens stuck in India, then why is the Government of India not evacuating Indian children stranded abroad?” he asked. He said 300 hundred students were stranded at the Heathrow airport as on March 18, 16,000 were studying in the Philippines, a huge number of students were stranded in Australia, Canada, Malaysia and other countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-why-isnt-modi-govt-helping-indian-students-stranded-abroad-asks-congress-824674.html
13-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 13, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.  Stay healthy, stay safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-13-2020-edition-824665.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 13||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 10,024 as of April 13.     States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 326 Andhra Pradesh: 7 Assam: 1 Bihar: 1 Delhi: 24 Gujarat: 26 Haryana: 3 Himachal Pradesh: 2 Jammu and Kashmir: 4 Jharkhand: 2 Karnataka: 7 Kerala: 3 Madhya Pradesh: 34 Maharashtra: 160 Odisha: 1 Punjab: 12 Rajasthan: 8 Tamil Nadu: 11 Telangana: 17 Uttar Pradesh: 5 West Bengal: 9 Coronavirus in India: States/UTs with confirmed positive cases (Details are updated as we receive information) Maharashtra: 2,334 Delhi: 1,154 Tamil Nadu: 1,173 Rajasthan: 897 Madhya Pradesh: 567 Gujarat: 572 Telangana: 592 Uttar Pradesh: 550 Andhra Pradesh: 439 Kerala: 378 Karnataka: 247 Jammu and Kashmir: 270 Haryana: 185 Punjab: 176 West Bengal: 152 Bihar: 64 Odisha: 54 Uttarakhand: 35 Himachal Pradesh: 32 Chhattisgarh: 31 Assam: 30 Chandigarh: 21 Jharkhand: 24 Ladakh: 15 Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 11 Puducherry: 7 Goa: 7 Manipur: 2 Tripura: 2 Mizoram: 1 Arunachal Pradesh: 1 Nagaland: 1 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 970+ While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-13-824675.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Rajasthan govt bans photography during distribution of food packets||The Rajasthan government on Friday banned photography during distribution of food packets and ration among the needy in the state. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said food and ration distribution among the poor should be taken as a service and should not be made a medium of publicity and competition. Gehlot said the needy should be benefitted and those who are capable should not take undue advantage. "Poor and destitute people, who have become completely dependent on the government, have the first right on ration and cooked food packets,” he said. "Photography during food and ration distribution has been banned in the state. This should not be made a medium of publicity," a release quoting the chief minister said. Gehlot directed the district collectors to encourage NGOs and other organisations to come forward to help the needy. He said social distancing norms should be followed while distributing food packets among the needy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-rajasthan-govt-bans-photography-during-distribution-of-food-packets-824677.html
13-04-2020||National||Enforce containment measures ruthlessly: Gehlot tells officials||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday asked officials to follow the government’s containment strategy ruthlessly and survey every house to identify people infected with COVID-19 as soon as possible to stop the further spread of the virus. For this, he said, the ‘Bhilwara model’ of strict curfew and aggressive contact tracing can be followed. No fresh case has been reported for a few days from the textile city, where the first case was detected on March 19 but massive screening and contact tracing helped it contain the outbreak. On Sunday, Rajasthan reported 104 fresh cases, pushing the overall tally to 804. In Bhilwara, 25 people infected with the virus have recovered and around 6,000 are in home quarantine, Gehlot said. Discussing the emerging situation with senior district officials from his residence, he told them to take precautions but enforce the lockdown strictly and contain the virus ruthlessly. He said district collectors should take the pandemic seriously and ensure survey of each and every house. Chief Secretary DB Gupta warned people against taking photographs for self-promotion when distributing food and ration. Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Rajeeva Swarup told officials that they should see to it that essential items are delivered to people who need them. Additional Chief Secretary, Medical and Health, Rohit Kumar Singh said more than25,000 tests have been done in the state till Saturday evening and Rajasthan is placed second, after Maharashtra, in that regard. “With an increase in number of tests, the number positive patients could also increase and in such situation we have to be prepared in advance,”hesaid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enforce-containment-measures-ruthlessly-gehlot-tells-officials-824690.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus suspect jumps to death at quarantine facility in Greater Noida||A 32-year-old man who was under observation for coronavirus on Sunday jumped to death from the seventh floor of a Greater Noida private college where he was put in quarantine, officials said. His test results were awaited, they said. “The man was kept at the quarantine centre in Galgotia Engineering College in Greater Noida where he jumped to death from the seventh floor of the building on Sunday,” the DM said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-suspect-jumps-to-death-at-quarantine-facility-in-greater-noida-824691.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: I&B ministry tells broadcasters, cable operators to continue uninterrupted services||The Information and Broadcasting ministry has asked television broadcasters, DTH and cable TV operators to ensure uninterrupted supply of their services in the interest of viewers in the "difficult times" of the coronavirus pandemic. In a letter to all broadcasters, DTH providers, multi-system operators (MSOs) and local cable operators (LCOs), it urged them to continue to provide uninterrupted services to their subscribers and cooperate with other players within the distribution chain in the interest of the viewers and larger public safety in these "difficult times". "All steps may, therefore, be taken to ensure that the people continue to uninterruptedly view the available channels," the ministry said. The intent behind the constant flow of essential and authentic information through various media is to ensure public order and safety in the current situation of an unprecedented pandemic, the letter dated April 11 said. "lt will be appreciated by all concerned stakeholders that at this critical juncture, this steady flow of information and keeping the public engaged inside their homes with programmes on news, authentic information and entertainment is of paramount importance," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-ib-ministry-tells-broadcasters-cable-operators-to-continue-uninterrupted-services-824692.html
13-04-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh: TikTok user who poked fun at masks tests coronavirus positive||A 25-year-old man, who in a TikTok video ridiculed the use of masks for protection against COVID-19, has tested positive for the disease in Madhya Pradesh's Sagar district, an official said on Sunday. Authorities at the hospital where he is admitted had to seize his mobile phone as he kept posting more videos from the isolation facility even after testing positive. His condition is stable, Sagar's Government Bundelkhand Medical College Dean Dr G S Patel told PTI. In one of the videos, apparently shot after the COVID-19 outbreak in the country, the man was purportedly seen sitting on a bike and when someone asked him to wear a mask, he dismissed it saying, Is kapde ke tukde par kya bharosa rakhna, rakhna hai to us upar wale par rakho (why to trust a piece of cloth, keep faith in God). In later part of the video, he was seen throwing a piece of cloth in the air while the song 'Faya Kun, Faya Kun', from the movie "Rockstar" played in the background. Patel said the man came to the government hospital with complaints of cough and fever and tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. This is the first COVID-19 case reported from Sagar district, the official said, adding that the man does not have any travel history. Even after testing positive for the disease, he posted a video on TikTok from the isolation facility of the hospital where he is admitted. In this video, he was seen sporting a mask and asking people to pray for him. "Following complaint that the coronavirus patient shot the video from the quarantine centre and uploaded it through internet, we took his mobile phone in our custody," Patel said. After the man uploaded these videos on TikTok, several people mocked him for making fun of the mask.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-tiktok-user-who-poked-fun-at-masks-tests-coronavirus-positive-824707.html
13-04-2020||National||Don't treat COVID-19 as a research project: Vardhan to scientists||Science and Technology Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday exhorted scientists to develop COVID-19 mitigation solutions keeping a fixed timeframe in mind, saying these are "times of war" and it should not be treated as a routine research project. Vardhan held a review meeting with the Director-General Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, Shekhar Mande, and all the 38 CSIR lab directors, a statement said. During the meeting, Mande said a Core Strategy Group (CSG) has been set up and five verticals have been identified under which coronavirus-related activities are being carried out. These include digital and molecular surveillance, rapid and economical diagnostics, new drugs/repurposing of drugs and associated production processes, hospital assistive devices and PPEs; and supply chain and logistics support systems. Vardhan, however, cautioned CSIR scientists to develop COVID-19 mitigation solutions keeping a fixed timeframe in mind. "These are times of war, CSIR scientists should work to deliver solutions before war ends, they should not treat it as a routine research project,” he said. “COVID-19 has also come as a blessing in disguise as it will give a boost to the country's resilience and self-reliance, and enhance indigenous capacity in developing critical health care equipment,” the minister said. Vardhan appreciated that CSIR labs were also conducting tests of swab samples of coronavirus patients and some of them have started doing genetic sequencing of the virus with a target of doing 500 sequencings in the coming weeks. “Genetic sequencing is very crucial in identifying the host response as well as identifying population vulnerability to the disease,” he said. The minister said these genetic sequencing efforts remind him of the polio eradication movement 26 years back. Mande said 15 CSIR labs are working in close partnership with major industries, PSUs, MSMEs and other departments and ministries at the time of crisis in the country.      He also appreciated the work done by CSIR-national aerospace laboratories with Bengaluru BHEL and BEL on ventilators and oxygen enrichment devices. They are also developing 3-D printed face shields, face masks, gowns and other protective equipment, the statement added. "All these things will help us in the next few weeks," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-treat-covid-19-as-a-research-project-vardhan-to-scientists-824710.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Planning to step out of home during lockdown? Watchout for 'Yamraj'||'Yamraj', the God of Death, roamed the streets of Bahraich in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, reminding people of the perils of stepping out of their homes during the coronavirus outbreak and warning to take anyone not following social distancing or the lockdown to the underworld. "I am 'Yamraj', I am coronavirus. If you do not adhere to the rules, no human will be left on the planet. I will become the cause of death of all. If you are careless, I will take you with me," he spoke into a mic, with a sickle in the other hand and policemen in tow. "No one should violate the lockdown and step out unnecessarily. A handkerchief can be used as a face mask, wash your hands repeatedly with soap, use sanitisers and maintain a distance of one to two metres from each other. This will ensure everyone's safety," he said. Wherever 'Yamraj' went, people, young and old, gathered at their doorsteps and listened to him carefully. However, there was no fear and many used their mobile phones to click his photos. The Lord of Death was deployed by Bahraich police to spread awareness about the COVID-19 pandemic and tell people how precautions like social distancing, washing hands, wearing masks can protect them against the disease.     Dressed as 'Yamraj' in black attire with a touch of gold and red is policeman Lavkush Mishra from Baundi police station. A faux Hungarian mustache and a gold crown complete his look. Baundi police station in charge Brahmanand Singh said, "We experimented with this idea in our area to spread awareness about COVID-19 and it was successful." About his colleague Mishra, he said he is fond of acting and before joining the police force he used to act in Ramlila. Uttar Pradesh has reported 483 coronavirus cases so far, with 31 fresh infections detected on Sunday. According to Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad, at present, there are 576 patients in isolation wards while 8,084 are in quarantine facilities. Agra, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Lucknow, Saharanpur and Ghaziabad are the state's worst affected districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-planning-to-step-out-of-home-during-lockdown-watchout-for-yamraj-824712.html
13-04-2020||National||COVID-19 very close to peak in US, says FDA commissioner||The coronavirus outbreak is very close to its peak in the US, a top American health official said on Sunday as more than 20,000 people have lost their lives due to CIVID-19 in the country. The deadly virus, to which medical science so far has not been able to find either a vaccine or a successful therapeutic solution, has killed over 20,000 Americans and infected more than 5.3 lakh, the highest in the world. "The models do show that we are very close to the peak. So I think that information is accurate. This has been a very fast-moving outbreak," Dr Stephen Hahn, Commissioner of US Food and Drug Administration told ABC News. He was responding to a question on the latest models, which are projecting that the US peak in terms of daily deaths would likely be Sunday. Asserting that public safety and the welfare of Americans has to come first, Dr Hahn said this has been the constant message from the president, the vice president and within the White House Task Force on coronavirus. "That has to ultimately drive these decisions. "There are obviously other considerations. I have heard from friends and colleagues around the world that people really do want to get back to a more normal life than what we've had in the last several weeks, but we have got to get the data as they come in. We have to look at what we know about this illness, what's happened in other countries and put them into the situation, into the plan moving forward," Dr Hahn said. Responding to a question on the possibility of reopening the country by May 1, a day after the social distancing measure ends on April 30, the FDA commissioner said it is a target.  "We're hopeful about that target, but I think it's too early to be able to tell that. We see light at the end of the tunnel... We see the incredible resiliency of the American people with respect to social distancing, hand washing and all of those mitigation factors. So, that gives me great hope. "But I think it's just too early for us to say whether May 1 is that date. But more to come on that as we learn more information, and as our planning proceeds," Dr Hahn said. According to him there are a lot of factors that will go into this. One, is the geographic location, the number of tests the number of people infected. "If you look at the testing where it is right now, the strategic approach has been to focus that testing in the hotspot areas, where if people come forward and are sick, as many as 30 to 40 per cent test positive, whereas in other areas where there aren't a lot of sick people, and some rural areas, it's less than five per cent. "So our strategy moving forward for opening up the country has to take all of those factors into account. And yes, further ramping up testing, both diagnostic as well as the antibody tests will really be necessary as we move beyond May and into the summer months and then into the fall," Dr Hahn added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-very-close-to-peak-in-us-says-fda-commissioner-824715.html
13-04-2020||National||Two more coronavirus deaths, Bengal makes masks mandatory||West Bengal reported two more COVID-19 deaths on Sunday, pushing the death toll due to the disease to seven in the state, even as the TMC government made wearing masks mandatory for people visiting public places. However, no fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in the state on Sunday. The total number of coronavirus cases stood at 122 in the state, the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) government said, even though the Union health ministry put the figure at 134. According to a health bulletin released by the state government, the total number of active cases in West Bengal is now 95. The TMC government, however, did not divulge the details of the deceased persons. Meanwhile, late in the evening, the state government issued an order, making wearing of masks mandatory for people visiting public places. The order was issued by Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha. "Mouth and nose should be covered by facial masks or any other available piece of cloth which may even include a properly folded or rolled dupatta, gamcha, handkerchief or any such material that acts as a protective cover," the order said. "It is hereby directed that it shall be mandatory to use this cover always, especially when in public places," it added. Meanwhile, at least 22 health workers of the state-run RG Kar Medical College and Hospital were placed under quarantine after two patients admitted to the hospital tested positive for COVID-19, a health department official said. A two-day drive to disinfect Nabanna, the state secretariat in adjoining Howrah district, began on Sunday, government sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-more-coronavirus-deaths-bengal-makes-masks-mandatory-824720.html
13-04-2020||National||11 fresh cases of coronavirus in Rajasthan, tally now at 815||Rajasthan recorded 11 more cases of coronavirus on Monday, taking the state's tally to 815, an official said. The virus has so far claimed 11 lives in the state.  "As many as 11 new cases have come up today, including 10 in Bharatpur and one in Banswara district of the state," Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said. He said the total number of coronavirus positive cases in the state has risen to 815. The total cases of coronavirus in Rajasthan include two Italian citizens, 52 people who have been brought from Iran to the army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. Jaipur has reported the highest number of 341 cases so far. Entire state is under lockdown from March 22 and massive survey and screening is underway to trace the contagion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/11-fresh-cases-of-coronavirus-in-rajasthan-tally-now-at-815-824725.html
13-04-2020||National||PM remembers martyrs of Jallianwala massacre||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid tributes to the martyrs of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre of 1919, saying their valour will inspire Indians for years to come. "I bow to those martyrs who were killed mercilessly in Jallianwala Bagh on this day. We will never forget their courage and sacrifice," he wrote on Twitter. Their valour will inspire Indians for the years to come, the prime minister said. British Indian troops on the orders of Brigadier Gen Reginald Dyer had opened fire on a large group of people who had gathered at Jallianwala Bagh, Amritsar to celebrate Baisakhi, the harvest festival. At least 400 people were killed and a thousand were injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-remembers-martyrs-of-jallianwala-massacre-824727.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus death toll in India at 308, cases 9,152||The death toll due to the novel coronavirus pandemic rose to 308 on Monday after 35 new fatalities were reported, while the number of cases climbed to 9,152, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active coronavirus cases stood at 7,987, as many as 856 people have been cured and discharged, while one had migrated. The total number of cases include 72 foreign nationals, according to the ministry data. Thirty-five deaths have been reported since Sunday evening, of which 22 were reported from Maharashtra, five from Delhi, three from Gujarat, two from West Bengal and one each from Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-death-toll-in-india-at-308-cases-9152-824735.html
13-04-2020||National||Shifting prisoners could spread coronavirus: Kamal Nath||Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath has expressed concern over shifting of some NSA detainees from one district to another despite the lockdown, as some of them later tested positive for coronavirus. This could spread the viral disease in other districts, he said. "It is surprising that while there is a lockdown in the state, many districts are under curfew and their boundaries sealed in view of the coronavirus scare and people not being allowed to move from one district to other, in such a scenario those detained under NSA in Indore were sent to Satna and they were found coronavirus positive," Nath tweeted on Sunday.  "This way corona infection will spread in other districts also," he further said in a tweet in Hindi. Some persons who indulged in stone-pelting and misbehaviour with health workers and police in Indore were recently booked under the National Security Act (NSA). After some of accused under the NSA were shifted out of Indore, two of them tested positive for coronavirus in Satna and one was found infected with the disease in Jabalpur, causing panic in the two districts. Satna Collector Ajay Katesaria on Sunday said two prisoners, arrested under NSA in Indore and shifted here, tested positive for coronavirus. Otherwise, there was no COVID-19 case in Satna district so far, the collector said. The prisoners who tested positive for coronavirus have been shifted to the Rewa-based Medical College and those who came in contact with them have been quarantined, he said. As a precautionary measure they were kept in the isolation cells, he added. Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 13 The Satna administration has requested the authorities concerned not to send prisoners there from Indore and Bhopal, which have been severely affected by coronavirus. Jabalpur Collector Bharat Yadav said an NSA detainee out of four prisoners shifted from Indore to Jabalpur Central Jail tested positive for coronavirus before his admission to a local jail. The prisoner has been shifted to a government-run hospital, he said. The other three NSA detainees have been lodged at an isolation ward in the Jabalpur Central Jail, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shifting-prisoners-could-spread-coronavirus-kamal-nath-824740.html
13-04-2020||National||SC upholds MP Governor’s decision asking Kamal Nath government to hold floor test||The Supreme Court on Monday upheld Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon’s decision asking the then Kamal Nath-led Congress government to prove majority, saying the governor has the power to call for a floor test. The top court, which had on March 19 asked Madhya Pradesh Assembly Speaker N P Prajapati to reconvene a special session the next day with a sole agenda of conducting the floor test, gave a detailed order on Monday. Following the apex court order, senior Congress leader Kamal Nath had resigned on March 20, after 15 months of taking over as Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, which paved the way for the formation of the BJP government in the state led by Shivraj Singh Chauhan. On Monday, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Hemant Gupta, in its detailed verdict rejected the submission of the then Kamal Nath government that governor at best can call a session of assembly but cannot direct for holding floor test in the running house. The top court relied on its landmark nine-judge S R Bomai verdict of 1994 and said that governor was right in calling for the holding of the trust vote. It said that there is no impediment to a governor asking a chief minister to hold a floor test if he is of prima facie view that the government has lost majority. On March 19, the top court had observed that the "state of uncertainty must be effectively resolved by issuing a direction for convening a floor test". It had directed that there shall be "single agenda" before the assembly whether the Congress government continues to enjoy the confidence of the House and the voting shall take place by "show of hand". The top court had issued as many as eight interim directions after the conclusion of two-day hearing on cross pleas of senior BJP leader Shivraj Singh Chouhan and of MP Congress party and said that detailed judgement will be given later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-upholds-mp-governor-s-decision-asking-kamal-nath-government-to-hold-floor-test-824760.html
13-04-2020||National||CEC, fellow commissioners take 30% salary cut to fund COVID-19 fight||Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora and fellow commissioners Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra have decided to take a voluntary 30 per cent cut in their basic salaries for one year to fund fight against COVID-19. The three commissioners, including the Chief Election Commissioner (CEC), are entitled to a salary which is "equal to the salary of a judge of the Supreme Court", according to the provisions of a law governing their conditions of service. Supreme Court judges draw a monthly salary of Rs 2.50 lakh, besides other entitlements. "The numerous steps being taken by the government and civil society organisations require vast resources for which contribution from all sources, including reducing the burden of salaries on the exchequer, might be helpful," he said.  "The commission has decided to contribute in the form of voluntary reduction of 30 per cent in the basic salary paid by the Election Commission to the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners for a period of one year commencing April 1," the poll panel said in a statement. Union ministers and MPs have recently taken a 30 per cent cut in their salaries and some allowances to fund fight against COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cec-fellow-commissioners-take-30-salary-cut-to-fund-covid-19-fight-824768.html
13-04-2020||National||Two surrendered Naxals join coronavirus war, make masks for cops||Two Naxals who surrendered in Chhattisgarh's Sukma district have extended a helping hand in the fight against coronavirus by preparing masks for police personnel and local people. Madkam Lakkha (31) and Reena Vekko (30), who worked with Naxals in the forests of south Bastar, surrendered before police in the last couple of years after realising that "violence brings nothing except pain". They have now joined the war against the coronavirus pandemic as they have realised that "helping people gives ultimate happiness". Since the last 10 days, Lakkha and Vekko, along with a policeman, have been engaged in stitching cloth masks in Sukma town, located around 450 km from state capital Raipur. "We have stitched around 1,000 masks so far. These masks are not only being used by local people but also police personnel," Lakkha told PTI over phone. Lakkha, who surrendered in August last year, worked with Maoists in various capacities, including militia commander-in-chief since joining the outlawed outfit in 2008.  He also mentored a tailoring team of ultras and used to stitch uniforms for senior cadres active in South Bastar and neighboring Telangana. "I am using my old skill and trying to support the police personnel who are working day and night during the lockdown. It is not a big contribution, but I am happy that I can be useful to society in some way, he said. Lakkha also works with police in translating Maoist communications, which are mostly in local dialects, into Hindi which has helped the security forces in gathering vital intelligence for counter-insurgency operations. Vekko, who quit the banned outfit in 2018 after being active as a hardcore rebel on Odisha-Chhattisgarh border for about a decade, voluntarily joined Lakkha in producing masks.  She was not familiar with tailoring work, but was trained in it as part of the government's rehabilitation programme for surrendered rebels. "We stitch around 100 to 120 masks in a day. The raw material for it is provided by local police, Lakkha said. Hailing their contribution, Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P said the two surrendered cadres are playing their part in the battle against the pandemic, and setting an example for other such people. "These little things are giving us hope that not all is lost and goodness remains," the official said. The masks prepared by them are being distributed by police free of cost among local people, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-surrendered-naxals-join-coronavirus-war-make-masks-for-cops-824770.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Prakash Javadekar, other ministers return to work at ministries||Several Union ministers and senior officers returned to their offices here on Monday. Most of the ministers and officials have been following the government's work-from-home protocols issued in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Minister of State for Youth Affairs Kiren Rijiju, Culture and Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel were some of the early office-goers on Monday, along with other senior officials. Besides the ministers, all officers of the joint-secretary level and above have been asked to be present in the ministries along with one-third of the essential staff from Monday, sources had said. "Government has desired that all officers who are entitled to official transport facility will come to the office from Monday i.e. officers of the level of SAG (joint secretary) or higher," a source had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-prakash-javadekar-other-ministers-return-to-work-at-ministries-824775.html
13-04-2020||National||Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address nation at 10 am on April 14||While the Prime Minister’s Office merely announced on Twitter that the Prime Minister will address the nation at 10 am on February 14, sources in the government indicated that the suggestions given by the Chief Ministers to him on Saturday will reflect in the Prime Ministers’ address. "Prime Minister @narendramodi will address the nation at 10 AM on 14th April 2020," the PMO tweeted. Ten of 11 Chief Ministers, many from Opposition-ruled states, who had attended the meeting on Saturday were in favour of extending the lockdown. This is the fourth time that the Prime Minister would be directly addressing common people through video conferencing. In the last address to the nation on March 29, PM Modi had hinted at a “long fight” against COVID-19 and compared coronavirus to a war between life and death. He told people that breaking the rules of lockdown is playing with life.  Giving the call for a 21-day lockdown that ends on Tuesday, Modi had said, “Considering the circumstances at present, this lockdown will last 21 days. The next 21 days are of critical importance for us. As per health experts, a period of at least 21 days is extremely critical to break the infection chain of coronavirus. If the situation is not handled in these 21 days, the country and your family could go back 21 years. If the situation is not handled in these 21 days, several families will get devastated forever. Hence, you must forget what going out means for the next 21 days. Stay inside your home, stay inside your home, and do just one thing- stay inside your home.” Modi, who had earlier given the slogan Jaan to Jahan Hai, has modified it to Jaan Bhi, Jahan Bhi, batting for both life and livelihood as the duration of 21-days lockdown neared its completion.  The Union Ministers as well senior-level officers have started attending their offices from Monday while the government has announced a number of relaxation for industries to start the production work. The government has also introduced a new strategy of containment by identifying hotspots of COVID-19 affected regions in every district and sealing them off instead of sealing entire districts. Six states have on their own announced extension of lockdown till April 30 and May 1. On Saturday, the Prime Minister said the next three to four weeks are critical to determine the impact of steps taken till now to curb the spread of the virus and indicated that the lockdown could be increased even further if the situations warrant and said that “saving lives is the priority”. The Health Ministry also expressed a view that the lockdown is needed for three more weeks (till May 1) to flatten the curve.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prime-minister-narendra-modi-to-address-nation-at-10-am-on-april-14-824779.html
13-04-2020||National||Farmers will not face any hardship in selling wheat due to coronavirus lockdown, says Uttar Pradesh govt||The state government looks to buy 55 lakh metric tonnes of wheat at a rate of Rs 1,925 per quintal (100 kg) at 5,500 purchase centres, a release issued by the state government stated. "Online tokens have been introduced to ensure that there is no crowding in the mandis in the state. Farmers willing to sell wheat have to contact the purchase centre in-charge and give their farmer registration number. The centre in-charge will then generate an online token in a week's time, and the same will be sent to the farmer through SMS," Principal Secretary Agriculture, Agriculture Marketing and Agriculture Foreign Business, Devesh Chaturvedi said. Chaturvedi also said that if farmers who are not registered arrive at the purchase centre along with the Aadhaar card, they can be registered by the centre in-charge on producing photo I-card, bank passbook and khatauni (land) papers. "Harvesting of wheat is taking place in the state. The government has made all preparations for wheat harvesting. Farmers do not need to worry as far as the purchase of wheat is concerned," UP Agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi said. Instructions have been issued to all the centre in-charges to ensure that social distancing is strictly adhered to at the purchase centres along with use of masks. Along with this, arrangement of sanitisers, soaps and water should also be made at the purchase centres. Farmers too have been directed to cover their faces by masks or gamchaa while they come to the purchase centres, Chaturvedi said in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-will-not-face-any-hardship-in-selling-wheat-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown-says-uttar-pradesh-govt-824789.html
13-04-2020||National||PM should be bold in declaring post-coronavirus economic package of 5-6% of GDP: Congress||The Opposition party demanded that the Centre cleared all pending dues to the states to enable them to fight with the novel coronavirus pandemic, besides also giving each of them special economic packages. At a press conference via video, party spokesperson Anand Sharma said the government must also allow industry contributions under the corporate social responsibility to the chief minister relief funds in various states along the same lines as that granted to the PM-CARES Fund.  He added that not doing so would amount of discrimination and unfairness towards states. "These are extraordinary times and it required extra-rdinary actions. That is why the prime minister should be bold and declare an economic package to help revive various secctors of the economy post lockdown," Sharma said. "We expect that the economic package should be at least five-six per cent of India's GDP," he said. The Congress leader added that many countries like the UK, France and Germany had declared economic packages that were 15 per cent of their GDP, and the USA had it at 10 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-should-be-bold-in-declaring-post-coronavirus-economic-package-of-5-6-of-gdp-congress-824790.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus pandemic hits Hindu priests hard in Bengal, over 2 lakh lose jobs||Over two lakh Hindu priests in West Bengal have become jobless as various social functions, rituals and religious festivities have either been cancelled or postponed to prevent public gatherings in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, a pandits' organisation spokesperson said on Monday. They are in distress with no earnings as rituals usually organised at home have been cancelled while weddings and other social programmes postponed, he said, adding that several devotees are not visiting temples during the ongoing lockdown. "If there are no pujas and other religious functions in the next few months to prevent gatherings, how the priests will survive," the spokesman of the Paschim Bango Sanatan Brahman Trust, an organisation of Hindu priests in the state, said. The coronavirus-triggered lockdown has left over two lakh priests across districts jobless, the spokesman said. The organisation has planned to write a letter to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to seek help from the government, he said. Many priests don't have any other steady income and their families solely depend on their earnings from rituals like pujas, and weddings, he said.     Anindyo Mitra, father of a software engineer Prithviraj Mitra, said his son's wedding reception was scheduled to be held in mid May, which has been cancelled for the time being. "Our family priest requested us to go ahead with the scheduled ceremony on a smaller scale. But we have cancelled it for the time being. We are hopeful about organising the reception by November this year. "Our family priest has lost many other contracts in this season," Mitra said.  Sharing his experience during the lockdown, Prashanta Chakraborty, a priest in Agarpara area of North 24 Parganas, said three household 'Annapurna' pujas in Sodepur and Belgharia localities, had been cancelled at the last moment in March-end, and that was the beginning. Many shopkeepers, traders and businessmen, who usually observe the "haal khata" ceremony -- opening of new books of accounts on the occasion of 'Bangla Nabobarsho', new Bengali year,-- are also cancelling their programmes to avoid gatherings, he said. This year, 'Bangla Nabobarsho', is scheduled on Tuesday. "I used to earn around Rs 4,000 in total on 'Poila Boisakh' (the first day of the first month of a Bengali year). I would have earned around Rs 2,000-2,200 from 'Annapurna' pujas... Hopefully, things will not be that bad during Durga Puja and Kali Puja to be held later this year. "If the situation during that time remains as it is today, we will die," Chakraborty, who has a 10-year-old daughter and wife, said. Upen Mukherjee, an elderly priest in Tollygunje area of the city, said he joined the profession seven years ago after his retirement. The last function that he had managed was a 'griho probesh' (puja to mark entering a new house) on February 24, Mukherjee said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-pandemic-hits-hindu-priests-hard-in-bengal-over-2-lakh-lose-jobs-824792.html
13-04-2020||National||Governor can order floor test in running Assembly: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday held that the Governor is not denuded of the power to order a floor test in a running Assembly when it is required to ascertain if the government enjoyed the majority in House. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Hemant Gupta held that it would not be correct to say that the constitutional authority entrusted to the Governor to require the Council of Ministers to prove their majority on the floor of the House can only be exercised at the very inception after general elections. "The power under Article 174 of the Constitution to summon the House and to prorogue it is one which is exercised by the Governor on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. But in a situation where the Governor has reasons to believe that the Council of Ministers headed by the Chief Minister has lost the confidence of the House, constitutional propriety requires that the issue be resolved by calling for a floor test," the bench said. The court, however, said the Governor must exercise this "exceptional" power with "caution" and "objective material". "The Governor is an appointee of the President but does not represent either a political ideology or a political view. The Governor is expected to discharge the role of a constitutional statesman. The authority of the Governor is not one to be exercised in aid of a political dispensation which considers an elected government of the day to be a political opponent," the bench said. The top court delivered its detailed 68-page judgement on the Madhya Pradesh political saga, triggered by resignations of 22 Congress MLAs, owing allegiance to senior leader Jyotiraditya Scindia. On March 19, it had ordered the floor test, leading to resignation of Chief Minister Kamal Nath and swearing-in of rival BJP leader Shivraj Singh Chouhan. It upheld MP Governor Lalji Tandon's order to conduct floor test on March 16, saying there existed no extraordinary circumstances for him to determine that a trust vote was not the appropriate course of action. Relying upon the previous decisions by nine-judge bench decision in S R Bommai case (1994) and five-judge bench in Nabam Rebia case (2015), the court said when the Governor had objective reasons to believe that the incumbent government does not command the confidence of the house, his call for a floor test cannot be construed beyond the bounds of constitutional authority. The court rejected a contention by senior advocates A M Singhvi, appearing for the then Assembly Speaker and Kapil Sibal for Kamal Nath that the Governor can order floor test at the initiation of the Assembly. However, the court said the if the exercise of the discretion by the Governor to call a floor test was challenged before the court, it would not be immune from judicial review. Dwelling further into the Governor's power, the court said it must be noted that he does not decide whether the incumbent government commands the confidence of the house.  "It is necessary that the Governor bears in mind that the purpose underlying the entrustment of the authority to require a trust vote is not to displace duly elected governments but to intervene with caution when the circumstances...indicate a loss of majority. This power is granted to the Governor to ensure that the principle of collective responsibility is maintained at all times and must be exercised with caution," the bench said.  The decision of the Governor to do so is not immune from judicial review and must, therefore, withstand the ability to be scrutinised on the touchstone of the circumstances being relevant, germane and not extraneous to the exercise of an exceptional power, vested in the Governor, the bench added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/governor-can-order-floor-test-in-running-assembly-supreme-court-824796.html
13-04-2020||National||Law has to evolve to deal with burgeoning evils of breakdown in political parties: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said the law may have to evolve to address the "burgeoning evils" of breakdown in the composition and allegiances of the political party due to private allurements as opposed to public policy considerations. "The spectacle of rival political parties whisking away their political flock to safe destinations does little credit to the state of our democratic politics. It is an unfortunate reflection on the confidence which political parties hold in their own constituents and a reflection of what happens in the real world of politics," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Hemant Gupta said. In Madhya Pradesh, 22 Congress MLAs had resigned last month, causing fall of the Kamal Nath government. These MLAs were taken to Bengaluru where they remained holed up until Kamal Nath resigned. In a detailed judgement, on a plea by Shivaraj Singh Chouhan for floor test in Madhya Pradesh Assembly, the bench pointed out political bargaining, or horse-trading, was an oft-repeated usage in legal precedents.  "Poaching is an expression which was bandied about on both sides of the debate in the present case. It is best that courts maintain an arm‘s length from the sordid tales of political life," the bench said. In defining constitutional principle, this court must be conscious of the position on the ground and an effort has to be made to the extent possible to ensure that democratic values prevail, the bench added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/law-has-to-evolve-to-deal-with-burgeoning-evils-of-breakdown-in-political-parties-sc-824802.html
13-04-2020||National||Provide ration to all for six months: Right to Food Campaign to Centre||Amid indications that the COVID-19 lockdown will be extended by two weeks, the Right to Food Campaign (RFC) on Monday urged the government to provide ration to all people irrespective of whether they have a ration card or not for next six months, saying there are reports of widespread hunger from urban and rural areas. In a letter to Union Consumer Affairs Minister Ramvilas Paswan, the RFC also demanded the government to ensure cooked food and running of community kitchens/feeding centres in urban areas to address the needs of migrant, unorganised sector workers, and the homeless and destitute populations besides providing dry rations to all intra-state and inter-state migrant workers who are struggling to get proper food ration kits. Emphasising that the lockdown has resulted in the loss of livelihoods to millions of poor and working people across the country, the letter said there were reports of widespread hunger from urban and rural areas and starvation deaths in Bihar, Hyderabad, Jharkhand, Karnataka, and Uttar Pradesh. Warning that food inflation and spiralling prices of even essential items are with us to stay despite administrative measures, it said supply chains were broken and access to markets has become more difficult. The letter highlighted that a very large section of those who do not have ration cards include the most vulnerable sections of society, such as migrants, homeless people, old persons and denotified tribes among others. It also claimed thousands of people who have been trying to get a ration card have been told that the "quotas" for the states have been are exhausted," it added. "We urge you to make the PDS entitlements for six months at least universal in coverage in the sense that no person who approaches a ration shop for free grains should be denied the same for lack of ration cards. Universal schemes tend to have lower leakages and minimal exclusions," the letter, endorsed by 454 organisations and individuals, said.   Claiming that the relief measures announced by the Centre under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) are "hugely inadequate", the letter said the National Food Security Act (NFSA) covers only 67% or 83 crore of the population as per 2011 Census, who has access to free access to ration cards. This number would have increased in the last nine years. "It has to be further kept in mind that 81.7% of people in the country earn less than 18,000 per month (68% earn less than Rs. 12,000 per month), which is even less than the minimum wage recommended by 7th Pay Commission. In the current context of increased unemployment post the lockdown the situation would be worse," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/provide-ration-to-all-for-six-months-right-to-food-campaign-to-centre-824803.html
13-04-2020||National||Doctors and helplines flood with coronavirus queries: relevant, serious and sometimes foolish||From “I have flu-like symptoms. Do I have coronavirus?” to “Can we contract COVID-19 from ‘Made in China’ products?”, doctors are flooded with anxious queries that cover the serious-to-downright-silly spectrum. With physical checks out of the reckoning, except in emergencies and that too in hospitals, the telephone has replaced the stethoscope and doctors are busy attending to calls by panic-stricken patients trying to come to grips with the coronavirus pandemic sweeping the globe. The usual queue at clinics and hospitals might have disappeared, but doctors are as busy as ever and helplines – on television, hospitals and social media – are buzzing. The questions are many and bewildering in range, doctors said. The most commonly asked questions relate to symptoms and prevention -- "Will summer kill the coronavirus?", "Should outside food and non-veg food be avoided?", "Does smoking affect chances of recovery?", "Are face masks useful?", "Are hand sanitisers better than soap?", “Are elders in my family more susceptible?” And then the panic gives way to naivety with questions that leave doctors struggling for answers -- "Can one contract the infection through mail coming from China?", "Will sipping hot water kill the virus?", "Are Indians more immune to coronavirus than others?", “Is the risk higher in homes with tiles?”, “Are those with beards and moustaches more prone to the disease?”, “Does sunbathing kill the virus?”     Vishal Sehgal, director at Goa-based Portea Medical, said their WhatsApp chatbot service, launched on March 3, has received over 15 lakh queries from over 16 countries. Besides, they get over 100 COVID-19 related calls on their helpline everyday. “There is a lot of anxiety and doubts among people about COVID-19. They are mostly about what this virus is, how it works and what safety measures need to be taken. There are also a lot of queries on what one can do if they develop the symptoms. “But sometimes the questions are simply absurd like, ‘Is it true that drinking beer can help with coronavirus’,” Sehgal told PTI. As the number of cases rise, so do the levels of “foolishness”, said some doctors. But, as the disease claims more lives everyday, patience is the key. Globally, COVID-19 has infected more than 1.8 million people and claimed 114,000 lives. In India, the death toll rose to 308 on Monday while the number of cases climbed to 9,152, according to the Union Health Ministry. Hemant Kalra, a pulmonologist with lybrate.com (an online platform that connects patients with medical professionals), said it is natural for people to start panicking when they consume such vast amounts of information from various sources. While media reports and health advisories might be reliable, there are also random WhatsApp forwards to contend with. “My advice to people is not to fall prey to fake WhatsApp forwards and rely only on information coming from genuine sources,” said Vivek Nangia, director and head of department, pulmonology, at Fortis Hospital.  Kalra added it is important to attend to these queries with a “balanced approach”. “Patients call us to understand whether they are at risk of contracting the disease and our strategy is to not create panic. We ensure that we handle the queries with a lot of compassion and patience, because everyone is scared for themselves and their families,” Kalra said. Rajesh Kumar, a doctor of Internal medicine at Gurgaon’s Paras hospital, agreed. “I try to hear them out without interrupting. One needs to be more receptive. And, then whatever I share with the patient about coronavirus, I ask him/her to share it with his/her friends and relatives." Ghaziabad’s Columbia Asia hospital has been receiving about 10 calls an hour. Gyan Bharti, a pulmonologist at the hospital, listed some of the frequently asked questions -- “Are antibiotics effective in preventing or treating COVID-19?”, “Are there any medicines or therapies that can prevent or cure?”, “Is there a vaccine drug or treatment?”, “Should I take hydroxychloroquine empirically”. The hospital has started filtering the calls. Initially, the medical staff attended to all the queries but some are now being answered by the customer care desk tasked with responding to “irrelevant” questions, Bharti said. “Does drinking alcohol kill the virus?”, “Should we live in a closed room with higher temperature?”, “Is tea a cure of coronavirus?” are some of the posers. Questions on mental wellbeing in the aftermath of the coronavirus outbreak and subsequent lockdown are also pouring in. Living in isolation or being locked up with the same set of people 24x7 is also taking its toll on many, specifically parents who want to know how to keep their children engaged. Many are anxious about what they should and should not tell their children regarding the current atmosphere, said Samir Parikh, director, Department of Mental Health and Behavioral Sciences, Fortis Healthcare. “Interestingly, the same patients who would earlier complain about not getting enough time with family and poor work-life balance are now stressed about being house-bound with their family, or facing trouble dealing with their children 24*7,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-and-helplines-flood-with-coronavirus-queries-relevant-serious-and-sometimes-foolish-824804.html
13-04-2020||National||Visa, e-visa of stranded foreigners due to COVID-19 extended till April 30||In a statement, the ministry said all those foreigners whose regular visa, e-visa or stay stipulation expired or would be expiring during February 1 (midnight) to April 30 (midnight), would be "extended till April 30 (midnight) on gratis basis, after making an online application by the foreigners". The foreign nationals are stranded in the country due to the 21-day lockdown announced on March 24 to curb the spread of the disease. In order to remove any kind of confusion, the home ministry had on March 28 granted consular services on gratis basis to the foreign nationals, presently staying in India due to travel restrictions in the context of COVID-19 outbreak, till April 30. Earlier, the government had extended the regular and e-visa of those foreigners who are currently in India and unable to leave the country due to the outbreak of coronavirus, till April 15. The decision to extend the visa exemption till April 30 was apparently taken in view of the near certain extension of the onging lockdown till April 30. It is also an indication that international flights, cancelled since March 25, will not resume before April 30. Thousands of foreign nationals are stuck in the country since the imposition of the travel restrictions, and are unable to exit the country during the validity of their visa. The ministry has also provided essential consular services through the office of Foreigners Regional Registration Officers and Foreigners Registration Officers to foreign nationals, presently in India. Exit of such foreign nationals, if so requested by them during this period, will be granted without levy of overstay penalty, the ministry had said earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/visa-e-visa-of-stranded-foreigners-due-to-covid-19-extended-till-april-30-824811.html
13-04-2020||National||COVID-19: BJP claims 'full marks' for govt response, University of Oxford slams claim||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had on April 10 tweeted an infographic by the Blavatnik School of Government at the University of Oxford on how governments around the world have responded to the novel coronavirus crisis. The BJP claimed that India had scored the top marks when it came to implementing composite measures to combat the pandemic. The tweet further added that the highest score of any government response underlines the "Modi government’s proactiveness, seriousness and swiftness in implementing effective lockdown". India scores 💯/💯 on Government Response Stringency Index developed by University of Oxford researchers, for taking composite measures to combat COVID-19. The Blavatnik School of Government replied to the tweet today, saying that score was for the number of and strictness of government policies as a response to the pandemic and the stringency index should not be interpreted as a measure for "appropriateness or effectiveness of a country’s response". The tweet added that there are no marks for appropriateness of action. Thanks for your interest in our tracker, which simply records the number and strictness of government policies. The related stringency index should not be interpreted as measuring the appropriateness or effectiveness of a country’s response - there are no 'marks' as such.  The Blavatnik School of Government at the University of Oxford brought out the COVID-19 Government Response Tracker on March 25, 2020. The Government Response Tracker measures government responses around the world and assigns a score in a common stringency index. The index gives a method to quantify and explore how various governments around the world have responded to the pandemic.  The information from the stringency index is meant for researchers to study whether stricter measures affect the infection rate in a nation and why governments respond with the strictness they do. The data for the tracker is collected from publicly available information by Oxford academics and students from around the world. The data collected to make the stringency index in the Government Response Tracker includes 11 parameters such as school closures, public transport closures, international travel closures, investment in vaccines and fiscal and monetary measures among others. The index cannot tell the full story, said Thomas Hales, associate professor at the University of Oxford and lead of the Government Response Tracker project. Hales said that he believes that the data they have collated may help public health professionals and researchers study the robustness of responses by various governments around the world. He added that he hopes this data and the tracker would help people understand what measures have been effective and why.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-bjp-claims-full-marks-for-govt-response-university-of-oxford-slams-claim-824820.html
13-04-2020||National||Invoking Ambedkar, President Ram Nath Kovind asks people to contribute towards strong, prosperous India||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday asked people to imbibe the teachings of Dr B R Ambedkar, the architect of the country's Constitution, and contribute towards creating a strong and prosperous India, according to an official communique. Extending greetings to the citizens on the eve of the birth anniversary of Ambedkar, the President asked people to celebrate the Ambedkar Jayanti while maintaining 'Social Distancing' and staying at their home in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a social reformer, educationist, jurist, economist, politician and legal expert, Ambedkar strived constantly for the benefit of the country and society, the President said. Ambedkar envisaged a society where social harmony and equality should prevail, Kovind said in a message. "For this purpose, he dedicated his entire life towards society and the Nation." Ambedkar has gifted India with such a progressive and inclusive Constitution which has been deepening and strengthening the belief of fellow citizens in the country’s democracy for the past several decades, he said. "On the occasion of Ambedkar Jayanti, let us take inspiration from Dr Ambedkar's great stature, struggle and values, take a pledge to imbibe his teachings and ideals into our lives and contribute towards creating a strong and prosperous India," the president said. PTI AKV SKL SKL TIR TIR||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/invoking-ambedkar-president-ram-nath-kovind-asks-people-to-contribute-towards-strong-prosperous-india-824825.html
13-04-2020||National||Doctors and helplines flooded with coronavirus queries; relevant, serious and sometimes foolish||From “I have flu-like symptoms. Do I have coronavirus?” to “Can we contract COVID-19 from ‘Made in China’ products?”, doctors are flooded with anxious queries that cover the serious-to-downright-silly spectrum. With physical checks out of the reckoning, except in emergencies and that too in hospitals, the telephone has replaced the stethoscope and doctors are busy attending to calls by panic-stricken patients trying to come to grips with the coronavirus pandemic sweeping the globe. The usual queue at clinics and hospitals might have disappeared, but doctors are as busy as ever and helplines – on television, hospitals and social media – are buzzing. The questions are many and bewildering in range, doctors said. The most commonly asked questions relate to symptoms and prevention -- "Will summer kill the coronavirus?", "Should outside food and non-veg food be avoided?", "Does smoking affect chances of recovery?", "Are face masks useful?", "Are hand sanitisers better than soap?", “Are elders in my family more susceptible?” And then the panic gives way to naivety with questions that leave doctors struggling for answers -- "Can one contract the infection through mail coming from China?", "Will sipping hot water kill the virus?", "Are Indians more immune to coronavirus than others?", “Is the risk higher in homes with tiles?”, “Are those with beards and moustaches more prone to the disease?”, “Does sunbathing kill the virus?” Vishal Sehgal, medical director at Bangalore-based Portea Medical, said their WhatsApp chatbot service, launched in the third week of March, has received over 15 lakh queries from over 16 countries. Besides, they get over 100 COVID-19 related calls on their helpline every day.  “There is a lot of anxiety and doubts among people about COVID-19. They are mostly about what this virus is, how it works and what safety measures need to be taken. There are also a lot of queries on what one can do if they develop the symptoms. “But sometimes the questions are simply absurd like, ‘Is it true that drinking beer can help with coronavirus’,” Sehgal told PTI. As the number of cases rise, so do the levels of “foolishness”, said some doctors. But, as the disease claims more lives everyday, patience is the key. Globally, COVID-19 has infected more than 1.8 million people and claimed 114,000 lives. In India, the death toll rose to 308 on Monday while the number of cases climbed to 9,152, according to the Union Health Ministry. Hemant Kalra, a pulmonologist with lybrate.com (an online platform that connects patients with medical professionals), said it is natural for people to start panicking when they consume such vast amounts of information from various sources. While media reports and health advisories might be reliable, there are also random WhatsApp forwards to contend with.  “My advice to people is not to fall prey to fake WhatsApp forwards and rely only on information coming from genuine sources,” said Vivek Nangia, director and head of department, pulmonology, at Fortis Hospital. Kalra added it is important to attend to these queries with a “balanced approach”. “Patients call us to understand whether they are at risk of contracting the disease and our strategy is to not create panic. We ensure that we handle the queries with a lot of compassion and patience, because everyone is scared for themselves and their families,” Kalra said. Rajesh Kumar, a doctor of Internal medicine at Gurgaon’s Paras hospital, agreed. “I try to hear them out without interrupting. One needs to be more receptive. And, then whatever I share with the patient about coronavirus, I ask him/her to share it with his/her friends and relatives." Ghaziabad’s Columbia Asia hospital has been receiving about 10 calls an hour. Gyan Bharti, a pulmonologist at the hospital, listed some of the frequently asked questions -- “Are antibiotics effective in preventing or treating COVID-19?”, “Are there any medicines or therapies that can prevent or cure?”, “Is there a vaccine drug or treatment?”, “Should I take hydroxychloroquine empirically”. The hospital has started filtering the calls. Initially, the medical staff attended to all the queries but some are now being answered by the customer care desk tasked with responding to “irrelevant” questions, Bharti said. “Does drinking alcohol kill the virus?”, “Should we live in a closed room with higher temperature?”, “Is tea a cure of coronavirus?” are some of the posers. Questions on mental wellbeing in the aftermath of the coronavirus outbreak and subsequent lockdown are also pouring in. Living in isolation or being locked up with the same set of people 24x7 is also taking its toll on many, specifically parents who want to know how to keep their children engaged. Many are anxious about what they should and should not tell their children regarding the current atmosphere, said Samir Parikh, director, Department of Mental Health and Behavioral Sciences, Fortis Healthcare. “Interestingly, the same patients who would earlier complain about not getting enough time with family and poor work-life balance are now stressed about being house-bound with their family, or facing trouble dealing with their children 24*7,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-and-helplines-flooded-with-coronavirus-queries-relevant-serious-and-sometimes-foolish-824829.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus shaped helmets & 'virus car' among ideas to create awareness of pandemic||From police donning coronavirus shaped helmets to a car museum owner designing a whacky 'virus car' and a folk singer bringing out a video on the need to wash one's hands, people in Telangana have come out with innovative ideas to create awareness about the pandemic. The keepers of the law took out a bike rally in the city recently with these scary looking helmets to grab the attention of two-wheeler riders and explain to them about the dangers of the virus and the need to take precautions. "It is an effort to promote awareness on the pandemic and the need to take precautions," a police official said. Some of their colleagues manning another road talked about the safety of washing hands frequently and how to go about it, a video of which has gone viral. K Sudhakar, owner of the well known SudhaCars Museum, which displays hand-made cars, has designed a coronavirus- shaped car. He has earlier made cars in public interest on various occasions and for various causes, one of which was a 'cage car' to spread the message not to cage birds, and the other, a 'helmet car' to promote road safety. "Similarly, I made the coronavirus car to create awareness about the virus and to encourage people to stay at home," Sudhakar told P T I. The single-seater six wheeled car has a 100 cc engine and can hit a speed of 40 kmph. It is made of fibreglass and took him 10 days to make it, he said. In another endeavour, Palle Narasimha of Telangana Praja Natya Mandali, a CPI-affiliated cultural outfit, has made a video, singing a Telugu song about hand washing and other precautions to be taken to prevent the spread of COVID- 19. The song, sung in colloquial lingo, has been watched by many on his social media accounts, besides being shared. "I felt it was my responsibility to make people aware in these troubled times. Thats why I made the song. I am happy it has been liked by many, he told PTI. Mega star Chiranjeevi and other Telugu film stars have done their part, taking to Twitter to urge people to stay at home to prevent the spread of of COVID-19. Chiranjeevi and other renowned actors Nagarjuna, Varun Tej and Sai Dharam Tej featured in a Coronavirus awareness music video, reportedly recorded from their individual homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-shaped-helmets-virus-car-among-ideas-to-create-awareness-of-pandemic-824835.html
13-04-2020||National||Delhi Police arrest man for beating vegetable seller after asking name||Police arrested a man on Monday for abusing and thrashing a young vegetable seller with a wooden stick in southeast Delhi after the poor man failed to show an identity card but told him his name, officials said. A video of the incident in Tajpur road area was widely shared on social media, following which the police received a message from its cyber cell. In the video, Praveen Babbar, a resident of Badarpur Extension, is seen asking the vegetable seller to show his identity card but he could not. The man then angrily asks him his name and address. When the vegetable seller identifies himself as Mohammad Saleem, the man abuses him and beats him.  He also threatens him to not come in the locality without an ID. When analysing the video, police said, they spotted a motorcycle bearing a Delhi registration. The police then contacted the vehicle owner, Sudhanshu,a resident of Molarband. "Sudhanshu told police that the incident took place at Tajpur road and identified the man who hit the vegetable seller as Praveen Babbar," said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) RP Meena. Babbar,who runs a tour and travel agency, told police that there were about 10 vegetable sellers in the area and he asked them to move from there as lockdown had been enforced but the young vegetable seller didn't move. Seeing this, Babbar got angry and beat the victim, Meena said. The vegetable seller told police that on April 10 at around 1.30 pm, when he was at Tajpur road, Babbar abused and beat him. "We have arrested Praveen Babbar. Such incidents shall not be tolerated at any cost and law will take its course against such persons," the DCP said. A case was registered against Babbar under IPC sections153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 355 (assault with intent to dishonour person), 298 (uttering words with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person) and 323 (voluntarily cashing hurt) at Badarpur police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-arrest-man-for-beating-vegetable-seller-after-asking-name-824839.html
13-04-2020||National||Won't gag media: SC on plea against reporting after Nizamuddin Markaz incident||"We can't gag the media," said the Supreme Court on Monday on a plea to stop "fake" news being disseminated by some TV channels after Nizamuddin Markaz incident related to Tablighi Jamat. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde told advocate Ejaz Maqbool, appearing for 'Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind', to make the Press Council of India as a party to its petition. The court agreed to consider the matter after two weeks. "We want to make solid long term measures about the news item. Once we take cognisance, people will understand. We won't pass any interim order," the bench said.  During the brief hearing, Maqbool contended because of the media reports, people were being attacked. He said names of coronavirus patients were being revealed. "If it is a question of defamation and killing, then your remedy is somewhere else. But if it is a question of reporting, then PCI has to be made a party," the bench said.  In its PIL, the organisation of Muslim scholars has questioned the use of terms like  'Corona Jihad' 'Corona Terrorism' 'Corona Bombs' and 'Islamic Insurrection' to demonise the entire Muslim community. Over thousands of members, including foreigners, participated in Tablighi Jamat in Nizamuddin in Delhi in March. Hundreds of them were subsequently found to be infected with the coronavirus.  After the incident, several news reports were shown with "communal headlines and bigoted statements" by presenting the information in a "twisted and incendiary manner". The petitioner alleged that certain sections of media have exacerbated tension in society by showing "virulent and vitriolic statements" inciting hatred against the entire Muslim community.   It also contended social media was also replete with similar misinformation and fake news aimed at giving the incident a communal tone and proliferating conspiracy theories about Tablighi Jamat deliberately spreading Coronavirus across the country. The petitioner asked the court to issue directions to the Centre to identify and take strict action against the section of media for communalising Nizamuddin Markaz issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wont-gag-media-sc-on-plea-against-reporting-after-nizamuddin-markaz-incident-824855.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Steel Ministry directs PSUs to feed migrant workers near their facilities||Union Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan has directed steel PSUs to adopt the 'Annadaan initiative' for feeding migrant workers and weaker sections of the society in and around their areas of operation. A ministry official said Pradhan is holding meetings with senior ministry officials and chiefs of the PSUs on a daily basis through video conference to take stock of the situation. "Steel CPSEs have been advised (by the minister) to adopt 'Annadaan' initiative in and around their areas of operation for feeding migrant workers and weaker sections of the society.  They (PSUs) have also taken initiatives for it," the official said. Pradhan has also asked the PSUs to publicise benefits of using Aarogya Setu App through social networking modes such as WhatsApp messages, e-mails, SMS, Twitter and other social media handles, in their plant, mines, offices and townships. Further, steel PSUs have been directed to adhere to the norms for social distancing in their workplace, townships, mines, etc and report about compliance to the ministry on a daily basis. Steel CPSEs have been advised to keep their hospitals, quarantine facilities, etc. for patients and suspected cases of COVID-19, in full preparedness, the official said, adding that "a daily compliance report on government instructions and overall preparedness of such facilities is being obtained." There are seven PSUs under the Ministry of Steel. While Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) and Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd (RINL) produce steel, NMDC and MOIL are miners and KIOCL is a pellet maker. Besides, MSTC is an e-commerce firm under the Ministry and Mecon is a consultancy firm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-steel-ministry-directs-psus-to-feed-migrant-workers-near-their-facilities-824856.html
13-04-2020||National||82 new coronavirus cases in Maharashtra; state tally goes up to 2,064||At least 82 people tested positive for coronavirus in Maharashtra on Monday, taking the state tally to 2,064, a state health official said. Among the new cases, 59 were reported from Mumbai city and 12 from Malegaon tehsil in Nashik district. Besides, five cases were reported from Thane, three from Pune, twofrom Palghar, and one Vasai-Virar (township in Palghar district), the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/82-new-coronavirus-cases-in-maharashtra-state-tally-goes-up-to-2064-824861.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Railways offers to run special trains to move labourers||Amid talk of a possible extension of the lockdown with some relaxation from April 14 onwards, the Railways is asking the states whether to run a limited number of special trains to smoothen the movement of labourers. The Railways top brass asked the Zonal Railways to take the view from the states on this issue. If the states wanted, Railways can help them run a limited number of special trains without stoppages for the movement of labourers from one place to another, within the state or district. The Railways is ready to run limited occupancy trains maintaining social distance to transport labourers from one place to another, a Railway official said. With a large number of migrant workers returning to their villages and the harvesting of Rabi crop starting in some places, several states were facing a shortage of labourers. Even several industrial houses are also facing a  labour crunch. Though the Centre is planning to allow some factories to function with limited employees, they also face a severe shortage of labourers. Even several wholesale market or mandis also highlighted the scarcity of workers for loading and unloading. Sources also said that if factories wanted to resume operations, they have to ensure bringing employees in buses from their home while strictly observing social distancing. Even some of the essential commodities producing companies are facing a severe shortage of labourers, the Railways is ready to help the states if they wanted, said the official. On resuming of the fullfleged service, it hasn't been decided yet as many states have opposed it, to prevent the movement of a huge number of people. However within the particular region, state or district, services can be offered, said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-railways-offers-to-run-special-trains-to-move-labourers-824875.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Supreme Court rejects plea against PM CARES Fund  ||A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde described the PIL filed by lawyer M L Sharma as "misconceived" and dismissed it in a hearing conducted through video conferencing. The bench, which also comprised justices L Nageswara Rao and M M Shantanagoudar, did not agree to the contention of the lawyer that the fund has been created without following the schemes enumerated under Articles 266 and 267 (which deal with the contingency and the Consolidated Funds of India) of the Constitution.  On March 28, the Centre set up the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund with the primary objective to deal with any kind of emergency situation like the one currently posed by the COVID-19 outbreak and provide relief to those affected. The prime minister is the ex-officio chairman of the fund and the defence, home and finance ministers are its ex-officio trustees. "That cause of action arose to the petitioner on March 28, upon having press release for the formation of impugned PM CARES Fund and appeal by the Prime Minister of India to donate funds in that trust to fight COVID-19 and aid healthcare in future without any ordinance and gazette notification by the government of India," the PIL has said. The plea had made all the trustees of the fund as well as the prime minister parties to it and had sought a transfer of the donations received so far in the fund to the Consolidated Fund of India, besides a court-monitored Special Investigation Team (SIT) probe into the setting up of the fund. It said the trust had to be created in accordance with Articles 267 and 266(2), which deal with the contingency and the Consolidated Funds of India, of the Constitution. "Impugned trust has not either been created by Parliament/state legislator within Article 267. It is neither passed by Parliament nor approved by the President of India. There is no ordinance/gazette notification in this regard," the PIL has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-supreme-court-rejects-plea-against-pm-cares-fund-824879.html
13-04-2020||National||Police officer tests positive for coronavirus in Ludhiana||An assistant commissioner of police tested positive for novel coronavirus in Ludhiana in Punjab, a health official said on Monday. Ludhiana Civil Surgeon Rajesh Bagga said the test reports of the officer, confirming him to be positive for the virus, came on Sunday night. The ACP (North) was admitted to a local hospital, Bagga said, adding that the health teams were identifying his contacts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-officer-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-in-ludhiana-824884.html
13-04-2020||National||Demand for child porn has risen during lockdown: Study||The Indian Child Protection Fund (ICPF) on Monday said the demand for child pornographic material (also referred to as Child Sexual Abuse Material) has been rising during the lockdown period. The ICPF reported that since the lockdown, online data monitoring websites are showing an increase in demand for searches like child porn, sexy child and teen sex videos. Data from Pornhub, the world's largest pornography website in the world, also reveals that traffic from India has increased by 95 per cent between March 24 and March 26, as compared to their average traffic, pre-Coronavirus outbreak, ICPF said in a statement.  ICPF has warned that this indicates that millions of paedophiles, child rapists and child pornography addicts have migrated online, making the internet extremely unsafe for children, and said without stringent action, this could result in a drastic rise in sexual crimes against children. ICPF has released a report titled 'Child Sexual Abuse Material in India', research of child pornography demand in 100 cities in India like New Delhi, Chennai, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bhubaneswar and Indore. The overall demand for child pornography was an average of five million per month in 100 cities on the public web during December 2019, which has now spiked, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/demand-for-child-porn-has-risen-during-lockdown-study-824886.html
13-04-2020||National||President Ram Nath Kovind greets people on harvest festivals, lauds contribution of farmers during coronavirus lockdown||Farmers should always be at the centre of our gratitude as they bring us food security and prosperity through their tireless efforts, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Monday. Extending good wishes on the occasion of Vaisakhi, Vishu, Rongali Bihu, Naba Barsha, Vaisakhadi, Puthandu and Pirappu, Kovind said these festivals are a symbol of unity inherent in the cultural diversity of India and also an occasion to celebrate farmers. "Our farmers should always be at the centre of our gratitude as they not only produce food grains for us but also bring us food security and prosperity through their tireless efforts," the president said. ପବିତ୍ର ଓଡ଼ିଆ ନବବର୍ଷ , ମହା ବିଷୁବ ସଂକ୍ରାନ୍ତି (ପଣା ସଂକ୍ରାନ୍ତି)ଏବଂ ହନୁମାନ ଜୟନ୍ତୀ ଉପଲକ୍ଷେ ସମସ୍ତ ଓଡ଼ିଶାବାସୀ ତଥା ବିଶ୍ବର କୋଣ ଅନୁକୋଣରେ ରହୁଥିବା ଓଡ଼ିଆ ଭାଇ ଓ ଭଉଣୀମାନଙ୍କୁ ହାର୍ଦ୍ଦିକ ଶୁଭେଚ୍ଛା ଓ ଶୁଭକାମନା । ଏହି ବର୍ଷଟି ସମସ୍ତଙ୍କ ପାଇଁ ସୁଖଶାନ୍ତି ଓ ସମୃଦ୍ଧିର ବର୍ଷ ହେଉ। Kovind also asked people to reiterate their collective resolve to defeat coronavirus while following social distancing norms. "We are currently in the midst of an unprecedented challenge posed by COVID-19. Let us, this year, observe these festivals and reiterate our combined and collective resolve to defeat coronavirus while following social distancing norms and due caution," the president was quoted as saying in a statement issued by Rashtrapati Bhavan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-greets-people-on-harvest-festivals-lauds-contribution-of-farmers-during-coronavirus-lockdown-824889.html
13-04-2020||National||Come clean on 12-hour working hours proposal: Trade Unions to Labour Minister||Accusing the Centre of attempting to "misuse the environment emerging due to Covid-19" to push anti-worker regulations, ten central trade unions on Monday asked Union Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar to come clear on the reported plans to increase the working hours from eight hours to 12 hours. In a letter, top leaders of INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC have also asked the Minister to spell out the stand on reports of diverting funds of the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) and Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) for government expenditure. Recent reports have suggested that the government is planning to introduce 12-hour work instead of eight-hour work, saying "exceptional circumstances call for exceptional provisions".  "In fact, this move of the government is linked with the original project of codification aiming to end the internationally accepted eight-hour working norm and not just 'exceptional circumstances'. Rather, present Covid 19 situation is being sought to be utilised to put in place such anti‐worker measure...We are opposed to any move to misuse the environment emerging due to Covid Pandemic to push through anti-worker and pro‐employer changes in the Factories Act, the letter said. Finding fault with the argument that there is shortage of workers and this has led to the need for increasing working hours, the trade union leaders said it was "not the reality" when the country is facing "highest rate of unemployment". Citing the latest International Labour Organisation report which highlighted that 40 crore Indians would become poorer, the leaders said, "to talk of shortage of workers in this situation and to make those available to do more work through amendments to Factories Act, exposes your Government's total lack of concern to the plight of workers and the livelihood and survival needs of the families. It also displays your concern to ensure extra profits for the corporates at the cost of workers." They said the “exceptional circumstances” or even temporary shortage of availability can very well be taken care of within the framework of the Factories Act 1948 and it "does not require permanently ending" eight‐hour working day norm through "hasty" amendment. "Further it appears that the Government intends to shift the burden of Covid‐19  generated economic crises also on to the shoulders of working masses, who are already the worst victims of present calamity," the leaders said. The government has already been trying to bring in the above amendment through the Code on Occupational Health, Safety and Working Conditions Bill, which has been opposed by the entire trade union movement, they said. They also accused the government of not taking any action regarding complaints raised by the trade unions regarding retrenchments and non-payment of wages. "Large scale complaints of non-payment of wages and retrenchments from jobs are being brought to the notice of trade unions. These, in turn, have been already brought to your notice with all details. But corrective action has not been taken anywhere in the country," the letter added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/come-clean-on-12-hour-working-hours-proposal-trade-unions-to-labour-minister-824893.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: More than 32 cr poor get Rs 29,352 cr aid under Garib Kalyan Yojana||As part of the Rs 1.70 lakh crore relief package, the government announced free foodgrains and cash doles to women and poor senior citizens and farmers to mitigate the hardships faced due to the lockdown. A finance ministry statement on Monday said the swift implementation of the package is being continuously monitored by central and state governments. The finance ministry, other ministries concerned, Cabinet Secretariat and PMO are leaving no stone unturned to ensure that the relief measures reach the needy swiftly and in line with the intent of the lockdown, it said.  "Fintech and digital technology have been employed for swift and efficient transfer to the beneficiary. Direct benefit transfer, i.e. transfer that ensures that the amount is directly credited into the account of the beneficiary, eliminates leakage and improves efficiency has been employed. This has also ensured credit to the beneficiary’s account without the need for the beneficiary to physically go to the branch," it said. As of April 13, 2020, it said, 32.32 crore beneficiaries have been directly given cash support through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) amounting to Rs 29,352 crore under the package. "So far 20.11 lakh MT of food grains have been lifted  by 31 States/UTs out of 40 lakh MT for April. 2.65 lakh MT has been distributed by 16 States/UTs to 5.29 crore beneficiaries covered by 1.19 crore ration cards as April 2020 entitlement. 3985 MT of pulses have also been dispatched to various states/UTs," it said. With regard to free cooking gas cylinder, it said, total 1.39 crore cylinders have been booked under Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) so far and 97.8 lakh free refills have already been delivered to beneficiaries. Of the total disbursement, it said, Rs 14,946 crore has gone towards payment of the first instalment of PM-KISAN. Under the scheme, nearly 7.47 crore out of the 8 crore identified beneficiaries got Rs 2,000 directly in their accounts. As many as 19.86 crore women Jan Dhan account holders received Rs 500 each in their account. The total disbursement under the head was Rs 9,930 crore as on April 13, it said. The National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) disbursed about Rs 1,400 crore to about 2.82 crore old age persons, widow and differently-abled persons, the ministry added. Each beneficiary received an ex-gratia cash of Rs 500 under the scheme as the first instalment. Another instalment of Rs 500 each will be paid next month. As many as 2.17 crore building & construction workers received financial support from the Building and Construction Workers’ Fund managed by state governments. Under this, Rs 3,071 crore were given to beneficiaries. It further said free insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh for health workers in government hospitals and healthcare centres has been operationalised by New India Assurance covering 22.12 lakh health workers. Increased rate for workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) has been notified effective April 1, it said. "In the current financial year, 19.56 lakh person’s man-days of work generated. Further, Rs 7,100 crore released to states to liquidate pending dues of both wage and material," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-more-than-32-cr-poor-get-rs-29352-cr-aid-under-garib-kalyan-yojana-824895.html
13-04-2020||National||COVID-19 testing 'abysmally low' in Bihar; Nitish govt hoping 'fire will douse on its own': Tejashwi||He also accused the state government of showing neglect and apathy towards the migrant labourers from Bihar, many of whom walked back to their homes from other states in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. In an interview to PTI, Yadav said the overall attitude of the state government on the pandemic so far has been to hope that "the fire will douse on its own". Asked about the issue of Tablighi Jamaat members from Delhi posing a risk in Bihar, the Leader of Opposition in the Bihar Assembly said the virus does not discriminate on the premise of religion, region, caste, creed, sex. "If some individual or a group of people have violated the law, they should be punished regardless of their faith -- be it Tablighi Jamaat, Nizamuddin, or the stranded devotees at Majnu Ka Tila gurudwara in Delhi, BJP workers celebrating in Madhya Pradesh after the fall of the Congress government, worshipping devotees on Ram Navami, or the birthday celebrations of an MLA in Karnataka," he said. "The government should identify them and I also appeal to those attendees to come out and report to authorities," he said. Yadav attacked the Bihar government for not coming out with a plan to fight COVID-19 even after over a month and a half the pandemic broke out. "Testing has been abysmally low, medical infrastructure hasn’t been scaled up, medical supplies are draining out and their procurement very slow," he alleged. "You have seen how doctors and medical staff were making videos and getting them viral to get their demands fulfilled. Health infrastructure in Bihar is in shambles," the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader claimed. Food and rations are not reaching the needy, poor and vulnerable, Yadav said, urging the state government to reassess the gravity of the crisis and proactively deal with it. At least 64 COVID-19 cases have been reported in Bihar with one death till now, according to health ministry data. Slamming the state government for not coming to the rescue of hundreds of thousands of people from Bihar who walked down hundreds of miles to the state in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, Yadav alleged that the Nitish Kumar dispensation was nowhere to be seen when the migrant workers needed a helping hand. "It (state government) didn’t offer any sort of help to them in this humanitarian crisis. The apathy of Nitish ji towards these poor labourers is shocking," he said. Yadav alleged that there were no facilities at all in quarantine places like panchayat bhawans, schools or community centres at the village level. The former Bihar deputy chief minister also said that his party has raised the demand for a special financial package as Bihar's resources are limited and the state government had not done much to diversify and scale up infrastructure. ‪ COVID-19 crisis will cause unimaginable travails and could be an existential crisis for the poor and low income groups, he said. "Being one of the most populous states, lowest on all SDG indices of the NITI Aayog and now this crisis of the century, Bihar legitimately needs an inclusive financial and medical package. I sincerely hope and support that this double engine government persuades the central government to get it," he said. Yadav said the government should aggressively test more people and do contact tracing in the lockdown period so as to flatten the curve of the virus spread. He alleged that the Nitish Kumar government had not utilised the last 40-45 days properly and without wasting more time it should now proactively work on a comprehensive plan for at least six months focused on the health, social and economic aspects of the crisis. "We as a responsible opposition are ready to offer any assistance the government seeks from us. I am confident that a united Bihar will surely defeat COVID-19 and bounce back. Biharis will defeat this 'bimari'," he asserted. On the efforts to help those in distress, Yadav said his party has set up 10 helpline numbers to help the migrant workers. "My office and I received calls for help, we requested respective state governments, local political parties, personal contacts and coordinated with them to reach out to the stranded people," he said. "We provided dry ration, food packets and cash to several thousands people and we are still doing it," Yadav added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-testing-abysmally-low-in-bihar-nitish-govt-hoping-fire-will-douse-on-its-own-tejashwi-824897.html
13-04-2020||National||Union minister Prakash Javadekar reviews efforts made by I&B ministry to check fake news||Information and Broadcasting minister Prakash Javdekar on Monday reviewed efforts made by the ministry to check fake news. Javadekar along with Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Minister of State for Youth Affairs Kiren Rijiju, Culture and Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel were some of the early office-goers on Monday, along with other senior officials.  Most of the ministers and officials had been following the government's work-from-home protocols issued in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Javadekar held a meeting with senior officials at the ministry and reviewed the efforts by various wings of the ministry to check fake news, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-prakash-javadekar-reviews-efforts-made-by-ib-ministry-to-check-fake-news-824919.html
13-04-2020||National||SC modifies order for free COVID-19 test at private labs||The Supreme Court on Monday modified its April 8 order for free Covid-19 test at private labs, saying such a facility would be available only to the people covered under the 'Ayushman Bharat' or any other scheme. The court said private labs may continue to charge Rs 4,500 as fees fixed by the ICMR from those who are able to pay.  A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan agreed to contention by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta who submitted that those were capable of making the payment should be allowed to do so. The court, however, said the government may consider granting benefit of free test to other economically weaker sections, not covered under the scheme. It also ordered that private labs conducting the free test must be reimbursed. The court's order came as ICMR as well as a doctor, Kaushal Kant Mishra, urged it to modify the previous directions issued on a PIL by advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi. "The order of April 8 is intended to make testing in private Labs of Covid-19 free for economically weaker sections of the society who were unable to afford the payment of testing fee," the bench said.  "We further clarify that the order never intended to make testing free for those who can afford the payment," the bench added.  In his submission, Mehta said as, on date, 157 government labs and 67 private Labs were conducting Covid-19 test. In government hospitals and labs, it was already free of cost. He further said as on April 9, 87.28% of tests have been conducted at the government labs and remaining in private labs. The Indian Council for Medical Research said, in an affidavit, that the Prime Minister Jan Arogya Yojana, popularly known as Ayushman Bharat scheme, covered 10.74 crore families, meaning 50 crore people. A direction has been issued to provide Covid-19 test free of cost to them.  It also 12.72 % people who got tests conducted at private labs were not those who were compelled by the government to go over there. Some individuals may prefer to get tested at private laboratory rather than going to the government hospitals. The ICMR also pointed out Covid-19 test required a special kits having imported components. It further contended the April 8 order may work "to the detriment of the cause the country is fighting".  The government also said the number of 10,000 to 15,000 of tests conducted everyday could be raised to one lakh per day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-modifies-order-for-free-covid-19-test-at-private-labs-824920.html
13-04-2020||National||We're fighting coronavirus 24x7, says Home Ministry||Led by Union Home Minister Amit Shah from the front, the MHA has been tirelessly working and coordinating with states and union territories virtually on real-time basis to ensure eradication of problems arising out of the lockdown announced to combat novel coronavirus. While senior officers in other ministries joined their duties on Monday, it has been business as usual in the Ministry of Home Affairs during the lockdown, with it being the nerve centre for advising states about almost everything, including shipment of necessary equipment for fighting the virus. Officials said the MHA, which has set up a round-the clock control room to regularly monitor implementation of the 21-day lockdown, is one of the few ministries which has continued functioning amid the curbs announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24. Apart from ensuring law and order, the MHA has been tasked with ensuring regular supply of essential commodities across the country, monitoring of the situation arising out of large scale movement of migrant workers, ensuring their shelter, food and healthcare facilities. The MHA has been the nodal authority for facilitation, monitoring, follow up and taking corrective steps with regards to the lockdown, an official said. Shah and his two junior ministers -- G Kishan Reddy and Nityanand Rai - have been coming to office regularly and attending various meetings. Top officials, including Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, has been attending office daily -- even on holidays and weekly offs, sources said. He attended all video conference with chief secretaries convened by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba. Bhalla is also the chairperson of the National Executive Committee governing the Disaster Management Act, 2005, under which the lockdown measures are being implemented.  Infact, the working hours of the home secretary has become longer in last three weeks than normal days as he had to stay at his North Block office chairing meetings till late in the evening and for other works, the officials said. Under Bhalla's signature, six orders were issued on March 24, 25, 27, April 2, 3 and 10 giving exemptions for various categories of services and people from the purview of the lockdown. Over a dozen letters were also written by the home secretary to state chief secretaries keeping them abreast with various aspects of the lockdown, exemptions and their implementation at the ground level. To assist the home secretary, almost all six additional secretaries and 14 joint secretaries have been coming to office regularly. Joint Secretary (Internal Security) Punya Salila Srivastava is another key officer of the MHA who has been attending office without any break for the last three weeks. Srivastava also addresses the government's joint press conference along with her colleagues from the Ministry of Health and ICMR on a daily basis. To assist the senior officers, their staff, though not in full strength, is coming to office. Junior officials, who are not staff members of the senior officers or ministers, have started coming to office from Monday on rotational basis. Being a key ministry, works of the senior officers in the MHA have been more than normal during the lockdown period, another official said. The home minister has attended the chief ministers' video conference convened by the prime minister. Shah had also attended the Union Cabinet meetings held during last three weeks and personally spoke over phone to all paramilitary personnel who were tested COVID-19 positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/were-fighting-coronavirus-24x7-says-home-ministry-824943.html
13-04-2020||National||Sonia asks PM to ensure no one faces hunger; Seeks grains for NFSA beneficiaries, vulnerable people||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday asked the government to provide 10 kg grains per person to beneficiaries of National Food Security Act till September this year. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, she also demanded that 10 kg grains per person be provided free of cost for 6 months to those who may be facing food insecurity, but are not holding ration cards. These, she added, were primarily migrant labourers who did not have ration cards. She said lakhs of vulnerable people across the country face chronic food insecurity due to the lockdown. This is tragic given that India has large buffer stock of food grains precisely for exigencies like the current pandemic, she said.   "The current crisis has pushed many relatively food secure families into food insecurity and poverty," she wrote to the prime minister. "In our fight against the pandemic we must ensure that no one faces hunger," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-asks-pm-to-ensure-no-one-faces-hunger-seeks-grains-for-nfsa-beneficiaries-vulnerable-people-824948.html
13-04-2020||National||Use technology to ensure lockdown does not affect academic calendar: Naidu tells universities||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday asked universities and other educational institutions to harness the power of technology to ensure continuity of the academic calendar during the lockdown. Interacting with vice chancellors of Delhi, Hyderabad, Pondicherry, Punjab and Makhanlal Chaturvedi universities via video, the vice president observed that it might take some more time for normalcy to return. The vice president is the chancellor of the Delhi and Punjab universities. Naidu urged the institutions to reach out to students, promote collaborative learning and self-learning, an official statement said. He wanted them to optimally utilise technological tools for ensuring interactive learning for all students. Ensure continuity of the teaching and learning process during the lockdown by using technology, he said. Observing that the adversity caused by the coronavirus pandemic was forcing people to search for creative solutions, Naidu appreciated the universities for taking adequate steps to ensure that the teaching-learning process was not hindered.  Stating that online courses would supplement face-to-face learning, he said, “This might become the new normal after we tide over the current crisis.” The vice president also emphasised the need for universities and educational institutions to take measures to safeguard the health of students residing in hostels. The 21-day lockdown imposed since March 25 to check the spread of the virus ends on Tuesday amid indications that it could be extended by two weeks with certain relaxations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/use-technology-to-ensure-lockdown-does-not-affect-academic-calendar-naidu-tells-universities-824957.html
13-04-2020||National||25 district in 15 states have not reported new COVID-19 cases in last 14 days: Health Ministry||Addressing a press briefing here, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said 796 new COVID-19 cases and 35 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 9,152 and deaths to 308. "The implementation of the action plan has started yielding appreciable results in 25 districts across 15 states which reported cases earlier. These districts have no case reported since the last 14 days and constant vigil is being maintained to ensure that no new cases may occur in future," he said. The districts are Gondia (Maharashtra), Raj Nand Gaon (Chhattisgarh), Davangiri (Karnataka), South Goa, Wayanad and Kottayam (Kerala), West Imphal (Manipur), Rajouri (J&K), Aizwal West (Mizoram), Mahe in Puducherry, SBS Nagar in Punjab, Patna, Nalanda and Munger in Bihar, Pratapgarh in Rajasthan, Panipat, Rohtak and Sirsa in Haryana, Pauri Garhwal in Uttrakhand and Bhadradari Kothagudem in Telangana.  Commenting over a recently published study which stated that administration of antiviral drug Remdesivir may reduce risk of death in critically ill coronavirus patients, Head of Epidemiology and Communicable diseases at Indian COuncil of Medical Research, Raman R Gangakhedkar said the drug which was used against Ebola virus, may affect the reproduction of the virus.  "Recently reported study on use of Remdesivir for COVID-19 treatment is not a clinical trial, but an observational study according to which two out of three patients after treatment with the drug may not need ventilator support or their need for oxygen support may reduce. "We will come to know of further developments through the WHO Solidarity Trial, which has an arm looking into this," he said. He further said Remdesivir, developed by Gilead Sciences Inc, is not presently available in the country and the government is working to see if any pharmaceutical company can manufacture it. Responding to a report of the Center for Disease Control and Prevention which stated that coronavirus can spread through shoe soles, Gangakhedkar said more evidence and research is required to conclude that.  "We have to see the strength of the evidence...to say that it has been transmitted via shoe soles will need a solid evidence and I will not accept it based on one report," he said. He further informed that 2,06,212 tests for COVID-19 have been conducted so far, adding that 14,855 tests took place at 156 government labs and 1,913 tests were done at 69 private labs on Sunday. "There is no need to worry. We have enough stocks to conduct tests for upto six weeks," he said. Reacting to reports which said ICMR's nodal testing facility in Kolkata, West Bengal was not sending enough samples for COVID-19 testing, Agarwal said, "Our effort is to ensure that the guidelines and the do's and don'ts of the infectious disease management are followed. "The Home Secretary and the ministry of Health communicates regularly through video conferencing with states and we tell them our containment strategies and they are working in coordination."  Agarwal also said the Core Strategy Group on COVID-19 set up at CSIR labs was working on rapid and economical diagnostics as well as new drugs. "Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan reviewed the research efforts of COVID-19 by CSIR (Council of Scientific & Industrial Research) in the presence of DG, CSIR and 38 CSIR Lab Directors.    "The CSIR laboratories are working in close partnership with major private sector industries, PSUs, MSME working on digital and molecular surveillance, rapid and economical diagnostics, new drugs/repurposing of drugs and associated production processes and hospital assistive devices and PPEs among others," he said. Under State Rural Livelihood Missions (SRLMs) across 27 states, 1.96 crore masks have been produced by 78,373 self-help group members, Agarwal said, adding the National Cadet Corps (NCC) volunteer cadets are helping civil administration under 'Exercise NCC Yogdaan'.  As on April 10, under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package, more than 30 crore poor people have received financial assistance of Rs 28,256 crore to protect them from the impact of lockdown due to COVID-19, he said.  As many as 19.86 crore women account holders of Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana have received Rs 9,930 crore while under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN), 6.93 crore farmers have received Rs 13,855 crore. On instances of medical professionals contracting coronavirus infection, Agarwal said in majority of the cases, doctors who contracted the disease subsequently infected people associated with them during their regular infections, and were not on COVID-19 duty.  There have been miniscule percentage of doctors on duty testing COVID-19 positive, he said adding that the healthcare settings should implement infection prevention and control strategies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/25-district-in-15-states-have-not-reported-new-covid-19-cases-in-last-14-days-health-ministry-824962.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus death toll in Mumbai hits 100; case tally up to 1,549||With 150 new cases of COVID-19 found in Mumbai, their count crossed the 1,500-mark on Monday, while the death toll touched 100 in the financial capital, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said. According to a BMC release, 150 more people have tested positive for coronavirus in Mumbai in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 1,549. Nine more COVID-19 patients died in the city, raising their number to 100 so far, it said. The civic body said the total number of recovered patients shot up to 141 with 43 more persons discharged from hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-death-toll-in-mumbai-hits-100-case-tally-up-to-1549-824963.html
13-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Uttarakhand CM says situation under control in state but people need to be vigilant||With no new cases of COVID-19 reported in Uttarakhand over the past four days, Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday said the situation is under control in the state, but people need to be vigilant and take precaution for a long time to come. "There has been no new case over the past 100 hours. Meanwhile, seven patients have also been cured and discharged. The test reports of two-three other patients are also likely to come negative for a second time. It is an indication that the situation is within control," Rawat told reporters here. Four persons had tested positive for COVID-19 in the state on April 8, taking the total number of cases to 35 but no new case has emerged since then. However, the chief minister said the possibility of the situation turning worse in the future cannot be ruled out as sometimes even infected people do not have any symptoms. The symptoms sometimes manifest themselves even a month after a person gets infected, he said. Advising people to remain vigilant and cautious, he said they should not go out until very necessary and whenever they do, they should cover their face, nose and eyes with a piece of cloth if a mask is not available. "This simple precaution reduces the chance of getting an infection by 80 per cent," Rawat said. The chief minister also appealed to religious leaders and members of civil society to cooperate with the administration to fight the pandemic. "The devastating effects of coronavirus across the world are for everyone to see. In a situation like this, we need to be vigilant and take precautions for a long time to come," Rawat said. Talking about Banbhulpura in Haldwani where curfew was imposed on Monday, he said the situation there called for the harsh measure as thousands of people hit the streets to oppose efforts to quarantine the imam of a mosque. When queried about whether there will be a phased relaxation in the lockdown, Rawat said the Centre's exit plan will be out later this evening or by Tuesday morning and the state government's plan of action will be in accordance with that. The whole country will have to unitedly fight the pandemic, he said. He said the Doon Medical College, Ahuja Labs and Indian Institute of Petroleum have got the permission for COVID-19 testing and efforts are on to obtain permission for Shrinagar Medical College which will further ramp up testing facilities in the state. On the number of tourists stranded in Uttarakhand, Rawat said 2,500 tourists, including 1300 foreign tourists, were stuck in the state due to the lockdown. Out of 1,200 Indian tourists, 175 are from West Bengal and the rest from other states, including Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh. Asked when they will be allowed to return to their respective states, Rawat said the state government cannot unilaterally take a call on this. "Authorities here and those in the states from where the tourists have come will have to be on the same page on their return. Suppose we allow them to leave and they get stuck somewhere on the way, they will be worse off. Here at least they are safe, have a shelter and food," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-uttarakhand-cm-says-situation-under-control-in-state-but-people-need-to-be-vigilant-824971.html
13-04-2020||National||SC terms plea to nationalise hospitals to fight coronavirus as misconceived||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed as "misconceived" a plea for "nationalising" all health care facilities, including private hospitals of the country, in order to contain Covid-19 pandemic effectively. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and S Ravindra Bhat rejected the plea by advocate Amit Dwivedi saying, "No such direction can be issued." The court, however, agreed to tag his plea related to conducting tests and treatment of patients suffering from Covid-19, along with a pending PIL. Dwivedi, in his plea, contended that the right to get medical treatment was a part of the right to life as defined and provided for in Article 21 of the Constitution.  'If allowed, it would benefit the citizens of India and will relieve them from insurmountable hardships," the petitioner added. The plea stated India does not have sufficient public healthcare infrastructure to combat a pandemic like Covid-19 and as a last resort, it needs to take help of the private healthcare sector.   Globally this is being done. Besides Spain, there are many other examples also, where healthcare has nationalised till the containment of the disease, he added. In India, for decades the public health sector has remained in shambles due to low budgetary allowances. India chose to spend  only 1.6%, i.e. Rs 67,489 Crores, of its total estimated budget expenditure on public health which is not only very low in comparison to the average global public health expenditure but is also miniscule even in comparison to the expenditure of low-income countries, he said.   "Since the majority of Indians are not able to approach the private healthcare providers and the charges by them are prohibitive in nature. In this dire situation, it becomes the primary duty of the State to take control, temporarily nationalise, of all these private health care institutes and make them available at the service of common man, free of cost, and provide the quality treatment and care," his plea stated. The petitioner also pointed out that the private healthcare, ranked as one of the best in the world is lying vacant and unutilised due to ban on commercial flights, though it catered to about five lakh foreigners in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-terms-plea-to-nationalise-hospitals-to-fight-coronavirus-as-misconceived-824974.html
13-04-2020||National||PMO ropes in tech leaders to develop solutions to deal with coronavirus crisis||A high-powered committee comprising government officials and tech leaders, set up by the Prime Minister's Office, is working on solutions to deal with the coronavirus crisis, including the next version of Aarogya Setu app, according to a source. The committee has been formed under Principal Scientific advisor Professor Vijay Raghavan. The member includes IT secretary Ajay Sawhney, Trai Chairperson RS Sharma, telecom secretary Anshu Prakash, Tata Group chairperson N Chandrasekaran, Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra, Tech Mahindra CEO CP Gurnani, Professor V Kamakoti of IIT Chennai and Google map founder Lalitesh Katragadda.  "The committee meets regularly and is progressing aggressively and the PMO is actively involved. They meet 3 to 4 times a week to discuss the next steps. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been himself stressing on 'harnessing digital and tech innovation for a healthier planet', and spearheading this initiative," the source told PTI. The committee is said to have been the driving force to develop coronavirus patient tracker mobile Aarogya Setu. "The goal of the committee is to make this app cover all aspects. 100 per cent reach, ability to trace and restrict movement of patients and those quarantined using artificial intelligence and GPS technologies, reduce burden on the health care system by providing remote health care support," the source said. The committee is working on the next version of Aarogya Setu to help citizens to identify lockdown spots and also especially for the economically weaker section to use these services to find out and locate daily needs distribution centres. "Basically aim is to be a complete one stop shop for all citizen needs arising due to covid-19. Tata Consultancy Services is working on testing and some of the other aspects while Tech Mahindra and the Mahindra group is working with the committee on the next version of this application and leveraging next generation technologies like AI, machine learning, data science," the source said. Tech Mahindra is also working on expanding the reach of Aarogya Setu on all types of phones. The current version of Aarogya Setu app is fit for use on smartphones only. "There is work going on to add health care facilities, remote healthcare and medical staff support also in the app," the source said. According to the source, the committee is also working on to come up with solutions that can be rolled out across the country expeditiously and in an economical manner. "The committee came up with Aarogya Setu on April 2. Now, over 1 crore people have downloaded it. Mahindra Group has declared that the group will enable building of automated versions of bag valve mask ventilator – especially to simplify design and to scale up capacity. Similarly other solutions are being expeditiously looked at by the committee," the source said. According to the source, Niti Aayog and the Ministry of Electronics and IT have played an instrumental role in the development of Aarogya Setu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pmo-ropes-in-tech-leaders-to-develop-solutions-to-deal-with-coronavirus-crisis-824976.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Centre asks Postal Department for priority delivery of medicines||The Centre instructed the Department of Post to give priority in the delivery of medicians through speed posts during the lockdown period. Minister of Communications Ravi Shankar Prasad, has instructed Secretary Posts to sensitise all postal department employees that no one should face difficulty in receiving or sending medicines during the lockdown. The entire postal network across the country has been galvanised for the purpose. Intrastate and interstate mail arrangements have been made for the purpose. The red mail vans and Road Transport Networks are rendering yeoman Service in point to point delivery of essential medicines, Covid 19 testing kits, medical equipment including ventilators, the Ministry of Communications said in a statement. Mail arrangements are also being made with operating cargo flights and special parcel trains to ensure timely delivery. Thousands of tones of medicines and medical equipment is being delivered in tie-ups with Indian Drug Manufacturers Association, Directorate General of Health Services and online pharmaceutical companies, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-centre-asks-postal-department-for-priority-delivery-of-medicines-824987.html
13-04-2020||National||Information commissioners to take 30 pc cut in basic salary for 1 yr: CIC resolution||The matter was discussed during an extraordinary meeting of the Central Information Commission on April 10 through video-conferencing and it was decided that CIC Bimal Julka and all the six information commissioners will take a voluntary 30 per cent deduction in their basic salary for a year starting April 1, 2020, it said. The commission said it recognises the"unprecedented damage” caused to the economy by the pandemic and efforts made by the government to meet the challenges of this national crisis. Chief Information Commissioner gets Rs 2.50 lakh per month salary minus pension while Information Commissioners get Rs 2.25 lakh minus pension. The CIC, highest adjudicating body for RTI matters under the transparency law, has a chief information commissioner and six information commissioners, with four positions of information commissioners currently vacant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/information-commissioners-to-take-30-pc-cut-in-basic-salary-for-1-yr-cic-resolution-824991.html
13-04-2020||National||India to boost drug ingredient output to trim China reliance||By Shruti Srivastava India plans to ramp up production of pharmaceutical ingredients and become an alternative supplier for global drugmakers hit by factory shutdowns in China due to the coronavirus outbreak. The Indian government has aggressively begun implementing a policy to ramp up local output and emerge as an alternate to China, according to people familiar with the plan who asked not to be identified as discussions are not public yet. The so-called “China-plus one” strategy involves identifying essential drug ingredients, providing incentives to domestic manufacturers and reviving ailing state-run drugmakers, they said. The deadly coronavirus, which shut down vast swathes of the Chinese economy before becoming a pandemic, snapped global supply chains as factories in Asia’s largest economy fell silent. For India -- world’s single-largest exporter of generic drugs -- this triggered raw material shortages and exposed its dependence on Chinese imports. The south Asian nation relies on bulk ingredients from China to manufacture a fifth of the global supplies of drugs that are off patents.  India imports almost 70% of its bulk drugs and intermediates - the chemicals that make a finished drug work -- from China. A number of these are sourced from Hubei province, where the pathogen first emerged in late-December. Of the total $3.56 billion imports of such products in 2018-19, China’s share was $2.4 billion, according to information presented in the Indian parliament. The current crisis also gives an opportunity to India to challenge China’s stronghold on supplying basic drug ingredients. After announcing a 140-billion-rupee ($1.8 billion) fund last month for setting up three drug manufacturing hubs, the government has identified 53 key starting materials and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) whose output will be boosted on priority, the people said. These include fever-medicine paracetamol and antibiotics such as penicillin and ciprofloxacin. Discussions are also underway on the viability of reviving on loss-making state-owned drugmakers Hindustan Antibiotics Ltd. and Indian Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Ltd. to speed up this process and ensure affordable medicines, the people familiar said. “Indian bulk drug manufacturers could grow income by $3.3 billion if they expand capacity and global supply as the virus outbreak disrupts China’s pharma sector,” Mia He and Jamie Maarten, analysts with Bloomberg Intelligence wrote in a March 16 note. Essential Medicines Of the 373 drugs listed under India’s national essential medicines list, some 200 are imported as APIs, mostly from China, Dinesh Dua, chairman of Pharmexcil, an export promotion council under the trade ministry, told Blomberg over phone. Sudhir Vaid, chairman and managing director, Concord Biotech Ltd, said the government should support local companies by giving low cost power, subsidies and faster approvals. It takes as long as three years to get approvals, Vaid said. “If the government goes full throttle with the monetary help in one cluster, it can become a success in two years,” Pharmexil’s Dua said. “In five years, we can replicate that model throughout the country.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-boost-drug-ingredient-output-to-trim-china-reliance-824998.html
13-04-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh: Indore nurse on duty till April 13 morning tests positive for coronavirus||A nurse who was on duty in the operation theatre of the gynaecology department of Indore's state-run Maharaja Yashwantrao Hospital (MYH) till Monday morning has tested positive for novel coronavirus, a doctor said. Confirming the development, Dr Nilesh Dalal, head of MYH' Gynaecology Department told PTI that all persons who had come in contact with the nurse, including staff and patients, were being identified and isolated. Queried on why she was on duty despite her samples having been sent for testing, Dr Dalal said, "We came to know today after receiving the report that she has tested positive for the virus. The duty of nurses is fixed by the nursing department. We are investigating the case." She was among the 22 people who tested positive on Monday, taking the COVID-19 count in Indore to 328, including 33 who died of the infection. The number of people who have recovered so far here stands at 35.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-indore-nurse-on-duty-till-april-13-morning-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-825012.html
13-04-2020||National||Analysis shows 21-day lockdown slows down the spread of COVID-19||India’s current lockdown that ends on Tuesday midnight may have slowed down the spread of COVID-19 pandemic “significantly” and bought time for the administration to prepare more beds and ready other facilities to fight the virus in the coming weeks, suggests a new study. The conclusion is based on a report by researchers from the Centre for Disease, Dynamic, Economic and Policy, Washington; Johns Hopkins University and Princeton University who modelled the impact of the 21-day lockdown before, during and after the drastic step that brought the country to a standstill. The study found that India’s current lockdown will significantly slow the spread of COVID-19 hospitalisations and moderate infections compared to lack of interventions. The temporary lockdown will buy time for health systems to prepare for the peak of the outbreak by building temporary healthcare facilities and obtaining additional personnel, hospital beds, and equipment. While at the peak of the outbreak is pushed into future – somewhere in June-July -the time gained is vital to build up healthcare infrastructure quickly to prepare for an increase in hospitalized cases. In addition to providing shelter and care for the sick, such an investment may provide a livelihood for workers and reduce the negative impacts of restrictions. The long-term interventions including 25% and 50% quarantine of symptomatic cases would further delay and reduce the peak of infections and hospitalizations in India. The analysis suggests that immediate physical distancing will reduce the burden of Covid-19 on the healthcare system and reduce the risk of mortality among high-risk patients. While the potential impact of an individual policy is unknown, it is clear that a longer-term policy of reducing social contacts can have a large effect. The model demonstrates that a reduction in the transmission rate - achieved through lockdown - may have a substantial impact on the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/analysis-shows-21-day-lockdown-slows-down-the-spread-of-covid-19-825025.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: CRPF announces national poster-making contest for school students||The Central Reserve Police Force on Monday announced a national poster-making contest on COVID-19 for school students as part of an initiative to enhance public awareness about the pandemic. The contest is open for students in three categories: Class 1-5, 6-10 and 11-12. Students can send their entries through the official Twitter handle of the CRPF @crpfindia with hashtag BalsenaFightsCorona, an official spokesperson said. "The entries can be in the form of a hand-made painting, drawing or sketch with an appropriate tagline or slogan. It should be accompanied with the name of the student, their parents, class of study and school," he said. The last date for sending the entries is April 25. A jury of experts and force officials will decide the winners and top three will stand to win a cash prize of Rs 50,000, Rs 40,000 and Rs 25,000.   Ten consolation or motivational cash amounts of Rs 5,000 will also be given in each of the three categories, the official said. With 3.25 lakh personnel in its ranks, the CRPF is the country's largest paramilitary force and designated as the lead internal security force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-crpf-announces-national-poster-making-contest-for-school-students-825026.html
13-04-2020||National||Kerala cop-doctor couple postpone marriage for duty to fight coronavirus||On April 5 morning they were supposed to tie the nuptial knot. But both the bridegroom and the bride, being police personnel and doctor respectively, were on duty at that auspicious time in Thiruvananthapuram. M Prasad, a civil police officer in Thiruvananthapuram city, and Dr. Arya P B, who works in a government community clinic in the district has decided to postponed their marriage even as their parents wished to conduct a low-key ceremony with a few members of the couple's families.   Prasad said that both of them felt that while their colleagues were involved in a tight work schedule containing COVID-19, it was improper for them to take leave for getting married.  At the scheduled time of marriage, Prasad and Arya exchanged their grief and happiness over their decision to postpone the marriage over a video call. Many marriages in Kerala are being postponed these days owing to COVID-19, while some are conducting marriages with limited participation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-cop-doctor-couple-postpone-marriage-for-duty-to-fight-coronavirus-825028.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Communications minister Ravi Shankar Prasad directs India Post to prioritise medicines delivery||Communications and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Monday directed the Department of Posts to prioritise delivery of medicines during the lockdown. The post offices have been kept open under essential services to support movement of important documents and parcels during the lockdown. "I have instructed Secretary, Dept.of Posts to ensure that delivery of medicines through Speed Post is given the highest priority during lockdown. All employees of @IndiaPostOffice should be sensitized so that no one should face any difficulty in receiving or sending medicines," Prasad said in his tweet. The minister also shared that the postal department has been able to achieve record financial transaction during the lockdown either by paying people at their doorstep or from nearby post offices. "Delighted to announce that @IndiaPostOffice today (Monday) hit an all-time high, crossing 1 lakh mark, to record 1.09 lakh transactions a day in disbursing cash through Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AEPS)," the minister said in his tweet. Several state governments and central government departments dole out benefits of various scheme through India Post. "Through these (AEPS) 1.09 Lakh transactions @IndiaPostOffice disbursed Rs. 22.82 Crore of cash in a day to people at their doorsteps or Post Offices nearby using a simple fingerprint authentication, ensuring availability of cash in their hand during lockdown," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-communications-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad-directs-india-post-to-prioritise-medicines-delivery-825031.html
13-04-2020||National||Amidst fight against COVID-19, tensions between India, Pakistan escalate over truce violations||Even as both the nations are struggling to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, the tension between India and Pakistan escalated on Monday as they blamed each other for flouting the ceasefire along the Line of Control and killing civilians in each other’s territories. The Ministry of External Affairs of the Government of India issued a strong démarche to the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi, protesting against the violation of ceasefire by the soldiers of the neighbouring country along the LoC in Kupwara district of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, sources said. Three civilians, including a child and a woman, were killed when shells fired by Pakistan Army personnel and the border guards landed at Reddi Chowkibal and Tumna villages in Kupwara district of J&K.  The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan Government too on Monday summoned the Charge d'Affaires of the High Commission of India in New Delhi, Gaurav Ahluwalia, and lodged a protest over the alleged ceasefire violation by the Indian Army soldiers along the LoC in Dhudnial, Rakhchikri, Chirikot and Baroh sectors on Sunday. Pakistan alleged that a two-year-old boy was killed due to ceasefire violation by the soldiers and border guards of India.   Tension along the LoC between India and Pakistan escalated even as the two neighbouring nations are fighting the COVID-19 pandemic.  The virus already infected over 9000 people and killed over 300 of them in India. In Pakistan, over 5000 people were infected and over 90 of them have died so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amidst-fight-against-covid-19-tensions-between-india-pakistan-escalate-over-truce-violations-825038.html
13-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: With over 1,000 cases, TN changes testing strategy||The state reported its first COVID-19 patient on March 7 –a 45-year-old man who returned from Oman– but saw an exponential increase in the number of positive cases in just over a month. On March 30, the state had 67 cases but 13 days down the line, the number stood at 1,075 on April 12. Though the majority of the positive patients belong to one cluster, attendees of the Tabliqi Jamaat religious congregation in Delhi that happened in March and their contacts, the state with a population of over 7 crores has realized the need to go for aggressive testing to stop the coronavirus from spreading, albeit a little late. Experts still feel the number of samples being tested by Tamil Nadu is far less than the likes of Kerala, Maharashtra and Delhi – the last two also have over 1,000 positive patients each. The state has been under attack from various quarters for “not testing enough” and being “very stingy” in parting with information about COVID-19 patients. Doctors say “aggressive testing” is a welcome move as the strategy would help the state identify the maximum number of people within containment zones, even those who are asymptomatic and sent their swabs or blood samples for testing.   As of Sunday evening, the state had sent 10,655 samples for testing and 1,207 were under process. But the percentage of positive cases is high at 11 percent which experts point out is due to “sample bias.”   Health Secretary Dr. Beela Rajesh told reporters on Sunday that the aggressive testing strategy would cover primary and secondary contacts of positive patients while assuring that the state had enough stock of RT-PCR test kits though the arrival of serology-based rapid test kits from China are being delayed.    Ramping up testing A senior official with the Health Department said the aggressive testing strategy would focus more on containment zones without waiting for rapid test kits that deliver results in 30 minutes. The Health Secretary also said the state is in possession of 24,000 RT-PCR test kits and would get another 90,000 soon. “Our strategy is to ramp up testing using RT-PCR kits. These testing kits are of the gold standard and their results are completely reliable. We will use the RT-PCR test kits to aggressively test primary and secondary contacts. They are being identified. Once the rapid test kits come, we will use them as well. But they are useful largely for screening purposes,” the official told DH. Dr Ram Gopalkrishnan, Senior Consultant, Infectious Diseases with Apollo Hospitals here, said the government’s strategy was welcome and it would help bring asymptomatic patients also into the ambit. He told DH that rapid test kits are an epidemiological tool that will help gauge the spread of the disease in the community and for targeted testing.  “Maybe, the government first restricted things because of its limitations. We need to look at it from the government’s angle. There was concern about the availability of RT-PCR test kits and they prioritized their target like those who had travel history or with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). That the testing is progressively expanded now is a welcome step,” he said. On mass testing, Dr. Gopalkrishnan said it can be considered in selected clusters for contact tracing purposes, and not for the population in general. Number of samples tested aren’t enough Dr Sumanth C Raman, a medical doctor by profession and a popular TV face in the state who has been tracking COVID-19 situation in Tamil Nadu, said testing should be ramped up now as people are confined to their homes. “The lockdown period needs to be used for testing a greater number of people and isolate them and their contacts if they test positive. We don’t know how many people are asymptomatic but still carry the virus and spread it to others. We need to identify the maximum number of people and check the prevalence of the infection,” he said. On the number of samples tested, he said 10,000 is a “very small number” for a state like Tamil Nadu whereas Kerala, which has just half of its population, has tested a much greater number of samples and people. “Of the 10,000 more than 4,000 people are from one group. The only way is to test, test and test. Hope they translate their words of aggressive testing into action,” he said. A government doctor said the increase in the number of asymptomatic people testing positive for COVID-19 is a cause of worry. “Unless we test more and more, we won’t be able to contain the spread of COVID-19. Hopefully, the aggressive testing strategy would help the state move towards flattening the curve,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-with-over-1000-cases-tn-changes-testing-strategy-825043.html
13-04-2020||National||8.31 crore farmers to get Rs 16,621 crore under PM-Kisan scheme||The Centre has disbursed Rs 16,621 crore to about 8.31 crore beneficiary farmers under the PM-KISAN scheme since March 24, the day lockdown was announced to arrest the spread of COVID-19. The total amount includes last year’s payment due to 83.77 lakh farmers totalling Rs 1,674.43 crore, an official statement said. The balance Rs 14,945 crore has been released to 7.47 crore farmers as the first instalment under the PM-KISAN for the 2020-21 financial year that began from April 1. Under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme, the Centre transfers an amount of Rs 6,000 per year, in three equal instalments, directly into the bank accounts of farmers, subject to certain exclusion criteria relating to higher-income status. To give immediate relief to farmers affected by the nationwide lockdown, the government had on March 27 promised to transfer the first instalment of Rs 2,000 to each of 8.69 crore beneficiaries under the scheme, in the first week of April. Besides, the Centre said it has dispatched 3,985 tonnes of pulses for free delivery to PDS beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PM-GKY).  The Union Agriculture Ministry has also decided to allow ''Truthful Label seeds'' for subsidy components for the North East, Hilly regions and the UTs of Jammu & Kashmir only, for all crops under National Food Security Mission. The ministry further said organic products are being delivered in Punjab at the doorstep in the specially designed electric van under Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY). In Maharashtra, 21,11,171 quintals of fruits and vegetables have been sold by 27,797 Farmer Producers Organisations (FPOs) in 34 districts by online/direct sale method, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/831-crore-farmers-to-get-rs-16621-crore-under-pm-kisan-scheme-825045.html
13-04-2020||National||No new COVID-19 case in 25 districts for 14 days: Centre||At least 25 districts across 15 states did not report any fresh COVID-19 case over the past two weeks, even as the total number of patients with the respiratory illness surged to 9,352 on Monday. The number of new patients increased by 996 since Sunday, while the death toll rose by 51 to touch 324, the Health Ministry said adding that 979 people have recovered from disease so far and discharged from the hospitals. The Centre said that its policy of social distancing and strict implementation of the lockdown was paying dividends as 25 districts across 15 states, including Davangere, Kodagu, Tumakuru and Udupi in Karnataka have not reported a single new patient in the past 14 days. The Centre attributed the success in arresting the spread of the disease in these 25 districts to the aggressive containment strategies followed by the respective administrations. Besides the four districts in Karnataka, Gondia in Maharashtra, Rajnandgaon, Durg, Bilaspur (Chhattisgarh), South Goa, Wayanad and Kottayam (Kerala), West Imphal (Manipur), Rajouri (J&K), Aizawl West (Mizoram), Mahe (Puducherry), SBS Nagar (Punjab), Patna, Nalanda and Munger (Bihar), Pratapgarh (Rajasthan), Panipat, Rohtak and Sirsa (Haryana), Pauri Garhwal (Uttrakhand), and Bhadradri Kothagudem (Telangana) have not reported new Covid-19 cases for the past 14 days. Several states have been harnessing their ‘Smart City’ project infrastructure to track patients, implementation of containment plans and using heat mapping technologies in the fight against the disease. Maharashtra is the worst affected state with 1985 cases, followed by Delhi (1154), Tamil Nadu (1075), Rajasthan (812) and Madhya Pradesh (604). Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) allayed apprehensions about inadequate testing kits, saying it had enough stocks to last for six weeks and more were on way. “Till Sunday we had conducted 2,06,212 Covid-19 tests. There is no need to worry. We have enough stock to conduct tests for six weeks,” Raman Gangakhedkar, Head of the Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases Division of ICMR, told reporters. He said the test kits ordered from China were expected to reach India on April 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-new-covid-19-case-in-25-districts-for-14-days-centre-825050.html
13-04-2020||National||Pakistani PM Imran Khan goes to UNSC again over domicile law in J&K||Pakistan has renewed its bid to raise the issue of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) – now accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Government in New Delhi of changing the demographic profile of what is now a Union Territory of India. New Delhi is all set to counter the fresh attempt by Prime Minister Imran Khan’s Government in Islamabad to raise the issue of J&K at the UNSC. India is rather preparing to turn the table on Pakistan, asking it to reverse the demographic change it has engineered in the parts of J&K it has been illegally occupying. Islamabad made its latest attempt to raise the issue of J&K at the international forum by criticizing New Delhi’s recent move to redefine the domicile for government jobs in the newly-created Union Territory. The BJP-led Government at the Centre issued the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization (Adaptation of State Laws) Order, 2020, late on March 31. The new notification says any Indian, who has resided in J&K for 15 years or has studied in the state for seven years and has appeared in either the Class 10 or the Class 12 examination, will be eligible for domicile certificates and thus eligible for gazetted and non-gazetted government jobs. Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi on Sunday wrote to UNSC President Jose Singer alleging that India had introduced the new domicile rules to alter the demographic profile of J&K. Qureshi accused the Modi Government in New Delhi of taking advantage of the international community’s focus on Covid-19 pandemic to make the changes in the demographic profile of Kashmir. Singer is the Special Envoy of the Dominican Republic and is holding the UNSC presidency for the month of April. Since New Delhi on August 5 initiated the move to strip J&K of its special status and reorganised the state into two Union Territories, Pakistan re-launched its campaign to internationalise its dispute with India. New Delhi, however, so far blocked all attempts by Pakistan and its “iron brother” China to bring back the issue of J&K back on the formal agenda of the Security Council. New Delhi has been maintaining that the 1972 Simla Agreement between India and Pakistan and the 1999 Lahore Declaration had left no scope for the UN or any third party to play any role in resolving the “outstanding issues” between the two South Asian neighbours. “The Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir has been, is and shall continue to be an integral part of India. (The) issues related to J&K are internal matter to India,” a senior official in New Delhi said, adding that India will foil the latest attempt by Pakistan to raise the issue in any international forum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistani-pm-imran-khan-goes-to-unsc-again-over-domicile-law-in-jk-825067.html
13-04-2020||National Politics||India plans to resume some manufacturing amid lockdown: Report||India is planning to restart some manufacturing after April 15 to help offset the economic damage of a nationwide coronavirus lockdown, two government sources said, even as it weighs extending the lockdown. The 21-day lockdown of India's more than 1.3 billion people is due to end on Tuesday, but the government is widely expected to extend it until the end of the month, with the number of coronavirus cases rising to 9,152 and the domestic death toll reaching 308, on Monday. One of the sources said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had directed some ministries to come up with plans to open up some crucial industries as the livelihoods of the poor were being hit. The source said the government was considering allowing the resumption of some operations under guidelines that were being drawn up. The trade and industries ministry did not reply to an email seeking comment. The government's principal spokesman, K.S. Dhatwalia, declined to comment. The sources, who spoke to Reuters on Sunday, asked not to be identified as the plans are still under discussion. Separately, in a letter seen by Reuters, the industries ministry has recommended restarting some manufacturing in the autos, textiles, defence, electronics and other sectors. The ministry said in the letter, addressed to the home ministry, that this could be achieved via reduced shifts with lower staff numbers to ensure social distancing. "We believe some industries could be allowed with reasonable safeguards as long as social distancing norms are maintained," the second official, from the industries department, said. The home ministry and the Prime Minister's Office are likely to take a final call on the recommendations this week, the sources said. The sources also said that other ministries would soon submit plans on allowing partial resumptions in other sectors. India's economy, which was already growing at its slowest pace in six years before the onset of the coronavirus, is set to take a severe hit amid the lockdown, say economists, who warn that unemployment could rise to record levels. The lockdown resulted in many thousands of daily wage labourers losing their jobs in cities and leaving to return to their homes, raising the risk of spreading the coronavirus into the countryside.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-plans-to-resume-some-manufacturing-amid-lockdown-report-824722.html
13-04-2020||National Politics||Law has to evolve to deal with burgeoning evils of breakdown in political parties: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said the law may have to evolve to address the "burgeoning evils" of a breakdown in the composition and allegiances of the political party due to private allurements as opposed to public policy considerations. "The spectacle of rival political parties whisking away their political flock to safe destinations does little credit to the state of our democratic politics. It is an unfortunate reflection on the confidence which political parties hold in their own constituents and a reflection of what happens in the real world of politics," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Hemant Gupta said. In Madhya Pradesh, 22 Congress MLAs had resigned last month, causing fall of the Kamal Nath government. These MLAs were taken to Bengaluru where they remained holed up until Kamal Nath resigned. In a detailed judgement, on a plea by Shivaraj Singh Chouhan for floor test in Madhya Pradesh Assembly, the bench pointed out political bargaining, or horse-trading was an oft-repeated usage in legal precedents.  "Poaching‘ is an expression which was bandied about on both sides of the debate in the present case. It is best that courts maintain an arm‘s length from the sordid tales of political life," the bench said. In defining constitutional principle, this court must be conscious of the position on the ground and an effort has to be made to the extent possible to ensure that democratic values prevail, the bench added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/law-has-to-evolve-to-deal-with-burgeoning-evils-of-breakdown-in-political-parties-sc-824799.html
13-04-2020||National Politics||Veteran Congress leader, former union minister Rajasekharan dies aged 91||Veteran Congress leader and former union minister M V Rajasekharan died at a private hospital here on Monday after a prolonged illness, family sources said. The 91-year-old, who had served as a Lok Sabha member, MLC and Minister of State for Planning in the Manmohan Singh government, was ailing from old age-related health issues. Son-in-law of former Karnataka chief minister S Nijalingappa, he is survived by wife Girija Rajasekharan, two sons and two daughters. An agriculturist and a noted rural development consultant, he was born on September 12, 1928, at Maralawadi in Ramanagara district. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President D K Shiva Kumar were among those who paid their homage to Rajasekharan, a Gandhian known for value-based politics. Describing Rajasekharan as a politician with simplicity, humility and great maturity, Yediyurappa said the departed leader was an authority on rural economy and noted that he had set up an institute for rural development studies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/veteran-congress-leader-former-union-minister-rajasekharan-dies-aged-91-824841.html
13-04-2020||National Politics||Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi appeals to Muslims to adhere to coronavirus lockdown, social distancing guidelines during Ramzan||Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Monday appealed to Muslims to strictly follow social distancing and lockdown guidelines during the holy month of Ramzan starting later this month in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. He urged them to offer prayers and perform other religious rituals like the "iftar (breaking of fast) staying inside their homes during the month of Ramzan, which will begin from April 24 or April 25. A 21-day lockdown was put in place from March 25 and is likely to be extended in the wake of rising COVID-19 cases in the country. Several states like Odisha and Punjab have already announced extension of the lockdown. Naqvi's appeal came after he spoke with various religious leaders, representatives of social and religious organisations, officials and other office-bearers of state waqf boards, asking them to ensure implementation of lockdown and social distancing guidelines during Ramzan. The minister also held meetings in this regard at the ministry on Monday. Naqvi, who is also the Chairman of the Central Waqf Council, said more than seven lakh registered mosques, eidgahs, imambadas, dargahs and other religious institutions come under the state waqf boards across the country. It is to be noted that most of the Muslim nations, including Saudi Arabia, have called for having no mass gathering during Ramadan at religious places. The state waqf boards, through the Central Waqf Council, have been directed to ensure that the people do not gather at religious and other places under any circumstances during Ramzan, NAQVI said. There is a need to take help of people, various religious and social organisations and local administration in this regard, he said. Naqvi said due to the proactive, effective and positive efforts of the state waqf boards and religious-social organisations, Muslims in the country observed Shab-e-Barat on April 8 and 9 by offering prayers and performing all other religious rituals staying inside their homes. He said that in view of the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, the cooperation of Muslims in implementation of the guidelines of lockdown and social distancing on Shab-e-Barat has been laudable. All the religious activities at temples, mosques, gurdwaras, churches and other religious places in the country have been cancelled in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. Guidelines of lockdown and social distancing are being followed effectively, he said. Traditionally people gather in large numbers at lakhs of mosques, dargahs, imambadas, eidgahs, madrassas and other religious places across the country to offer prayers and performing other religious rituals, including 'iftaar' during Ramzan, he noted. "But due to coronavirus pandemic, lockdown, curfew, social distancing, have been implemented by the Centre and all the state governments," he said, adding that there is a need to make people aware so that they perform all the religious rituals inside their homes during Ramzan. Such efforts are not only needed at mosques and other religious places but also at public as well as private places where Muslims gather during Ramzan to perform religious rituals. Naqvi said the entire country is seriously and honestly following lockdown and social distancing guidelines on the appeal of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "Any type of carelessness can be harmful for us, our family, the society and the entire country. We should follow the guidelines of the administration to defeat coronavirus with all seriousness and honesty," he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-appeals-to-muslims-to-adhere-to-coronavirus-lockdown-social-distancing-guidelines-during-ramzan-824876.html
13-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus lockdown: Ministers attend office||Several Union Ministers and senior officials on Monday started working from offices again even as the country is waiting for the announcement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Covid-19 lockdown during his address to the nation. Most of the ministers have been working from since Modi announced the 21-day lockdown from March 25. However, on Sunday, instructions were given to top officials from the rank of Joint Secretary should attend office along with the essential staff. Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar, Coal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Railways and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal, Minister of State for Youth Affairs Kiren Rijiju and Culture and Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel were among those who attended office along with senior officials. "I was working most of the time from home during the lockdown. Today I returned to my office at Shastri Bhavan after a week. It feels good to be back. The Modi government is in full action on all fronts now,” Coal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said. Officers of the level of joint secretary also returned to offices on Monday, as they are entitled to official transport. Staff belonging to Class 2, 3 and 4 are working on a rational basis and one-third of them are working.  The decision to bring Ministers back to the office was seen as an attempt by the government to instil confidence in people in testing times. Officials said the government has become fully functional. Modi will spell out the next course of action during his address to the nation on Tuesday 10 AM where he is expected to announce the extension of lockdown for another two weeks with some relaxations.  Sources said the ministers have instructed officials to prepare a roadmap for handling the economic impact of Covid-19 in the sectors handled by them and suggestions to overcome it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-ministers-attend-office-824926.html
13-04-2020||National Politics||'Uncooperative' conduct of Congress puts a question mark on Opposition party's relevance: BJP||Asserting that the government has taken a number of relief measures to help different sections of the society --farmers, industrialists, the salaried, poor and women-- BJP spokesperson Rajiv Pratap Rudy said the Congress is far removed from the truth and is "misleading" the public. The Congress should shun this "lowly politics" and cooperate with the government, he said, claiming that the party has not done anything in this regard.   "India under Prime Minister Narendra Modi has emerged as a leading saviour of humanity in these trying times of the global pandemic caused by coronavirus", he said, and alleged that the Congress' attitude is not only negative but also the non-cooperative approach of its leaders has put a question mark on party's relevance. The Congress on Monday had urged the prime minister to announce a financial package of at least 5 to 6 per cent of India's GDP to ensure economic recovery post the COVID-19 lockdown.  The opposition party also demanded that the Central government pays all pending dues to states to enable them to fight the coronavirus outbreak, besides also giving each of them a special economic package.  Rudy asserted the government under Modi has been taking measures to help different sections of society, and the BJP too has been working to provide food and masks, besides other relief materials to the poor.  The government has also made available free ration, given financial package and also supplied free LPG connections to the poor, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uncooperative-conduct-of-congress-puts-a-question-mark-on-opposition-partys-relevance-bjp-824954.html
13-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus lockdown: SC to consider plea for evacuation of stranded Indians after four weeks||The top court, however, issued notice to the Centre on a plea by a woman from Tamil Nadu to evacuate 860 Indian fishermen, including her husband, stranded on boats, in life threatening situation, in the coast of Iran, following suspension of flights and travel.  A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde also sought a reply from the Union government on a separate petition filed by senior advocate Vibha Datta Makhija and others to bring back distressed Indian citizens from the United States in view of high incidence of Covid-19 cases over there.   The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and Mohan M Shantanagoudar, put the petitions filed separately by Salem resident, Santha Muthulingam and Makhija, for consideration on April 20.    The court, however, fixed other petitions filed by Madhurima Mridul for bringing back Indian students to the country, for hearing after four weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-sc-to-consider-plea-for-evacuation-of-stranded-indians-after-four-weeks-824977.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||4 more test COVID-19 positive in Jammu, cases at 48||The number of coronavirus cases in Jammu rose to 48 on Sunday as four more persons tested positive for the infection, officials said. An Army jawan who was visiting his home town in Samba district and a doctor posted in Udhampur district are among those who tested positive. The other two cases have been reported from Roop Nagar and Satwari areas, they said. The Army jawan is posted outside Jammu and Kashmir. He was on leave and had come to his home town in Samba on March 18. He was under quarantine but was shifted to the isolation ward of the Government Medical College Hospital here after he developed some symptoms, the officials said. His test came back positive for coronavirus, making him the district's first case, they said. Jammu had reported five COVID-19 cases on Saturday. These included a 28-year-old woman from Trangali village in Akhnoor sector who gave birth to a baby at Sri Maharaja Gulab Singh (SGMS) Hospital here last week, the officials said. All medical staff who handled her case have been sent to administrative quarantine, they said. According to the officials, the woman was asymptomatic when she was admitted to the sub-district hospital, Akhnoor on April 8 for delivery. She was shifted to SMGS Hospital the next day. However, after the delivery she developed symptoms like fever and cough and was tested for COVID-19. She and her newborn along with five other patients undergoing treatment at the hospital have been shifted to the dedicated COVID-19 hospital in Gandhi Nagar, they said. Both the sub-district and SGMC hospitals were thoroughly sanitised and fumigation was carried out within the premises, they added. The samples of the newborn and other family members of the woman have also been sent for testing. The woman had no history of travel or contact with any positive case, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-jammu-cases-at-48-824628.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Congress leader Shri Krishan Hooda passes away||Congress MLA Shri Krishan Hooda died on Sunday after a prolonged illness. He was 75. The legislator from Baroda constituency in Sonipat district of Haryana was hospitalised in Delhi for the past few weeks. Former chief minister and Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda condoled the death. He said he has lost a friend and the party a senior leader who was a strong pillar in state politics. "Shri Krishan Hooda ji's death is a big blow to me, personally," he said. "I always received his love and blessings like an elder brother and his death has left a big void," Bhupinder Hooda added. He remembered Shri Krishan Hooda as the voice of the farmers and the poor. "His honesty and commitment to public service will always be remembered fondly by the people," Bhupinder Hooda said. Shri Krishan Hooda had defeated BJP's wrestler-turned politician Yogeshwar Dutt from the Baroda assembly seat in the 2019 elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-leader-shri-krishan-hooda-passes-away-824647.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Withdrawal of lockdown a major challenge: Rajasthan CM Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday termed the withdrawal of the lockdown a major challenge, said that his government was in favour of a “modified lockdown” in the state. It, however, depends on the government of India, he added. Gehlot said the state government was examining and exploring possibilities of something on the lines of a “modified lockdown” at the local level. “If the lockdown continues, we would see whether is it possible to create a situation at the local level which can be called a 'modified lockdown'. This is my own thought and it depends on the government of India how far this can be executed. The next phase of lockdown is dependent on the centre. If possible, we would try a modified lockdown,” he said. “This is my own thought. It depends on the government of India how far this can be executed. If possible, we would try for a modified lockdown,” Gehlot added. The chief minister said the state government's committee was brainstorming on the possibility of giving relaxations to industries in which internal resources like labour are available and to interstate transportation. “Imposing a lockdown is easy but withdrawing it a big challenge. It will have to be withdrawn. If not after a period of 21 days, it will have to be withdrawn 15 days later. The economy will come on track when financial activities like opening shops, industries will take place and then only state and the centre will get revenues,” he told reporters at a briefing held via video-conferencing here. The chief minister reiterated his demand of a stimulus package for the country to overcome the economic crisis. He said the financial condition of the states has deteriorated and the Centre should announce a grant of Rs 1 lakh crore. Gehlot also demanded to raise the limit of fiscal deficit from three per cent, as per the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, to five per cent and other measures to help the states. He said former finance minister Yashwant Sinha was of the opinion that more currency notes should be printed to tackle the current crisis. “The financial conditions of states have weakened and there is a drastic decline in revenue collection. We are doing good financial management in Rajasthan but the situation of any state may deteriorate in this difficult time therefore the centre should come forward to announce a package,” Gehlot said. “The Centre has RBI and resources and it can print more currency notes. Former minister Yashwant Sinha has said that notes should be printed in this time of crisis,” he added.  Expressing concern on the rising number of COVID-19 patients in Jaipur, Gehlot said that it has become a challenge for the state government and all efforts were being made to contain the spread. He, however, asserted that the situation was under control despite the rising number of cases. The chief minister said the government has ordered 10 lakh rapid testing kits. There has been no requirement of ventilators for the treatment of COVID-19 patients in the state so far, he added. “In Bhilwara, we controlled the spread through ruthless containment model. All possible efforts are being made in Jaipur's Ramganj area also. All places where there are cases will be treated in the same way and we will win the fight against coronavirus with the cooperation of all,” Gehlot said. In Jaipur, he said, quarantine facilities have been set up in hostels and hotels, and possibilities were being explored to use stadiums as well. On a question related with job security, the chief minister said industrialists should consider their staff as family members and see that they do not face difficulties. He informed that apart from 10 lakh rapid testing kits, the state has ordered 1.5 lakh PPEs (Personal Protective Equipment).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/withdrawal-of-lockdown-a-major-challenge-rajasthan-cm-gehlot-824651.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Khattar speaks to Haryana coronavirus survivors: ‘Their stories offer hope to other patients’||There were talks of hope, faith, gratefulness and courage -- but some complaints too. The stories and experiences shared by coronavirus survivors from Haryana when Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar spoke to them over phone on Sunday will give strength to those who are still battling COVId-19. “Strong will power and faith in the doctors, and they will get well soon,” said a male patient from Faridabad who has now recovered, Khattar spoke to the survivors during his televised address to the people of the state when he also updated them about the COVID-19 situation in Haryana. He said the survivors had shown strong will power and determination to battle the infection. “They were fighting battle against the life threatening disease, but they did not let this disease dampen their spirit,” he said. Khattar said that of 180 positive cases in the state so far, 36 have recovered. The Faridabad patient said he had tested positive on March 28. “I was treated in Safdarjung hospital in Delhi, I was treated very well by doctors. I was discharged after two weeks. The doctors used to come for checking on me twice a day,” he said. He said he was still in the mandatory post-discharge home-quarantine, but he was getting full support from the people in the area he lives. “People need not feel scared, they should have faith in themselves, strong will power and faith in the doctors and they will get well,” he said. Khattar told him that he wants to assure that in Haryana as in the rest of the country, doctors are putting their best efforts to give best treatment to COVID-19 patients. Another male patient from Gurgaon, who showed symptoms two days after his return from abroad on March 7, said he was admitted to the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi after testing positive. “On March 25, I was discharged and later my home-quarantine period is also over now,” he said, adding he was the second patient to test positive from Haryana. Another male patient from Gurgaon said that on March 22-23, he had slight fever and when it did not improve over three days, he got admitted to a private hospital in Gurgaon. On April 2, he was told he had pneumonia and later tested positive for COVID-19, the disease caused by coronavirus. Four members of his family were tested for the virus, but their reports turned negative, he told the CM. A mother from Gurgaon shared the story about his UK-returned daughter testing positive on March 17, two days upon her return from the European nation where she is pursuing her higher studies. The woman's son also tested positive and both were initially admitted to Civil Hospital in Gurgaon. However, “both children have been discharged now and their home quarantine is also complete,” she said. A woman patient, who did not share the place from where she belonged to, said that even after being cured the attitude of her neighbours towards her was not good. “I have recovered but neighbours in my village are not treating me well and accuse me of bringing disease in the village,” she said. At this, Khattar said that they have appealed that everyone should cooperate and sympathise with the people who have recovered after fighting the battle against coronavirus. “I will ask the administration people and the Deputy Commissioner concerned to look into this. We will ensure that you do not face any difficulty at the place where you live or work,” Khattar assured her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/khattar-speaks-to-haryana-coronavirus-survivors-their-stories-offer-hope-to-other-patients-824669.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||DH Cartoon: Rajasthan govt bans photography while distributing food among poor during coronavirus lockdown||The Rajasthan government on Friday banned photography during distribution of food packets and ration among the needy in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-cartoon-rajasthan-govt-bans-photography-while-distributing-food-among-poor-during-coronavirus-lockdown-824678.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police Assistant-Sub Inspector tests positive for coronavirus||A 56-year-old assistant-sub inspector of the Delhi Police has tested positive for coronavirus, police said on Sunday. The ASI is a resident of Shyam Nagar, Okhla Phase-1, they said. He is the third policeman in the national capital who has tested positive for COVID-19, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Devender Arya said, "The assistant sub-Inspector posted at the Safdarjung Enclave police station was tested for coronavirus after he showed symptoms. His reports arrived today wherein he was declared positive." The ASI attended the duty last on April 9 and was on leave since then as he was unwell, a police official said. All the police personnel who came in contact with the ASI have been advised for home quarantine and will be tested for COVID-19, he said. The policeman stays at a four-storey building in Okhla and all his family members and residents of the building will be screened for COVID-19 as a preventive measure, the official said. A letter has been written to hospital authorities for screening and medical examination of his family members as well as neighbours. All of them have been advised for home quarantine and movement of people in the residential area has also been restricted, he said. Earlier, two other Delhi police personnel had tested positive for coronavirus. A 44-year-old head constable, posted in the Foreign Regional Registration Office at the Indira Gandhi International Airport's Terminal 3, and a 49-year-old police official, posted in the traffic unit in Hauz Khas, had tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-assistant-sub-inspector-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-824682.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt to deploy Maulana Azad Medical College students for coronavirus duty||The Delhi government on Sunday decided to deploy postgraduate students of Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) for COVID-19 duty in all districts of the city. According to an official, the move comes after Chief Secretary Vijay Dev sought the strengthening of efforts to contain the spread of coronavirus in all the districts of the national capital. A team of 10 students (2019-22 batch) will be deployed along with each district magistrate. In its order, the health department has asked the dean of MAMC to ask PG students to report to chief district medical officers under the intimation to the respective district magistrate. Earlier in the day, the government also decided to make accommodation arrangements for those undergoing COVID-19 tests until their reports are out. Over 740 rooms have been booked at various hotels, government flats in the national capital to lodge people till their corona reports come, an official said. The number of coronavirus cases in the national capital mounted to 1154 on Sunday, with 85 fresh cases and five deaths being reported in a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-deploy-maulana-azad-medical-college-students-for-coronavirus-duty-824683.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Uttar Pradesh govt has set up panels to look into problems of various sectors, says CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday the state government has set up some committees which will work on different schemes after April 15 and contribute towards successfully fighting the novel coronavirus. "The state government will fully follow the guidelines of the Government of India. We have formed a committee under the chairmanship of Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya that will work on the scheme of construction works while following lockdown and social distancing so that labourers can get some work," he said in a statement. In a video message, Adityanath said, "The UP government will contribute towards successfully carrying out the fight against the novel coronavirus under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In order to avert any crisis situation in the state, the state government has set up some committees which will work on different schemes after April 15." He said that under the chairmanship of state Finance Minister Suresh Khanna, a committee will work on how to increase the flow of revenue. Along with industrial development, a panel has also been formed to prepare a report on what steps should be taken in micro, small and medium enterprises sector. A panel formed under the chairmanship of the state agriculture minister will look into the problems of farmers. In view of a number of religious events lined up in the coming days, Adityanath appealed to the religious leaders to ensured that no congregation is organised amid apprehension that such events can increase the number of people infected with the novel coronavirus. On the occasion of the birth anniversary of B R Ambedkar, which falls on April 14, all ministers and officials have been told to individually pay floral tributes in their office, according to the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-uttar-pradesh-govt-has-set-up-panels-to-look-into-problems-of-various-sectors-says-cm-yogi-adityanath-824689.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: BJP member among 43 booked for violating lockdown norms||Forty-three people, including a BJP member, have been booked for allegedly violating lockdown norms in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district, police said. Senior Superintendent of Police Abhishek Yadav said the FIRs were lodged and copies of it were delivered to the residences, and also put up outside the houses of the people, which included BJP member Vipul Tyagi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-bjp-member-among-43-booked-for-violating-lockdown-norms-824748.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Retired soldier succumbs to injuries in Jammu and Kashmir||A retired Indian Army soldier, who was shot at by suspected militants on Sunday evening in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, succumbed to injuries at the army’s 92 base hospital in Srinagar on Monday morning. Abdul Hameed Matoo, a resident of Buchroo village in Yaripora area of Kulgam district, who went by the alias of ‘Cobra' and had served in the 162 battalion of the Territorial Army (TA), was fired upon multiple times at him home last night. He was shifted to 92 base hospital in Srinagar, where he succumbed to his injuries at around 3 am on Monday, reports said. The TA is part of the regular Indian Army and its role is to relieve the regular Army from static duties and assist the civil administration in dealing with natural calamities and maintenance of essential services in situations where the life of the communities is affected or the security of the country is threatened. The TA also provides uniformed units for the Regular Army as and when required. During the late 90’s and early years of the subsequent decade, individual militants, who were turned in by the army eventually made their way into the TA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/retired-soldier-succumbs-to-injuries-in-jammu-and-kashmir-824758.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Srinagar's old city area declared as Red Zone||The decision was taken after the director of tertiary-care SKIMS hospital Dr A G Ahangar said the situation is very scary and the lockdown has helped to contain the coronavirus spread. “Next two weeks will decide whether COVID-19 has entered into the community transmission phase in Jammu and Kashmir,” he said. On Sunday evening, Jammu and Kashmir Chief Secretary, BVR Subrahmanyam directed Deputy Commissioners and District Police Heads for strict implementation of restrictions in all 77 Red Zones declared in the union territory. To control the further spread of coronavirus, he also stressed for proper regulation of Red Zones and complete lockdown in the identified areas.  Senior Superintendent Police (SSP), Srinagar, Mughal said as the old city is a congested place and they were enhancing the restrictions and sought cooperation from people. “Nobody will be allowed to move, except those with medical emergencies and people with valid passes. We have started making announcements in these areas,” he said. “These measures are not a law and order issue,” the SSP said. “In case people face any problem they can call helpline numbers.” Srinagar has reported 58 COVID-19 positive cases so far, which is highest among the Union Territories.  Police and paramilitary forces have sealed off the main roads across the old city area and erected barriers to check the unwanted movement of the people and to enforce the lockdown. Till April 12 evening, 245 persons had tested positive for COVID-19 in Jammu and Kashmir, out of which, 235 are active positive, six have recovered and four died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-srinagars-old-city-area-declared-as-red-zone-824761.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Low-intensity earthquake of 2.6 magnitude hits Delhi||A low-intensity earthquake of magnitude 2.7 shook parts of Delhi on Monday, the National Centre for Seismology said, the second quake to hit the national capital region in less than 24 hours but no report of any damage was received. The quake, with its epicentre near Wazirpur in northeast Delhi, occurred at 1.26 pm at a shallow depth of 5 km, said JL Gautam, Head (Operations) at NCS, an institute under the Ministry of Earth Sciences. On Sunday, a moderate intensity quake of magnitude 3.5 hit the national capital at a depth of 8 km. However, unlike Sunday, when people rushed out of their homes in panic, no such report was received on Monday. A nationwide lockdown is in force due to the coronavirus pandemic and people are staying indoors. Of the five seismic zones, Delhi falls under the fourth-highest zone, making it vulnerable to earthquakes. But it is rare that Delhi has been the epicentre of a quake. It, however, experiences tremors when a quake hits regions as far as central Asia or the Himalayan ranges, known to be a high-seismic zone. An earthquake of magnitude 2.8 had hit the national capital in 2004. Another quake of magnitude 3.4 was recorded in the city in 2001. The major quakes recorded near the national capital were in Bulandshahr (6.7M) on October 10, 1956, and in Moradabad (5.8M) on August 15, 1966. Both are in western Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/low-intensity-earthquake-of-26-magnitude-hits-delhi-824781.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Pakistan shells forward posts along LoC, IB||Pakistan on Monday opened fire and shelled forward posts and villages along with the Line of Control and International Border in Poonch and Kathua districts, drawing retaliation from Indian troops, officials said. Mortar shelling from across the border had left three civilians dead on Saturday.         Officials said shelling from the Pakistan Army started in Mendhar sector along the LoC in Poonch this morning and was going on when last reports came in. Pakistani Rangers also violated the ceasefire by targeting forward posts and villages in different villages of the Hiranagar sector overnight. The firing from Pakistan started in Chandwa and adjoining areas around 9.45 pm on Sunday and continued till 4 am, the officials said, adding the BSF retaliated effectively.   There was no report of any casualty in the firing, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-shells-forward-posts-along-loc-ib-824787.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Srinagar's old city residents fighting COVID-19 pandemic in their 'own way'||Like in most places in the country, streets of Srinagar's old city area are wearing a deserted look. The residents of the old city are fighting the COVID-19 pandemic in their “own way''. Right from the beginning of the insurgency in 1990, the old city area of Srinagar has been witnessing lockdowns, curfews, strikes and protests. However, this time nobody is complaining as they understand the severity of the crisis. According to Bilal Ahmad of Bohri Kadal, “surviving against the odds” has never been a problem for the people of the old city. “Given the past experiences, people here are sensitive to stocking foods. We have adapted to being home for long durations playing indoor games,” said Ahmad. He mentioned the concept of Baitul Maal (an institution for the rehabilitation of poor and helpless people in the Islamic society) was here right from the 1980s. “What we did this time around is that we pooled together nearly 100 Baitul-Maals belonging to different localities to help the needy in the respective vicinities,” Ahmad added.  Besides taking care of its poor, the youth in the old city have blocked interior alleys to prevent public movement. However, volunteers are ensuring movement in times of medical emergencies. “We have been doing it for decades --  blocking roads so that security forces don’t raid our houses during nights. This time, it is completely for different reasons,” said a youth, who wished not to be named. There is another culture of ‘dareav kin darbar’ (window to window talking) that has been revived in the congested old city. Sexagenarian Halima Bano from Nawa Kadal, says such communication is a “stressbuster” for the people in times of social distancing.  “Though younger generation is tech-savvy and spends most of their time on gadgets, elders, particularly women, use this age-old tradition of window-to-window communication,” she said. Dr Arshid Hussain, a renowned psychiatrist from the valley, says this type of communication in times of social distancing helps in socialising.  “You need to remain socially connected while maintaining physical distance, like in the old city,” Dr Hussain added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/srinagars-old-city-residents-fighting-covid-19-pandemic-in-their-own-way-824794.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Odd-even rule to be implemented in Delhi's wholesale markets in view of coronavirus: Gopal Rai||The Delhi government will implement odd-even rules in all wholesale markets in the city, under which traders will sell vegetables on alternate days, Development Minister Gopal Rai said on Monday. Speaking to PTI, the minister said that the government has also decided to stagger the timings for the sale of vegetables and fruits in these 'mandis'. "Vegetables will be sold from 6 am to 11 am and fruits from 2 pm to 6pm in all wholesale markets in Delhi," he said. The decisions were taken at a high-level meeting chaired by the development minister here. There are five major wholesale vegetable and fruit markets in the national capital, including the Azadpur mandi, the Ghazipur mandi and the Okhla mandi. Also, there two wholesale 'anaj mandis' (wheat markets) — Najafgarh and Narela. According to the odd-even rule, sheds under which hundreds of traders sell vegetables will be allowed to operate according to their numbers, Rai said. The minister also said that the Delhi government has formed four special task forces to ensure effective social distancing in the mandis in view of the COVID-19 outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/odd-even-rule-to-be-implemented-in-delhis-wholesale-markets-in-view-of-coronavirus-gopal-rai-824797.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 patient dies in Indore; city toll rises to 33||A 42-year old man succumbed to coronavirus in Indore, taking the toll in the Madhya Pradesh city to 33, an official said on Monday. Indore, the state's industrial hub, has been one of the worst affected by coronavirus in the country. The 42-year-old man died of coronavirus on Sunday evening while undergoing treatment at a private hospital, Chief Medical and Health Officer Praveen Jadia told reporters. Besides, 22 new COVID-19 cases were found in the city on Monday, taking the total number of such cases here to 328. So far, 33 people, or about 10 per cent of the total patients, have died of the viral disease in Indore. Since last some days, the COVID-19 death rate in the city has been higher than that at the national level.  Till now, 35 people from the city have been discharged after recovery. Jadia said samples of 1,142 people from Indore have been sent to Delhi for coronavirus testing. "We estimate that many of these people could be infected with coranavirus because most of them are relatives of other COVID-19 patients," he said.  Two more hospitals in Indore have been identified to treat coronavirus patients in view of the increasing number of cases in the city, the official said. After detection of coronavirus cases, intensive survey has been done in the sealed local areas during last several days and so far about 16,000 people have been screened. Curfew was imposed in urban limits on March 25 after the first few cases were found in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-patient-dies-in-indore-city-toll-rises-to-33-824808.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir likely to extend COVID-19 lockdown till May 15||With COVID-19 positive cases showing a steep rise across Jammu and Kashmir, the administration has prepared a strategy to extend lockdown for 30 more days in the Union Territory to combat the spread of the deadly virus. However, so far there is no official announcement on the extension of Lockdown in J&K.   Sources said in the new lockdown which could be announced anytime, the districts will be categorized as COVID active and inactive and there will be complete restrictions on inter-province and inter-districts movements except for essential supplies till May 15, 2020. “A consensus has emerged during the discussions that continuing to restrict large scale movement of people across districts and UT boundary is critical and there should not be any relaxation till the situation improves,” they said. Sources disclosed that a multi-pronged strategy has been worked out for the period beyond April 14, when the current lockdown will end. “The districts categorized as COVID-active will have to follow tougher restrictions compared to those which are not. The tougher measures will be taken in the Red Zones and hot spots with complete ban on any type of movement” they added.  During the lockdown, no inter-state transport will be permitted except emergencies. Moreover, those moving with passes will necessarily have to wear masks. A senior officer privy to the developments confirmed that the government has planned to keep shut all the educational institutions till May 15. “Similarly, all religious pilgrimages and congregations will continue to remain banned and all malls, cinema halls, restaurants, gyms, sports stadiums/clubs and recreational clubs will continue to remain closed till May 15,” he said.  About essential services, he said that the existing strategy and scheme will continue so as to maintain supply of essential commodities to the people. “Agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry activities and the industry/local travel related thereto shall also be allowed. Moreover, controlled functioning of industries will be permitted,” the officer added. The eastern state of Odisha was the first to extend the ongoing lockdown while Punjab became the second state where the lockdown was extended until May 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-likely-to-extend-covid-19-lockdown-till-may-15-824814.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||SPO killed, another injured in J&K militant attack||A special police officer (SPO) was killed and another injured on Monday when suspected militants attacked them with axes in hilly Kishtwar district of Jammu region. A police spokesperson said that at around 3:30 pm, two SPOs – identified as Basit Iqbal and Vishal – were attacked by assailants with axes and seriously injured in remote Tandan village of Kishtwar. “A police party rushed to the spot and evacuated the injured to hospital. However, Basit succumbed to his injuries,” he said. The suspected militants also took away two weapons from the SPOs; the spokesperson said and added a massive manhunt has been launched to nab the attackers. Kishtwar district had been declared free of militancy over a decade ago but since November 2018 has been rocked by several targeted killings of BJP and RSS leaders. On 1 November 2018, J&K secretary of BJP Anil Parihar and his brother Ajeet were gunned down in the firing by militants in a lane leading to their house in Kishtwar town. Last year in April militants killed an RSS leader as well as his personal security officer after snatching his weapon in a hospital in Kishtwar town. On September 28 last year security forces killed three militants, including the mastermind behind these killings, Osama Bin Javed, in the neighbouring Ramban district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/spo-killed-another-injured-in-jk-militant-attack-824818.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown, food shortage cause spike in Indore dog bite cases||On Monday, 22 new COVID-19 cases were found in the city, taking the total COVID-19 count here to 328. So far, 33 people have died of the infection.  "At present, 40-50 people are coming to our hospital every day after being attacked by street dogs. These numbers are unusual as curfew has been imposed and people are supposed to stay indoors. At a time when the COVID-19 infection is rampant, we have to divert some staff for treatment of dog bites," Ashutosh Sharma, in charge of Hukumchand Poly Clinic, popularly known as Lal Hospital, told PTI on Monday. "We have to give the patients four to five injections over 28 days to prevent rabies," he said. People For Animals Indore unit president Priyanshu Jain said the curfew has caused 50,000 dogs in the city to rummage for food. "They are facing problems getting food which is making them irritable and aggressive. When hungry dogs see people walking about wearing masks, they get suspicious, bark at them and attack," Jain added. He said the Indore Municipal Corporation was making 10,000 chapatis, gruel and rice for street dogs and areas where it was being served properly, complaints of dog bites have come down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-food-shortage-cause-spike-in-indore-dog-bite-cases-824824.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: 'City of Taj Mahal' Agra emerges as 'hottest' spot in Uttar Pradesh||Agra, the city of Taj Mahal, has emerged as the 'hottest' spot in Uttar Pradesh for COVID-19 notwithstanding what the state government touted the 'Agra Model' in combating the virus infection. Of the total 550 coronavirus positive cases in the state as on Monday, Agra alone accounted for 140 cases, according to the official sources here. As many as 47 cases of coronavirus positive were reported from Agra district in the past two days. Several COVID-19 cases were reported from the rural areas also triggering alarm bells in the administration. According to the sources, at least 20 cases of coronavirus positive were attributed to one city-based private hospital only. The owner of the hospital, a doctor himself, had earlier been booked for hiding information about his COVID-19 affected son. The doctor was also later found to be infected with the virus.  The first case of coronavirus positive in UP had been reported from Agra only. According to the officials, over 1.65 lakh people had been screened in the town. Over one hundred hotspots had been identified in the town and had been completely sealed. As many as 2264 samples from the district have so far been tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-city-of-taj-mahal-agra-emerges-as-hottest-spot-in-uttar-pradesh-824844.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Amidst coronavirus lockdown, woman in Bihar gives birth to quadruplets||“Two are boys and the other two girls, with each weighing between 1 and 1.5 kg,” said Dr Nuzhat Rehman, who performed the rare operation. “In my two decades of career as a gynaecologist, this is the first time I have done a caesarean operation where quadruplets were born,” said the doctor, who admitted that the patient was not originally under her observation. “She is actually from Chapra. But since she was stuck  here because of the lockdown, she came to my clinic at Phulwarsiharif,” said Dr Rehman. “In my earlier surgeries, I have seen a woman deliver triplets. But this was the first occasion that quadruplets were born,’ said the doctor. The woman, who delivered quadruplets, already has two children, both daughters. Her husband works in Saudi Arabia.      Meanwhile, no fresh positive coronavirus case was detected in Bihar in the last 24 hours. The State has so far 64 positive cases, out of which 26 have recovered. One person passed away on March 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amidst-coronavirus-lockdown-woman-in-bihar-gives-birth-to-quadruplets-824848.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||UP couple names newborn 'Sanitiser', says its their 'contribution' in fight against COVID-19||The COVID-19 crisis and the resultant lockdown appears to have impacted people's view of life. Close on the heels of parents naming their newborns as 'Lockdown' and 'Corona', a couple in Uttar Pradesh's Saharanpur town, about 500 kilometres from here, named their newborn as 'Sanitiser'. According to the reports, the child was born at a private hospital in the town on Sunday. The father of child Omveer Singh, a resident of Vijay Vihar locality in the town, said that it was their (couple) 'contribution' in the fight against COVID-19. ''Every one if fighting against this virus....from our prime minister to ordinary people....this (Sanitiser) is our contribution,'' Singh said. ''Sanitiser is one of the best ways to protect oneself against contracting Coronavirus infection...we will remember this period (lockdown), whenever utter his name,'' he added.  Earlier a man in Uttar Pradesh's Deoria district had named his newborn child as 'Lockdown'. The father of the newborn Pawan Kumar, a resident of Khukhundu village in the district, had said that he had been ''inspired greatly'' by the lockdown, which would prevent the spread of the virus. Before him a newborn female child had been named 'Corona' by her parents in Gorakhpur town in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-couple-names-newborn-sanitiser-says-its-their-contribution-in-fight-against-covid-19-824877.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||SC upholds MP Governor's decision asking Kamal Nath government to hold floor test||The Supreme Court Monday upheld the decision of Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon asking the then Kamal Nath-led Congress government to undertake floor test, but expressed concern over the trend of legislators being whisked away by rival political parties to safe hideouts. It said that if the Governor has reasons to believe that the government has lost confidence of the House, constitutional propriety requires the issue be resolved by the trust vote. The top court however expressed concern over the trend that legislators are taken away by rival political parties at safe hideouts like hotels and resorts which does little credit to the democratic politics. “The spectacle of rival political parties whisking away their political flock to safe destinations does little credit to the state of our democratic politics. It is an unfortunate reflection on the confidence which political parties hold in their own constituents and a reflection of what happens in the real world of politics,” said a bench comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and Hemant Gupta. The apex court, which had on March 19, asked Madhya Pradesh Assembly Speaker N P Prajapati to reconvene a special session the next day with a sole agenda of conducting the floor test, gave a detailed order on Monday. Nath, who had been the Chief Minister for 15 months, then resigned on March 20 -- paving the way for the BJP government led by Shivraj Singh Chauhan. The verdict on Monday further said that the decision of the Governor calling for a floor test cannot be construed to have acted “beyond the bounds of constitutional authority”. “Based on the resignation of six ministers of the incumbent government (accepted by the Speaker), the purported resignation of sixteen more Members belonging to the Congress, and the refusal of the Chief Minister to conduct a floor test despite the House having been convened on March 16, 2020, the exercise of power by the Governor to convene a floor test cannot be regarded as constitutionally improper,” the bench said. It relied upon the nine-judge Constitution bench verdict of apex court in S R Bommai case of 1994. It said that the observations made in it indicate the question of whether the Council of Ministers in an ongoing legislative assembly commands the confidence of the house is a matter which has to been determined only on the floor of the house. "In the circumstances as they have emerged in this case, the exercise of authority by the Governor was based on circumstances which were legitimate to the purpose of ensuring that the norm of collective responsibility is duly preserved. There existed no extraordinary circumstances for the Governor to determine that a trust vote was not the appropriate course of action on March 16, 2020," it said. "The Governor is not denuded of the power to order a floor test where on the basis of the material available to the Governor it becomes evident that the issue as to whether the government commands the confidence of the house requires to be assessed on the basis of a floor test. Undoubtedly, the purpose of entrusting such a function to the Governor is not to destabilise an existing government,” it added. The bench said when the satisfaction on the basis of which the Governor has ordered a floor test is called into question, the decision of the Governor is not immune from judicial review. The top court said that in exercising the constitutional authority to demand a trust vote, the Governor must do so with “circumspection in a manner that ensures that the authority of the House to determine the existence or loss of confidence in the government is not undermined. "Absent exigent and compelling circumstances, there is no reason for the Governor to prevent the ordinary legislative process of a no confidence motion from running its due course”.   It said the Governor is an appointee of the President but does not represent either a political ideology or a political view. “The Governor is expected to discharge the role of a constitutional statesman. The authority of the Governor is not one to be exercised in aid of a political dispensation which considers an elected government of the day to be a political opponent”. The bench said the Governor's decision is not immune from judicial review and can be scrutinized on whether it was based on relevant and germane material. It said Nath, adverting to the turmoil in the state, addressed a communication to the Governor on March 13 stating that convening of the floor test would be a sure basis for resolving the conundrum. “This is a strong indication that the Chief Minister himself was of the opinion that the situation in the state had cast his government’s majority in doubt. However, upon the convening of the Legislative Assembly, no floor test was conducted, and the House was adjourned till March 26 2020. These facts form the basis on which the Governor advised that a floor test be conducted,” it added. The bench also dealt with the plea of Congress in which a direction was sought for granting access to the then 22 MLAs who were lodged at a hotel in Bengaluru. "Political bargaining, or horse-trading, as we noticed, is now an oft repeated usage in legal precedents. 'Poaching' is an expression which was bandied about on both sides of the debate in the present case. It is best that courts maintain an arm's length from the sordid tales of political life," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-upholds-mp-governors-decision-asking-kamal-nath-government-to-hold-floor-test-824890.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Minor siblings from Srinagar tested positive for COVID-19 in March, recover||Two minor girls from Srinagar, who were tested positive for COVID-19 on March 26, were discharged from a hospital in Srinagar on Monday after their repeat samples tested negative. “First two COVID-19 Positive children discharged today from JLNM Hospital Rainawari Srinagar along with their mother who was COVID-19 Negative but was staying with her daughters. The repeat samples of both the children and of the mother came NEGATIVE for COVID-19 today (sic),” DIPR-J&K, said in a tweet. The girls, hailing from uptown Natipora had come in contact with their grandfather, who had arrived from Saudi Arabia after performing Umrah, and tested positive for COVID-19. The man had shared the same flight as that of Kashmir's first COVID-19 patient – a 67-year-old woman from old city Srinagar’s Khanyar area – who was discharged from SKIMS Soura, last week.  Meanwhile, Kashmir’s leading pulmonologist Dr Naveed Nazir Shah said Srinagar will soon move into the stage of discharging recovered COVID-19 patients and it was important to understand that these persons are now as normal as others. “While it is understandable that people are scared of this disease and one must take all precautions as required it is important to understand that those who had it and have now recovered are just as free from it as others who don’t have it,” he said. Dr Naveed said the stigma that has been seen as having been attached to someone affected with this infection is uncalled-for and it is important to end it for all societies to live a normal life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-siblings-from-srinagar-tested-positive-for-covid-19-in-march-recover-824899.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: CM Yogi orders action against those found hiding information about being infected||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday directed officials to take stringent action against people who are found to be hiding information about being infected with coronavirus and spreading it "intentionally", a senior state government official said. All district magistrates (DM) and superintendents of police (SP) have been asked to thoroughly check every house and all religious places in rural areas. In case of any laxity, they will also face action, he said. "The chief minister has directed that those who are hiding information about them being infected with coronavirus and are intentionally spreading it by concealing the fact should be identified and stringent action be initiated against them. Clear cut directives in this regard have been given to home and police department," Uttar Pradesh Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi told reporters here.  "The DMs and SPs have been warned that if they have not initiated checking in the rural areas despite orders given in this regard on March 29-31, then every house and religious place must be checked. "If anyone in hiding tests positive for coronavirus, then action will be initiated against that person and also the concerned district administration and police. No laxity in this regard will be tolerated," he said. Almost 85 per cent of the coronavirus cases in the state are inside the "ring-fence" of hotspots. If any person is left out, then the onus is on police and the district administration, he added. Awasthi lauded the Pilibhit district administration. With the recovery of two COVID-19 patients, Pilibhit has become the state's first coronavirus-free district, he said. The senior official said a committee has been constituted under the health minister to restart the emergency services across hospitals and it will submit its report to the chief minister. Extensive deliberations were held on how to keep private hospitals infection-free, Awasthi said. Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said, "Tele-consultation facility from helpline no. 18001805145 has started from today (Monday). People called on this number, and consulted the doctors. "Retired doctors who want to register themselves to give tele-consultancy can do so," he said. Prasad said pool testing for screening of coronavirus patients will start in the state from Tuesday. "For example, if 10 samples are mixed, and tested for presence of coronavirus, and they test negative, then it indicates that report of all 10 persons is negative and they are infection-free. If there is infection, then individual testing is done. This process accelerates the screening. Pool testing will begin from tomorrow," he said. To ensure that healthcare staff do not get infected while treating COVID-19 patients, doctors and nurses in 40 districts of the state are being trained in infection prevention protocol. Till Sunday, Uttar Pradesh had reported 483 coronavirus cases. Agra, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Lucknow, Saharanpur and Ghaziabad are Uttar Pradesh's worst affected districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-cm-yogi-orders-action-against-those-found-hiding-information-about-being-infected-824902.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||67 more test positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, state's total count 550||Sixty-seven more people tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh on Monday, pushing the count to 550 in the state, senior government officials said. So far, the state has reported five deaths--one each in Basti, Meerut, Bulandshahr, Varnasi and Agra. Additional Chief Secretary (Information) Awanish Awasthi said 80 to 85 per cent of the cases have been reported from identified hotspots.  "The total positive cases in the state are 550. So far, 47 patients have fully recovered and discharged,” Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters. He said there has been an improvement in the sampling mechanism in the state. "On Sunday the maximum 1,980 samples were tested. Now, we are collecting about 2,000 samples a day," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/67-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-uttar-pradesh-states-total-count-550-824912.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: BSF officer, kin arrested for violating coronavirus lockdown in Jhabua||A Border Security Force sub-inspector and his family members were booked on Sunday for travelling from Indore in Madhya Pradesh to Ahmedabad in Gujarat during the lockdown without permission, Superintendent of Police Vinit Jain said. The BSF officer did not stop the vehicle when asked to do so near Machhalia check post and was intercepted after officials relayed the information to personnel at Kalidevi police station ahead, said Jain. "BSF sub-inspector Rajkishore Choudhary, a resident of Ahmedabad, and five of his family members were in the car. On a complaint by the tehsildar, those inside the car, except a three-year-old child, were arrested under IPC, Motor Vehicles Act and Disaster Management Act. They were later released on bail," the SP informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bsf-officer-kin-arrested-for-violating-coronavirus-lockdown-in-jhabua-824913.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||25 new COVID-19 positive cases in Jammu & Kashmir take tally to 270||“25 new cases of Covid-19 reported in J&K. All from Kashmir. Total now at 270. Further details in daily bulletin being released shortly,” J&K government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal tweeted.  Reports said among 25 positive cases, nine were from Bandipora district three from Baramulla, one from Kulgam while 13 others are non-local residents. Deputy Commissioner Srinagar Shahid Choudhary said non-locals, who tested positive include religious preachers from Delhi, Gujarat and Kerala and were already under quarantine. On Sunday a lady doctor and a para-regiment soldier were among those who tested positive for COVID-19 in Jammu division. With toll at 270 on Monday, the number of cases has almost doubled every five-to-seven days. On April 8, the toll of COVID-19 in J&K stood at 139. On 1 April, the number of cases stood at 62. With the government deciding to scale-up COVID19 testing in Kashmir in the coming days, the number of positive cases is expected to see a huge jump. Sources said the two labs in Kashmir at SKIMS and CD Hospital have been directed to increase their testing capacity and help the government to “test and treat COVID19 infected people early and prevent further spread of the viral infection in J&K”.  The government has also directed each district to collect at least 70 samples of suspected cases every day and send these for testing. The goal, an official in the health department said, is to “finish in five days” testing all individuals currently in quarantine and the contacts of those who tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/25-new-covid-19-positive-cases-in-jammu-kashmir-take-tally-to-270-824915.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||1,017 cases filed in Bhopal district for coronavirus lockdown violation||The Bhopal Police have so far registered over 1,000 cases related to violation of lockdown which is in force since late last month in the wake of the novel coronavirus outbreak, an official said on Monday. A Bhopal police spokesman said a total of 1,017 cases were registered till Sunday evening for violation of the lockdown in the district. These cases related to defying government orders issued for compliance of the lockdown, implemented to halt the spread of the deadly viral infection, he said.  Most of these cases were registered under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). "Besides, some people were booked under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act (invoked to deal with the pandemic), the spokesman said. In some of the cases, people were booked under the Excise Act, in addition to relevant IPC sections, for possession of liquor, he said. The Bhopal Police spokesman said most of the people were booked for roaming on roads without any valid reason or opening shops not covered by lockdown exemption. The police have been monitoring the situation through CCTV surveillance system under which 1,365 cameras have been installed in different areas of the state capital, said officials. So far, 139 COVID-19 patients have been found in Bhopal and three of them have succumbed to the disease, they said. The district administration imposed a curfew since the announcement of the nationwide lockdown on March 25. In addition, over 1,000 containment zones have been identified in the city based on detection of coronavirus patients in these areas, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1017-cases-filed-in-bhopal-district-for-coronavirus-lockdown-violation-824935.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: SC orders release of detainees lodged for 2 years in Assam detention centres||Relaxing its earlier conditions in view of the coronavirus pandemic, the Supreme Court Monday directed the release of those detainees who were declared foreigners and have been lodged in the detention centres of Assam for two years or more. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices L N Rao and M Shantanagoudar, referring to the top court's May 10, 2019 order, also lowered the personal bond amount from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5,000 while reducing the minimum period of detention from three years to two years. The top court had imposed certain conditions while directing the release of such detainees including that they should have spent more than three years in detention, and were to be released upon furnishing a bond of Rs 1 lakh along with two sureties. The order on Monday came on intervention application filed by Justice for Liberty Initiative, a Assam based Public Charitable Trust, seeking the release of detainees lodged in six Assam detention centres in view of coronavirus pandemic. During the hearing, Attorney General K K Venugopal objected to their release apprehending that they would infect people in villages or where ever they go after their release. Advocate Shoeb Alam, appearing for the applicant, informed the court that the apprehension of the Attorney General was based on an unfounded premise that every such person was already infected by the virus. The bench observed that the very purpose of framing of guidelines and the release of persons was to prevent these prisons and detention centres from becoming a hotspot of infection. Alam also contended that the two-year period be dispensed with or further reduced on account of unprecedented pandemic situation. The bench observed however that at this stage it would release only those who have spent two years or more in the detention and for further reduction it would consider later. Referring to the orders of the apex court passed on March 16, the plea filed through advocate Talha Abdul Rahman, said that the court has in the present matter already taken a bold and decisive step towards ensuring that prisons do not become breeding grounds of COVID-19 and has ordered a high powered committee to come up with modalities of releasing prisoners on parole. “That in the wake of coronavirus outbreak, there are about 802 detenues in detention centres in Assam who are now more vulnerable in the already overcrowded detention centres with deplorable living conditions, and with no parole being made available to them,” the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-sc-orders-release-of-detainees-lodged-for-2-years-in-assam-detention-centres-824937.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Ministers attend office as country awaits PM's lockdown decision||Several Union Ministers and senior officials on Monday started working from offices again even as the country is waiting for the announcement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Covid-19 lockdown during his address to the nation. Most of the ministers have been working from since Modi announced the 21-day lockdown from March 25. However on Sunday, instructions were given to top officials from the rank of Joint Secretary should attend office along with essential staff. Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar, Coal and Parliamentary Affaris Minister Pralhad Joshi, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Railways and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal, Minister of State for Youth Affairs Kiren Rijiju and Culture and Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel were among those who attended office along with along with senior officials. "I was working most of the time from home during the lockdown. Today I returned to my office at Shastri Bhavan after a week. It feels good to be back. The Modi government is in full action on all fronts now,” Coal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said. Officers of the level of joint secretary also returned to offices on Monday, as they are entitled to official transport. Staff belonging to Class 2, 3 and 4 are working on a rational basis and one-third of them are working. The decision to bring Ministers back to office was seen as an attempt by the government to instil confidence of people in testing times. Officials said the government has become fully functional. Modi will spell out the next course of action during his address to the nation on Tuesday 10 AM where he is expected to announce extension of lockdown for another two weeks with some relaxations. Sources said the ministers have instructed officials to prepare a roadmap for handling the economic impact of Covid-19 in the sectors handled by them and suggestions to overcome it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-ministers-attend-office-as-country-awaits-pms-lockdown-decision-824940.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||200 cases registered, 3,358 detained in Delhi for violating coronavirus lockdown||Over 200 cases were registered and 3,358 people detained in Delhi on Monday for violating government orders during the 21-day lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus, police said. According to data shared by the police, 201 cases were registered till 5 pm under section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.  A total of 3,358 people have been detained under section 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers) and 322 vehicles impounded, the police said. Altogether 161 cases were registered against people for stepping out of their houses without wearing masks, they said, adding the 544 movement passes have been issued. Since March 24, a total of 77,241 people have been detained for violating order under section 65 of the Delhi Police Act. The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital on Sunday rose to 1154, with 85 fresh cases and five deaths being reported in a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/200-cases-registered-3358-detained-in-delhi-for-violating-coronavirus-lockdown-824966.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Japanese machines to disinfect Delhi's red and orange zones||Japanese technology has the ability to cover 20,000 square metres an hour. The pilot disinfection drive using the advanced machines was conducted in central Delhi's Rajinder Nagar on Monday. These machines will be used for sanitisation in red and orange zones in the capital. "This is the first time in India such technology is being used to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. These machines are specifically built to spray disinfectants and flexible enough to be used in narrow lanes along with the broader areas," AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said. The chemical composition used for the disinfection drive as per the guidelines of WHO, Chadda said adding, these machines spray the disinfectants in a way that can kill the germs and virus at any solid surface.  "The key target of the Delhi government is to focus on the containment zones, therefore, the disinfection drive will start with the red zones. We have started a pilot project with three such machines in the presence of the experts to analyse the performance and results thereof. We have sanitised the whole area and studied all the necessary parameters. After careful consultation with the experts, it has been decided that this is a fully equipped technology, and the disinfection drive should immediately start at the containment zones," Chadda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-japanese-machines-to-disinfect-delhis-red-and-orange-zones-824980.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Working strength at CAPF headquarters in Delhi increases||The organisations, also known as the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), issued almost identical directions asking their commandant-rank (equivalent to senior superintendent of police) officers and those senior to them to attend office. "Officers who head verticals and are entitled to government-issued vehicles and drivers and are in the ranks of commandants and above reported from Monday.  "The overall working strength is being maintained between 30-40 per cent," a senior Border Security Force (BSF) officer said. An officer of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police said that apart from senior officials, staffers who are picked up and dropped off by force buses from camps in Tigri, R K Puram and other locations in the Delhi-NCR have joined work. "All the officers, from director general (DG) to commandants, are ensuring all COVID-19 protocols of physical distance and proper sanitisation while attending office," the ITBP officer said. The head offices of other forces like the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) also witnessed an increased strength of officials coming to work from Monday. Last week, these forces had extended the leaves of personnel on home vacation, training and sent on other administrative works till April 15, while some like the BSF had extended the leaves till April 21, in order to contain the spread of the viral infection. Movement of personnel is strictly barred till these dates and commuting is only allowed in emergency cases, a CRPF officer said. The working strength of these forces at their field offices across the country also increased from Monday, a senior official said. These forces, with a combined strength of about 10 lakh personnel, are deployed to render a variety of duties in the internal security domain of the country like border guarding, anti-Naxal and counter-terrorist operations and VIP security among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-working-strength-at-capf-headquarters-in-delhi-increases-824985.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Muslim neighbours carry Hindu man's bier in Jaipur||Muslim neighbours carried the bier of 35-year-old Rajendra Bagri, who died of cancer in the locked down Jaipur, amid the chanting of 'Ram naam satya hai' on Monday. Due to the lockdown imposed to check the coronavirus spread, no other relative, except his wife, children and a younger brother, was at home. In this situation, their Muslim neighbours came forward and made arrangements for the cremation. Two videos related to the procession have surfaced, in which Muslims can be seen carrying the bier amid the chanting of ‘Ram naam satya hai’ as per the Hindu tradition. A resident of Bajrang Nagar in Jaipur's Bhatta Basti, Rajendra Bagri had died on Sunday night after prolonged illness. The locality where he lived is dominated by Muslims. “He was a cancer patient for a long time. Since there were no other relatives, we all decided to make arrangements for his last rites,” Pappu, a Muslim and area resident said.  “This gives a strong message that there are people for whom humanity is greater than caste or religion,” he added. Members of the Muslim community carried the bier on their shoulders from the deceased’s house to some distance, from where the body was taken to the cremation ground in a van. “In view of the curfew, only five people were allowed to attend the cremation. Muslims neighbours made all arrangements for the cremation and the pyre was lit by the younger brother of the deceased,” SHO Shivnarayan told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-muslim-neighbours-carry-hindu-mans-bier-in-jaipur-825016.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi man arrested for impersonating IAS officer to circumvent coronavirus lockdown||A 29-year-old man was arrested in the national capital for allegedly impersonating an IAS officer to avoid the lockdown restrictions imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus, police said on Monday. Aditya Gupta, a resident of Keshavpuram, was travelling in his car when he was stopped by police at a picket three days ago. His car had a siren and stickers of the Delhi Police and the Government of India, police said. Gupta argued with a policeman on being stopped and claimed that he is a senior IAS officer working with the Union Home Ministry, police said. The policeman asked Gupta to show his identity card but when he failed to do so, the official informed the SHO of Keshavpuram about the incident. On turning suspicious, police grilled the man further and he was busted, a senior police official said. Gupta, who works at a private firm here, had earlier also posed as a senior IAS officer to avoid the lockdown restrictions, he said. A case was registered against Gupta under relevant sections of the IPC and he was arrested, the official said, adding that he was later released on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-man-arrested-for-impersonating-ias-officer-to-circumvent-coronavirus-lockdown-825018.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||7 more test COVID-19 positive, total cases rise to 24 in Jharkhand||According to them, the seven new cases were reported from Ranchi, Bokaro and Giridih districts. Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) Director Dr D K Singh said three people from Ranchi city's Hindpiri locality tested positive for the virus on Monday. One person each from Giridih and Bokaro also tested positive on Monday, he said. Earlier, Bokaro Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar said two men, one aged 68 years and the other 45 years, tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday night. They hailed from Bokaro district's Sadam village and are relatives of the 72-year-old man who died of COVID-19 on April 8, he said. With this, the total number of positive cases in Ranchi Bokaro have gone up to 11 while Bokaro's tally climbed to nine. Hazaribag has reported two cases of the infection, while Koderma and Giridih reported one case each. The third person from Bokaro who tested positive for novel coronavirus on Monday also has contact history at Sadam village, officials said. A 60-year-old man had died of COVID-19 in Ranchi on Sunday, the second such case in the state. The first case of COVID-19 in Jharkhand was detected at Hindpiri locality of Ranchi when a 22-year-old Malaysian woman tested positive for the disease on March 31. PTI PVR RG NSD NSD||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-more-test-covid-19-positive-total-cases-rise-to-24-in-jharkhand-825023.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||'Corona Foot Soldiers' to scan Delhi for suspected COVID-19 cases||Intensifying its fight against Covid-19, the Delhi government will be fielding 'Corona Foot Warriors' in the nooks and corners of the capital aiming to aggressively identify suspected Covid-19 cases and ensuring social distancing. Orders have been issued to constitute a multi-sectoral 'Corona Foot Warriors Containment and Surveillance Team' (CFWCST) consisting of field level officers who have experience in different sectors like health, hygiene and law and order and well-versed with the area and people they are assigned. The team will be headed by the Booth Level Officer and will have a civil defence volunteer, one ASHA/Anganwadi worker, one sanitation worker and Delhi Police Beat Constable. "In spite of the lockdown and other corrective measures taken by the government, there is still an urgent need to enhance the ground level intervention through multi-sectoral dedicated teams of field level officers who have experience in different sectors like health, hygiene and law and order and who are also well versed with the area and the people in their respective jurisdiction. It is also felt that there is a need to ensure strict compliance of social distancing, wearing masks, following the proper protocol of hygiene, lockdown etc.," Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev said in his order.  The fresh orders came as more hotspots were added to the list, taking the total to 47 hotspots where more cases are reported. The team will do "foot patrolling" and visit each household on a daily basis to identify any suspected Covid-19 case and take the next steps as per protocol, including quarantine, testing and tie-up with a concerned doctor for further examination. These teams will also have to ensure smooth and speedy transportation of suspects to quarantine centres after "convincing" the family and locals. They should also coordinate and supervise the disinfection activities in their area already being undertaken by the local bodies.  "The team members shall (also) make telephonic calls to various households in their jurisdiction primarily to ensure about the well-being of their family members, regarding the availability of essential items, including food etc and shall advise them to maintain social distancing, wear masks in case they have to come out from their houses for some exigency etc. They shall also inquire with the concerned household whether they know of any suspected Covid-19 case in their neighbourhood," the order said. Every day at 6 PM, each member will have to submit a daily report in a mobile app, which is being developed, about the number of suspected cases, hotspots identified, notices issued for not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing and the number of people not covered by the distribution of cooked food or dry ration. The order also said the team members should make field visits to social distancing in their jurisdiction especially slum clusters and unauthorised colonies to ensure instructions like compulsory wearing of masks are adhered to. "The team shall first convince the public to abide by the instructions, failing which, shall initiate penal action against the violators," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/corona-foot-soldiers-to-scan-delhi-for-suspected-covid-19-cases-825024.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||SC to consider plea for CBI probe into assembly of people at Markaz and bus terminal in Delhi||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to consider a plea for a CBI probe into the assembly of people at Delhi's Anand Vihar bus terminal and Nizamuddin Markaz after the lockdown was imposed due to COVID-19 pandemic. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde asked Supriya Pandora, a resident of Jammu, who filed the PIL to serve a copy to Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The court put the matter for consideration after two weeks.  The petitioner contended that there was "inaction" on the part of the Centre and Delhi government to secure life of people from coronavirus. She alleged the Delhi government had failed to explain till now why a large number of people were allowed to assemble at Anand Vihar Bus Terminal and Markaz in Nizamuddin, putting other citizens to novel coronavirus risk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-to-consider-plea-for-cbi-probe-into-assembly-of-people-at-markaz-and-bus-terminal-in-delhi-825030.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Army pays tributes to martyrs on Siachen Day||The Army on Monday paid solemn tributes to the soldiers who laid down their lives to capture the icy heights of Siachen 36 years ago, a senior official said. The occasion was the 36th Siachen Day that commemorates the courage and fortitude displayed by Indian Army troops in securing the highest and coldest battlefield in the world, a defence spokesperson said. The Indian Army, this day in 1984, launched 'Operation Meghdoot' to secure the Bilafond La and other passes on the Saltoro ridgeline, from Pakistani aggression, he said. "Since then, it has been a saga of unparalleled valour in the face of a belligerent enemy, arduous terrain and challenging climatic conditions at the glacier," he said. The Siachen warriors continue to guard the 'frozen frontier' with tenacity and resolve against all odds, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-pays-tributes-to-martyrs-on-siachen-day-825032.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Jammu district launches e-pass service for emergency movement from 'red zone'||Jammu Deputy Commissioner Sushma Chauhan said the service will facilitate emergency movement of public from the ‘red zone areas’ who are otherwise not allowed to move out of the restricted area. "Now after the launch of this e-PASS facility, any person in a situation of emergency residing in the pre-defined red/containment zones can now apply online by going to the web site,” she said.  “The applicant will be redirected to a web site for filling some details like their own particulars, purpose for which the pass is required”, she added. She said the software has been meticulously designed and developed by the National Informatics Centre J&K and the Service Plus Team of NIC, Delhi, using service plus framework. "The online facility supports three types of ePASSes namely, Within the District, Inter District and Inter State. “It is a complete work-flow based application with eMail and SMS alerts to citizens. Once the request for ePASS is approved by District Authorities, ePASS is sent through registered email and, also, alerts are sent through SMS,” she said. She said the applicant can also visit https:erviceonline.gov.in for tracking the status of application by providing their unique application reference number generated at the time of applying online. Every ePASS generated will also have a QR code embedded within, with the help of which law-enforcement agencies can verify the authenticity of the ePASS, she said. Every e-pass generated will also have a vehicle e-pass with QR code which can be pasted on the windscreen of vehicle to allow hassle-free movement of essential vehicles also on the roads, she added. The Deputy Commissioner also informed that though initially this service is available only for red zones, it will be subsequently extended to entire district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-jammu-district-launches-e-pass-service-for-emergency-movement-from-red-zone-825035.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||2 fresh coronavirus cases in Ladakh||Two more people tested positive for coronavirus in Ladakh, while one patient recovered on Monday, taking the total number of active cases in the union territory to five, officials said. The total number of cases reported in the union territory stands at 17. Of the fresh cases, one is reported from Sabu in Leh and another from Shakar-Chiktan in Kargil. The patient who has been cured is from Kargil, he said, adding that his reports came on Sunday.  He said reports of 40 samples were received from Delhi on Sunday and all of them were negative. Twenty-eight samples were sent from Leh and 12 from Kargil. "This is the second time that the report of the Kargil patient came negative," he said. He said the reports of 120 more samples, including 50 taken on Monday, are awaited. Leh District Magistrate Sachin Kumar warned people of action against "irresponsible posts" on social networking sites and circulation of official communique on the internet. "It is ordered that each WhatsApp/Facebook group admin shall report to the nearest police station if any post which is sensitive and likely to cause public disorder circulates on the social media groups," Kumar said in an order. He also directed the group administrators to bear responsibility and ownership of the content posted in the group. "Any violation of these instructions will lead to strict action under relevant provisions of the Information Technology Act and IPC," he warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-ladakh-825036.html
13-04-2020||North and Central||356 COVID-19 cases reported in a single day in Delhi; total now at 1,510||Delhi recorded the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases for a single day in any state on Monday with 356 cases, taking the total number to zoom past the 1,500 mark. Four more deaths were also reported during the day due to the pandemic as the toll rose to 28. In the last three days, 14 people have died after testing positive for the virus infection. With 356 cases reported in the capital, the total number of people who contracted Covid-19 has risen to 1,510. Of this, 325 people (1,071 in total) were tested as part of special operations, including the Tablighi Jamaat linked cases. Authorities are yet to ascertain how 62 persons contracted the disease and investigations are still on to find it out. On Monday, three persons were discharged from hospitals. So far, 30 people have been discharged while one person has migrated out during treatment.  At present, there are 1,451 people in hospitals. Of this, 49 are in ICU while five are on ventilators and 21 on oxygen. Delhi now has 2,406 beds available for treating Covid-19 patients. With an aim to contain Covid-19 spread, the Delhi government has identified four more localities as hotspots and declared them containment zones before sealing it.  According to the medical bulletin, 310 samples have been collected from the high-risk contacts of positive cases in the identified in 47 containment zones and sent for testing. At present, there are 2,456 people in 16 government quarantine centres besides 14,732 people in-home quarantine. Government and private labs have tested 15,032 samples of which 12,283 have turned negative while 1,008 are still pending. Of the over 15,000 samples, 2,519 were tested in private labs where 10 are still pending.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/356-covid-19-cases-reported-in-a-single-day-in-delhi-total-now-at-1510-825056.html
13-04-2020||Opinion||Expect more Chinese focus on BRI in post-coronavirus world||WHO also shares a blame for not verifying the data emerging for China since the global rate of spread appears much larger than what was seen in China. In fact, even as one writes this, Wuhan is nearly back on its feet after close to three months of lockdown. Moreover, China is doing everything it can to counter the negative image created by the pandemic, not only because it creates business and markets immediately, but also because continuation of COVID-19 hampers connectivity and globalisation on the basis of which China’s power and image are built.  All this put together has caused a lot of damage to China’s status globally and is being seen in various forms, from outright racism, to ban-China messages circulating in the social media recently. This raises serious questions about the future of China’s role in world affairs and how it would come out of this? It would also raise questions about what happens to the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) after COVID-19 subsides because the pandemic highlights one critical aspect that some countries have doubts with reference to the BRI and that has to do with transparency.  One must recall that the global spread of the COVID-19 did show a specific pattern. The first set of countries to have got the infection spike are the ones that have been positive to the BRI and generally have closer economic engagement with China. These include South Korea, Iran, Italy and the UK. These are the countries that were not keen to put restrictions on or implement the monitoring of travelers coming from China. While one could exclude Iran for its general poor economic engagement with the rest of the world, the other countries do not have any excuse. The United States which is engaged in the complex interdependence with China was the next to see the spike primarily because of the lackadaisical early response from Washington which continued to downplay the gravity of the situation, besides other structural reasons.  China's post-COVID-19 strategy    It needs serious consideration as to how COVID-19 will affect BRI after the virus subsides. As of now, the projects are getting delayed as construction remains halted and supply chains disrupted due to closed factories and workers' movement being limited due to restrictions on international travel. This happened first due to the virus spread in China and now due to the global pandemic.  Wuhan also remains central to many of the projects undertaken abroad and shutdown there was hampering work elsewhere. While many partner countries have announced or started to allow Chinese nationals back with on arrival compulsory quarantine of 14 days, they are still not opening the doors to Wuhan residents yet. This is perhaps the reason why one of the flagship events in Wuhan recently was the resumption of the China Europe freight train on March 28, signaling resumption of normalcy. This train carried medical equipment and masks destined for Germany and other European nations, besides having construction and telecom equipment on board. China has also sent medical teams and equipment to Italy, Iran, and in Africa to Nigeria and to other countries. In South Asia, there is a Chinese medical team in Pakistan and Bangladesh has requested for one team to help mitigate the challenges.  The slow and rather messy handling of the pandemic in Europe and the US is likely to stress the Chinese economy further as demand goes down drastically in geographies that are China’s export markets. While China has already exported medical equipment and medicine worth $3 billion, this spike will be short term and resumption of normalcy is likely to take much longer.  China is likely to compensate that by looking out to neighbours and other developing countries which will also be affected as demand in Europe and the US slows down. Whether the Trump administration becomes more inward-looking to counter coronavirus-induced slowdown is yet another question that will affect developing countries export competitiveness.  Small countries will need domestic stimulus and China is likely to step in with low-cost, long-term loans within and outside the BRI framework and as history shows it will generate a significant amount of business for Chinese firms themselves. This may look attractive where small local contractors remain cash strapped amidst the spread of the virus. The last question that remains is whether the Trump administration will strengthen its anti-globalisation agenda after the epidemic. If that were to be the case, China would seek to promote BRI as a flagship of globalisation, which it is not. China would also be pushing the BRI more purposefully as developed economies like Japan seek to reduce their dependence on China as seen from the recently announced Japanese stimulus package. In that situation, there will be greater opportunities for bargain available for other countries since China would need markets more desperately than the recipient countries would need the investments. Overall, the COVID-19 will shape China’s foreign policy and open up new choices and constraints for its ambitious agenda of BRI. (Avinash Godbole is Assistant Professor, Jindal School of Liberal Arts & Humanities, Jindal Global University. He specialises in China Studies) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/expect-more-chinese-focus-on-bri-in-post-coronavirus-world-824772.html
13-04-2020||Panorama||Demand and supply, major challenges to save water||The spread of Novel Coronavirus is dangerous as the death toll is continuously rising day by day. People should also remember that planet earth has struggled recently with a number of disasters including bushfires of Australia, heat waves in India, typhoons in Japan and floods in China and India, which also took a heavy toll on lives and caused a huge economic and social disruption. With the changing climate, natural disasters have become more frequent and intense and therefore, the world needs to be prepared to face this climate change. Water is necessary for both sustainable human development and for the healthy functioning of the planet’s ecosystem. Availability of freshwater is limited. India’s population is 1.25 billion (2011 census) and is expected to stabilise around 1.6 billion by 2050. This would require 450 million tonnes of foodgrain annually. The basic needs for water for rural and urban populations, industry, environment and ecological management also have to be met, taking into account land-use policies, degradation of water resources, depletion of aquifers etc. Long-term planning of the utilisation of water resources is required to meet the various competing demands on a sustainable basis. The strategy for mitigating the effects of natural calamity and restore water is required on war-footing. Annual precipitation estimated to be of the order of 4,000 bcm (billion cubic metre) is the main source of freshwater in the country and 1,869 bcm which occurs as natural run off into the rivers. Due to various constraints of topography, it is estimated that around 1,122 bcm of total potential available - 2,131 bcm - can be put to use, of which surface and groundwater consumption is 690 bcm and 432 bcm, respectively. Around 1,009 bcm is a huge loss which is untapped for consumption. Presently, we are facing multiple problems of supplementing the supply of water during the crises and preparing the country for any outbreak in future. For any of this kind of assessment, we need to understand where we stand right now. The dependency on the groundwater is exceedingly high and this can be further grasped by the fact that 85% of rural India’s drinking water supply is derived from groundwater sources only. India generates about 61,948 million liters daily (MLD) of sewage against the treatment capacity of 23,277 MLD which is 37% of the wastewater is generated. Moreover, the installed sewage treatment plants either do not function at maximum capacity or do not comply with required standard. Thus, there is an urgency and need for water management and sewage system infrastructure to be strengthened to make them disaster and pandemic proof. *We have taken a few steps for creating the infrastructure of piped water supply including strengthening of solid and liquid waste management systems. As a long-term measure to make the country water secure, we have to create a balance between water demand and supply by curbing extra demand and supplementing supply. Smart Water Metering (SWM) under Internet of Things (IoT) can support as a tool to curtail the wastage of water. The SWM technology enhances the way to the residents can adjust their water usage using online databases. The technology allows the consumer to understand where their water consumption is used the most and alerts them if there are any substantial increases which could signal a leak or other problem. The government can provide incentives for such consumers to install SWM and appliances to promote overall water conservation and efficiency. We face huge distribution-losses on account of leakages, unauthorised connections, and improper billing and collection inefficiencies. Reducing non-revenue water (NRW) losses have considerable benefits from efficient management of water resources to revenue-generating water utilities. This can be managed to reduce its NRW levels from as high as 45% to 5% within one year with the help of IoT interventions, including real-time hydraulic modelling, automated water balance calculations, installation of flow and pressure monitoring instruments and noise loggers for automatic leakage detection. We have successfully implemented IoT in Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation, and in Jamshedpur which have proved that consumers can also deploy certain technical measures to reduce distribution losses from 50% to 7% and 36% to 10%, respectively. Coverage and sustainability Invest in scaling up micro-irrigation to increase coverage and sustainability. Micro-irrigation has been known to be a vital solution to make agriculture and horticulture more water-efficient and support doubling farmer’s income. Conservation of excess water received during rainy season and effective use of infrastructure developed so far can play an important role in improving water storage and availability of water in dry season. Developing plan to maximise utilisation of rainfall, surface and ground water through conjunctive use of these resources. Irrigation at present is not cost effective. Less water demanding crops during dry season may be cultivated for minimising irrigation cost. Industrial water quotas, tradable permits and water availability linked licenses can help in optimising water usage in scarce regions and minimise the water supply deficit. Our thermal power plants are likely to face high water stress, severely hampering energy production and economic activity. Water availability linked energy production should be the norm. Exploring solutions such as desalination plants and floating solar PV systems. Environmental damage will intensify with increased attempts towards finding additional water resources. This will lead to serious harm to the country’s biodiversity, environment, and ecological balance. Adapting developmental approach for environmental sustainability is appreciated to maintain the ecological balance. 30% of land is impacted by desertification and degradation due to poor water management. Afforestation is one of the most effective mechanisms of reversing desertification trends. Awareness and public opinion continue to grow in water harvesting systems. Scientists speculate the greatest scarcity in the 21st century will be of water – not of oil or fossil fuels. Therefore, we have to mitigate water crisis. (The writer is former Administrator, CADA, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/demand-and-supply-major-challenges-to-save-water-824666.html
13-04-2020||Right in the Middle||Quarantine: Factual and fictional experiences||Quarantine--I first came across that word, which trips off our tongues these days, in the school stories of Enid Blyton. I was not yet in my teens but longed to be admitted to St. Clare’s or Malory Towers. Since thousands of children nurtured that illusory hope, Blyton’s publishers explained in a prefatory note that those incredible institutions existed only in the imagination of their creator. Quarantine features regularly in Blyton’s books. In the third title of the St Clare’s series, Pat and Isabel O’Sullivan are excitedly awaiting the start of a new term. Unfortunately, they play tennis with someone recovering from mumps and are placed in quarantine. Their doctor is amused that the twins are eager to get back to school. If I had been a student at one of Blyton’s schools I would have been just as keen to return. I could picture the fun and fellowship, in and outside the classroom. If anyone took ill (after a midnight feast, perhaps!) the patient would be housed in the san (short for sanatorium). I would not have minded spending time in that haven, with a motherly matron in attendance. Indeed, I rather liked the idea of contracting scarlet fever, a colourful-sounding ailment that sends Blyton’s boarders to the sickbay. One summer, after arriving in Madras (now Chennai) from Delhi, I went down with measles. Confined to the house of my maternal grandparents, I missed the exciting outings planned for the vacation, such as trips to Marina Beach and a visit to the museum at Fort St. George. I was envious of the younger members of the family who were enjoying themselves at theatres and restaurants, of course under supervision. Quarantine, however, proved pleasant and profitable. The city where I was stuck for a month was home to Moore Market. That historic edifice had wealth within its walls in the form of books for every age group. My parents provided me with a steady supply, and I realised that there were authors besides Blyton who might be worth my attention in the future. Reading a pictorial biography of the Brontë sisters, I was struck by the fact that those three gifted writers succumbed to consumption (tuberculosis). In fact, their father lost all five of his daughters to that disease. Whatever happened to quarantine?  Evidently, it was not always effective. With barely concealed delight I watched my happily holidaying brother and cousins catch measles, one after another.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/quarantine-factual-and-fictional-experiences-824661.html
13-04-2020||Second Edit||India must step up vigil along border||At a time when they should be working together to fight common foes like the coronavirus, it is unfortunate that India and Pakistan are training their guns at each other along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir. For four consecutive days last week, Pakistan violated the ceasefire repeatedly by firing at Indian posts and engaging in intense mortar shelling along several sectors along the LoC. On Saturday, India retaliated by targeting terrorist launch pads and ammunition depots on the Pakistan side of the LoC. Violating the ceasefire is untenable always. The agreement, which came into effect in November 2003, did bring a semblance of stability and peace along the LoC. However, its frequent violation in recent years has made the ceasefire increasingly precarious. Every exchange of fire between India and Pakistan erodes this agreement and is thus unacceptable. That the latest exchange of cross-LoC firing and shelling has taken place at a time when a pandemic is raging makes it all the more reprehensible. Both India and Pakistan are battling high coronavirus infections. They should be diverting all resources and energies to fighting the pandemic. Not only is the cross-LoC firing weakening an already fragile ceasefire but also scores of people have been injured, some of them critically. Transporting them for treatment in hospitals will not be easy as India is under a lockdown. At a time when the government is trying to enforce social distance, people are crowding into underground shelters to escape shelling from Pakistan Occupied Kashmir. Pakistan violated the ceasefire agreement over 3,200 times last year, the highest in a single year since 2003.  In February last year, India carried out a massive strike on a Jaish-e-Mohammed camp in Balakot in Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, in response to a major terror attack on Indian security forces at Pulwama. India’s counter-strike was aimed at pressuring Pakistan to halt support to anti-India terrorism. The large number of ceasefire violations last year indicates that India’s muscular tactic failed to quell Pakistani aggression. It is important therefore that India explores the diplomatic option with Pakistan again. Pakistan is known to infiltrate terrorists into India under cover of escalated firing and shelling across the LoC. It resorts to this strategy especially in spring, when crossing icy passes in the Himalayas becomes easier.  It can be expected to intensify cross-LoC firing and infiltration in the coming weeks. Anti-India sentiment in the Valley has reached unprecedented levels over the past year and Pakistan will be keen to fish in troubled waters by stepping up infiltration into India. India’s best response to such provocation is to step up vigil along its border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/india-must-step-up-vigil-along-border-824659.html
13-04-2020||South||2 cops 'attacked', injured by couple during arrack raid in Kerala||Two civil police officers were injured, one of them lost two fingers in his hand, when a couple allegedly attacked them during a raid at their house, where illicit liquor was stored at Uppathara near here. The raid was carried out following a tip-off that illegal arrack was distilled at the residence. Thomas John (34) and Animon Ayyappan (33), suffered grievous injuries and have been admitted to the hospital, police said. "We reached the house of the couple following a tip-off and seized the arrack. When we found that the family was pouring the spurious liquor down the drain, we tried to stop them but were attacked.. Two fingers of John were severed" they said. The couple was arrested on charges of attacking the officers during the raid. The incident comes on a day when a police team in Punjab was attacked by a group, in which an assistant sub-inspector's hand was chopped off. The group of 'Nihangs' (a sect of sikhs) attacked the police personnel after they were intercepted in Patiala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/2-cops-attacked-injured-by-couple-during-arrack-raid-in-kerala-824688.html
13-04-2020||South||Pics of RSS workers 'manning' checkpost triggers row in Telangana||As photographs on social media purportedly showing RSS workers manning a police checkpost in Telangana triggered a row, a police inspector was shifted from there and officials on Sunday said no permission was given to the volunteers and they were told to leave the place. The RSS, on its part, dismissed as 'false' reports about its were checking ID cards at checkposts and said these were motivated by "narrow and vested interests". Photographs circulated on social media purportedly showed RSS swayamsevaks manning a police check post on a highway in YadadriBhongirdistrict during the ongoing coronavirus lockdown with several netizens raising objections. They sought to know how RSS activists "carrying lathis" were allowed to man check post and 'verify' documents of motorists crossing it and demanded registration of cases against them. Majlis Bachao Tehreek party spokesman Amjed Ullah Khan in a statement demanded clarification from Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and sought to know whether it was soft- Hindutva policy of the TRS government or some pro-RSS officials in Telangana government doing it on their own. However, police said some college students in civil dress offered to volunteer and assisted the police personnel at a few check posts in food and water distribution for lorry drivers last week. All of sudden they came in RSS uniform on April 9 and took some photos near the check post and they were not allowed and told to leave the place, a senior police official said. The Police Inspector (in-charge of the check post falling under Alair check post), has since been shifted and attached to the headquarters, police said adding nocase had been registered over the incident. Reacting to the reports, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh Telangana State Secretary Kacham Ramesh said workers of the outfit do not interfere with the work of the administration and take up activities only after getting proper concurrence. The current news in some sections of media and social media alluding that Sangh swayamsevaks are checking ID cards in Telangana is false and motivated by narrow and vested interests," he said in a statement. Ullah Khan also claimed that RSS workers were given official permission to manage rice distribution at PDS shops in Kamareddy district by the Tahsildar on April 1. But, Kamareddy District Collector A Sharath rejected it, saying there was no involvement of any volunteers and the government employees were clearly told to carry out the door-to-door distribution themselves. Around 10 days ago, the Tahsildar of Kamareddy planned to involve volunteers for maintaining queue at fair price shops and when we came to know, I warned the Tahsildar to drop it. The ID cards of volunteers which were prepared were immediately cancelled. No volunteers were involved, the Collector told PTI on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pics-of-rss-workers-manning-checkpost-triggers-row-in-telangana-824699.html
13-04-2020||South||COVID-19: Not yet time to be completely relieved, says Kerala Minister Shailaja||Despite COVID-19 cases in Kerala showing a dip in the past few days, Health Minister K K Shailaja on Monday said it was not yet time to be "completely relieved" as neighbouring states were seeing a spike in numbers, which was causing concern. "We want to bring down the graph of positive cases. That is our effort. We feel our efforts are paying dividends , if we go by the results in the last few days. However, we cannot be completely relieved just because cases in the state has dipped. "It is not enough if the virus are under control in Kerala. It is a pandemic. The cases in our neighbouring states are increasing and that is a cause of concern," the minister told reporters. While Tamil Nadu has so far reported 1,075 positive cases and 11 deaths, Karnataka accounts for 247 cases, which includes six deaths and 59 discharges. The nature of this virus is such that at times there will be very few positive cases and suddenly there will be a spurt if a contact fails to be detected, resulting in the infection being transmitted to more people, the minister said. "So, we need to be extremely careful. That is the message we want to give. Yesterday, there were only two cases", she said adding there have been instances when from 9, COVID-19 cases have jumped to 24 the very next day in the state. Strict quarantine, meticulous contact tracing and isolation system have all helped the state to successfully treat the positive cases. Kerala reported two coronavirus cases on Sunday and 36 were reported cured. Kasaragod, the hotspot in the state which had the most number of COVID-19 cases, reported 28 cured cases of the total 36. Presently, 194 patients are under treatment across various hospitals in the state while 1.16 lakh people under observation and 179 people have been cured. There have been two fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-not-yet-time-to-be-completely-relieved-says-kerala-minister-shailaja-824795.html
13-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu extends COVID-19 lockdown till April 30||Tamil Nadu, which stands at the third position in the number of COVID-19 cases in the country, on Monday, announced extending the lockdown till April 30 to prevent further spread of Coronavirus. The state cabinet had on Saturday decided to accept the Centre’s decision on lockdown extension saying Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had made his opinion clear during a video conference meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On the eve of Modi’s address to the nation, Palaniswami said in a statement that the lockdown will be extended till April 30 and announced the continuation of welfare measures to unorganized workers and migrant labourers. “Keeping in mind the sentiments expressed in the video conferencing with the Prime Minister and the opinion of the expert committee that relaxing the lockdown at this stage would lead to the spread of the disease, the lockdown, and imposition of Section 144 is extended till April 30,” Palaniswami said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-april-30-824837.html
13-04-2020||South||12 new coronavirus cases reported in Andhra Pradesh; tally rises to 432||Showing no signs of abating, the COVID-19 cases continued their upward trend in Andhra Pradesh, adding 12 since Sunday night and taking the overall tally to 432. Guntur district has now taken the top spot in the state with 90 cases, with the addition of eight since Sunday night, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Health Department on Monday. Kurnool district has now fallen to second place with 84 cases. Guntur and Kurnool districts had the largest number of delegates who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in New Delhi last month. Overnight, two cases were added in Chittoor district and one each in Krishna and West Godavari. With 12 patients discharged and seven deaths in the state so far, the number of active cases touched 413, according to the bulletin. So far, since the coronavirus outbreak, a total of 8,755 blood samples were tested in AP of which 8,323 turned negative. At 432, the percentage of positive cases was 4.9, according to the COVID-19 dashboard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/12-new-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-rises-to-432-824843.html
13-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Hit by revenue fall due to lockdown, Kerala temples launch online offering facility||With the lockdown entering the fourth week, many prominent temples like the Sabarimala Ayyappa Temple and the Guruvayur Sree Krishna temple are facing acute revenue fall. While the Sabarimala Temple already launched the online facility for devotees to conduct special poojas and make online payments to hundi, the Guruvayur temple is launching an updated online facility with easy payment options and facility for making an offering to hundi. N Vasu, president of Travancore Devaswom Board that manages Sabarimala temple, told DH that owing to ban of pilgrims to Sabarimala during the annual festival last month and the Vishu day as well as other major temples under the board, the TDB would be facing Rs. 100 crore revenue fall from offerings, poojas and sales of prasadams. Guruvayur Devaswom chairman K B Mohandas said that the Sree Krishna Temple used to have monthly revenue of Rs. 12 crore, which has come to the rock-bottom levels owing to the lockdown. If the situation prolongs, both the Devaswoms might also face financial crunches in meeting expenses like salaries to employees, they said. With the lockdown upsetting hundreds of devotees who used to have the auspicious 'Vishnukanni' darshan, the first sight of the collection of valuables ranging from vegetables to gold symbolising prosperity, at major temples, Kerala Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran said in a TV talk show that the option of live web streaming of important temple rituals would be considered as being done by many Churches. But it has been nipped in the bud by the Devaswom authorities citing ritualistic hurdles.    Mr. Vasu said that he had discussed the live streaming option with the temple Thantri. The Thantri said that video recording of poojas inside the sanctum sanctorum should not be allowed as per ritualistic norms. Many devotees were also not favouring online darshan. Balabhaskar, a native of Thiruvananthapuram, who used to be at Guruvayur Sree Krishna temple in Kerala on all Vishnu festival days over the last many years to witness the 'Vishnukani' said that he did not favour online Vishukani darshan or other rituals. "Online darshan would not give the fervour of being in a temple premises," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-hit-by-revenue-fall-due-to-lockdown-kerala-temples-launch-online-offering-facility-824862.html
13-04-2020||South||COVID-19 recovery rate in Kerala reaches 52%||Out of the 378 COVID-19 positive cases, 198 persons in Kerala have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 52 percent. Only two people in Kerala died of COVID-19, while a Mahe native died after failing to recover during the treatment. Out of the 166 persons in Kasargod who were infected, 73 got cured. No fresh cases were also reported in the district on Monday. Of the three fresh cases reported in Kannur and Palakkad districts, two got infected through local contacts and one person came from abroad. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that even as Kerala was witnessing a high number of recovery and a low number of fresh cases over the last few days, the state will continue to remain vigilant. Hence the lockdown could not be relaxed fully. Based on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement on lockdown on Tuesday, the state would take further decisions on any sorts of relaxations in the lockdown, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-recovery-rate-in-kerala-reaches-52-824952.html
13-04-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Kerala government urges PM to arrange for special flights to Gulf to bring back Malayalis||The Kerala government on Monday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to arrange special flights to the Gulf to bring back non resident Keralites stranded there due to the lockdown. In a letter to Modi, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said many Keralites who had gone on visit visas and in search of employment were finding it difficult to continue there without jobs. "While we appreciate the constraints faced in allowing international travel as the threat of COVID-19 has not yet receded, it is requested that special consideration to their needs be given and at an earliest opportune time, the Government of India consider arranging special flights to bring these people back," Vijayan said in the letter. All International health protocols can be followed while extending this facility, he said and assured that testing and quarantine needs of Keralites who are returning would be undertaken by the state government. During the video conferencing the Prime Minister had with Chief Ministers on April 11, this matter had been broght to Modi's notice, Vijayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-kerala-government-urges-pm-to-arrange-for-special-flights-to-gulf-to-bring-back-stranded-malayalis-824996.html
13-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Masks made mandatory for Chennaiites outside their homes||An order to this effect was issued as the Tamil Nadu government extended the lockdown to check the spread of the coronavirus till March 30 as the number of positive cases in the state rose to 1,173 with Chennai accounting for 205, the highest among all districts. The Greater Chennai Corporation said people must wear masks compulsorily once they step out of their homes with immediate effect and warned of action in case of violation. "...all persons are to wear masks compulsorily once they step out of their homes," the civic body, the largest in the state, said. The order has been issued under the Epidemic Diseases and TN Public Health Acts, the GCC said. "As long as the public are moving outside, they have to wear it (masks). If found without masks, then their movement passes will be cancelled and vehicles will be impounded for three months. This comes into effect forthwith," it said. Movement passes are issued by authorities to facilitate travel for essential purposes during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-masks-made-mandatory-for-chennaiites-outside-their-homes-825020.html
13-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Tamil Nadu govt’s order to cease distribution of relief material by NGOs criticised, challenged in court||Tamil Nadu government’s decision to not allow delivery of cooked food, dry rations and other relief materials by NGOs and other organisations to the needy directly has kicked up a storm. As the order was widely criticised, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said there was no ban on individuals or organisations providing succour to the needy, but they have only been asked to “coordinate and join” the district or local administration in their efforts. Palaniswami said the government decided to “regulate” the direct delivery of relief items by individuals since it could lead to spread of the disease. He added that individuals or organisations can hand over the relief materials to local administration or their members can join hands with the government.   The Sunday’s order, which was communicated in the form of a media release by the Chief Minister, was widely criticised by political parties and other organisation who said the decision was “absurd” and would leave thousands hungry. DMK President M K Stalin opposed the move on Sunday by saying the government “won’t do on its own and will not allow anyone to do any good” for the people. The party’s legal eagle P Wilson sought judicial intervention by filing a petition in the Madras High Court.    “The poor are already starving and require immediate assistance. This move will also lead to official nepotism, discrimination and favouritism leaving the really affected poorest person to die without food and hence is liable to be set aside,” he said in the petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-tamil-nadu-govt-s-order-to-cease-distribution-of-relief-material-by-ngos-criticised-challenged-in-court-825022.html
13-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: 31 children under 10 years of age are coronavirus positive||The increase in the number of doctors and nurses contracting Coronavirus is a major cause of concern for the state, which is already facing a tough battle to contain the spread of COVID-19. With the swab samples of 98 people rendering positive on Monday, the tally has gone up to 1,173, including 11 deaths and 58 discharges from hospitals. Of the 98, 91 are from “single source event”, an oblique reference to the Tablighi Jamaat religious congregation in Delhi. Three doctors, two from ESIC Hospital in Coimbatore and one from a private hospital, tested positive for the virus on Monday, taking the number to 11, while five nurses were already receiving treatment for COVID-19. The government has been evading a direct reply to questions on why the number of health professionals getting affected due to the virus is increasing each passing day. Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh said the state was fully prepared with huge quantities of PPEs and masks for healthcare workers to handle the pandemic. She also said the death rate in Tamil Nadu is at a low percentage and added that the focus is now on testing patients with a severe acute respiratory infection (SARI).   “62 SARI patients were tested today and none of them are positive for COVID-19. We will continue our efforts to reduce the death rate,” she said. To a specific question, the Health Secretary said 31 children under the age of 10 so far tested positive. Sources said most of these children contracted the virus through attendees of the “single source event” or their contacts. They said special care is being taken to treat these children as they fall under the “high-risk category”. “The monitoring mechanism is different when it comes to children. Every movement of theirs is monitored and their treatment protocol is different from that of adult patients,” a source said.    A 10-month-old baby was successfully treated for COVID-19 and discharged from ESIC Hospital in Coimbatore on April 6. As on Monday, the state has 34 testing centres – 25 in government hospitals and the remaining nine in the private sector. The state currently has 43,278 passengers under home quarantine for 28 days and 136 asymptomatic passengers from highly affected countries are being quarantined in quarantine facilities near airport and 1,984 are under hospital isolation. “Till now 12,746 samples have been taken from the passengers. 1,173 persons tested positive and testing of 1,136 samples is under process,” an update from the Health Department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-31-children-under-10-years-of-age-are-coronavirus-positive-825058.html
13-04-2020||South||Residents protest cremation of coronavirus positive doctor in Tamil Nadu||The doctor, who hailed from Nellore in Andhra Pradesh, breathed his last at a private hospital authorised by the Tamil Nadu government to treat COVID-19 patients on the outskirts of the city. As hospital staff with protective gear took the mortal remains of the doctor to Ambattur crematorium, a large number of people, throwing curfew to the wind, gathered and protested against conduct of last rites of a COVID-19 patient in their area. Despite authorities trying to convince them, the locals didn’t relent forcing the hospital staff to take back the body to the morgue.    The family of the doctor has been quarantined and the hospital staff took the responsibility of taking the body to the crematorium. At her regular press briefing, Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh said the doctor’s death would be recorded in Andhra Pradesh and he resides in the neighbouring state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/residents-protest-cremation-of-coronavirus-positive-doctor-in-tamil-nadu-825062.html
13-04-2020||State||Coronavirus lockdown: UAS scientists help farmers with grape marketing||Agricultural scientists from the University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Bengaluru, are venturing out of their laboratories to lend a helping hand to lockdown-hit farmers. The alumni association of the UAS has come together to facilitate the direct sale of fruits cultivated by farmers of Bengaluru, Chikkaballapur and Kolar districts, who have been hard-hit by the outbreak. The scientists have been visiting farms in these districts to certify the crop for quality and also marketing them in several areas in Bengaluru.  “As the region is known for the cultivation of grapes, we have decided to market various varieties of the fruit. We have been in touch with about 10 farmers who have cultivated about 100 to 125 tonnes of grapes. For a week, we have been marketing the fruits in Hebbal, Yelahanka, Sahakarnagar and RT Nagar areas,” said Dr Gopal, Executive Committee member, UAS alumni association. The scientists have been catering to bulk orders coming through the Resident Welfare Associations (RWA) and apartment associations. “The farmers will make arrangements for transport. They will pack the fruits in two kilo packets. However, they will be able to supply only if the demand is more than 700 to 800 kg or up to 1 tonne. Hence we encourage only bulk orders,” Dr Gopal clarified.    While the popular seedless varieties like Shardh, Krishna and Sonalika are sold at Rs 60 per kg, the Red Globe variety is sold at Rs 90 per kg. RWAs can place an order by WhatsApp or by calling 8197977076/ 9242411611/9731651925.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-uas-scientists-help-farmers-with-grape-marketing-824648.html
13-04-2020||State||Coronavirus lockdown: Karnataka government meet to discuss reopening of govt offices, liquor shops||High-level meetings will be convened on Monday to discuss the easing of restrictions on some liquor stores and to work out the modalities to allow partial functioning of government offices in the state after April 14. The Excise Department had made a proposal to allow the sale of liquor during the remainder of the lockdown. The government will take a call on whether to allow MSIL (Mysore Sales International Ltd) outlets and CL-2 licence MRP retail stores to function. While curbs on serving alcohol at bars and restaurants will continue, the restrictions on MSIL and CL-2 outlets could be relaxed. “There have been cases of withdrawal symptoms and suicides due to nonavailability of alcohol. Several liquor outlets have also been burgled since March 24, when Karnataka announced the lockdown. There are also fears that there will be a surge in the sale of illicit liquor till April 30, which will cause health concerns,” an official told DH on condition of anonymity.  Apart from illicit liquor, illegal sale of such beverages — smuggled from closed outlets and distributed violating lockdown norms — has also been a cause of concern. Around 2,500 litres of liquor sold illegally were seized during the first 10 days of lockdown. Government offices Sources told DH that government departments had proposed to allow 50% of work force in offices from April 15 to 30. According to B Guruprasad, secretary to government, PWD Department, different departments had different strategies to resume partial functioning of government offices. “Modalities of the same will be finalised in a day or two,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-government-meet-to-discuss-reopening-of-govt-offices-liquor-shops-824653.html
13-04-2020||State||6-member expert panel to study COVID-19 cases & advise govt||The Karnataka government on Monday formed a six-member committee of experts to analyse the coronavirus related data in the state and advise it on the interventions to be initiated. The panel will study the epidemiology of COVID-19 cases reported in the state, ascertain how different patients have got infected and suggest administrative measures for breaking the chain and maintain distancing. It will also analyse the treatment given to different patients and suggest any change or modification required. The panel will be chaired by public health expert Dr M K Sudarshan, while the joint director of Health and Family Welfare Services Dr Prakash will be the member secretary, a Government Order said. The other members are an epidemiologist, virologist, expert in medicine and pulmonologist, the order said. The committee was formed as the number of COVID-19 patients touched 247 with 15 cases reported on Monday. This includes six deaths and 59 discharges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/6-member-expert-panel-to-study-covid-19-cases-advise-govt-824867.html
13-04-2020||State||Villagers resort to superstitions to fight Coronavirus||Including Chikkanayakanahalli town, and many other places in the taluk, people are sticking neem sticks into empty coconut shells and keeping them under neem trees to drive away the evil spirits that they believe are causing the Covid-19 crisis.   This practice is also being noticed in districts like Chitradurga, Chikkamagalur and Hassan. First, they perform special rituals using the coconut shell with neem and then place them outside the village under neem trees to ward off evil spirits. They believe that by doing so, the Coronavirus will not enter their village.   Elders in these villages said that it is believed that when humans abuse Mother Earth, She gets angry and unleashes evil spirits that cause pandemics like plague and cholera. Such pandemics had occurred in India decades ago and claimed many lives.  As part of the entire ritual a 'Karaga' -- a practice that pays tribute to the Mother Goddess is being taken out in turns by villagers every Tuesday and Saturday. Amid all this, social distancing is not being adhered to, said certain concerned villagers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/villagers-resort-to-superstitions-to-fight-coronavirus-824871.html
13-04-2020||State||Tamarind, copra exports to other states banned: JCM||Law and District in-charge Minister J C Madhuswamy said that tamarind and copra exports to other states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala must be stopped to contain the spread of Covid-19. He addressed a meeting with officials here on Monday.  He stressed that the sale of the two products within the state was not in any way restricted and pointed out that there was a demand for copra and tamarind in Pavagada and Sira taluks. He asked the police chief to ensure that fish sales in the district should not be obstructed as fishing in Kunigal and Turuvekere taluks had gone up. He told Bescom officials to fix dysfunctional transformers and ensure uninterrupted power supply to rural areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tamarind-copra-exports-to-other-states-banned-jcm-824896.html
13-04-2020||State||Covid-19: Suspected cases steadily rise in Tumakuru||The number of suspected Covid-19 cases are rising in Tumakuru each day. Consequently, the collection of throat swabs, phlegm, and other samples is also rising. These samples are being sent to the National Institute of Virology, Bengaluru.  However, no new positive case of Coronavirus infection has been reported in the district. As on Saturday, reports of 17 samples were expected back from the laboratory. On Sunday, the number of reports awaited had risen to 69. On Monday, the number stood at 93. As many as 233 people tested so far turned out to be negative for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-suspected-cases-steadily-rise-in-tumakuru-824939.html
13-04-2020||State||Tumakuru's first 'Covid-19 tunnel' set up at market||Three biotechnology students and a chemical engineer have designed a tunnel that prevents the spread of Covid-19. They are Purshottam, Chidanand, Vinay and engineer Akshay. The students belong to the Siddaganga Institute of Technology. The first such 'Covid-19' tunnel was used in Gauribidanur in Chikkaballapur district. Now it is being used across the state. One such tunnel was commissioned on Sunday at the Antharasanahalli Market in the city. It was built at a cost of Rs 45,000. The Corona tunnel is eight feet in length and six feet wide. It sprays Hypochlorite on the customers and hawkers who come to the market to disinfect them. "We presented the idea to Mahanagara Palike Commissioner T Bhoobalan. It was ratified by engineer Mruthyunjaya," said Purushottam. The students have trained the market security staff on how to use the tunnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tumakurus-first-covid-19-tunnel-set-up-at-market-825027.html
13-04-2020||State||Testing must for Tablighi returnees, close contacts: minister||District incharge minister Jagadish Shettar on Monday directed the district administration to do compulsory testing for Covid-19, of samples from Tablighi Jamaat returnees and those in touch with them. The force of law may be employed if they do not co-operate with the authorities, the minister told a meeting on combating Covid-19 in the city. “A few people from Kudachi and Raibag who took part in the Tablighi convention in Delhi and have returned. Since many among them tested positive for Covid-19, people in these areas should undergo tests,” the minister said. A testing lab for Covid-19 will start functioning in the city in the next couple of days, he said. He directed the authorities to provide the necessary medical facilities in areas that have been declared as containment zones. Suggestions were made at the meeting for quarantining all people in Kudachi town. Rajya Sabha member Prabhakar Kore said ambulances ferrying critical patients should not be stopped at the district borders. Deputy Commissioner S B Bommanahalli said Kudachi had already been declared as a containment zone. Only purchase of provisions, vegetables and medicines would be allowed, the DC said. Belagundi and Hirebagewadi had also been declared as containment zones, he said. CCTV cameras were keeping an eye on the movement of people, assistant commissioner Ashok Teli, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/testing-must-for-tablighi-returnees-close-contacts-minister-825042.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Novel coronavirus lockdown: Karnataka Minister Sudhakar lands in soup over swimming pool pic||The Congress party on Monday demanded the resignation of Karnataka’s Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar for tweeting a picture of himself swimming with his children in a pool.   In the tweet, which has since been deleted, Sudhakar said: “After a long time joined my children for swimming hope maintaining social distance here also..haha.(sic)” In response to this, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President DK Shivakumar has called for Sudhakar to step down. “When the whole world is going through a health crisis, the corona in-charge minister Dr Sudhakar is behaving irresponsibly by spending time in a swimming pool,” said Shivakumar in a tweet that included a screenshot of Sudhakar’s now-deleted tweet. “It's a matter of moral & ethical standard. He must resign out of his own accord & CM should sack him from the Cabinet.”  In a subsequent statement that Shivakumar issued, he said that he was aghast that Sudhakar, being a doctor, posted a picture of his personal life during the crisis. “Not just those from my party, BJP leaders themselves called me to ask why I have not demanded Sudhakar’s resignation yet,” he said. “Still, I will not press for his resignation. Even the CM or Governor should not sack him. According to me, Sudhakar himself will take moral responsibility and step down.” According to sources, a Congress delegation is expected to meet Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa and seek Sudhakar’s sacking on the grounds that he violated the lockdown.  In response to Sudhakar’s tweet, activist Leo F Saldanha said that the minister’s children deserved all the time that they could get with him. “But you need to ask yourself, as Minister of Medical Education, if it is right for you to claim a swimming pool provides ‘social distancing’? A quick check would have revealed swimming pools spread infections quite a bit,” he said. Sudhakar hit back strongly at the Congress on this matter. “As a father, I was attending to my kids after three months of rigorous work to contain the Covid-19. Am I not supposed to discharge duties as a father to my children?” he told DH.   “I have not gone outside on picnic or tour. But stayed at home and joined them in their kids' pool inside the house. Before meeting them, I had quarantined myself and only after the successful completion of quarantine that I spent a few hours with my children which I could not do since February as I was busy attending to all Covid-19 related emergencies,” he said, daring the Opposition to point out flaws in his work instead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/novel-coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-minister-sudhakar-lands-in-soup-over-swimming-pool-pic-824762.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||12,000 BDA sites to be auctioned to raise revenue: Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday announced several measures to generate revenues for the state to tide over the financial difficulty posed by the COVID-19 lockdown.  The government is moving to auction 12,000 BDA corner sites, while also looking to regularise illegal buildings and approve private and cooperative layouts to generate revenue. On allowing the sale of liquor, Yediyurappa said discussions are on and that a decision will be taken after April 14.  Briefing reporters, Yediyurappa said the government expected Rs 14,000-15,000 crore by auctioning BDA sites. "The sites will be auctioned only if we get a good price," he said.  Noting that several cases on regularisation of unauthorised buildings were pending in the High Court and Supreme Court, the CM said that measures will be taken for the speedy disposal of such cases. This will help people and also generate for the state exchequer.    Laws will be amended for the benefit of private and cooperative housing societies for developing layouts and sites. Hundreds of housing cooperative societies waiting for permission will benefit from the move, according to Yediyurappa.  A total of Rs 1,000 crore available with the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences will be used to develop basic facilities in medical colleges around the state, he said. Free distribution of milk to the poor will be extended by one more week, Yediyurappa said. He also warned of strict action against sugar companies if dues to farmers worth Rs 2,834 cr are not paid.  Yediyurappa also announced Rs 45 crore compensation for the loss of paddy crops in Raichur and Koppal districts recently due to hailstorms. On relaxations during the second phase of the lockdown, Yediyurappa said that states are awaiting guidelines from the Centre. "We will act as per Prime Minister's directions," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/12000-bda-sites-to-be-auctioned-to-raise-revenue-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-824783.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka focus on resource mobilisation to overcome 'financial trouble' due to COVID-19: CM Yediyurappa||He said the state government was awaiting guidelines from the Centre regarding the implementation of lockdown during the next two weeks, and noted that discussions were on regarding relaxations on the sale of liquor and the decision will be taken after April 14. Yediyurappa on Monday held a meeting with officials of various departments along with his cabinet colleagues and the Chief Secretary. "The possible situation once the lockdown is released, was widely discussed in the meeting. Discussion was also held about the financial situation of the state government and how to mobilise resources. Many suggestions were given and it was decided to implement those suggestions," the Chief Minister said. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, he said, "...the COVID-19 situation has thrown our state into deep financial trouble and there is a need to to find ways to overcome present financial crisis."  Yediyurappa said it was decided to speed up the disposal of cases related to regularisation of unauthorised constructions which are pending before the High Court and Supreme Court, during the meeting. "If the court decides the matter, thousands of people who own unauthorised houses will be relieved," he said, adding that this will also help government in mobilising resources for fund starved development works. He said in addition to this the government is planning to auction more than 12,000 corner sites lying idle in Bengaluru, and it was also decided to allow auction of corner and vacant sites in respective urban development authorities across the state. "By auction of corner sites in Bengaluru, we plan to mobalise about Rs 14,000-15,000 crore. BDA is preparing for it, only if we get good market value we will sell or else no," he added. It was also decided to amend the law governing permission to allow sites in private and co-operative housing societies, the Chief Minister further said, adding that hundreds of societies were waiting for approval from government for releasing the sites. Yediyurappa said it was decided to use Rs 1,000 crore available in Rajiv Gandhi Health University to upgrade medical college hospitals. It was also decided to distribute free milk to slums and poor for one more week, the Chief Minister said while appealing to sugar factory owners to clear the pending payment to the tune of Rs 2,834 crore to farmers in 11 districts. The government has also released Rs 45 crore compensation for the loss of paddy crop in Raichur and Koppal District due to hailstorm based on report submitted by Deputy Commissioners, he added. Responding to a question, Yediyurappa said, still no guidelines have come from the Centre on lockdown implementation for next two weeks, we are waiting for it. Once the guidelines come it will help us to speed up the process of lockdown, and also relaxations if any. Asked what plans does the government have if states are asked to decide on relaxation, he said, already Prime Minister has said that guidelines will be given, if they say on certain matters states can take decision, we will decide on what needs to be done to improve the state's economy. To a question on relaxation on sale of liquor through Mysore Sales International Ltd (MSIL) outlets, he said, discussions are on, after April 14, we will take decision in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-focus-on-resource-mobilisation-to-overcome-financial-trouble-due-to-covid-19-cm-yediyurappa-824801.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||15 new coronavirus cases reported in Karnataka, number of affected rises to 247||Fifteen new positive cases of coronavirus have been confirmed in Karnataka, taking the total number of affected in the state to 247, the Health department said on Monday. "Fifteen new positive cases have been reported from last evening to this noon.... Till date 247 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed. This includes 6 deaths and 59 discharges," the department said in a mid-day situation report. Among the 15 new cases thirteen are contacts of patients already tested positive, while one from Dodabballapura in Bengaluru Rural is with a travel history to Delhi, the other from Bengaluru city has Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). Among the 13 contact cases tested positive four are from Hubballi in Dharwad district, three each from Malavalli in Mandya district and Raibag in Belagavi, two each from Bidar, and one from Mudhol in Bagalkote district. Three out of 15 new cases are children- a 8 year-old girl from Malavalli in Mandya, 16-year old girl from Bidar and 14-year old boy from Raibag in Belagavi. From across the state most number of infections have been reported in Bengaluru with 77, followed by Mysuru (48) and Belagavi (17). Those discharged include 27 patients from Bengaluru, nine from Mysuru, seven from Dakshina Kannada, six from Chikkaballapura, three from Davangere, two each from Uttara Kannada and Kalaburagi, and one each from Udupi, Dharwad and Kodagu. Among the dead, two are from Kalaburagi and one each from Bengaluru, Bagalkote, Gadag and Tumakuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/15-new-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-karnataka-number-of-affected-rises-to-247-824858.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Farmers are the soul of the nation, respect them: Gowda to PM Modi||"Farmers are the soul of the nation, respect them," was the advice given to Prime Minister Narendra Modi by his predecessor H D Deve Gowda, who also suggested measures to mitigate the impact of lockdown on them and the working class. The JD(S) patriarch alleged that the lockdown was imposed in the country without forethought, putting farmers, agricultural labourers and daily wage earners to a lot of hardship. However, he also appreciated Modi for taking all round measures and issuing directions to state governments and the general public to combat the deadly virus. He noted that the first reported incidence of COVID-19 was on January 30 and that the lockdown was imposed about two months later, "without any forethought and proper planning." Before imposing the lockdown, its impact on farmers, who are mainly small and marginal farmers, agricultural labourers and daily wage earners should have been discussed with states, experienced and honest citizens,committed officers,progressive farmers, organizations functioning for farmers' welfare and whole sale dealers of perishables, Gowda said. "Without proper planning, preparations and forethought, the decision taken to impose lock down in the country has put farmers and dependent workers in financial hardship,"he added. The Former Prime Minister had last week written a similar letter to Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. He pointed out that when the lockdown was announced, no one rushed to buy gold, land, cars, expensive cellphones or dresses, but only vegetables, fruits, milk, rice, ragi and wheat. He suggested that arrangements be made to procure produce at the farm gate at a reasonable price (as in case of milk) and market them through organisations like Karnataka Horticultural Federation (KHF) HOPCOMs, among others. He said there should have been no ban on perishables procurement, transportation and marketing and that all food processing units of Agriculture / Horticulture products and related activities should have been exempted from lock down. Calling for facilitating all agricultural extension activities at field level, Gowda said those involved in supply of inputs and agricultural extension must be permitted to travel freely to the farmer's field. Government should have facilitated the free movement of fruits, vegetables and other agricultural commodities from producing areas to markets anywhere in the country, he said, and suggested that a National Grid be created to move these items from surplus to deficit areas in the country.  Advocating that MNREGA schemes must be allowed to be utilized in agricultural and food processing industries, he said this would boost investment in the processing industry at rural areas and benefit producers, generating employment potential. He said if the suggestions are implemented,marketing problems of perishables can be solved to a great extent. Otherwise the government should compensate farmers for their crop harvested. If these are not done, there would be a drastic redution of production of fruits and vegetables and an acute food shortage would be created,he said. This might result in farmers and agricultural labourers rising in 'revolt,' and the loss may be much more than the impact of the coronavirus, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/farmers-are-the-soul-of-the-nation-respect-them-gowda-to-pm-modi-824965.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HDD writes to Modi, urges for protection of farmers||Urging the Centre to take immediate measures to ensure the marketing of agricultural produce, former Prime Minister H D Devegowda wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, pointing out the risk of a food security crisis in the country.   Even though the country saw its first Covid-19 case on January 30, the government did not intimate people about the lockdown for two months, only to impose it later without forethought and proper planning, Gowda wrote in his letter. “When the lockdown was announced none of us rushed to buy gold, land, card, expensive phones or clothes. All of us rushed to buy fruits, vegetables, milk, rice, ragi and wheat. Farmers are the soul of the nation. Respect them,” the JD(S) supremo stated. The major problem faced by farmers was the remunerative price owing to lack of organised and good market facilities. Farmers had left crops in their field without harvesting, unable to recover their harvest costs too, he said. Suggesting measures to remedy the situation, Gowda urged the Centre to ensure free movement of agricultural produce and to create a national grid for organised marketing of fruits and vegetables from surplus areas to deficit areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hdd-writes-to-modi-urges-for-protection-of-farmers-824988.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Smiles still seem miles away for Karnataka's dentists||It seems like there will be no relaxation for dental clinics to function even during the extended lockdown in the state. Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said the matter was under discussion and he would take a decision after talking to the chief minister. "There is a request, and also pressure from dentists across the state, but we have not yet taken a decision, as reopening dental clinics is risky for dentists themselves," said Sudhakar. It's been almost 20 days since the dental clinics were closed as part of the lockdown, considering the safety of those who are in the profession. Some dentists suggested that the government can allow dental clinics to function by making it mandatory for the doctors to wear face shields. Minister consults doctors Sudhakar held a video conference with doctors’ associations and specialists on Monday. At the conference, the major concern of doctors was lack of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits. He assured of resolving this issue in two to three days. "We have ordered 3 lakh units of PPEs which are of international standards and they will be supplied in a day or two," said Sudhakar. The minister clarified that everyone should understand who should be using these PPEs. "Every country is facing shortage of PPEs. In such a situation, those who are in direct contact with COVID-19 patients and symptomatic persons should use them on priority basis," he said.  Duty & insurance There will not be relaxation for anybody from duty and healthcare professionals from private sector too must chip in, the minister said. Answering a doctor’s question, he said, "The insurance of Rs 50 lakh announced for healthcare professionals on Covid-19 duty will include those from both government and private sectors."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/smiles-still-seem-miles-away-for-karnatakas-dentists-824997.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Pvt college assn seeks govt aid to pay salary to staffers||The Karnataka State Private Unaided Colleges' Management Association has requested the government to provide financial assistance to pay salary to the staffers of private unaided colleges as the Covid-19 pandemic has led to a financial crisis.  The association's representatives submitted a representation to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday in this regard and requested him to provide financial assistance to pay salaries to the staff for the next three months. In the letter, they mentioned, "We request the government to intervene to sort out the modalities for strengthening the private unaided institutions by providing special emergency financial assistance (on the lines of Over Draft facilities) to managements to temporarily overcome the current financial crisis for paying salaries of staff." The association said that it will repay the amount to the government in the financial year 2020-21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pvt-college-assn-seeks-govt-aid-to-pay-salary-to-staffers-824999.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sale of tamarind, copra to other states banned||The sale of tamarind and copra to other states from Karnataka is totally banned, district in-charge minister J C Madhuswamy has said. "There are more instances of Covid-19 in neighbouring states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Therefore, in order to check the spread of the disease, sale of tamarind and copra to other states is strictly banned," the minister said. He was speaking at a meeting of officials in the deputy commissioner's office here on Monday. Madhuswamy, however, said that there was no such ban for tamarind and copra sale within Karnataka. He said that people in parts of district - such as Kunigal and Turuvere - were engaged in fish production and they should be allowed to transport the catch to other parts of the district.  Deputy Commissioner Dr Rakesh Kumar explained the measures taken for containing the spread of the disease in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sale-of-tamarind-copra-to-other-states-banned-825000.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||31 people diagnosed with KFD in Siddapur||The number of people suffering from Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD) in the taluk has gone up to 31 with four more people testing positive on Sunday. Two of them live under Korlakai primary health (PHC) centre, while two others at Dodmane and Kyadagi PHCs respectively. Two of them are being treated at Manipal, while two others at taluk hospital. “Precautionary measures have been taken at areas affected by the KFD. Awareness drives have been launched in this regard. We will reach out to people about steps to be taken against the disease,” Manjula Bhajantri, tahsildar, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/31-people-diagnosed-with-kfd-in-siddapur-825003.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Pre-emptive measures ensure Koppal, Raichur, Yadgir virus-free||Bidar and Kalaburagi districts in Kalyana Karnataka have seen a surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases, but three districts in the region - Koppal, Raichur and Yadgir, however, have remained coronavirus-free, so far, all thanks to the timely measures initiated by the administration of respective districts While the demolition of illegal resorts at Virupapura Gadde (near Hampi) proved blessing in disguise for Koppal administration as foreigners stopped visiting the spot before the outbreak, pre-emptive measures taken by Raichur and Yadgir district authorities by closing the inter-state borders helped both the districts to be free from Covid-19.  Admitting that the demolition of illegal resorts at Virupapura Gadde has helped the district to keep the Covid-19 at bay, so far, Deputy Commissioner P Sunil Kumar told DH that people's movement was stopped and public gatherings were cancelled after a nationwide lockdown was clamped to mitigate virus spread. Strict vigil was kept on inter-district borders and those with flu-like symptoms were placed under home quarantine. Measures have been taken on the Bhilwara model to contain the virus, he added. Sealing inter-state borders Although Raichur district shared border with Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, where cases continue to spike, the deadly virus has not intruded into the district, thanks to the strict measures taken by the district authorities. Raichur Deputy Commissioner R Venkatesh Kumar said, closing of inter-state borders, strict health check-up of migrants at the check-posts and compulsory 14 days home-quarantine for those who returned to the district yielded the desired results.  A total of 48,000 migrant labourers returned to the district from Mumbai, Pune and Bengaluru after the lockdown.  Interestingly, Yadgir district, which see an exodus to the major cities every year in search of jobs, is still coronavirus free. This despite the fact that migrant labourers have returned, in droves, to the district. According to a source in district administration, about 1.2 lakh migrant labourers returned to the district. The district administration immediately cancelled 30 bus services to Telangana after the first Covid-19 positive case was reported from neighbouring state, and inter-state borders were completely closed. Regular health check of the migrant labourers at their quarantine locations ensured the district remain virus-free, the source added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pre-emptive-measures-ensure-koppal-raichur-yadgir-virus-free-825005.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Door-to-door surveillance in Vijayapura’s containment zone||A door-to-door surveillance will be carried out in 2,000-plus houses at Chapparband area in the city, where six confirmed cases of Covid-19 were reported on Sunday, District Minister Shashikala Jolle said on Monday. The Chapparband area under Gol Gumbaz police station limits has been sealed after six people tested positive for Covd-19 onSunday. Chairing a review meeting on Covid-19, the minister said, “Teams comprising Asha and anganwadi workers, Health and police personnel will check for potential Covid-19 cases during the surveillance. They will draw the throat swab of the persons showing Covid-19 symptoms and send the same forexamination.” The doctors and staff of hospitals, where the infected were admitted, will be home quarantined, the minister said. Families visited Maharashtra “Preliminary investigation has revealed that both the families had visited Maharashtra recently, While the family members of the deceased elderly man had visited Ichalkaranji and Malegaon, the family in which five of its members tested positive for novel coronavirus on Sunday had been to Pune and Kolhapur recently, the minister said. Investigation of contacts is underway,” she added. Jolle urged the private medical practitioners to keep their hospitals and clinics open to avoid any inconvenience to patients during the lockdown. Covid-19 lab “A proposal for setting up a Covid-19 testing lab at BLDE Hospital or the District Hospital has come up before the government. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will soon submit a proposal to the Centre in this regard,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/door-to-door-surveillance-in-vijayapura-s-containment-zone-825007.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM launches Corona help desk||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday launched the Corona help desk to address people's queries and provide updates on the progress of the disease in the state. Citizens can send a message to 8750971717 via WhatsApp to receive assistance from the dedicated helpline. People can also visit @KarnatakaVarthe.Official on Facebook or the website www.covid19.karnataka.gov.in for more details. Yediyurappa has also urged doctors to assist the state in containing the Covid-19 pandemic by offering telemedicine services. Interested doctors are requested to give a missed call to 080-47192219 or register online.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-launches-corona-help-desk-825015.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||5 kids of 2 families in Bidar, Hubballi test positive||Two children of a family in Bidar and three other children of a family in Hubballi tested positive for COVID-19. Two girls of novel coronavirus infected man’s family tested positive in Bidar. The man tested positive after he returned from New Delhi attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz between March 13 and 15.  As his daughter came in contact with him, she tested positive. He visited his brother’s house to meet his mother. During the visit, his brother’s daughter came in contact with him which transmitted the virus. The brother’s wife also tested positive. The number of people suffering from COVID-19 in the family now has gone up to four. The district administration has sealed down the entire Old City Nayakaman and Muniyar Taleem localities. About 90 people from these localities have been quarantined at a hostel. Three children of a family in Mulla Oni in Hubballi tested positive. A 27-year-old man earlier had tested positive for the virus. Later, his 37-year-old elder brother tested positive. The five-year-old boy, three-and-half-year-old boy and the seven-year-old girl, who tested positive, are the children of the 37-year-old man, deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan said. They are being treated at KIMS, Hubballi. The number of COVID-19 positive cases in Dharwad district has gone up to 6. The man, who returned from a business tour to Delhi, tested positive on March 20. All those who came in contact with him have been quarantined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/5-kids-of-2-families-in-bidar-hubballi-test-positive-825017.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka forms nine-members panel to analyse COVID-19 data||The state government has constituted a six-member committee to analyse Covid-19 data. Former HoD of Community Medicine in KIMS Hospital, Bengaluru, Dr M K Sudarshan has been appointed its Chairman. The committee, according to the government order issued on April 13, will study the epidemiology of Covid-19 cases reported in the state, ascertain how different patients have got infected, suggest administrative measures for breaking the chain and maintaining social distancing, and analyse the treatment given to different patients and suggest change, if required. The committee comprises epidemiologists Dr Giridhar Babu (Public Health Foundation of India), Dr G Gururaj and Dr Pradeep BS (Nimhans) virologists Dr V Ravi and Dr Anita S Desai (Nimhans), Dr K Ravi, HoD, Medicine, and Dr Shashi Bhushan, pulmonologist, (BMCRI), and Dr Prakash Kumar, Joint Director, Communicable Diseases, Department of Health and Family Welfare. Replying to a specific querry, Primary and Secondary Education Minister and Karnataka spokesperson for Covid-19, S Suresh Kumar said, "The task force headed by eminent cardiologist Dr C N Manjunath and cardiac surgeon Dr Devi Shetty was for suggesting containment measures, This committee has been constituted for analysing data."  Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, said, "Right from the time a person is infected, treated and discharged, the path has to be analysed. There is bombardment of data, we need to cull it out. For example, analysing simple things like why cases are high in a particular area, in which districts protocol is being followed by doctors and where patients are being cured and discharged quickly. Whether it is happening everywhere, why it isn't happening everywhere. They will also look into contact tracing."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-forms-nine-members-panel-to-analyse-covid-19-data-825033.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||15 new cases take Karnataka tally to 247; 60 discharged||With 15 people contracting COVID-19 on Monday, Karnataka's tally went up to 247. So far, 60 patients have been discharged from hospitals across the state.  Minister S Suresh Kumar, spokesperson for Covid-19 in Karnataka, said, "Out of 10,017 samples tested, 247 have returned positive for the virus. So, our positivity rate is 2.5%. This is better than Kerala 6.3%, Rajasthan 2.82%, Maharashtra 5.53%, Delhi 9.13%, and Tamil Nadu 11.5%. Average growth rate of the state after it hit 100 cases is 7.1% as opposed to India's 16.5%. The growth rate in the last four days has been 6.4%." Out of the 15 cases reported on Monday, Hubballi-Dharwad accounted for four, Malavalli in Mandya district and Raibag in Belagavi reported three each, Bidar reported two new cases while Mudhol in Bagalkot, Doddaballapur in Bengaluru Rural and Bengaluru Urban saw one case each. All of them are contacts of previously diagnosed patients.  Five of them are minors, aged 5 (boy), 7 (girl), from Hubballi-Dharwad, 8 (girl), from Malavalli, Mandya, 16 (girl), from Bidar and 14 (boy), from Raibag, Belagavi. Patient from Doddaballapur,  a 39-year-old man had a travel history to Delhi, and a 62-year-old man from Bengaluru Urban had SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Illness). The districts that saw maximum number of discharged cases are Bengaluru Urban (27), Mysuru (10), Dakshina Kannada (7), Chikkaballapur (6), and Davangere (3).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/15-new-cases-take-karnataka-tally-to-247-60-discharged-825039.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, you can read DH on Paytm app as well||Paytm has tied up with DH to fight misinformation during Covid-19 by making free access of the DH e-newspaper available under ‘Stay at Home Essentials’ on the revamped Paytm app.  India’s leading digital payments and financial services platform has launched this initiative to provide a direct channel of authentic and genuine news to fellow Indians on Covid-19 & other matters.  Amit Veer, Sr Vice President, Paytm, said, “Now our fellow countrymen can read verified and authentic information from Deccan Herald without the hassle of paying or managing multiple logins.”  The DH e-paper, available on www.deccanheraldepaper.com, is an electronic replica of the physical paper. It has been widely viewed during the current lockdown, which has disrupted deliveries of the paper to some localities. Along with the website www.deccanherald.com, it has emerged as a popular way for readers to get their daily fix of news, analysis, opinion and features. DH has also tied up for distribution of its e-paper with MyGate, an app that facilitates check-in requests at gated premises in 16 cities across India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-you-can-read-dh-on-paytm-app-as-well-825059.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Karnataka students in UK seek urgent evacuation||Students from Karnataka stuck in the UK are struggling to make ends meet as all doors to make a living through part-time jobs have been closed over the last one month. They are questioning the Indian government’s stance of not allowing them to return to the country.  Veeresh M, president of the Overseas Karnataka Students’ Association, said many students were facing eviction from landlords due to lack of order declaring rental holiday. “This is especially true in cases where landlords depend mainly on rental money for their livelihood. I have been getting messages and calls from several students seeking help,” he said. Ramakrishna, a faculty in a reputed engineering college in Karnataka who went on a fellowship to the University of Bath, said India’s ban on the international flight has hit him hard. “Ii am staying with my wife and child and worried for their safety. The ban on flights came into force a day before my flight was to depart from London. My fellowship has ended and there is no stipend to pay for my rent and groceries,” he said.    A woman health professional from a leading hospital in Mangaluru, who went on a central-government funded training along with four others, questioned the government's stance on not allowing flights from the United Kingdom. Hostellers’ nightmare “Every country is arranging special flights to bring back its citizens. India is telling its citizens not to come back, even when it knows the exploding number of cases in the UK. I am staying in a hostel where maintaining social distance is near impossible. People from outside constantly enter the premises. My husband and two small children in India are worried sick about my situation due to the number of deaths reported here. Why can’t our country arrange for our return and keep us in quarantine,” she said. More than 120 students have entered details in a Google form opened by the Association to get details on those who want to leave the UK. “These people are coming forward because they are running out of options. The communities of Kannadigas, Tamils and Indians in general are trying to help students. But it won’t be enough to save nearly 10,000 Indian students here and a majority of them stay in hostels. Some of the states are asking the Centre to arrange evacuation. Karnataka should also exert pressure,” Veeresh said.  Soundarya Jayamala, a student at Swansea University and daughter of Congress MLC Jayamala, whose flight was turned back from Dubai due to India’s sudden lockdown said the High Commission of India has been really helpful. “They are trying their best to organise flights for us to reach to safety. But this doesn’t happen overnight. We have to be patient,” she said.   But Akarsh H, who finished his Masters Cyber Security in January from the University of Greenwich, said India was making a mistake by forcing people to stay in UK. “I am staying in a rented house and struggling to pay rent. However, those staying in hostels face high risk of contracting Covid-19,” he said.  Officials in the Chief Minister's office said the decision has to be taken by the Union government. "We are unable to do anything at this juncture," a source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-students-in-uk-seek-urgent-evacuation-825060.html
13-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Exclusive | Stink in Karnataka's state-run godowns: Commodities go missing||A multi-crore scam involving misappropriation of large quantities of agricultural commodities stored in godowns run by the Karnataka State Warehousing Corporation (KSWC) has been unearthed. This was revealed in two confidential letters written to the state government by Kochi-based private sector lender Federal Bank, which DH has accessed. The bank had granted 28 loans against the pledge of agricultural commodities stored in godowns in Chintamani (Chikkaballapur) and Kampli (Ballari). The original warehouse receipts issued by the KSWC were deposited with the bank. When borrowers defaulted on repayment and the bank initiated recovery steps, it was found that the pledged commodities were gone. Plus, there was “no cooperation” from the godown authorities. The bank had granted 14 loans against commodities stored in the Chintamani godown. Of them, commodities pledged for 12 loans were missing. Of the two other loans, one had 2,195 bags of 50 kg black gram against 2,600 bags pledged, and another had the required 2,400 bags, but with “abnormal” shortage in weight. “When the available goods were inspected by our branch manager in the presence of bidders and the godown manager, it was found that the quality had deteriorated to such an extent that it was not fit for human consumption,” the bank said, raising serious doubts on the hygiene standards at the godowns. The bank suspects that the pledged commodities for 14 loans in the Kampli godown were released without its consent. “On further inquiry, we hear that similar modus operandi is being adopted by some borrowers in collusion with some KSWC officials to defraud other banks also in various places in Karnataka,” according to letters written in January and February this year by Federal Bank vice-president Rajanarayanan N and deputy vice-president John Louis to the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC). The matter came up for discussion at the SLBC meeting held recently. The Federal Bank has estimated a loss of over Rs 7.40 crore because of the “fraud”. The KSWC itself has pegged the misappropriation to be over Rs 25 crore at the Chintamani godown alone. “I’m aware of this and three FIRs have been registered already,” KSWC chairperson U B Banakar told DH. “It’s shocking that the godown managers we have aren’t even qualified. And our system is such that if a manager says there are 1,000 kg, it’s accepted even if that’s not the exact quantity stored,” he explained. There are at least 314 godowns in the state, including private ones, that are used to store foodgrains and other commodities. “It will take years for us to check all godowns and cull out information on who has pledged what to borrow loans,” Banakar said. “Right before the coronavirus crisis, I had written to the cooperation minister on the need to fix this. Now, we can get to it only after the crisis ends. It has to be fixed; the trust in our godowns will diminish otherwise,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-exclusive-stink-in-karnatakas-state-run-godowns-commodities-go-missing-825065.html
13-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Family member of COVID-19 patient passes away in Belagavi||Community Health Centre medical officer confirmed the death of a woman aged about 85 years.  After the family members of the woman were quarantined since they tested positive for novel coronavirus, the woman had been residing alone.  More details awaited...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/family-member-of-covid-19-patient-passes-away-in-belagavi-824771.html
13-04-2020||West||Solapur reports first COVID-19 case and fatality||A 56-year-old man from Solapur district of Maharashtra has died of COVID-19 in Pune, a senior official said on Sunday. This was the first COVID-19 case as well as fatality from Solapur district, he said. "The man was admitted in Pune civil hospital on April 10 following some ailments. He died the next day during treatment," he said. Samples of the deceased which were sent for testing returned positive for the novel coronavirus on Sunday, said Solapur district collector Milind Shambharkar. He said close contacts of the deceased are being traced and his area of residence sealed off.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/solapur-reports-first-covid-19-case-and-fatality-824632.html
13-04-2020||West||156 foreigners who attended Tablighi Jamaat meet booked in Maharashtra||A total of 156 foreigners who travelled to Maharashtra after attending the Tablighi Jamaat event in New Delhi last month have been booked on the charges of violating the Foreigners Act 1946, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Sunday. These people, who were visiting India on a tourist visa, allegedly participated in religious activities including preaching, he said. The Health ministry has attributed the spike in COVID-19 cases in various parts of the country to the religious congregation held at Nizamuddin Markaz in March. "Section 14-B of the Foreigners' Act has been invoked against the 156 people for forgery of passport which stipulates 2-8 years in prison and the fine between Rs 10,000 and Rs 50,000," said an official from the home department.  Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) were also invoked against them, he said. These people hailed from 17 countries like Kyrgyzstan, Ghana, Djibouti, Malaysia, Togo, Indonesia, Bangladesh to name a few, Deshmukh said. All of them have been traced and put under institutional quarantine, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/156-foreigners-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-meet-booked-in-maharashtra-824636.html
13-04-2020||West||23 new cases reported, Pune COVID-19 count touches 286||The COVID-19 count in Pune district reached 286 with 23 people testing positive for the novel coronavirus in the last 24 hours, a health official said on Sunday. Two persons died of the infection in Pune and one in Pimpri Chinchwad, taking the count of COVID-19 deceased so far to 32 in the district, he added. "Of the 23 new cases, 15 are in Pune municipal limits. The total number of cases in PMC limits is 255 while it is 31 in PCMC," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/23-new-cases-reported-pune-covid-19-count-touches-286-824639.html
13-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: COVID-19 cases rise to 1,982; count of dead now 149||With 221 people testing positive for COVID-19 in Maharashtra on Sunday, the state tally of such patients has reached 1,982, a state health official said. Twenty-two coronavirus positive patients died due to the infection in the state on Sunday, which increased the death toll to 149, he said. "Of the 22 deceased, 15 were in the age group of 40 to 60 years, while six others were above 60 years of age. Rest of the patients were less than 40 years of age," he added. Twenty of these 22 had high risk co-morbidities, such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart ailment, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-cases-rise-to-1982-count-of-dead-now-149-824656.html
13-04-2020||West||Maharashtra home minister warns strict action for crimes against women amid coronavirus lockdown||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has expressed concern over the spike in incidents of violence, harassment and molestation of women since the COVID-19 lockdown was enforced.  "Some men who are indulging in such acts against women mistakenly assume the police are too busy enforcing the lockdown to take action. But nothing could be further from the truth," he said. "I have instructed the police to invoke the strongest punitive charges and take strict action against such men," Deshmukh said. He also expressed concern over the rising instances of domestic violence against women.   "We have strong laws in place to take this on and I have let it known that any tardiness in bringing such culprits to book will not be tolerated," he added. He also advised men to ensure that their actions and words do not harm a woman's dignity or respect. "This is a state which takes pride in Savitribai Phule's legacy. Women should and will be safe here," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-home-minister-warns-strict-action-for-crimes-against-women-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-824679.html
13-04-2020||West||44 quarantine cases return home from naval camp at Ghatkopar||The Indian Navy Quarantine Facility at Material Organisation, Ghatkopar, Mumbai has silently and successfully completed the task of quarantining 44 evacuees (including 24 women) from Iran. In all, the 44 individuals spent 30 days in the facility commencing March 13, ending with each testing negative for COVID-19 on March 28. A dedicated team of medical staff from the Navy worked tirelessly to monitor the health of the evacuees. They were supported by a team of conservancy personnel and other staff to take care of the cleanliness of the facility, their comfort and well being. The food provided was prepared under strict supervision and customised to meet any special requirements.   The evacuees were made comfortable in the facility with the provision of a library, a TV room, indoor games, a small gymnasium and even limited cricket gear, a press statement said. The nationwide lockdown with limited availability of stores posed additional challenges that were overcome by innovation and resolve. Further, the evacuees' stay was extended as they had no means of travelling to their homes in Srinagar and Ladakh. Consequently, arrangements were made to airlift them using IAF aircraft and on Apr 12, a C-130 aircraft flew these individuals back to Srinagar. For the return journey, each evacuee was given packed food, refreshments and two hand-stitched masks, courtesy NWWA Ghatkopar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/44-quarantine-cases-return-home-from-naval-camp-at-ghatkopar-824705.html
13-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Shiv Sena trains guns at former CM Devendra Fadnavis over travel nod to DHFL's Kapil, Dheeraj Wadhawan||The Shiv Sena on Monday said the IPS officer, who gave permission to scam accused DHFL promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan and 21 others to travel to a hill station amid lockdown, was appointed in the state Home department by previous chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. It is now clear who is actually behind IPS officer Amitabh Gupta's decision and on whose instructions he would have put the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government into a "crisis", an editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said without taking any name. "This clearly indicates a "conspiracy plot, which could not succeed," it said. After Home department's special principal secretary Gupta allegedly gave the Wadhawans a letter which facilitated their travel to Mahabaleshwar hill station in Satara district last week, Fadnavis said "it is not possible a senior IPS officer would do such gross mistake knowing the consequences on his own". Following a row over the issue, the MVA government (comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) on Friday sent Gupta on compulsory leave and ordered a probe in the matter. Defending the government over the issue, the Shiv Sena on Monday said, Amitabh Gupta was appointed in the state Home department by previous chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. He must have trusted the efficiency of Gupta before appointing him into the Home department." "It is now clear and self-explanatory who has been actually behind Gupta's decision and on whose instructions he would have put the MVA government into a crisis," the Marathi publication said. It is the same officer (Gupta), appointed by previous chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who has "created trouble for the state government by favouring the Wadhawan family," the Shiv Sena said. "It seems some conspiracy was being hatched but could not be successful," it said. One of the leaders from opposition party says there should be immediate action against Amitabh Gupta, while Fadnavis claimed the IPS officer would not do something like that on his own, the Sena said. "It clearly underscores a conspiracy plot, which could not succeed," it claimed. If this government had any plans to help the Wadhawan family, why would Satara district collector seize their vehicles and put them under quarantine, the Sena argued. "The opposition in the state should ask its questions to the Centre that who was behind Gupta in issuing the letter (to Wadhawans) and what exactly has the Centre planned in the Wadhawan case, it added. Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan are under the scanner in the Yes Bank and Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative Bank scams. The CBI registered an offence against Kapil Wadhawan, Dheeraj Wadhawan, Yes Bank's then Managing Director and CEO Rana Kapoor and others on March 7, an official earlier said. Since then Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan were absconding, he added. A court issued a non-bailable warrant against both on March 17, but they did not appear, he said. The Enforcement Directorate also issued summons to the Wadhawan brothers in the Yes Bank case and asked them to appear on March 17. The duo reportedly cited the coronavirus pandemic and skipped the appearance, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-shiv-sena-trains-guns-at-former-cm-devendra-fadnavis-over-travel-nod-to-dhfls-kapil-dheeraj-wadhawan-824743.html
13-04-2020||West||Two more coronavirus deaths in Gujarat; state toll rises to 26||Two more coronavirus patients died in Gujarat, taking the death toll in the state to 26, a health official said on Monday. A 76-year-old man, who was also suffering from heart and lung ailments, died at the SVP Hospital in Ahmedabad. Besides, a 27-year-old man from Vadodara, who was admitted with dengue, tested positive of coronavirus and died while undergoing treatment at a hospital, state principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi said. With this, total 26 coronaviruspatients have died in the state. "Maximum cases of death in the state are of patients who are elderly and with some co-morbid conditions," Ravi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-more-coronavirus-deaths-in-gujarat-state-toll-rises-to-26-824744.html
13-04-2020||West||40 out of 58 missing Tablighi event attendees traced: Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday said out of the 58 'missing' Tablighi Jamaat members from Maharashtra who attended the group's religious gathering at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month, 40 have been traced and quarantined. The remaining 18 members of the Islamic group are still missing and efforts are on to trace them, the minister told PTI. Till last week, 58 members of the Islamic group from the state were missing. Some of them switched off their phones, hence it was difficult to trace them, he said. "However, the police diligently followed every information and traced 40 of them. They all have been kept under institutional quarantine and their swab tests for coronavirus will be carried out as per the health departments advisory," Deshmukh said. Further commenting on the 40 Tablighi Jamaat members traced by the state police, he said, "They are Indian citizens. We have convinced them about the need to stay quarantined. If they do not show any symptoms or test negative for coronavirus, the government will release then after completing the due procedures." He said the state authorities have already traced 156 foreign nationals who attended the congregation at Nizamuddin in New Delhi, and they have been booked for various offences, inluding misuse of visa. The religious congregation organised by Tablighi Jamaat in the national capital last month emerged as one of the major COVID-19 hotspots in the country, prompting various state authorities to trace all those who attended the event and quarantine them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/40-out-of-58-missing-tablighi-event-attendees-traced-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-824766.html
13-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Maharashtra Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad quarantines self||)Maharashtra Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad on Monday decided to quarantine himself after he came in contact with a person who tested positive for coronavirus. A police official with whom the minister interacted recently has tested positive for coronavirus. Hence, as a precaution, Awhad has decided to self-quarantine for the next few days, a source said. Awhad represents Thane district's Kalwa-Mumbra Assembly constituency, where several coronavirus cases have been found in the last couple of weeks. He is the first state minister to quarantine self. Awhad recently urged citizens of his constituency to stay indoors or else it could prove fatal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-maharashtra-housing-minister-jitendra-awhad-quarantines-self-824767.html
13-04-2020||West||Maharashtra issues notification extending coronavirus lockdown till April 30||The Maharashtra government on Monday issued an official notification extending the lockdown in the state till April 30. It was issued by the state's revenue and disaster management departments. "The first notification was issued on March 25 as necessitated by Section 2 of Epidemic Diseases Act and provisions of Disaster Management Act, and was valid till April 14," said an official. "Since there has been no reduction in the number of COVID-19 cases in this period, the lockdown was extended till April 30," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-issues-notification-extending-coronavirus-lockdown-till-april-30-824798.html
13-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: Four new COVID-19 cases in Aurangabad; district tally 24||During the weekend, no new COVID-19 case was reported from the district. But, on Monday morning, two men, aged 33 and 70 years, a 30-year-old woman and an 11-year-old girl tested positive for the viral infection here, the official said. They contracted the infection from those who tested positive for coronavirus earlier, civil surgeon Dr Sundar Kulkarni told reporters. So far, one person from the district has died due to the disease while one has been discharged after recovery. Of the other 22 patients, 20 are undergoing treatment at a dedicated hospital for coronavirus cases. Besides, one person is admitted at the Aurangabad Government Medical College and Hospital while another patient is undergoing treatment at a private hospital, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-four-new-covid-19-cases-in-aurangabad-district-tally-24-824815.html
13-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: 2 Ahmedabad cops on field duty test positive||Two police constables in Gujarat's Ahmedabad city have tested positive for novel coronavirus, officials said on Monday. An official said one was a 30-year-old constable from Kalupur police station while the other was a 25-year-old personnel of the M Division traffic police unit. "The Kalupur police station constable, a resident of Bapunagar, tested positive during a screening drive. He was asymptomatic when his sample was collected. The positive report came in on Sunday," said Inspector RG Desai. Incidentally, the area in Kalupur where he was deployed is already a coronavirus hotspot in the city. "The traffic constable was deployed at Shivranjani crossroad. He tested positive on Sunday, a day after he got admitted in SVP hospital after feeling unwell while on duty," said Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Akash Patel.  Two colleagues, who were his roommates in Danilimda police lines, have been quarantined in Naroda, Patel added. Queried about these two incidents, minister of state for home Pradeepsinh Jadeja said policemen have been given protective gear like masks, gloves and sanitisers. "We are committed to the safety of policemen and health workers," Jadeja, who was here on Monday, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-2-ahmedabad-cops-on-field-duty-test-positive-824821.html
13-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Alphonso lovers missing 'King of Mangoes'||Come February, boxes Alphonso mangoes start arriving from Sindhudurg and March form Ratnagiri. The two Konkan belt twin districts of Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg is famous for mangoes,  particularly of the Alphonso variety.  Known popularly as Hafoos, Hapus, Hapuz, or Aapoos, the maximum production is in Devgad tehsil -and it has got a Geographical Indication tag. The Covid-19-India lockdown has restricted the movement of consignments as transport of only essential commodities, milk,  vegetables and medicines and medical products are allowed.  Dr Vivek Bhide, the President of Konkan Mango Growers' & Sellers' Association,  the main wholesale markets are Navi Mumbai and Pune in Maharashtra and Ahmedabad, Surat,  Rajkot and Vadodara in Gujarat."We do not know what to do now. Where would the production go," Dr Bhide told DH over the phone. "Not only the domestic sales, the exports too are hampered," he said. He said that nearly 3.30 lakh metric tonnes of Alphanso are produced every year. More than 20,000 families or over 1.20 lakh people,  those who depend on Alphonso, are badly affected. "The farmers, transporters, all are suffering," he said. "We are missing Alfonso mangoes.... this is part of our dessert in March, April, May and June," said foodie Sandeep Dutta.  "The market is very bad now...we are suffering huge losses," said Surendra Thakur,  who has a  mango farm in Vengurla coastal town. "Around this time,  we get Rs 500 per dozen,  now we are not even getting Rs 200 to 250...even if mangoes reach Mumbai, there are no takers," he said. As far as retail prices are concerned, last season, it sold between Rs 700 to 1,500 a dozen. According to the data of the Maharashtra State Agriculture Marketing Board, nearly 52,000 tonnes of Alphanso was exported in 2017.  Some of the places where it is exported are United States, Japan, Korea, Australia, South Africa. For export to US markets, nearly 1,200 tonnes is irradiated in facilities of Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC). What makes Hapus special? Alphanso mangoes have a rich, creamy, tender texture and is low in fibre content and delicate pulp. The flesh is golden saffron in colour. The thin skin turns bright golden yellow with a tinge of red on the top. The variety is named after Portuguese general, Afonso de Albuquerque, who established Portuguese colonies in India. They had introduced grafting on mango trees to get extraordinary varieties like Alfonso.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-alphonso-lovers-missing-king-of-mangoes-824834.html
13-04-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: 93 Goan seafarers onboard ship seek CM Pramod Sawant's help||Over 90 Goan seafarers on board a cruise ship currently docked at Mumbai have sought help from Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant for their repatriation. The Goa government last week decided not to allow the seafarers to enter the state in view of the coronavirus threat, after they requested for disembarkment from the ship. It said the seafarers from Goa will have to follow coronavirus-related quarantine protocol before they are allowed entry into the state. In a letter written to Sawant on Monday, 93 Goan seafarers out of the total 450 on board cruise ship 'Karnika' sought his intervention in assisting their repatriation. "Our ship has not had a single case of coronavirus or a suspect till date since the disease outbreak last year. Moreover, no crew member on board Karnika has shown any symptoms of coronavirus, they said in the letter. Along with the letter, the crew members attached a certificate of an on-board doctor, to assert their claim of not suffering from any suspected symptoms. They mentioned that the cruise ship had its last operation on March 1, when it sailed from Mumbai to Dubai with 124 passengers on board. "The ship reached Dubai on March 5 and all passengers disembarked at Dubai. In view of the COVID-19 situation, the ship owner/operator decided to bring the ship back to Mumbai without any guest, said the letter. The ship reached Mumbai on March 12, after which all the crew members were medically cleared by the seaport public health office, it said. However, in the wake of various restrictive travel advisories and in order to support the government's impetus to curtail spread of COVID-19, as a precautionary measure, the owner/operator of ship decided to take it to an outer anchorage of Mumbai as a self-imposed quarantine, the letter added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-93-goan-seafarers-onboard-ship-seek-cm-pramod-sawants-help-824894.html
13-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Retired Maharashtra teacher gives pension to CM fund||A retired woman teacher in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district handed over her March pension amount of Rs 32,500 to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund to strengthen the hands of the administration in the fight against the coronavirus outbreak. Madhavi Bindoo handed over a cheque to Aurangabad Collector Uday Chaudhari. "This is my first revised pension under the Seventh Pay Commission. My husband and I decided to donate this amount as the most important thing right now is to combat the coronavirus outbreak," she told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-retired-maharashtra-teacher-gives-pension-to-cm-fund-824927.html
13-04-2020||West||Six new coronavirus cases, one death in Mumbai's Dharavi||Six new coronavirus cases, including one death, were reported from Dharavi on Monday, taking the total number of the people affected by the infection in Mumbai's biggest slum sprawl to 49, a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. With this, the total number of deaths in Dharavi has gone up to five, he said. Three new coronavirus cases were reported from Madina Nagar, Janata Cooperative Housing Society and Gulmohar chawl of Dharavi, and one each from a chawl and Kalyanwadi locality, the official said. Besides, samples of a 60-year-old man from Nehru chawl, who died at Sion Hospital, came out positive for the viral disease, he added.  The 21-year-old man from Kalyanwadi who has tested positive for COVID-19 works as a ward boy at Breach Candy Hospital is south Mumbai. "Investigation of high risk contacts is under progress," said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/six-new-coronavirus-cases-one-death-in-mumbais-dharavi-824975.html
13-04-2020||West||Tea seller, slum dweller among 60 new COVID-19 cases in Gujarat, tally rises to 572||Gujarat recorded 60 news positive coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours on Monday which took the total cases to 572 in the state. Health officials said that among the new cases the infection was found in a slum dweller in Ahmedabad and a tea seller who runs a stall at Agricultural Produce Market Corporation in Panchmahals district. The source of their infection hasn't been found.  According to Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi, out of 60 new cases, the source of infection is not known. Earlier in the day, she had said that Gujarat is in stage-II of COVID-19 that pertains to the local transmission and there is no case of community transmission. As a matter of fact, out of total 572 cases, 507 cases are shown in the category of local transmission this includes over two dozens cases in which source of infection remains a mystery.  Such cases also include the death of a 14-month-old boy in Jamnagar and the case of a policeman in Ahmedabad who was tested positive on Sunday. Earlier in Surat, a watchman was infected with the virus in Rander areas, one of the hotspots of infection.  Meanwhile, Ravi said that that a total of 2,536 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, the highest in the time period till date out of which 60 cases were found positive. She said that the number of tests accounted for 16 % of total tests conducted nationally. "I also want to share an important message that in terms of tests per million, we are third highest with 219 tests after Kerala 428 and Maharasthra 317 tests," Ravi said.  The state has recorded 26 casualties out of which two patients were below 40 years of age, 21 patients had comorbidity and in rest of cases, patients were above 60 years old. The state government has also started testing districts which have remained untouched with the virus. So far, out of 33 districts, 20 have reported the detection of the virus. Ahmedabad has the highest number of cases with 320 followed by Vadodara, 108, Surat, 33, Bhavnagar 23 among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tea-seller-slum-dweller-among-60-new-covid-19-cases-in-gujarat-tally-rises-to-572-825002.html
13-04-2020||West||COVID-19: 54 new cases in Thane district, count now 240||Among those who tested positive for novel coronavirus are 16 men associated with a state minister, as well as police personnel and journalists, said district officials. The figures include 31 in Thane city limits, municipal corporation spokesperson Sandeep Malavi told PTI. "The COVID-19 cases in Thane municipal limits now stand at 76. After some journalists tested positive, the press room in TMC building has been sealed," he added. Earlier in the day, Maharashtra Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad, who is an MLA from the district, announced he was getting himself quarantined as "a police official who used to travel with me has tested positive for the infection". The break-up of cases in the district is TMC,76, KDMC-55, NMMC-50, Ambernath three, Badlapur four, MBMC-47, Thane Rural three and UMC and Bhiwandi one each, said officials. The number of cases in neighbouring Palghar district at present is 42, the maximum of which were in Vasai Virar Municipal Corporation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-54-new-cases-in-thane-district-count-now-240-825011.html
