14-04-2020||First Edit||Women bear the brunt, as usual||While there are reports that the nationwide lockdown has led to a decline in the incidence of some categories of crime, it has resulted in an increase in other crimes like domestic violence and child abuse. The National Commission for Women (NCW) has stated that there is a sharp increase in the number of distress calls from women during the lockdown period. It has recorded more than a two-fold increase in such complaints from all over the country. State commissions have also received more complaints. Some lawyers have written to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) requesting him to take suo motu cognizance of the increase in child abuse cases during this period. These are undesirable social consequences of a government action which could not be avoided, and should cause special concern because dealing with the complaints in the present situation is more difficult than in normal circumstances. Violence against women and children is common in families, but the lockdown has greatly exposed and aggravated the gender inequalities and vulnerabilities in society. Prolonged lockdowns create more social and economic pressures on people which alter their behaviour. Loss of jobs and salaries, fear for the future and lack of diversions and entertainment act on the minds of people. The pressures are taken out on the weaker and more vulnerable members of the family. Those who belong to the poorer sections of society suffer more. Most of them do not know how and where they should complain. Women are unable to go to safer places during the lockdown. The police forces, which are busy implementing the lockout, do not have the time to attend to such complaints. Even government agencies and other organisations which take up women’s issues are not in a position to help. Women also have to work more at home during the lockdown, and the added reality of physical and mental violence makes the situation worse. This is the case not only in India. There are reports from all over the world that there is a sharp increase in domestic violence against women, especially in parts of the world that are under a lockdown. UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres has said that “all governments should make the prevention and redress of violence against women a key part of their national response plans against COVID-19’’, as there is a “horrifying’’ rise in crimes against them. The rise in child abuse should receive equal or more attention as children also are easy targets. The fight against coronavirus should receive the highest priority, but ways and means should be found to ensure that it does not lead to greater oppression of the weakest sections of society inside homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/women-bear-the-brunt-as-usual-825073.html
14-04-2020||In Perspective||A corporate merger cost America ventilators||On April 24, 2012, the Federal Trade Commission, the nation’s principal gatekeeper for health care mergers, published an innocuous-seeming notice granting a request for “early termination” of its review of a $108 million healthcare acquisition. Newport Medical Instruments, a small developer of cheap, portable ventilators, was being acquired by Covidien, a much larger American company headquartered in Ireland for tax purposes. Covidien makes, among other things, larger and more expensive ventilators. The government’s review was relatively brief. One of the lawyers involved, a former FTC staff member, has noted that he successfully steered the merger through the FTC “without second request” — without extensive review. We now know that approving that merger without conditions had severe costs. It would cripple what had been a prescient federal program, begun in 2007, to build an emergency stockpile of up to 40,000 portable ventilators with the eventual help of Newport Medical Instruments. But Covidien terminated the project, apparently in large part because it was insufficiently profitable. That cancellation set back the federal ventilator program by at least seven years. In fact, 13 years later, in the midst of the coronavirus crisis, and despite a new contract with another company, not a single ventilator has been delivered. It is easy to criticize the FTC for missing the dangers to public health in the Newport merger. But it’s a mistake to see the episode as an isolated blown call or a case of insufficient diligence. The United States’ approach to mergers and consolidation is broken, and nowhere is this more clear than when it comes to healthcare. As it stands, the FTC’s power to review mergers takes little account of what makes healthcare different from other industries. And tragically, the Newport merger is only one in a long line of disasters. The Federal Trade Commission is staffed by skilled lawyers and economists who try their best, within their authority, to stop the worst abuses. (I’m biased: I was at the FTC from 2011 to 2013.) But the agency’s own rules treat the market for ventilators as little different than the market for, say, bowling balls. The scope of review is too narrow for the concerns that arise when it comes to potentially lifesaving goods like ventilators, pharmaceuticals and hospitals. In fact, in the Newport case, even if the lawyers had suspected Covidien’s motives, there was probably little under existing law that they could have done. The problem is systemic. Consider that over the past decade, the FTC has found itself largely unable to stop another abuse: the transfer, by large pharmaceutical companies, of individual drug brands to tiny companies that subsequently raise the prices of the drugs by factors of thousands (The FTC has the power to review transfers retrospectively and undo them). Perhaps the most notorious example was the sale of Daraprim, a drug used to treat a life-threatening parasitic infection, from Impax Laboratories to Turing Pharmaceuticals. Turing raised the price of Daraprim from $13.50 to nearly $750. And Turing isn’t even the worst offender. For $100,000, a company named Questcor bought from Aventis the rights to a $40 treatment for infantile spasms. Questcor jacked up the price from $40 to an astonishing $28,000. And a company that bought Questcor in 2014, Mallinckrodt, jacked it up even more, to $39,000. In most markets, such exploitative tactics are difficult to sustain, because customers would revolt. But healthcare markets are different. For many drugs or treatments, there are no realistic substitutes. And the markets are further complicated by insurance and government involvement — and ultimately, by the fact that we care about human health in ways that are hard to quantify. Perhaps the greatest failure, in terms of harm done, has been the FTC’s inability over the past two decades to stop hospital consolidation, despite growing evidence of negative effects. In theory, a hospital merger might produce welcome efficiencies, but in practice, too many hospital mergers tend to yield higher prices and lower quality of care (measured by morbidity), not to mention bed shortages. After a bad hospital merger, patients pay more and die more. To its credit, the FTC has tried hard in this area, litigating aggressively to stop the most outrageous hospital mergers. Yet, it has faced setbacks in the courts. Very few observers who are not on the industry’s payroll find it easy to defend what has happened over the past decade when it comes to healthcare mergers. Action is overdue. The FTC might, as Commissioners Rohit Chopra and Rebecca Slaughter have urged, dig deeper into its own authority and begin writing special rules for the worst abuses. Congress, which is considering the first major antitrust overhaul since 1914, might create special scrutiny for healthcare transactions, sensitive to their broader effects. What’s certain is that we can do better. In an alternative universe, the FTC lawyers scrutinizing the Newport deal, equipped with greater authority and resources, might have flagged the acquisition as suspicious, consulted the Department of Health and Human Services and made the deal contingent on full performance of the federal contract for ventilators. And now, instead of squabbling for supplies, we might be facing the coronavirus crisis with a stockpile of new ventilators — grateful for the foresight of the federal government and the vigilance of the FTC. (The writer is a law professor at Columbia, and the author, most recently, of “The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age”)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-corporate-merger-cost-america-ventilators-825077.html
14-04-2020||Kalaburagi||Three more persons test positive for COVID-19 in Kalaburagi||They are being treated at the isolation ward at ESIC hospital here. The other two persons include a 35-year-old woman and a 51-year-old man.  The man who tested positive today is the brother of the 55-year-old man who died of COVID-19 on Monday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/three-more-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kalaburagi-825186.html
14-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus positive cases increase to 18 in Belagavi||COVID-19 cases in Belagavi continued to increase as another person with travel history of New Delhi tested positive on Tuesday. The 33-year-old person who tested positive has travel history to New Delhi. It is yet to be known if he is among the group those who had visited religious gathering of  Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi. Until now 17 COVID-19 positive cases have been reported from Camp in the city, Hirebagewadi and Belagundi villages in Belagavi taluk and Kuduchi town in Raibag taluk. Whether the latest case is from the same localities that have been sealed or it is a new spot, is yet to be known.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-positive-cases-increase-to-18-in-belagavi-825185.html
14-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ambulance seized for transporting 5 youths from Bengaluru||Police intercepted and seized a private ambulance for violating the norms and transporting five youths from Bengaluru to Belur, on Tuesday. The vehicle has been seized.  Hassan SP R Srinivas Gowda had intensified checking on National Highway 75, following reports that ambulances flouting the norms and transporting people from one place to another. He ordered the personnel at the checkpost on Hassan-Mandya border to check all the ambulances. The five youths from Bengaluru were working at Iyengar Cake Centre at Kumaraswamy Layout. The ambulance driver had sought Rs 7,000 from the youths to drop them in Belur taluk, Hassan district. The ambulance driver is from Sakleshpur taluk. The ambulance has been seized and a case registered. Dr Shivaswamy of Hirisave hospital, who screened the youths, said they were all healthy. They would be kept under home quarantine after informing the taluk health officer, he said.  As per the guidance of the higher officials the youths would be sent to their respective homes and legal action taken, according to police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ambulance-seized-for-transporting-5-youths-from-bengaluru-825208.html
14-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Temple fair postponed in Madikeri due to COVID-19||The annual fair of Sri Kote Mariyamma temple in Madikeri has been postponed following lockdown norms clamped to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Rituals such as 'Pratishthapana Varshikothsava', 'Nagapratishthapana Mahothsava', 'Nagadarshana', 'Pashana Murthy Daiva Pratishthapana Varshikothsava' and 'Daiva Kola' were scheduled between April 16 and 17, stated a press release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/temple-fair-postponed-in-madikeri-due-to-covid-19-825280.html
14-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Problems of tobacco growers to be solved'||District In-charge and Cooperation Minister S T Somasekhar said that the problems of tobacco growers, in the wake of the nationwide lockdown due to coronavirus or Covid-19 scare, will be solved soon. Addressing a meeting of officials in Hunsur on Tuesday, he said, “A meeting will be held on Wednesday in Mysuru city, to discuss the problems of tobacco growers, as they are not able to harvest and sell their produce, and a proposal would be submitted in this regard to the Union government.” He said, “All stakeholders, farmers and buyers, MLAs and MPs of the region will be invited for the meeting. The decisions and suggestions from the meeting will be communicated to Chief MinisterB S Yediyurappa.” “Four MPs and six MLAs of the tobacco growing areas of Mysuru region and Tobacco Board officials will attend a meeting with the CM. The decisions of the CM’s meeting will be communicated to the Union government,” the minister said. In reply to a question, Somasekhar said, “As the nationwide lockdown has been extended up to May 3, the guidelines will be followed and implemented strictly across the district.” He expressed satisfaction with the way in which the lockdown has been enforced in Mysuru district, so far. “There are a few problems in distribution of monthly ration to cardholders, under the Food and Civil Supplies department. The glitches will be eased and steps will be taken to facilitate the supply of ration to each beneficiary family,” he said. “Mango crop has reached the harvest season. As the lockdown will affect mango transportation and sales, a meeting of traders will be convened in Bengaluru in a couple of days and steps will be taken to ensure smooth transportation of the fruit,” he said. “Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar has already instructed private doctors to open their clinics to cater to the healthcare needs of the people. Officials of the departments and boards concerned have been asked to ensure proper supply of drinking water, as it is summer season,” he said. MLA H P Manjunath, ex-minister A H Vishwanath, DC Abhiram G Sankar, Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Prashanth Kumar Mishra and Assistant Commissioner B N Veena were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/problems-of-tobacco-growers-to-be-solved-825433.html
14-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||It is lockdown for humans, freedom for birds||It is lockdown for people, but, freedom for birds and animals, said Shylajesha Raja, an environmentalist and an avid bird watcher. He said, “Air and noise pollution has decreased, due to the check on the movement of both people and vehicles. As people are mostly confined to their houses, there is lesser interference of human beings also. I think birds and wild animals must be feeling relaxed.” “I had read once, that the birds communicate more when there is less noise. The subject is not explored much. There is no substantial research on this subject. But, since a week, I hear more singing, chirping and chattering of birds. It can be because there is less noise in the environment, due to the lockdown. The subject needs more research,” he said. Priyanka Nagaraj, a student, said that she has observed an increase in the number of birds on trees in her locality of Railway Layout, Viajayanagar in the city. “I have an habit to watch birds on trees near my house, during morning hours. I feel happy since the last few days, as the nationwide lockdown has been imposed, because I see more numbers and also newer species of birds,” she said. Even eBird, an online database of bird observations, has launched a calender of events, ‘Things to Do’ from March 27 to April 10. It has also launched ‘Enjoying wildlife from home: some self-isolation tips’. “When it comes to Covid-19, everything can seem somewhat confusing and alarming. Settling into self-isolation may seem like a challenge. In recent days, many have been continuing to immerse themselves in nature and green spaces. However, if you are in a higher-risk group or simply want to self-isolate, or are under lockdown, there are many things you can do from the comfort of your own home to remain connected to nature. I’ll outline a few ways you can remain connected to nature and wildlife from your own home and garden,” the literature reads. eBird provides scientists, researchers and amateur naturalists with real-time data about bird distribution and abundance. Originally restricted to sightings from the Western Hemisphere, the project expanded to include New Zealand in 2008, and again expanded to cover the whole world in June 2010. eBird is described as an ambitious example of enlisting amateurs to gather data on biodiversity for use in science. eBird was launched in 2002 by Cornell Lab of Ornithology at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/it-is-lockdown-for-humans-freedom-for-birds-825435.html
14-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ambulance seized for transporting youths||The police personnel intercepted and seized a private ambulance for violating the norms and transporting five youths from Bengaluru to Belur on Tuesday. Hassan SP R Srinivas Gowda had intensified checking on the National Highway 75, following reports that ambulances are flouting the norms and are transporting people from one place to another. He ordered the personnel at the checkpost on Hassan-Mandya border to check all ambulances. The five youths from Bengaluru, were working at Iyengar Cake Centre in Kumaraswamy Layout. The ambulance driver had sought Rs 7,000 from the youths to drop them in Belur taluk, Hassan district. Ambulance driver is from Sakleshpur taluk. Dr Shivaswamy of Hirisave hospital, who screened the youths, said they were all healthy. They would be kept under home quarantine after informing the taluk health officer, he said. As per the guidance of the higher officials the youths would be sent to their respective homes and legal action will be taken, according to the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ambulance-seized-for-transporting-youths-825438.html
14-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Govt has become bankrupt, alleges Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Tuesday said the BJP-ruled state government was ‘bankrupt’ and flayed Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's moves to generate revenues by selling corner sites of the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA).  “By auctioning sites en masse with the hope of generating Rs 15,000 crore, doesn’t it show the government has become bankrupt?” Siddaramaiah said, referring to Yediyurappa’s plans to auction 12,000 BDA corner sites.  Siddaramaiah also criticized the government's plan to utilize Rs 1,000 crore available with the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS). “When we were in power, the RGUHS had Rs 600-700 crore. We didn’t touch it, because it’s the money that’s come from hospitals and students, and we wanted to use it for the university’s development. But this government is so financially bankrupt that it’s using this money too,” he said.  Wasteful expenditure The reasons for the government’s financial crisis include wasteful expenditure, reduction in the state’s share of Central taxes, delay in GST compensation and corruption, Siddaramaiah said. “I agree that the lockdown has affected collection of commercial taxes, motor vehicles taxes, stamps & registration fees and excise, but what are you doing to cut wasteful expenditure? Instead, they want to sell off government assets.”  Siddaramaiah said PM Modi’s address to the nation on Tuesday morning was disappointing. “Industries have closed, agriculture is suffering, labourers are stranded and the rural population is in distress. PM Modi should’ve announced programmes for economic revival,” he said.  'No economic package' Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar also felt let down. “We’re ready to cooperate in the fight against Covid-19, but it’s very unfortunate and shocking that no economic package was announced,” he said.  To mark Dr B R Ambedkar's 129th birth anniversary, the KPCC on Tuesday, arranged a low-key event that saw some party leaders read out the preamble of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/govt-has-become-bankrupt-alleges-siddaramaiah-825417.html
14-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Govt to consider MSP for fruits, vegetables, says B C Patil||Chikkaballapur, DHNS: Agriculture Minister B C Patil on Tuesday said that the government would consider the demand of support price for fruits and vegetables. He was speaking at a meeting to review farming status in the district. “Farmers have submitted a memorandum seeking support price for fruits and vegetables as they are getting damaged since they are not being sent to markets due to lockdown. The government will consider the demand,” he said. ”The farmers should not lose hopes. The government is with them. People will suffer if farmers stop farming activities due to lockdown. I have undertaken a state-wide tour to instill confidence among farmers. The government will conduct a survey to help farmers in this regard,” Patil said. There are reports that pesticides used for fruits and vegetables lack quality. The department will take action in this regard. About Rs 20 lakh worth stocks of low quality pesticides have been seized in Chikkaballapur, he said. “There is no question of government procuring horticultural and agricultural produces from farmers as the government has commissioned open market system,” the Minister said. “Stern action will be taken against agents for torturing farmers. Action will be taken against selling fertilisers in the black market. A vigilance squad has been constituted to keep an eye in this regard,” he said. Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said that he has discussed with the Maharastra government the proposal of sending grapes. The Maharastra government has assured to sell 10 kg boxes of grapes if they are packed and sent. The grapes will soon be sent to Maharastra. MLA S N Subba Reddy sought measures to fill up 50% vacant posts in agriculture department in Bagepalli taluk. Patil assured that the problem of staff shortage in the agriculture department in the district would be solved. “The staff of agriculture department on deputation to other departments will be called back. The government is recruiting 3,200 candidates with diploma in agriculture. Each candidate will handle two gram panchayats. The government will issue Kissan credit cards to farmers which will provide all data needed for farmers,” Patil said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/govt-to-consider-msp-for-fruits-vegetables-says-b-c-patil-825425.html
14-04-2020||Main Article||Abundant grain, mass hunger||The official stock of food-grain with the Food Corporation of India stood at 77.7 million tonnes as of March 1. This includes 27.5 million tonnes of wheat and 50.2 million tonnes of rice. The rice estimate includes a significant quantity of unmilled paddy. This mountain of grain is among the highest levels that the government has held in its stock. It is far in excess of what is required by the norms defined by the government itself. And on top of this, the rabi harvest, expected to be a bumper crop, is coming. The coexistence of high stocks with the government amidst rising hunger and starvation, is a peculiarly Indian phenomenon. Food-grain procurement and the public distribution system (PDS) are designed to meet three objectives: food security, food price stability and adequate remuneration to farmers with minimum support prices. There is an inherent inadequacy in using just one instrument to achieve all three objectives. Add to it, the inefficiency of large bureaucracies, lack of coordination between central and state agencies, pilferage and wastage, lack of storage capacity, knee jerk policy responses like imports and exports of food, it is no wonder that this elaborate system has failed to address the problems of hunger and nutrition. Last year, India’s global rank in the hunger index slipped down nine places to 102 out of 117 countries. The government has protested that the methodology is flawed and the data is outdated, but even by its own admission, India’s rank would be 91, hardly a matter of pride. During the Covid pandemic, the problem of food security has become more acute. Millions of migrant workers and their families were seen in an exodus of reverse migration from cities like Delhi, Mumbai and Surat after the announcement of the 21-day lockdown. Since public transport by trains and buses was not available, many people just chose to trek hundreds of miles back to their villages. State governments then swung into action and set up shelters and food distribution centres to mitigate the suffering of migrants, who have lost jobs, incomes and livelihoods. These are the vulnerable sections, including large numbers of the urban poor, who are suddenly exposed to food insecurity. The states are trying desperately to prevent the migrants from going back, so that infections don’t spread, and also the availability of labour is not jeopardised post-lockdown.  A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking an immediate direction to the Centre to address the plight of migrant workers and their families, in terms of shelter, food, medicines. The government’s affidavit in response to the PIL described the ongoing efforts of private companies, NGOs and state governments that were cumulatively able to serve more than 8.5 million people with food and rations. This is woefully inadequate. The number of people facing a food insecurity crisis could be upward of 40 million. The long lines of people waiting to receive a plate of cooked food is testimony to the seriousness of the crisis.  The government needs to do more. For instance, it needs to massively scale up the involvement of partner NGOs who can help run community kitchens and provide cooked food or dry rations in several cities and rural areas. But the NGOs need to be given food-grain at a nominal PDS price or completely free, as also additional funds to buy cooking oil, vegetables and spices to meet the cost of food preparation. So far, the government orders specify that FCI will sell grain at Open Market Sale Scheme (OMSS) prices, which are even above the MSP, and simply unaffordable to the NGOs. Moreover, the PDS rations need to be given to both ration card holders as well as those without any ration cards. Otherwise, the food crisis will worsen and lead to starvation deaths or food riots.  The allocation of grain to families of migrants and the urban and rural poor should be a lumpsum equivalent to three-month quotas. Apart from the poor, we may be headed for sporadic shortages of food stuff for the non-poor, too, during the lockdown. There are reports that flour mills are operating at 25% capacity due to unavailability of wheat, workers or packaging material. The country has 2,500 units, which have a combined production capacity of 25 million tonnes of flour, sooji and maida. Some units have been forced to shut down due to a blockage of their working capital in making biscuits and bread. Despite the government’s quick response in allowing truck movements, there are supply chain disruptions due to uneven police action, or lack of coordination between various levels of government. It is unwise to categorise food into essential and non-essential items. Who is to say that flour is essential, but noodles are not? Even before the COVID pandemic, back in August, there was yet another PIL in the Supreme Court seeking direction to setup a national grid of State-funded community kitchens to cater to the urban and rural poor, and especially to those who fall outside the PDS. This was to combat the worsening hunger and malnutrition status in the country. That PIL referred to the initiatives of soup kitchens and canteens run in states like Tamil Nadu, Andhra, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Jharkhand and Delhi. These would be complementary to mid-day meal schemes which serve hot meals to nearly a 100 million students on a daily basis. The government’s Poshan Abhiyan (Nutrition Mission) launched three years ago has only spent 37% of its budgeted funds as of December. Clearly, the aim of eliminating hunger in India is a daunting challenge. In times of Covid-19, food security has become an urgent crisis. Fortunately, we have a mountain of grain, which if quickly and intelligently deployed can mitigate the crisis to a large extent. The government must not hesitate in transferring grain stock from the FCI to state agencies and NGOs at zero price, whatever be the fiscal implication. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution)(The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/abundant-grain-mass-hunger-825076.html
14-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown 2.0 may have balm for economy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will give out the details of Lockdown 2.0 when he addresses the nation for the fourth time on Covid-19 Tuesday, the last day of the 21-day lockdown, which is set to be extended for two more weeks. The Prime Minister’s special address at 10 am will reveal the government’s plan of action in the next phase of the lockdown amid a strong buzz that he may announce some financial measures to bring the economy back on the rails and address the distress of migrant workers who are facing hardships in various cities. On Monday, Tamil Nadu announced extending the lockdown to April 30, becoming the seventh state to do so after Odisha, Maharashtra, Punjab, Telangana, West Bengal and Uttarakhand. Ten of 11 chief ministers, many from Opposition-ruled states, who had attended the video conference with the Prime Minister on Saturday, were in favour of extending the lockdown. As clamour grows for doing a balancing act between saving lives and livelihood, Modi’s is likely to have a graded exit plan weaved into the extension announcement to bring back the economy on rails, ensure work and wages to labourers, and keep the production chain going.  The government has given indications that there will be no blanket travel restrictions even as some trains could be run to ferry labourers in keeping with some states’ demands. Intra-state truck movement will not require any permit while inter-state truck movement will also be facilitated with two crew members, including the driver. Trucks ferrying essential commodities will not be stopped. The Home Ministry said the states have been asked to allow truck movement. Besides, the working conditions for 16 industrial sectors could be relaxed with nearly a fourth of their work force allowed to resume operations in order to keep the production chain going. The Delhi government has hinted at opening of industries in the next two-three days. The Union Ministers and senior officers also started attending their offices from Monday. Modi may also announce graded action plans for regions in the country depending on the level of the COVID-19 spread there. The Prime Minister’s Office merely announced on Twitter that the Prime Minister will address the nation at 10 am on April 14. Indications are that the suggestions made by chief ministers during his video conference meeting with them on Saturday will weigh heavily on what the Prime Minister speaks on the last day of the firstlockdown. Modi, who had earlier given the slogan Jaan to Jahan Hai, has modified it to ‘Jaan Bhi, Jahan Bhi’, batting for both life and livelihood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-20-may-have-balm-for-economy-825069.html
14-04-2020||National||Warring MPs join hands to help innovators fight coronavirus||They may sit on the opposite sides of the political spectrum but the fight against COVID-19 has brought 14 MPs from various parties, including Congress and BJP, together on a common platform to collaborate with venture capitalists and experts fund innovative ideas to tackle the pandemic. The Parliamentarians with Innovators for India (PII), the new forum, seeks to identify the best solutions and help innovators in reaching out to authorities and executing it at state and district levels. The PII, which will be holding its first meeting on Wednesday, has Congress leaders Manish Tewari, Rajeev Gowda and Karti Chidambaram, BJP's Sudhanshu Trivedi, Varun Gandhi and GVL Narasimha Rao, Trinamool Congress' Mohua Moitra, Shiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi and BSP's Danish Ali among others as members. Samajwadi Party leader Ghanshyam Tiwari, Congress' Anil K Antony and Manipur Chief Minister's advisor Rajat Sethi are among the coordinators. "The COVID-19 response is for public champions across the country to come together to fight the gloom and doom scenario and work towards lifting the public spirit. PII aims to enable meaningful collaboration between citizens, parliamentarians, and industry leaders who wish to make a difference to our communities and our country during this difficult time. COVID-19 is a common enemy and we must come together to fight it," the coordinators said. The group has brought in venture capitalists and experts together will identify technology-based solutions that can make an impact on a large-scale in a short span of time. The MPs will take the selected projects to state authorities to implement it. "We are going to reach out across party lines. We will work together to overcome these troubled times," Gowda said. "This is the time we need to come together, understand together, act together because we are facing the most severe and extensive crisis of mankind. So an effective, coherent effort is needed," Trivedi added. The PII has invited proposals for tools on exhaustive case detection, immediate testing and isolation, intense contact tracing and rigorous quarantine of close contacts, modelling estimates of COVID-19 disease burden, progression and impact of various interventions like lockdown and social distancing, data analytics and forecasting for planning, solutions for COVID-19 efforts in slums, relief camps, prisons, elderly care or other challenging settings as well as solutions to support unintended consequences of the pandemic response, including the increase in domestic violence and alcohol withdrawal among others. Congress MP Konda Vishweshwara Reddy is one of the first to come up to help the proposal to develop low-cost ventilators while organisers said they have received commitments from several others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/warring-mps-join-hands-to-help-innovators-fight-coronavirus-824983.html
14-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 14, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.  Stay healthy, stay safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-14-2020-edition-825088.html
14-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 14||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 11,145 as of April 13.  States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 383 Andhra Pradesh: 9 Assam: 1 Bihar: 1 Delhi: 30 Gujarat: 28 Haryana: 3 Himachal Pradesh: 2 Jammu and Kashmir: 4 Jharkhand: 2 Karnataka: 10 Kerala: 3 Madhya Pradesh: 43 Maharashtra: 178 Odisha: 1 Punjab: 13 Rajasthan: 11 Tamil Nadu: 11 Telangana: 17 Uttar Pradesh: 8 West Bengal: 9 Coronavirus in India: States/UTs with confirmed positive cases (Details are updated as we receive information) Maharashtra: 2,455 Tamil Nadu: 1,173 Delhi: 1,561 Rajasthan: 1,005 Madhya Pradesh: 730 Uttar Pradesh: 660 Gujarat: 650 Telangana: 592 Andhra Pradesh: 483 Kerala: 386 Jammu and Kashmir: 278 Karnataka: 260 West Bengal: 190 Haryana: 185 Punjab: 184 Bihar: 65 Odisha: 60 Uttarakhand: 37 Chhattisgarh: 33 Himachal Pradesh: 32 Assam: 31 Jharkhand: 27 Chandigarh: 21 Ladakh: 15 Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 11 Puducherry: 7 Goa: 7 Manipur: 2 Tripura: 2 Mizoram: 1 Arunachal Pradesh: 1 Nagaland: 1 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 970+ While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-14-825103.html
14-04-2020||National||DH Cartoon: At least 9 states announce coronavirus lockdown extension, what are migrants workers to do now?||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will give out the details of Lockdown 2.0 when he addresses the nation for the fourth time on COVID-19 Tuesday, the last day of the 21-day lockdown, which is set to be extended for two more weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-cartoon-at-least-9-states-announce-coronavirus-lockdown-extension-what-are-migrants-workers-to-do-now-825104.html
14-04-2020||National||India to be part of global trial of new potential coronavirus treatment||India would be part of a global trial of a new COVID-19 medicine that has shown promise in its first evaluation. Nearly two-thirds of coronavirus patients recuperated when treated with the experimental anti-viral drug, remdesivir. Being developed by Gilead Sciences Inc., it was originally designed for Ebola patients. But when people hospitalised with severe COVID-19 infection were treated with this medicine, clinical improvement was observed in 68 per cent of patients (36 of 53 individuals), a team of researchers reported in the New England Journal of Medicine last Friday. The patients were administered 200 mg of the medicine intravenously on day 1, followed by 100 mg daily for the remaining 9 days of treatment. Since it was a limited trial, a bigger examination would now be carried out under the supervision of the World Health Organisation before Remdisivir is used by the doctors to treat novel coronavirus patients. One of the arms of the WHO-backed Solidarity trial would be to test the new drug. "ICMR would be participating in the trial," a senior official told DH. "From the current trial, it is impossible to definitively say whether the drug is efficacious. The drug appears to have some benefit. A meaningful conclusion can be drawn only when systematic clinical studies are conducted. A lot is not known about the drug. Therefore, it is better not to talk too much about it as a Remidesvir as a drug to treat COVID-19," commented a doctor who does not want to be identified.  Other arms of the WHO's Solidarity trial are to test the efficacy of anti-malarial medicines like chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine; a cocktail of two HIV drugs, lopinavir and ritonavir; and that same combination plus interferon-beta, an immune system messenger that can help cripple viruses.  The anti-HIV drug was used successfully by doctors in Jaipur to treat an elderly Italian patient. However, ICMR has discouraged widespread use of tbe therapy in the absence of click trial data and left it to individual doctors to decide. "Until there is sufficient evidence, WHO cautions against physicians and medical associations recommending or administering these unproven treatments to patients with COVID-19 or people self-medicating with them," the global health body said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-be-part-of-global-trial-of-new-potential-coronavirus-treatment-825109.html
14-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Pizza Hut, KFC & McDonald’s serve meal to medical and frontline staff at govt hospitals||Fast food brands such as McDonald’s, Pizza Hut and KFC have committed to serving meals to medical and frontline staff at government hospitals across cities as part of their COVID-19 relief initiatives in India, the companies said. Pizza Hut and KFC India have already started distribution in Pune, Bengaluru and Hyderabad wherein several hundred meals are being provided to the hospital staff daily, said a statement. “Pizza Hut and KFC India have taken end-to-end responsibility of sourcing raw material, preparing meals and delivering meals directly to the hospitals every day. The brands have also been working in a similar way with on-ground authorities in a few cities to provide fresh and hygienic food to the frontline workers,” said a statement. QSR brand McDonald’s India and digital payment platform Paytm have also joined hands to distribute food to healthcare workers in Mumbai. Both have distributed approximately 600 burgers to healthcare workers at Cooper Hospital, Juhu, Mumbai, said a joint statement by McDonald''s and Paytm. “In the last two weeks, McDonald’s has associated with multiple NGOs and organisations across cities like Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Pune, Chennai and Hyderabad to reach out to close to 10,000 frontline workers, daily-wage earners and slum dwellers. "With these ongoing efforts, the brand hopes to serve the nation in small ways by providing safe and hygienic food to those in need,” said McDonald’s (West and South) Director-Marketing and Communications Arvind RP. McDonald’s restaurants in West and South India are operated by Westlife Development Ltd. (WDL), through its wholly-owned subsidiary Hardcastle Restaurants Pvt Ltd (HRPL). Pizza Hut and KFC, since the beginning of the pandemic, have added several WHO-recommended safety and hygiene measures to the existing stringent policies that the brands have always maintained, the Yum Brands-owned QSR chains said. The brands are also following an end-to-end Contactless Delivery process, wherein a pre-paid order can be placed on their app, website or mobile site. According to the latest report from the Union Health Ministry, the total number of COVID-19 cases has increased to 8,048 and the death toll is now 324. India is presently going through an unprecedented complete lockdown of three weeks, ending on April 14, to prevent the spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-pizza-hut-kfc-mcdonald-s-serve-meal-to-medical-and-frontline-staff-at-govt-hospitals-825116.html
14-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Chewing tobacco products and spitting in public may cause legal trouble now||With the number of COVID-19 cases swelling each day, the Union Health Ministry has asked the States to stop the use of smokeless tobacco products that trigger an urge among the consumers to spit. While spitting in public increases the dangers of the COVID-19 spread, chewing of smokeless tobacco products (gutkha, zarda, khaini and paan masala) and areca nut (supari) increases the production of saliva followed by a very strong urge to spit. Because of the increasing risk, the Indian Council of Medical Research appealed to the people not to consume and spit smokeless tobacco in public places, the Union Health Ministry wrote to the states on Friday. The ministry also reminded the States that besides the anti-tobacco law, they can also take action under the Epidemic Diseases Act,1897, the Disaster Management Act, 2005 as well as various provisions of the Indian Penal Code 1860.    According to the Global Adult Tobacco Survey, about 21 crore Indians that chew Pan Masala / Gutkha with tobacco mostly consume it along with Areca Nut.  Nearly 30 per cent of men, 12.8 per cent of women and 21.4 per cent of all adults currently use smokeless tobacco. Notwithstanding its harmful effects, India remains the world's biggest market of chewing tobacco products which is taxed at a low rate despite carrying a substantially high health risk. At least nine states  - Bihar, Jharkhand, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarkhand, Maharashtra, Haryana, Nagaland and Assam - have already issued orders to ban the use of smokeless tobacco products and spitting in public places during the COVID-19 epidemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-chewing-tobacco-products-and-spitting-in-public-may-cause-legal-trouble-now-825117.html
14-04-2020||National||Govt announces Rs 2.3 cr support for developing indigenous video conferencing technology||The government on Monday announced support of up to Rs 2.3 crore for the development of indigenous video conferencing solutions through a competitive process. As part of Innovation challenge for the development of a video conferencing solution under the Digital India initiative, the Ministry of Electronics and IT will select 10 entities or start-up in the first round and give them Rs 5 lakh each for developing the prototype of the product. In the second round, three entities will be selected for the development of the final product and given Rs 20 lakh each. "In order to provide initial market, the winning team with the best-judged solution will get a contract to deploy their solution for use by Government of India and State Government entities for a period of 4 years and will also be given Rs 1 crore in the first year and an additional 10 lakh per year for 3 years after the first year towards operations and maintenance of the solution for the Government," MyGov said in a statement.  All teams including the winning team shall be free to market the product to any entity outside union or state government organisations of India by hosting it in an environment other than that for the government, it said. "The end product will be an Indian Software Product at par with International and audio quality and should work in low and high network scenarios. The initiative is an attempt to promote Indian Software products as envisaged under the National Policy on Software Products," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-announces-rs-23-cr-support-for-developing-indigenous-video-conferencing-technology-825118.html
14-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Jharkhand govt seeking legal advice about releasing Lalu Yadav on parole||The Jharkhand government is seeking legal advice about releasing jailed RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav on parole as he is now admitted in a government hospital where all COVID-19 cases of Ranchi are under treatment. A total of 10 coronavirus patients are now in the isolation ward of the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). One person died of the disease in the hospital on Sunday. "We have sought legal advice from the advocate general as we are concerned about his health," Chief Minister Hemant Soren said when asked whether his government was considering releasing the RJD supremo on parole. The RJD is an ally of the Soren-led government. Prasad is serving a 14-year jail term since December 2017 after being convicted in fodder scam cases. He is under treatment at the RIMS. The RJD supremo has been convicted in four fodder scam cases pertaining to fraudulent withdrawal of money from Deoghar, Dumka and two cases pertaining to Chaibasa treasury. He is facing a fifth fodder scam case in a special CBI court in Ranchi pertaining to fraudulent withdrawal of money from Doranda treasury.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-jharkhand-govt-seeking-legal-advice-about-releasing-lalu-yadav-on-parole-825119.html
14-04-2020||National||Sonia Gandhi lauds frontline workers in coronavirus war; urges people to follow lockdown norms||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday lauded the efforts of the frontline workers in the war against COVID-19 and urged people to support them by following the lockdown guidelines and social distancing norms. “Policemen and jawans are on duty to ensure a successful lockdown. Sanitation workers - despite lack of resources - are helping in containing the spread of the coronavirus. Government officials too are working hard to ensure essential services are provided. But if we don't support them, they won't be able to do their jobs,” Gandhi said in the message released hours before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation.  “Reports have been coming of harassment of doctors. This is wrong, it is against our culture. We have to support them in this fight,” she said. “What can be more patriotic than all of us fighting the pandemic together. Our coronavirus warriors are fighting this war despite lack of basic safety gear. Doctors, health workers and volunteers are treating patients despite lack of protection kits," Gandhi said.   Gandhi also appreciated the individual efforts of citizens who have been fighting this war by distributing sanitisers, ration, etc.  “All of you deserve to be praised. All Congress workers are with you in this fight, whether we are in opposition or ruling a state,” she said in a video message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-lauds-frontline-workers-in-coronavirus-war-urges-people-to-follow-lockdown-norms-825128.html
14-04-2020||National||Coronavirus mortality rate in India not 'severe'; early steps worked: NITI Aayog||NITI Aayog member V K Paul on Monday said the mortality rate in the COVID-19 pandemic in India is not "severe" and the impact of the disease is "very very limited" keeping in view the size of the country. He was speaking at a session, held virtually, on a theme 'COVID-19: India Fights Back - Strategy and Way Forward'. Adviser (health) at the NITI Aayog Alok Kumar was also part of the interactive discussion. On the Centre's move to impose various curbs to contain the coronavirus spread, Paul -- who is also heading a panel to coordinate efforts to tackle the virus outbreak -- added the 21-day lockdown was the "decision of the century" and the purpose has been achieved to a large extent. "We are very very certain that it (COVID-19) is not an outbreak that is causing severe mortality in any part of the country. We also have not heard anecdotes that intensive care units (ICUs ) are filled up in government or private hospitals like what had happened in Europe where all ICUs were full," he said.  "We prepared ourself as if every day there are 1.5 lakh new cases. By the way this is a number which is the same as Italy experienced per day, when they were experiencing peak coronavirus cases in their country...we can raise our preparedness to next higher level or downgrade to lower level depending on the situation," he said. On rising number of cases in the country, he said the figures are "very much limited" keeping in view the size of the country and moreover the government took early and effective steps. He, however, cautioned that it doesn't mean the situation will remain same and people have to be vigilant. On the lockdown decision, the NITI Aayog member said, "Once you create extreme decision like that then as a society we have moved to a new normal, we have adjusted to a new reality." "The lockdown was the decision of the century. The purpose of lockdown has been achieved to a large extent," he added. The 21-day lockdown period is ending on April 14 amid a strong possibility that this will be extended further. "In a calibrated manner, we will have to open our economic activity," he said. In a word of caution, he said people must ensure that social behaviour and lifestyle changes for the good. "By strengthening our healthcare, we have to make sure that we are ready for potential healthcare challenges in the future," Paul said adding that India needs to make sure it loses a minimum number of lives. He also revealed that four Indian laboratories are working on developing a vaccine for the coronavirus. "We know that whoever discovers the vaccine, even if it is outside India, we will be the manufacturing hub," he said. Also participating in the session, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said that India has opened up mobile manufacturing and manufacturing of APIs in the country. "In a similar way, we should look at five to six sectors for manufacturing in India," Kant said. According to Kant, individual discipline will be the key to our success in controlling the spread of COVID-19. "Companies have to be vigilant and forthcoming to ensure workers function in multiple shifts, maintain social distance and observe high level of hygiene at the workplace," he said. The NITI Aayog CEO admitted that when the first lockdown was imposed, the government did not have much time to prepare, therefore there was some issue of the supply chain. "Now we have to ensure efficient supply chain of consumer goods," Kant said. He informed that about four crore people have already downloaded  AarogyaSetu app. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation at 10 am on Tuesday, the last day of 21-day nationwide coronavirus lockdown, amid indications that the shutdown could be extended by another two weeks with certain relaxations to boost economic activities. According to the Health Ministry, 796 new COVID-19 cases and 35 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 9,152 and deaths 308||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-mortality-rate-in-india-not-severe-early-steps-worked-niti-aayog-825130.html
14-04-2020||National||Key takeaways from PM Modi's address to nation on April 14||The fight against coronavirus will be made more stringent in the next week, the prime minister said, adding the next lockdown will be stricter. PM said that suggestions from various stakeholders including states and people have favoured extension of lockdown.  "Till April 20, all districts, localities, states will be closely monitored, as to how strictly they are implementing norms. States which will not let hotspots increase, they could be allowed to let some important activities resume, but with certain conditions," PM Modi said.  He added that some relaxations may be allowed after April 20 in places where there are no hotspots. "New hotspots will create a new crisis," said PM Modi. The prime minister said that the country has been able to contain the spread of COVID-19 to an extent due to lockdown and social distancing. "Social distancing and lockdown have given India a major benefit," he said.  PM Modi thanked the people of the nation who are facing hardships amidst the 21-day lockdown. "People have gone through hardships to save India. I know how many difficulties you faced. I respectfully bow to the people of India for their sacrifice," PM Narendra Modi said. 4 "This display of our collective strength is a true tribute to B R Ambedkar on his birth anniversary," said PM Modi. During his address, PM Modi listed steps taken by the government to contain the spread of coronavirus. "Before the death toll due to novel coronavirus reaches 100, the Centre had set up quarantine facilities for people arriving India after foreign visits," he said.  Even when India did not have a single coronavirus patient, India had begun screening passengers from COVID-19 affected countries, the prime minister said.  "India did not wait for the problem to escalate, rather, as soon as the problem appeared, we tried to stop it by taking swift decisions. I can't imagine what the situation would have been if such quick decisions were not taken," PM Narendra Modi said. PM Modi said that there is an economic cost attached to the 21-day lockdown but there can be no alternative to saving human lives. Comparing India's situation to other countries, PM Modi said, India is in a much better position due to its holistic approach and quick decisions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/key-takeaways-from-pm-modis-address-to-nation-on-april-14-825139.html
14-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown to extend till May 3, says PM Narendra Modi||As widely anticipated, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced extending lockdown for more than two weeks till May 3. “Till May 3, all countrymen have to follow the lockdown. We have to follow discipline during this period in the same manner that we have been doing so far,” Modi said. Addressing the nation on Tuesday (April 14), the last day of the 21-day nationwide lockdown announced by him first on March 24, Modi said that it is because of such measures taken by the government that the statistics of Corona spread in India is much lesser than the statistics of even very developed nations. Referring to his Saturday last interaction with Chief Ministers in which 10 of 11 CMs had favoured an extension of lockdown, the Prime Minister said that everybody is suggesting lockdown should be extended. “Keeping in mind all suggestions, it has been decided to extend lockdown till May 3,” he said, mentioning how a number of states have on their own extended the lockdown. So far seven states have extended the lockdown—six till April 30 and Punjab till May 1. The lockdown 2.0 announced by the Prime Minister for 19 days, takes it further to May 3.   The Prime Minister also said that the next one week will see more stringent measures to implement the lockdown but also assured some relaxations from April 20 in districts, where no hotspots emerge and the norms of social distancing and the rules are properly followed. “Till next week, the fight against corona(virus) will be made more stringent. An assessment of every block, every police station, every district, every state will be made during this period with regard to implementation of the lockdown rules. How much that state and region have protected themselves against corona(virus) will be reviewed. The regions which have done it successfully, those which do not run the risks of turning into hotspots, will get some relaxations,” he said. Modi also asked people to take seven vows that included remaining sensitive about people working in industries and trade and not chucking them out, taking care of the elderly population, feeding the poor, maintaining social distancing and downloading Aarogya app. “The path that we have chosen is the right path for us. The nation has benefitted immensely from social distancing. Though it has cost us big, nothing is bigger than life,” he said. The Prime Minister called for greater vigil on identified hotspots. “India is in a very stable condition on Corona if statistics of even various developed nations are compared with the situation in our country. This is due to a holistic integrated approach and fast decisions taken by India,” he said, recalling that India had begun screening of people coming from coronavirus affected nations even before the first case in the country. India did not wait for the problem to rise but tried to nip it in the bid as soon as the problem was visible, the PM said. The Prime Minister urged people to ensure that no new hotspots get created and COVID-19 does not spread to new areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-to-extend-till-may-3-says-pm-narendra-modi-825141.html
14-04-2020||National||Lockdown extended till May 3; PM Modi issues ‘saptapadhi’ to fight coronavirus||"You have saved the country with your sacrifices during the lockdown. I am grateful for your support and the many hardships that you have faced, you have acted like a disciplined soldier. Each one of you has helped in the fight against Coronavirus (COVID-19)," PM Modi said. He said that we are now well aware of the coronavirus situation in the world. India had started screening passengers at airports way before coronavirus cases reached 100. India didn’t wait for the situation to worsen, instead entered the quick-thinking and implementation mode.  "Today, India is in a better position, as compared to other countries in the fight against coronavirus. I shudder to imagine if India didn’t have taken a holistic, integrated approach to combat the coronavirus pandemic," the prime minister said. Indians had to pay a heavy price with social distancing but nothing is better than saving lives. The Indian machinery is alert and is always looking to minimize hardships of the people, the impact of coronavirus on the economy, he added. PM Modi said that there is a chorus for extension of lockdown from states and the citizens. Therefore, the lockdown has been extended till May 3. In this period, we have to be as disciplined as we have been since the lockdown began. We have to ensure the coronavirus doesn’t spread to new areas and bring about new hotspots. This calls for being alert, take tough decisions. Hence, until April 20, every district and state will be monitored strictly. They will be assessed on the stringency of lockdown measures and curbing emergence of coronavirus. If such areas are successful in curbing new hotspots, relaxation will be given. If lockdown rules are not adhered to, the relaxation will be revoked. The Centre will issue guidelines for the relaxation on April 15. Modi’s saptapadhi to win over coronavirus: 1)      Take extra care of the elders in the family 2)      Obey lockdown and social distancing rules 3)      Obey Ayush Ministry guidelines to boost immunity 4)      Download Arogyasetu Mobile app for the latest updates 5)      Take care of the poor families 6)      Don’t fire employees, be empathetic towards them 7)     Celebrate the bravery of the country’s healthcare, police and other personnel||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-extended-till-may-3-pm-modi-issues-saptapadhi-to-fight-coronavirus-825143.html
14-04-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi greets people on various festivals||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday greeted people on various festivals being celebrated, praying that the country gets more strength to collectively fight the menace of COVID-19 in the times to come. Various festivals, mostly related to harvesting, are being celebrated on Monday and Tuesday. "Greetings to people across India on various festivals being marked. May these festivals deepen the spirit of brotherhood in India," he wrote on Twitter. He hoped that the festivals would also bring joy and good health.  "May we get more strength to collectively fight the menace of COVID-19 in the times to come," the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-people-on-various-festivals-825147.html
14-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown continues till May 3 but some places may see relaxation||PM Modi addressed the nation on April 14 and announced that the coronavirus lockdown has been extended till May 3 in the country. However, the PM also mentioned that the lockdown will be relaxed in certain regions, which are free from hotspots, after April 20. He said that the Centre will closely monitor the situation in each state and if cases of coronavirus rise in any region, the relaxation will be withdrawn and complete lockdown will be imposed again.   The PM stated that the relaxation after April 20 will continue only if the concerned states are able to curb the menace of coronavirus and the citizens strictly follow the norms of social distancing. "Till April 20, all districts, localities, states will be closely monitored, as to how strictly they are implementing norms. States which will not let hotspots increase, they could be allowed to let some important activities resume, but with certain conditions," PM Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-continues-till-may-3-but-some-places-may-see-relaxation-825152.html
14-04-2020||National||Indian Railways suspends passenger services till May 3 due to extended coronavirus lockdown||Immediately after Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3, Indian Railways not only announced the suspension of passenger train services during the period but also stopped ticket bookings till further orders.  "All passenger train services on Indian Railways including Premium trains, Mail/Express trains, Passenger trains, Suburban Trains, Kolkata Metro Rail, Konkan Railway etc shall continue to remain cancelled till the 2400hrs of 3rd May 2020," Railways said in a statement. There will be no advance reservation of tickets including e-tickets till further notice, the statement said. All counters for booking of rail journey tickets for reserved or unreserved travel at railway stations and outside railway station premises shall remain closed up to midnight of May 3. However, the facility of online cancellation remains functional. The reason for railways suspending of advance ticket booking till further notice is that national transporter planning to resume operation in phases once complete lockdown lifted. Since all trains may not resume its services at one go, there is no point in allowing advance ticketing booking for all trains now, said the official.  The railway also announced that passengers will get a full refund of all reservation made for the trains cancelled till May 3.  Besides, the passengers could also claim of a full refund of tickets if they desired to cancel their advance booking for trains not yet cancelled. "As far as trains cancelled up to 3rd May 2020 is concerned, the refunds would be automatically remitted by the Railways online to the customers while those who have booked across the counters, a refund can be taken up to 31st July 2020," railways said. To ensure the essential supplies in various parts of the country, movement of goods and parcel trains will continue, the railways said. The railways earlier suspended the services of over 13,600 passengers, mail and express trains as a measure to stop the spread of Covid-19 between March 24 and April 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-suspends-passenger-services-till-may-3-due-to-extended-coronavirus-lockdown-825162.html
14-04-2020||National||India extends ban on air travel till May 3 amid coronavirus lockdown||India on Tuesday announced the suspension of domestic and international air travel till the midnight of May 3, in line with the extension of the nationwide lockdown to arrest the spread of COVID-19. "All domestic and international scheduled airline operations shall remain suspended till11:59 pm of May 3, 2020," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation said here soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of the lockdown.   India had banned international flights for a week from March 22 to restrict travel amid the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-extends-ban-on-air-travel-till-may-3-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-825165.html
14-04-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: India lockdown crushes unorganised sector||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast gives you a bird’s-eye view of the COVID-19 situation in India while focusing on one chosen issue in every episode. In this episode, we speak with Vinay Srinivasa to discuss the effects of an unplanned lockdown on the unorganised sector and the people who constitute it. We also speak to Dr Michael Morton on whether we need to be worried about our pets catching the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-india-lockdown-crushes-unorganised-sector-825177.html
14-04-2020||National||One more tests positive for coronavirus in Assam, tally in state at 31||One more person, who had come in contact with those who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi, tested positive for novel coronavirus in Assam on Tuesday, taking the state's tally to 31, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. The 31 cases include one person who had died due to the virus. The latest COVID-19 patient hails from Goalpara district. The case was confirmed late on Monday night and further details will be available during the day, he said. This is the fourth confirmed case in Goalpara district, where all other three COVID-19 patients had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin area. Thirty of the 31 confirmed cases in Assam are linked to the event. Two persons had tested positive for coronavirus on Monday while a person from Nagaland also tested positive for the disease and is currently being treated at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital. Of the 3,209 samples tested in Assam, 1,421 were linked to the Nizamuddin event, of which 30 have tested positive and results for 34 are awaited, Sarma had said.  All the persons who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event have either been quarantined or isolated, he said. Sarma had said that the condition of all the COVID-19 patients, barring a cancer patient who had tested positive in Silchar, is stable. The highest number of cases was reported in Golaghat district at 9, followed by four each in Goalpara, Nalbari and Morigaon, three in Dhubri, two in Cachar, one each in Hailakandi, Kamrup (Metropolitan), Kamrup, Lakhimpur and South Salmara districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-more-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-in-assam-tally-in-state-at-31-825190.html
14-04-2020||National||Union Minister S Jaishankar, Iran FM Zarif discuss challenges posed by coronavirus outbreak||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Iranian counterpart Mohammad Javad Zarif on Monday discussed the challenges posed by the coronavirus outbreak and other regional developments. "Welcomed a call from FM @JZarif of Iran. Discussed respective responses to the #Coronavirus challenge. Also exchanged views on regional developments," Jaishankar said in a tweet. Iran's Foreign Ministry, in a tweet, said the two leaders also discussed the latest political developments in Afghanistan, especially the peace process in the country, during their telephonic conversation.   "They also exchanged views on the latest situation of COVID-19 outbreak in the region and the world as well as the collective ways to cope with it and illegal and unilateral US sanctions against the Iranian nation," Iran's Foreign Ministry said. Iran recorded about 73,000 coronavirus cases with over 4,500 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-s-jaishankar-iran-fm-zarif-discuss-challenges-posed-by-coronavirus-outbreak-825192.html
14-04-2020||National||Security forces launch CASO in Kishtwar after cop killing||A day after killing of a policeman and injury to another, a cordon-and-search--operation (CASO) was launched by security forces in upper areas of the hilly Kishtwar district of Jammu region on Tuesday. On Monday, a special police officer (SPO) of J&K Police was killed and another was injured when they came under attack by suspected militants with axes in the upper reaches of Kishtwar district. Police said it was a militant attack. Sources said senior officers of both Army and police including, senior superintendent police (SSP) are in the area and supervising the combing operation. “Entire area of Tender in Dachan has been under cordon since Monday evening,” they said. Talking to reporters, Deputy Inspector General (DIG), Abdul Jabbar said that joint operation of the army and police is going on in the area. He, however, did not divulge any further details. Meanwhile, a wreath-laying ceremony was held at District Police Lines Kishtwar on Tuesday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/security-forces-launch-caso-in-kishtwar-after-cop-killing-825195.html
14-04-2020||National||World's shortest woman asks people to follow coronavirus lockdown||The world's shortest woman, Jyoti Amge, is putting her celebrity status to good use by urging people to stay indoors during the ongoing lockdown and help stem the spread of the coronavirus infection. On Monday, the 26-year-old, who is just 62.8 centimetres tall, hits the streets in Nagpur, her hometown, to spread awareness about COVID-19 and to appeal to residents to stay home. Amge, along with the Nagpur police, urged people to support the local administration in anti-coronavirus fight by practicing social distancing and following lockdown rules. She told PTI that the Nagpur police had requested her to create public awareness about the deadly infection and implore people to stay indoors and help break the virus transmission chain. A well-known face in Nagpur and other parts of the country, Amge, joined by police personnel, used a loudspeaker at Telephone Exchange Square to convey her message on curbing the spread of coronavirus. During her address, she called upon people to support the lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and also back medical staff and police personnel who are at the forefront of fighting the novel coronavirus and enforcing curbs. "After the lockdown call was given by the Prime Minister (late last month), today (April 13) was the first day that I stepped out of my house. "However, I felt very strange to see cars and other vehicles and people moving on the roads. People are not strictly following lockdown rules.  "People were doing things which they shouldn't be doing. The coronavirus is spreading day-by-day and people are losing lives," said Amge, who is the the world's shortest woman according to the 'Guinness World Records'. She praised those in the frontline of war against coronavirus, which has infected more than 2,300 people so far in Maharashtra alone. "I appealed to people to stay indoors and support police personnel and medical staff who are doing so much for the wellbeing of people. I personally appreciate the work done by them," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/worlds-shortest-woman-asks-people-to-follow-coronavirus-lockdown-825197.html
14-04-2020||National||Ahmedabad readies country's largest coronavirus care facility||The facility, created in a hostel complex near the Gujarat University Complex, will ease the load of COVID-19 patients on government hospitals, officials said on Tuesday. The care centre is also equipped with a library, and a Yoga and indoor game facility for patients. "We can accommodate 2,000 patients in this facility, which is the first and the largest COVID Care Centre in the country," said Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra. He said each patient to be admitted at the care centre will be provided with a bed and a separate kit containing essential items like a soap, a toothbrush and a bucket. Besides, medical teams will examine the patients twice in a day and the personnel will remain stationed in the building with an objective to prevent the spread of the viral infection, he said. "Medical teams will also be tested every 14 days for the infection," Nehra said. Out of the total 617 coronavirus positive cases being reported from across Gujarat so far, 346 patients are from Ahmedabad alone, Nehra told reporters after visiting the facility. The care centre is also equipped with a library, a Yoga and indoor game facility for patients, said Deputy Municipal Commissioner Nitin Sangwan. "Patients will be served food cooked outside the care centre. They will be checked twice in a day. For any emergency, one ambulance has been stationed at the care centre," said Sangwan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahmedabad-readies-countrys-largest-coronavirus-care-facility-825198.html
14-04-2020||National||Extended lockdown will further increase sufferings of poor, marginalised: CPI-M||The CPI(M) on Tuesday said the extended lockdown till May 3 would further increase the sufferings of the poor and marginalised and accused the government of not laying down any concrete plans for this duration. "The experience of the three-week lockdown has shown the large-scale spread of hunger and inadequate shelter for a significant section of our people. It is imperative that the government must immediately implement a Rs. 7500 ex-gratia cash transfer to all non-Income Tax paying families and resort to universal distribution of free foodgrains to all needy people. The central government must ensure that no starvation deaths occur," the party said in a statement.  It further said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not lay down any plan of action that would be implemented during the lockdown. "The prime minister listed seven tasks that the people should implement during the extended lockdown. However, he did not spell out concretely what the government will do," it said. India has reported over 10,000 COVID-19 cases and 339 deaths so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/extended-lockdown-will-further-increase-sufferings-of-poor-marginalised-cpi-m-825201.html
14-04-2020||National||Doctors come under attack in India as coronavirus stigma grows||By Ari Altstedter, Bhuma Shrivastava and Dhwani PandyaTrupti Katdare was in a slum in the central Indian city of Indore when the mob attacked. She and a group of other public-health workers had been tracking down a man who might have had contact with a recently confirmed case of the coronavirus. When they found him, he cursed at them, asking why they wanted his information and accusing them of trying to take him away. Almost immediately, at least 100 people surrounded the team, throwing stones and other objects. Luckily, they managed to escape. “At that time, I was only thinking how we can save our lives,” Katdare said. “My husband, my kids, my family members were in front of my eyes as I wondered if I’d see them again.” Katdare’s experience is one of the more dramatic in a phenomenon that has become common in India lately: health-care workers being subjected to violence and abuse as they try to contain the virus. Assaults have been reported across the country as people panic about catching the disease from medical workers or being stigmatized for having contracted it themselves. In Bengaluru, health workers were attacked as they went door to door checking people for symptoms. In Bhopal, doctors returning from an emergency shift were stopped by the police, accused of spreading the virus, and beaten with batons. And in New Delhi, one doctor was assaulted by a shopper at a local fruit market, while neighbours of one of her colleagues attempted to force the woman from her apartment building. Particularly Bad Medical workers have also been attacked from Australia to the Philippines, but the situation is particularly bad in India. So much so that the government released a public service announcement last week pleading for an end to the stigmatization. “When you become a doctor, you know there’s a risk of contracting infection,” said Nirmalya Mohapatra, a senior doctor at a public hospital in New Delhi and vice president of his institution’s resident doctors’ association. “We are not scared of infections, we were mentally prepared for that as an occupational hazard. But getting beaten up, that wasn’t something we mentally prepared for. That’s not an occupational hazard we signed up for.” The backlash comes from people across the country’s diverse social classes, religions, language groups and geographies, making it harder to isolate one explanation for why the trend is more widespread and intense in India. But there are some contributing factors. Trust in the health-care system was already low, while misinformation is ubiquitous on social media. And an unprecedented nationwide lockdown, given with just four hours’ notice, has intensified the hysteria. At the same time, weeks of media coverage of how the virus spread at an Islamic religious organization in Delhi has stoked sectarian tensions that were already running high, while the virus has also played into deep fears of social ostracism in a country where for centuries some castes were classified as untouchables. ‘New Untouchables’ “The caste system is based on that idea of purity and pollution, what is pure and what is polluted, what can be touched and what can’t be touched,” said Priyasha Kaul, a sociologist at Ambedkar University Delhi. “This can almost be seen as the new untouchables: a new category of people who need to be feared, who need to be kept away.” As in other countries, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has encouraged people to rally around the medical workers on the frontline of the virus fight. PM Modi implored citizens to come to their doors just before sunset at the end of a day-long curfew in late March to bang pots and pans together in an expression of thanks. But tensions have risen as the government takes ever-stricter measures to contain the outbreak, which has increased to 9,240 cases and 331 deaths as of Monday. India is still under lockdown, which prohibits citizens from leaving their homes for any reason but to buy food or medicine or in an emergency. Accelerating Outbreak And though the country has ramped up testing in recent days, with slightly more than 179,000 samples collected so far, it’s still only performing 0.13 tests per every thousand people, compared to eight tests per thousand in the US and nearly 10 in South Korea, according to data from April 11 from the website Our World in Data. That low rate has stoked fears the outbreak could be much larger than the official statistics show. Stringent Steps In apartment buildings or neighbourhoods where cases have been found, the measures are getting even more severe. Residents have been prohibited from leaving their homes at all, and are subject to continuous surveillance from CCTV cameras, drones and police. Supplies are delivered right to their doors as teams come through regularly to spray disinfectant, and health workers monitor people for symptoms. “Just as they are discriminating against doctors over fears they are bringing coronavirus into their communities and residential buildings, they start worrying if they are found to be positive they will be discriminated against by their own friends and their own societies,” said Vivekanand Jha, executive director of the George Institute for Global Health, India. “Rather than worrying about the health risks they are worrying about their own living situations.” The physicians of Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi, one of the public institutions designated to handle coronavirus cases, have born the brunt of the growing stigma. Asked to Leave One doctor endured a campaign by her neighbours to force her out of her apartment, according to Dr Manish, who goes by one name, president of the resident doctors’ association at the hospital. First, they cut off her electricity, then her water supply, then they began picking fights over trivial matters. Finally, they surrounded her one day and asked her to leave on fears she would infect the building. The police intervened and that doctor has not had any harassment since.  “We are already under so much stress and on top of that, this kind of discrimination is very disheartening,” said Sanjibani Panigrahi, a doctor at a government hospital in Surat in western India, whose video of a neighbour verbally abusing her went viral on social media. She says it was part of a campaign by her neighbours to force her from the building. The man who harangued her spent 24 hours in jail before being released on bail, and later issued a public apology. Though Panigrahi chose not to press charges, she plans to find a new apartment when the lockdown is over. “Not a single neighbour has come after the incident to say this was wrong and we support you,” she said. “Such a lockdown has never been done in our country. It has put people into a frenzy and panic mode. They think it’s the apocalypse.” The Indian Medical Association, which represents doctors in the private sector, has been pushing for laws to make it easier to file charges for attacks against health-care workers, and to disallow bail for such offences. Not Unfounded K.K. Aggarwal, president of the Confederation of Medical Associations of Asia and Oceania, said the fears health-care workers could spread the disease are not unfounded, noting that in China, the epicentre of the global outbreak, medical workers accounted for about 3.8% of confirmed cases. He recommends governments find workers treating coronavirus cases temporary accommodation for the next few months. The local Delhi doctor’s association has arranged for some of its members forced from their homes to put up in local hotels and Sikh temples. “Being beaten up is never a good feeling, or being chucked from your house,” said Rajan Sharma, president of the IMA. “My stand is, give the strongest punishment to such individuals.” But Trupti Katdare, the doctor attacked by the mob in Indore, took a different approach. She and her team returned to the neighbourhood the following day. “We counselled them we are doing this to save your life,” she said. “They realized their fault and apologized.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-come-under-attack-in-india-as-coronavirus-stigma-grows-825212.html
14-04-2020||National||Gautam Navlakha surrenders before NIA in Bhima Koregaon case||Civil rights activist Gautam Navlakha surrendered before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday here after the Supreme Court had refused to extend his plea in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, officials said. Navlakha, who has been accused under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act for alleged involvement in the Bhima-Koregaon riots in 2018, was asked to surrender by the Supreme Court. Editor of Mumbai-based Economic and Political Weekly journal for years, Navlakha was one of the five human rights activists arrested for alleged Maoist links and involvement in the Bhima Koregaon violence on January 1, 2018 but was granted protection from the arrest by the Supreme Court and the Bombay High Court. He was directed by the Supreme Court on March 16 to surrender within three weeks but he had moved a plea seeking extension of time on the ground that going to jail during the COVID-19 pandemic is "virtually a death sentence". A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra on April 8 had said the accused should have honoured its decision of dismissal of the anticipatory bail and the direction to surrender themselves within three weeks. He has denied all charges against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gautam-navlakha-surrenders-before-nia-in-bhima-koregaon-case-825215.html
14-04-2020||National||Indian Railways offers full refund for trains cancelled till May 3 due to lockdown extension and for advance bookings||The Indian Railways on Tuesday said full refund would automatically be provided to its online customers for trains cancelled up to May 3, while those who have booked at the counters can take refund till July 31. Customers will also get full refunds of their tickets if they are cancelling their advance bookings for trains not yet cancelled, it said. The railways on Tuesday extended the suspension of all its passenger trains after Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended nationwide lockdown till May 3 in view of the coronavirus spread. It also said that no advance reservation of trains tickets, including e-tickets, will be allowed till further orders. However, facility of online cancellation will remain functional. "As far as trains cancelled up to May 3 are concerned, refunds would be automatically provided by the railways online to the customers while those who have booked at the counters, refund can be taken up to July 31. Full refund will be given for tickets for the bookings made for the trains cancelled.  "Full refund will also be there for those cancelling the advance bookings of tickets for trains not yet cancelled," the railways said. India has reported over 10,000 COVID-19 cases and 339 deaths so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-offers-full-refund-for-trains-cancelled-till-may-3-due-to-lockdown-extension-and-for-advance-bookings-825234.html
14-04-2020||National||Coronavirus tests, hotspots in India : Here's all you need to know||As the world is reeling under the COVID-19 pandemic, medical terminologies like rapid antibodies test, RT-PCR test, hotspots and containment zones have come into focus. Doctors explain for the common man what these testing and containment terminologies mean. Two kinds of diagnostic tests are being currently used in India -- RT-PCR test and rapid antibodies test, as per the global health norms. A reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test is a laboratory technique combining reverse transcription of RNA into DNA that detects the virus while the antibody tests, which use blood, detect the body's response to the virus, experts said. "In RT-PCR, it is tested if the virus is present or not. A sample is taken from the respiratory tract of a person, throat swab or a sample from thenaseopharyngal region and then rested. The results take about 12-24 hours," said noted Delhi-based lung surgeon Arvind Kumar. Kumar, who works at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital here, said, RT-PCR tests take time and are a costly affair because of its elaborate kit. "On the other hand, the rapid antibodies test are less expensive and the results can come in 20-30 minutes. It essentially tests if the antibodies in response the coronavirus infection has been generated or not," he said. These tests are generally used in hotspots where the infection is found concentrated in a given area. A hotspot is a zone from where a large number of COVID-19 cases are reported. In Delhi, till Monday night the number of hotspots stood at 47, which have been made containment zones and sealed. "In rapid antibodies test, the result will be positive only if the antibodies have been generated. So, even if a person is infected but the antibodies are not generated, the result will come negative," Kumar said. In many cases, it has happened in the past that a person tested negative earlier but after a few days when he or she reached another country, the test came out positive there. This same person would have come out positive had the RT-PCR test been conducted, but the issue of feasibility of its use. In government labs, the tests are free but at private laboratories, which use RT-PCR test the cost is Rs 4,500. The Supreme Court on Monday modified its April 8 order that asked private labs to conduct free COVID-19 tests and said the benefit will be available only to "economically weaker sections" who are covered under a government scheme such as Ayushman Bharat. The apex court said it never intended to make testing free for those who can afford to pay. It had on April 8 directed that private labs, which were allowed to charge Rs 4,500 for it, would not charge for the tests observing that they need to be philanthropic in the hour of national crisis. A spokesperson of the Thyrocare labs, one of the laboratories authorised by the government to do testing, said, testing has to be done judiciously as there are less number of kits in India. "A doctor's recommendation is required before we can do testing. Well-known video blogger Mumbiker Nikhil had recently returned from the UK and he got his testing done and even made a video on it to raise awareness as people coming from abroad should consult doctors, especially if they are showing symptoms," he said.  The death toll due to coronavirus in the country rose to 339 while the number of cases soared to 10,363 on Tuesday, said the Union Health Ministry. Doctors at Delhi government hospitals said from naseopharyngal and oral samples, if either of that comes positive, that person is considered COVID-19-affected. How well these tests work depends on several factors, including the time from the onset of illness, the concentration of virus in the specimen, the quality of the specimen collected from a person and how it is processed, and the precise formulation of the reagents in the test kits, experts said. Additionally, false positive results -- that is, a test showing that a person is infected when they are not -- could occur if the antibodies on the test strip also recognise antigens of viruses other than COVID-19, such as from human coronaviruses that causes the common cold, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-tests-hotspots-in-india-heres-all-you-need-to-know-825236.html
14-04-2020||National||Coronavirus outbreak: Zoos asked to remain on high alert||The Central Zoo Authority has informed the Supreme Court that it has issued instructions to monitor regularly and initiate fortnightly Covid-19 testing of the suspects among mammals and carnivores especially the cat, ferret and primates. Zoos in India have been asked to remain on high alert in view of a Tiger having been found Covid-19 positive in New York. The USA Department of Agriculture's National Veterinary Services Laboratories, in a statement on April 5, 2020, has confirmed SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19) in a Tiger housed in the Bronx Zoo, New York, it pointed out. The Central Zoo Authority comes under Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. It has filed a response to a PIL filed by activist Sangeeta Dogra seeking urgent steps to take care of the animals housed in zoos across the country, on the emergence of Covid-19 pandemic. In a status report about measures being undertaken, it said samples of suspect cases would be sent to the designated animal health institutes while following all biocontainment and safety measures required to handle this high-risk pathogen as per the ICMR guidelines. The designated centres are National Institute of High-Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD), Bhopal, MP, National Research Centre on Equines (NRCE), Hisar, Haryana, and Centre for Animal Disease Research and Diagnostic (CADRAD), Indian Veterinary Research Institute, (IVRI), Izatnagar, Bareilly, UP. Giving further measures, it said, "Zoos in the country have been asked to remain on highest alertness, watch animals on 24X7 basis, using CCTV for any abnormal behaviour or symptoms, keepers or handlers not to be allowed in the vicinity without safety gear preferably PPE (Personal Protective Equipment), isolate and quarantine sick animals, and have the least contact while feeding them." It has asked all zoo personnel to strictly adhere to safety and disinfection protocol issued by the government, time to time, on Novel Corona Virus Disease (Covid-19). Zoos were further advised to coordinate with designated nodal agencies of the government responsible for public health response and permit screening, testing and surveillance, the authority said. The top court has fixed April 20 for hearing the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-outbreak-zoos-asked-to-remain-on-high-alert-825238.html
14-04-2020||National||Hero MotoCorp to provide 60 custom-built mobile ambulances for COVID-19 patients||Leading two-wheeler maker Hero MotoCorp on Tuesday said it is donating 60 first-responder mobile ambulances to authorities across the country as part of its COVID-19 relief efforts. The mobile ambulances will be useful for reaching out to patients in rural and remote areas and comfortably moving them to the nearest hospitals, the company said in a statement. The ambulances have been custom-built as an accessory to be fitted on Hero MotoCorp motorcycles, with an engine capacity of 150cc and above, it added. The ambulance accessories include sleeping arrangement with essential medical equipment such as a first-aid kit, oxygen cylinder, fire extinguisher and siren, Hero MotoCorp said. These mobile ambulances will be handed over to authorities in multiple regions across the country, it added. The Hero Group has already committed a corpus of Rs 100 crore as aid for the ongoing COVID-19 relief-efforts in India. Half of this sum, or Rs 50 crore, is being contributed to the PM-CARES Fund and the remaining Rs 50 crore is being spent in other relief efforts. The BML Munjal University - run by the Hero Group at Dharuhera in Haryana - has offered its 2,000-bed hostel for use as isolation and treatment ward by the local health department. Hero MotoCorp said it is also distributing more than 15,000 meals to daily wage-workers, stranded labourers and homeless families in several areas of Delhi-NCR, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hero-motocorp-to-provide-60-custom-built-mobile-ambulances-for-covid-19-patients-825242.html
14-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Enough stock of essential commodities, no need to worry, says Union Home Minister Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday assured everyone that there is enough stock of food, medicines and other essential commodities and no one should worry for the extended period of lockdown. In a series of tweets in Hindi, the home minister also appealed to the affluent people to help the needy living nearby. "As the home minister of the country, I assure the public again that there is enough stock of food, medicines and other commodities in the country. No one should worry about that. "I also request the affluent people to come forward and help the poor living nearby," he said. Praising the role of state governments, Shah said the way all the state governments are working with the central government is truly praiseworthy. "Now, we have to intensify this coordination so that all citizens follow the lockdown properly and no citizen should have the problem for the things they need," Shah said. The home minister said the contribution of the doctors, healthcare workers, sanitation workers, police and all the security personnel who are playing an important role in this fight is very touching. "Your courage and understanding in this odd situation inspires every Indian. Everyone should follow the guidelines and cooperate with them," he said. The home minister's statement came hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of the ongoing lockdown till May 3. Shah said, today, when the whole world is facing a global pandemic, under the leadership of the prime minister, the people of India have given an example on how to fight it. "All the decisions taken by the government on time and the participation of the people in it are reflective of it," he said. The home minister said the prime minister has taken the decision to extend the lockdown in the country till May 3 to prevent and eliminate COVID-19 from spreading and to protect India and Indians. "I express my heartfelt gratitude to the prime minister for this," he said.  Shah, a former president of the BJP, also praised the BJP workers for their contribution in helping the poor during the lockdown. "The way the BJP workers are helping the poor and needy under the leadership of Shri @narendramodi ji and Shri @JPnadda ji is truly admirable. "I congratulate all the workers and hope that they are also taking good care of their health," he said. The lockdown was first announced for 21 days by the Prime Minister on March 24 in a bid to combat the coronavirus endemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-enough-stock-of-essential-commodities-no-need-to-worry-says-union-home-minister-amit-shah-825243.html
14-04-2020||National||Five-volume set on Ambedkar's works to hit stands soon||A set of five volumes based on the works of Dalit icon and chief architect of Indian Constitution Dr Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar will be released soon, publishing house Oxford University Press (OUP) announced on the occasion of the 129th anniversary of India's first Law and Justice minister. Ambedkar was born on this day in 1891 in Kali Paltan area of the Mhow town (Madhya Pradesh). The set of books, titled "B.R. Ambedkar: The Quest for Justice", explores the multifaceted idea of justice in social, political, legal, economic, gender, racial, religious and cultural terms. It is edited by author Aakash Singh Rathore. "It (the five volumes) offers critical analyses of the realities of social inequality, diversity, exclusion, and marginality that Ambedkar's work has drawn our attention to, as well as of his writing itself. "The effort behind these volumes is to question the continued relevance of his ideas of justice and to suggest constitutional and policy responses to these ideas," the publishers said in a statement. Ambedkar, commonly known as Babasaheb, dedicated his life to working for the upliftment of untouchables, women, and labourers. He was conferred Bharat Ratna on March 31, 1990. While volume one focuses specifically on the theme of "political justice, including explorations in political theory inspired by Ambedkarite thought", the second and third volume examine key issues in social justice -- especially in terms of Indian democracy -- and literature on the Constitution of India and its institutions, the idea of constitutional morality, rights and the rule of law, and Ambedkar jurisprudence, respectively. "Volume four explores Ambedkar's impact on gender justice in India and the ways in which the movements for racial justice and caste equality can learn from one another and seek strategies of synergy. "Volume five addresses religious justice and cultural justice, covering topics such as conversion, Navayana Buddhism, and liberation theology, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-volume-set-on-ambedkars-works-to-hit-stands-soon-825249.html
14-04-2020||National||Centre imposed coronavirus lockdown without preparation: Adhir Chowdhury||Urging Modi to credit the states for their efforts in fighting the pandemic rather than "patting his own back", he said states have been more active in handling the situation. The senior Congress leader insisted that the strength of cooperative federalism -- where chief ministers of various parties and the prime minister work in unison -- has come to the fore amid the coronavirus crisis, and the BJP should take all criticism positively. "COVID-19 was first reported in early December in China. It started gaining ground in January. Several countries put restrictions in place to tackle the crisis, but our government didn't attach much importance to it and continued to live in denial. "The Centre wasted precious time in January and February. Had it taken precautionary measures earlier, the situation would not have aggravated so much," Chowdhury told PTI over phone from New Delhi. The senior Congress leader, however, acknowledged that India was in a "much better position" compared to many other developed nations, which are stuggling to deal with the pandemic. "The Union government, however, has a lot more to do to ensure that the Public Distribution System (PDS) works smoothly and each and every person in distress gets food grains," Chowdhury said. Modi on Tuesday announced that the current lockdown will be extended till May 3, stressing that it was a necessary move to contain the spread of the pandemic. The nationwide lockdown that came into effect on March 25 was to expire on the midnight of April 14. The PM also said that India has managed to contain the spread of the infection well due to its holistic approach in dealing with the crisis and also because of the sacrifices made by the people of the country. The veteran Congress leader, however, claimed that the Centre imposed the lockdown without adequate preparations. Several nations, before announcing lockdown, gave three-four days' time and not just a few hours, as was the case in India, Chowdhury contended. "States have been more proactive in dealing with the crisis. Several states had implemented lockdown before the Centre. The Union government went for the shutdown without preparation and that inconvenienced thousands of migrant labourers and sparked panic buying," he said. Had the Centre implemented the lockdown and stopped international flights a few weeks prior to March 25, the circumstances today would have been much better, the five- time Lok Sabha MP from Baharampur in West Bengal noted. The Union government should take immediate steps to ensure that all health workers are provided masks and personal protective equipment (PPE), and aggressive testing should be carried out everywhere, he said. "Just coming up with more beds (in hospitals) wont work; we have to make sure that doctors and health workers get masks, PPEs. There is an apprehension that enough tests are not being conducted despite the high population density in the country," the Congress leader said. The death toll due to coronavirus infection in the country rose to 339 on Tuesday, while the number of cases soared to 10,363, the Union Health Ministry said. The Congress leader requested the prime minister to come up with a proper roadmap for economic revival. "The Centre is simply clueless about economic revival. Lakhs of people across the country have lost their jobs, run out of cash and other resources. The government should prepare a roadmap to deal with this," he said. Rebuffing the allegation that the Congress was trying to fish in troubled waters by criticising the BJP government's measures to tackle the crisis, Chowdhury said the saffron party should learn to take criticism in a positive spirit instead of dismissing serious issues raised by the opposition as "dirty politics". "We have supported the Centre in its decisions regarding the pandemic; several states have also shown support.... The Centre and BJP should also learn to take criticism on a positive note. "Our job is not to sing paeans to the government. It is very easy to divert attention from the crisis by alleging the opposition is indulging in politics. Such tricks wont help the country in the long run," he said. Asked about the situation in West Bengal, Chowdhury said the number of tests conducted in the state is far less than the national average. "Kerala with its 3.5 crore population has conducted more tests... West Bengal with its 9.5 crore population is far behind the national average. People are apprehensive that the state government is trying to hide the real picture. I would request the state not to suppress information as it will create more panic among people," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-imposed-coronavirus-lockdown-without-preparation-adhir-chowdhury-825256.html
14-04-2020||National||All pending dues under MGNREGA cleared, cash transferred in accounts of poor during lockdown: Tomar||The Centre has transferred cash in the accounts of poor across the country under various welfare schemes during the lockdown utilising 14 per cent of the rural development ministry's total budget within first month of the fiscal to ease the troubles faced by them, Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Tuesday. Sharing details of the measures taken by the Centre in the wake of the lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus, the Rural Development Minister said the government has cleared all pending payments of beneficiaries under the employment guarantee scheme of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). "Government has cleared all pending payments of Rs 7,300 crore to beneficiaries under MGNREGA. Rural Development ministers from various states thanked me for the same saying that it was much needed during this time of crisis,” Tomar told PTI in an interview. To kick-start the work under MGNREGA after the lockdown is lifted, the government has already prepared plans and states have also submitted their work plans, he said. The wages under the employment guarantee Act have been increased and now the national average wage is Rs 202 per person per day as against Rs 182 earlier. Individual-oriented work under MGNREGA such as that carried out by beneficiaries belonging to SCs and STs themselves and small and marginal farmers on their own land may continue, he said. Similarly, the work done by women who are bread-earners of their families on their own land may also continue during the lockdown, the minister said. All these works are allowed as they don't violate the norms of social distancing, he said. A sum of Rs 500 per account has been transferred to 20.39 crore women account holders of Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, which amounts to nearly Rs 10,000 crore. Similarly, Rs 800 crore has been distributed among beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana (PMAY). The first instalment of the two such payments of Rs 500 ex gratia as promised under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana is being transferred in the accounts of 2.82 crore beneficiaries such as widows, senior citizens and the differently-abled. This payment is over and above the monthly pension given to these beneficiaries under the National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP). Within first month of the 2020-21 financial year, the rural development ministry has utilised 14 per cent of its total budget and has expedited the payments to ease the pain faced by the poor across the country due to the lockdown, he said. Besides cash, the poor are also receiving grains so that they don't face any troubles and observe the lockdown amid the coronavirus outbreak in the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced that the lockdown across the country will be extended till May 3 to fight the coronavirus pandemic, saying the measure has produced a significant outcome in containing the infection. He had earlier announced a 21-day lockdown from March 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-pending-dues-under-mgnrega-cleared-cash-transferred-in-accounts-of-poor-during-lockdown-tomar-825257.html
14-04-2020||National||602 hospitals earmarked as dedicated COVID-19 facilities: Health Ministry||A total of 602 hospitals have been earmarked as dedicated COVID-19 facilities in coordination with capacity of 1,06,719 isolation beds and 12,024 ICU beds reserved for such patients in the country, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. Addressing the daily briefing, Lav Agarwal, the joint secretary in the ministry of health, said 1,211 fresh coronavirus cases and 31 new deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours, taking the number of cases to 10,363 and deaths to 339 in the country. According to an ICMR official, 2.31 lakh tests have been conducted so far for COVID-19. "We have tested 2.31 lakh samples, so far, including 21,635 samples yesterday. Out of these 18,644 were done in ICMR network of labs. We have enough kits to cover for a very long time," a senior ICMR official said. The Health Ministry officials said that to break the virus chain in a particular area, not a single case should be reported from there for at least 28 days. "If no case is reported for 28 days from a particular area, we can say that we have been able to break the chain of transmission there," the ministry officials said. PTI PLB AG AAR AAR||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/602-hospitals-earmarked-as-dedicated-covid-19-facilities-health-ministry-825278.html
14-04-2020||National||Navy develops air evacuation pod for COVID-19 patients||The Indian Navy's Naval Aircraft Yard here has developed a smart evacuation pod for evacuation of COVID-19 patients safely from remote areas such as islands and ships. The indigenously designed and fabricated an Air Evacuation Pod (AEP) will help the evacuation team to safely shift coronavirus-infected persons from ships and islands in a fully sealed patient transfer capsule. There will be no risk of cross infection to pilots and evacuation team using the pod with no requirement of sanitation of aircraft post evacuation, a Defence spokesman said here. The evacuation pod was designed under guidance of Principal Medical Officer of the naval air station here, INS Garuda in consultation with specialist from the naval hospital INHS Sanjivani and Head Quarters of Southern Naval Command, the spokesperson said. It is made of aluminum, nitrile rubber and perspex. The highlight of the pod is that it weighs only 32 kg and has incurred a manufacturing cost of Rs 50,000 which is only 0.1 per cent of cost of an imported equivalent (Rs 59 lakh), the spokesman said. "Trials of patients inside AEP were undertaken on board Advance Light Helicopter (ALH) and Dornier aircraft of Indian Navy at Southern Naval Command and successfully completed on April 8. Twelve AEPs are planned for distribution across Southern, Western, Eastern and Andaman and Nicobar Naval commands," the spokesman said. The successful induction of the AEP will vastly increase the Indian Navy's abilities in its relentless efforts towards aiding COVID prevention across the nation, the spokesman added.PTI TGB SS PTI PTI PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navy-develops-air-evacuation-pod-for-covid-19-patients-825289.html
14-04-2020||National||Culture Ministry to extend aid to unregistered artistes amid lockdown: Prahlad Patel||The decision was taken in a review meeting with senior officials. "I have instructed the ministry's zonal offices to look after artists across the country and are in need of assistance due to the lockdown and the resultant financial strain," Patel told PTI. The ministry has seven zonal offices spread across the country.  The ministry has schemes for artists who are registered with them like pension and medical aid. They can avail these benefits by registering themselves with the zonal centres under which their states fall.  However, many artistes who are living in penury are among those who are not registered with the ministry and thus are left out of the benefits given by the government. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced that the lockdown across the country will be extended till May 3 to fight the coronavirus pandemic. India has reported 10,363 coronavirus cases and 339 deaths so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/culture-ministry-to-extend-aid-to-unregistered-artistes-amid-lockdown-prahlad-patel-825290.html
14-04-2020||National||Lockdown: RPF, IRCTC, NGOs serving food to needy people||As part of the service for the poor and needy people that began since the lockdown commenced three weeks ago, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) distributed cooked lunch at locations in and around Kolkata and far-off places in the districts, the Eastern Railway official said. In the city, lunch was distributed at the ER headquarter area at Fairlie Place, at Howrah, Sealdah, Bidhannagar, Park Circus and Ballygunge and in the districts at Ranaghat, Nabadwip Dham, Seoraphuli, Nalhati, Malda, Asansol and Sitarampur. Food was also distributed among the needy at Dumka, Madhupur and Jasidih in Jharkhand, the official said. Around 2,969 persons were fed on Tuesday, of which 1,844 persons were given food prepared by RPF and NGOs and 1,125 persons were given lunch from food prepared by the IRCTC, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-rpf-irctc-ngos-serving-food-to-needy-people-825304.html
14-04-2020||National||ICMR issues advisory on pooling samples of coronavirus||Amid spurt in COVID-19 cases in India, the ICMR on Monday issued an advisory on the feasibility of using pooled samples for molecular testing of coronavirus as part of an effort to increase the number of tests in the country. Sounding a note of urgency, the apex health research body said the number of COVID-19 cases in India is rising exponentially and in view of this, it is critical to increase the numbers of tests conducted by laboratories. It said sample pooling for real-time RT-PCR screening for coronavirus is only recommended in areas with low prevalence of COVID-19. "Positivity rate in cases is still low. Hence, it may help to use the pooled samples for screening. A pooled testing algorithm involves the PCR screening of a specimen pool comprising multiple individual patient specimens, followed by individual testing only if a pool screens positive,” the advisory said. "As all individual samples in a negative pool are regarded as negative, it results in substantial cost savings when a large proportion of pools tests negative," it said while strongly discouraging pooling of more than five samples, except in research mode. The objective is to increase the capacity of the laboratories to screen increased numbers of samples using molecular testing for COVID-19 for the purpose of surveillance, the ICMR said. It said a feasibility study was conducted at DHR/ICMR Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at King George's Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow, where it has been demonstrated that "performing real-time PCR for COVID-19 by pooling five samples of TS/NS (200 ul/sample) is feasible when the prevalence rates of infection are low". According to the advisory, all individual samples in a negative pool should be regarded as negative. "Deconvoluted testing is recommended if any of the pools is positive. Pooling of more than five samples is not recommended to avoid the effect of dilution leading to false negatives," the advisory said. "The sample pooling for real-time RT-PCR screening for COVID-19 is only recommended in areas with low prevalence of COVID-19 (initially using a proxy of low positivity of 5 pc for COVID-19," the ICMR stressed. "Preferable number of samples to be pooled is five, though more than two samples can be pooled, but considering higher possibility of missing positive samples with low viral load, it strongly discouraged to pool more than five samples, except in research mode," the advisory said. With rise in coronavirus infections in India, the ICMR has taken into account the need to expeditiously expand COVID-19 testing facilities in all parts of the country and has initiated a proactive search of potential laboratories which could be enabled for coronavirus testing, a senior official said.  The ICMR has already invited applications from all government and private medical colleges for establishing COVID-19 testing facilities. The government has identified 14 centres of excellence such as PGIMER in Chandigarh, AIIMS, New Delhi and NIMHANS in Bangalore to mentor all the government and private medical colleges in their catchment area to create state-of-art molecular virology setups. The death toll due to coronavirus rose to 324 and the number of cases in the country climbed to 9,352 on Monday, according to the Union Health Ministry.  However, a PTI tally of figures reported by various states as on Monday evening showed at least 9,975 cases and 346 deaths. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of cases announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-issues-advisory-on-pooling-samples-of-coronavirus-825306.html
14-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: 'Oil sevaks' operate India's biggest oil, gas fields beyond shifts||Miles away from land, working as well as living on iron structures standing in 70 to 100 metres of sea depth was always considered a physically demanding and potentially dangerous job. And when the 14-day work shift gets extended to as much as 35 days, it certainly can be mentally stressful and physically exhausting. But not for the 4,500 ONGC employees and officers who have been operating India's biggest oil and gas fields in the Arabian Sea as well as fields and installations in the Bay of Bengal to feed the country's energy needs. The employees, including 9 women, are happy to continue working on offshore installations as a nationwide lockdown restricts bringing in their replacement. "I have been receiving messages from these brave employees saying they are happy to continue working on offshore fields as long as it is needed," Oil and Natural Gas Corp (ONGC) Chairman and Managing Director Shashi Shanker told PTI here.  Most of India's oil and gas is produced from fields lying below the seabed. To produce oil and gas, firms such as ONGC drill wells and also build installations in the sea to process the oil and gas coming from these wells before it is piped to onshore facilities. The processing platforms have living quarters that house personnel operating and maintaining the fields. ONGC has a number of fields in the Arabian Sea, the prime being Mumbai High oil and gas fields, Bassein and Heera. It also has some fields in Krishna Godavari basin in the Bay of Bengal. Globally, a 50:50 pattern of work in offshore fields is followed. ONGC employees are supposed to work 14 days offshore before getting an equal period of break at their homes. Shanker said most of the ONGC employees and contractual workers went to work on offshore last month on a 14-day work cycle. But the imposition of the lockdown meant that their replacement could not reach Mumbai -- the base from where they are to be ferried in helicopters to the offshore cite. "My chest swells with pride to see these young ONGCians who are ready to go the extra mile during these testing times the nation is facing. It moves me to see how each one of them is wanting to do his or her best to serve the nation," he said. "Some people call them 'oil warriors' but I think a more appropriate term would be 'oil sevaks'." While mobile phones are not allowed on the installations, the employees stay in touch with their families over satellite phones and video calls. The living quarters on offshore locations are well-staffed with kitchen, laundry and entertainment rooms but staying at sea for such a long period with no physical contact with land can be mentally exhausting. Shanker says ONGC has continued to maintain oil and gas production even during the lockdown as a net oil importing nation cannot afford to shut even a single well. Besides, ONGC fields are old and if some wells are shut down, they will be difficult to revive as the natural pressure that pushes oil and gas out will be hindered. "Due to COVID-19 lockdown, may of these men and women working offshore have completed 28 days to 35 days duty compared to usual 14-day shift duty and are continuing to perform a duty," he said. "Due to dedicated efforts of offshore personnel, oil and gas production has been maintained from offshore and drilling operations are also continuing."  A rig operates on 12-hour shifts and typically workers do 14 days and then rotate out for a break for another 14 days. The machinery on oil rigs is some of the most demanding equipment that works in one of the most difficult environments in the world, with oil and gas being extremely inflammable. An offshore oil rig is a noisy, grimy, cramped existence. A typical oil rig might rise several stories from the ocean, with living quarters on the sixth or seventh level. Inside, the quarters look like a cross between an office building and a hotel -- except there are no windows. The structure is designed to withstand hurricanes. The living quarters are part barracks, part locker room. Space is a luxury an oil rig cannot afford. Large helicopters haul staffers for the hour-long ride to the platform, which is 160-km from Mumbai ONGC has maintained the oil production rate of 480,000 barrels per day and gas output of 53-54 million standard cubic metres per day. In a bid to prevent the spread of coronavirus, Prime Minister Narendra Modi imposed a nationwide lockdown on March 25 that shut factories, stopped trains and flights and restricted movement of people and goods. The lockdown was on Tuesday extended till May 3. "Even during the lockdown, supply chain management by shore base personnel has been very good for ensuring smooth supply of material, fuels, and provisioning to offshore to take care of operations as well as health and safety issues of personnel," the ONGC chairman said. Social distancing, sanitization and other guidelines issued by the government are being strictly followed even in offshore installations, he said, adding around 300 persons were sent back from offshore at the beginning of lockdown period to ensure safety and social distancing. He said all medical attention is being provided to personnel offshore as well as those onshore. "We have contacted hospitals to carry out tests to rule out any COVID-19 case," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-oil-sevaks-operate-indias-biggest-oil-gas-fields-beyond-shifts-825307.html
14-04-2020||National||COVID-19: About 10,300 cases, 342 deaths in 21 days of lockdown; experts say it would have been worse without shutdown||On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the countrywide lockdown for 19 additional days till May 3 to contain the spread of the pandemic even as the country saw a record jump of 1,463 new COVID-19 cases and 31 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the Union health ministry. On March 24 when the prime minister announced a complete lockdown of the entire country for three weeks to try and halt the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, India had nearly 520 confirmed cases of coronavirus and 11 deaths, and after a week into the lockdown the tally of cases reached 1,397 and 35 deaths on March 31, a jump of 878 cases and 24 deaths. At the end of the two weeks of the lockdown on April 7, the cases had risen to 4,789 confirmed cases with 124 deaths, witnessing a spike of 3,392 cases and 89 deaths, and on Tuesday, the last day of the ongoing 21-day lockdown, the death toll due to the coronavirus stood at 339 with the number of cases soaring to 10,363. The third and final week of the lockdown saw a jump of 6,026 cases and 229 deaths. The government has maintained that if not for the lockdown and other containment measures such as contact tracing and isolation, these numbers would have been sky high and the situation in the country much worse, with the Union ministry asserting that according to a statistical analysis, the number of confirmed cases could have reached 8.2 lakh by April 15 in the absence of a lockdown and other containment measures. The ministry had earlier also stated that the rate of rise in conformed cases would have been much lower but for the Tablighi Jamaat event at Nizamuddin last month. The spike in cases in the last few days has also been sharp with a rise of 1,000 cases reported on Saturday and an increase of 918 cases in the next 24 hours. A record 51 fatalities within 24 hours was reported on Monday, taking the death toll due to coronavirus to 324 and the number of cases in the country climbed to 9,352. Though only a detailed study would be able to throw light on the success of the 21-day lockdown that was initially announced, medical experts say it was necessary and India's situation would have been even more precarious in its absence. "I think it was a bold step (the first lockdown) and the situation demanded it. Our lockdown came much early compared to say in the US or Italy or other European countries, and you can see the number of cases in those countries, and compare it with ours," Dr Arvind Kumar, a noted lung surgeon at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, told PTI. "We have made gains in these 21 days, which will give the country time to prepare itself for the future phase of the battle against COVID-19 when it rises further," he said. Ravi Shekhar Jha, Senior Consultant and Head of the Department, Pulmonology, Fortis Escorts Faridabad, noted that in the last few days, the reported cases have risen rapidly. "The doubling time of cases which was 10 days earlier has been reduced to seven days and then to even four days. But, the lockdown has given us gains. Without it, the cases would have been far higher," Jha told PTI. Dr Rajesh Chawla, pulmonologist at Apollo Hospital, said the number of cases have risen in the past several days and it will increase even more now. "But, the 21-day lockdown allowed the government and other stakeholders to prepare themselves to face the surge. We are still on the rising limb of the epidemic curve. But, people learned social distancing, sneezing etiquettes, and that helps in decelerating the spread of the virus," he said. Chawla, however, said the virus spread can only be slowed down and the infection cannot be stopped till "we find a vaccine".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-about-10300-cases-342-deaths-in-21-days-of-lockdown-experts-say-it-would-have-been-worse-without-shutdown-825314.html
14-04-2020||National||Over 200 journalists condemn FIR against the founding editor of the Wire Siddharth Varadarajan||Over 200 journalists on Monday came out strongly against the Uttar Pradesh government and its police for filling an FIR against Siddharth Varadarajan, the Founding Editor of the Wire, calling it a "brazen" attempt to "muzzle" the media. The Uttar Pradesh police this month booked Varadarajan over comments on Twitter claiming that the day Tablighi Jamaat held its event in Delhi, Chief Minister Adityanath had insisted that a Ram Navami fair will take place as usual. The FIR against Varadarajan also mentioned his remark questioning Adityanath's participation in a religious ceremony at the Ramjanmabhoomi site in Ayodhya during the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. The journalists from print, electronic and digital media condemned the FIR in a joint statement, saying the manner in which the UP government and its police have been pursuing this with a single-minded agenda "smacks of vindictiveness". This constitutes nothing but a "brazen attempt to muzzle the media", the statement said. The statement has been endorsed by well known media persons like N Ram, Chairman, Hindu Group of Publications; R Vijaya Sankar, Editor of Frontline; Rajdeep Sardesai, Consulting Editor, India Today Group; Om Thanvi, former editor of Jansatta; Prem Shankar Jha, Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay and Harish Khare among others. The signatories to the statement include Suhasini Haider, Sagarika Ghose, Maya Mirchandani, Sonia Singh, Neerja Chowdhry, Gautam Lahiri, John Dayal and Ziya Us Salam. "The state has an extra responsibility to exercise restraint on use of its powers when citizens are restricted in exercising many of their usual democratic rights," the statement said. "Freedom of the press is doubly important in such a context as people cannot make news themselves, but independent media is the most important medium of expressing their concerns. We demand that such politically motivated harassment of media persons should stop immediately," it said. The Wire was accused of causing panic when it reported that UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath attended a religious event on March 25 at Ayodhya on the occasion of Ram Navmi, when a national lockdown was in force, it said. The Wire has held that the CM's presence was a matter of public record and knowledge and a sentence in an article in the Wire had wrongly attributed a statement made by Acharya Paramhans to the chief minister, which was not only retracted but a corrigendum issued as well, the statement said. Rather than let the matter end there, an FIR was filed in Faizabad district, it added. On April 10, a team of the UP police descended at Varadarajan's residence to serve him a notice for appearing on April 14, irrespective of the fact that a nationwide lockdown was in force, the statement said. The FIR had referred to a tweet by Varadarajan which said, "On the day the Tablighi Jamaat event was held, Adityanath insisted a large Ram Navami fair planned for Ayodhya from March 25 to April 2 would proceed as usual and that Lord Ram would protect devotees from the coronavirus". Later, the journalist tweeted, "I should clarify that it was Acharya Paramhans, Hindutva stalwart and head of the official Ayodhya temple trust, who said Ram would protect devotees from coronavirus, and not Adityanath, though he allowed a public event on 25/3 in defiance of the lockdown and took part himself." The Editors Guild of India had also earlier condemned the FIR, saying the police action in the form of an FIR under criminal laws at this stage is an "overreaction and an act of intimidation".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-200-journalists-condemn-fir-against-the-founding-editor-of-the-wire-siddharth-varadarajan-825318.html
14-04-2020||National||Has India's 'airpocalypse' put the poor more at risk from coronavirus?||India is home to about half of the world's 50 most polluted cities, according to Swiss firm IQAir, with emissions fuelled by industry, vehicle exhaust fumes and coal-fired power plants. New Delhi was named in February as the capital with the dirtiest air. Dust from building sites and smoke from burning rubbish and crop fields also contribute to what is locally dubbed the "airpocalypse". Environmentalists say this air pollution hits poor and socially marginalised communities most as they often live and work in or close to industrial and commercial areas. In addition, they tend to burn wood, dung, kerosene or coal indoors to cook and heat their homes. Long exposure to health-harming emissions can weaken immune systems, making it harder to fight off the coronavirus, which in severe cases causes shortness of breath and lung failure, said Arvind Kumar, a leading chest surgeon in New Delhi. "The poor will be far more vulnerable because ... poverty is linked to air pollution - and air pollution is linked to higher mortality to (the novel coronavirus)," said Kumar, founder of the Lung Care Foundation. Those suffering from malnutrition also have weak immune systems and are more prone to infections, giving them low chances of fighting COVID-19, he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. BEYOND INDIA Overall, nine in 10 people on the planet breathe poor-quality air, which kills an estimated 7 million people each year, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). More than 90% of air pollution-related deaths occur in low- and middle-income countries, mainly in Asia and Africa, it found in a 2018 report. India's toxic air claimed 1.24 million lives in 2017, according to a study published by The Lancet Planetary Health. Kumar cited recent studies that draw links between air pollution, COVID-19 - the respiratory disease caused by the new coronavirus - and mortality rates, including in Italy, one of the world's hardest-hit countries with more than 20,000 deaths. In a study published this month in the journal Environmental Pollution, Danish and Italian scientists said the two Italian regions with the highest death tolls - Lombardy and Emilia-Romagna - are also among the most polluted in Europe. While other factors likely contributed to the deaths, the bodies of the victims "may have already been weakened by the accumulated exposure to air pollution", the researchers said. Similarly, another new study from the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health looked at data from about 3,000 counties in the United States, covering 98% of the country's population. It found that residents of counties with high levels of fine particulate pollution over decades were 15% more likely to die from COVID-19 than inhabitants of regions with just 1 microgram per cubic metre less of such PM2.5 pollution. Still, it remains unclear if the virus is carried on the polluting particles or if dirty air damages the layer of cells that cover the lungs "which makes it easier for the virus to enter", said Mark Nieuwenhuijsen, an environmental epidemiology professor at the Barcelona Institute for Global Health.   NO TESTS, NO DATA Indians have been breathing easier since a national lockdown came into force on March 25 to combat the coronavirus outbreak, which has infected more than 10,000 and killed about 350 people. With cars off the road and factories closed, skyscrapers usually shrouded in smog have been visible under blue skies and residents say they can spot more stars than usual. Kumar of the Lung Care Foundation said India should take a cue and start moving faster to ditch dirty fossil fuels and adopt renewable energy. "Instead of planning on doing something in the next 20 or 30 years, we must use this sad episode to fast-forward to a clean energy economy in a rapid way," he added. Health experts said that while air quality may have improved for now, conditions linked to long-term exposure to pollution like asthma and bronchitis were harder to tackle. Respiratory problems can also be made worse by "co-morbidities" - or existing medical conditions - like hypertension and diabetes, said Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of the Washington D.C.-based Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy. "The poor are more likely to have these co-morbidities and are exposed to higher levels of air pollution because they are more likely to be involved in physical labour that requires exertion that is hazardous when air quality is low," he said. Tuberculosis is an example of a respiratory infection where Indians have been at risk of worse outcomes due to exposure to poor air quality, he added in emailed comments. India is home to the world's largest number of TB patients, according to the WHO. Kumar said a lack of tests and information so far made it "impossible" to know whether the poor are facing more severe forms of COVID-19. Those with symptoms are being admitted to local government facilities, where resources are usually limited and tests for lung function unlikely to happen, he said. He urged the government to create a central database to catalogue COVID-19 patients according to the cause of death, underlying problems, history of exposure to air pollution and socio-economic background, to support better research.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/has-indias-airpocalypse-put-the-poor-more-at-risk-from-coronavirus-825322.html
14-04-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh: Cop shoots at self on duty; injured||40-year-old police constable was injured on Tuesday when he shot at himself from his service revolver in Neelbad area near here in Madhya Pradesh, police said. The constable, identified as Chetan Singh Thakur, shot himself in one of his shoulders in afternoon while on duty, a police officer said. The immediate trigger behind Thakur, posted in Ratiband police station, turning the weapon on himself is under investigation. Video of the incident hasa gone viral on social media. The constable was shifted to a private hospital where he is undergoing treatment. PTI ADU MAS NSK NSK||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-cop-shoots-at-self-on-duty-injured-825323.html
14-04-2020||National||Lockdown will go a long way in arresting coronavirus spread in India: WHO||The World Health Organisation on Tuesday endorsed India’s decision of extending the lockdown period by another three weeks asserting that such timely and tough actions would go a long way in arresting the virus’s spread. “It may be early to talk about results in numbers, but a six-week nationwide lockdown to facilitate effective physical distancing, coupled with the expansion of core public health measures such as detection, isolation and tracing contact of Covid-19 positive people, would go a long way in arresting the virus spread,” said Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, WHO South-East Asia region. “Despite huge and multiple challenges, India has been demonstrating unwavering commitment in its fight against the pandemic. In these testing times, the action lies as much with the communities as with the authorities and the health workforce. It is indeed time for each and everyone to contribute their best and together beat the virus,” she said.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of the nation-wide shut down till May 3 after seven state governments decided to extend the lockdown period in their respective states by an additional two weeks and several scientific studies underscored the need to continue with the lockdown. The 21-day lockdown announced by Modi last month was to end on the midnight of April 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-will-go-a-long-way-in-arresting-coronavirus-spread-in-india-who-825328.html
14-04-2020||National||World Health Organization lauds India's 'tough and timely' anti-coronavirus actions||The World Health Organization on Tuesday lauded "India’s tough and timely actions" against the coronavirus spread as Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of current lockdown till May 3. "It may be early to talk about results in numbers, but a six-week nationwide lockdown to facilitate effective physical distancing, coupled with the expansion of core public health measures such as detection, isolation and tracing contact of coronavirus positive people, would go a long way in arresting the virus spread," said WHO's South-East Asia Regional Director, Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh. "Despite huge and multiple challenges, India has been demonstrating unwavering commitment in its fight against the pandemic," she said. "In these testing times, the action lies as much with the communities as with the authorities and the health workforce," she added. "It is indeed time for each and every one to contribute their best and together to beat the virus," Dr Singh said. Modi on Tuesday said the implementation of the lockdown will be strictly ensured in coming days to ensure that the virus does not spread to new areas The prime minister said a detailed guideline on the implementation of the new lockdown will be announced on Wednesday. According to the Union Health Ministry figures, a total of 339 people have died of COVIOD-19 till date in the country, while the number of infected cases has soared to 10,363 on Tuesday. A PTI tally of figures reported by various states as on Monday evening, however, showed at least 346 deaths. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of deaths announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-health-organization-lauds-indias-tough-and-timely-anti-coronavirus-actions-825343.html
14-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: This too shall pass, says actor Rajinikanth||"This too shall pass" was superstar Rajinikanth's take on the COVID-19 pandemic which has ravaged the world and to a much lesser extent India, as he urged Tamils in every nation to follow restrictions imposed by governments to protect themselves. In a video message released to extend his Tamil New year greetings, he urged Tamils living everywhere, including foreign countries, to follow the restrictions to protect themselves from the contagion, saying this would be their "biggest gift" to their family members this year.  "Coronavirus has affected the whole world and India and Tamil Nadu are no exceptions. Those away from you, your relatives and family members, always keep thinking about you and are worried about you," he said in the video. "In whichever country you live, follow the restrictions and protect yourself. This is the biggest gift you are giving this year to your relatives and family members. Live well, don't worry. This too shall pass," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-this-too-shall-pass-says-actor-rajinikanth-825355.html
14-04-2020||National||Restrictions, social distancing norms will continue till May 3: NDMA||The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) on Tuesday said the ongoing restrictions and social distancing norms being implemented during the lockdown will continue till May 3. The announcement came on a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared that the lockdown will be extended till May 3. In an order, the NDMA said it had directed on March 24 to take measures for ensuring social distancing so as to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the country. These measures are in force for a period of 21 days with effect from March 15. Considering the fact that strict social distancing measures need to be implemented for a further period to contain the spread of COVID-19, the authority, in exercise of powers under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, directs the ministries and departments of the central and state governments to continue the same measures for social distancing up to May 3. In this regard the guidelines and orders issued by National Executive Committee shall continue to be applicable throughout the country, the order said. The NDMA also asked the NEC to issue modifications in the guidelines as necessary, keeping in view the need to contain the spread of COVID-19.    After the NDMA order, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, as chairman of the NEC, issued directions to all central ministries, departments, state and union territory governments that the lockdown measures stipulated in aforesaid consolidated guidelines of MHA for containment of COVID-19 epidemic in the country, will continue to remain in force up to May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/restrictions-social-distancing-norms-will-continue-till-may-3-ndma-825371.html
14-04-2020||National||Over 22L metric tonnes of foodgrains taken by states, UTs from FCI godowns till now: MHA||More than 22 lakh metric tonnes of foodgrains have so far been lifted by states and Union Territories from the Food Corporation of India godowns for distribution among people during the lockdown imposed in the country to contain the spread of COVID-19, a senior home ministry official said on Tuesday. Punya Salia Srivastava, joint secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs told reporters that the Centre has made a provision of providing 5 kg of food grains (either wheat or rice) per month to about 80 crore people under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna (PMGKY).  The distribution of free ration will continue for the next three months, she said during the daily briefing on the various steps being taken to ensure that the ongoing lockdown is enforced strictly in the country. "Additional ration has been allocated to states and Union Territories (UTs). Up to April 13, more than 22 lakh metric tonnes of foodgrains have been lifted by states and UTs from the Food Corporation of India (FCI)," the officer said. Srivastava said the situation of supply of essential goods in the country was "under control" and a control room created in the home ministry was monitoring these important services. "Till now, this control room with the help of different ministries and states, has resolved about 5,000 complaints," she said. The officer added that 20 nationwide grievance centres have also been created by the labour ministry to look into the problems being faced by labourers and other daily wage earners.  These centres are being supervised and monitored by chief labour commissioners. These centres have been directed to offer help to labourers in a time-bound manner, the joint secretary added. "We hope that with these steps, we will be able to implement the lockdown measures and alleviate the problems of the people," she said. On being asked if some states were not following the directives issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), Srivastava said "any violation" of such guidelines is taken up with the respective state or UT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-22l-metric-tonnes-of-foodgrains-taken-by-states-uts-from-fci-godowns-till-now-mha-825376.html
14-04-2020||National||Railways set to cancel around 39 lakh tickets booked for Apr 15-May 3 due to coronavirus lockdown extension||Railways is set to cancel around 39 lakh tickets booked for travel between April 15 and May 3 due to extension of the nationwide lockdown and suspension of passenger trains till then in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, sources told PTI. With the national transporter allowing tickets to be booked during the 21-day lockdown for journeys after April 14, around 39 lakh bookings were made by passengers hoping that trains will be in operation post-lockdown. However, with the announcement of the extension of the lockdown period, the railways on Tuesday not only cancelled all its passenger services till May 3 but also stopped all advance bookings. Even as the announcement stalled over 15,000 passenger trains of the railways, thousands of migrant workers converged near the Bandra railway station in Mumbai hoping to catch trains back to their home states. While they were dispersed later, questions were raised as to why railways kept bookings open despite the uncertainty over the extension of the lockdown period. Railways, however, said all passengers will get full refund for tickets booked for the cancelled trains as well as for those booked in advance. Railways has also said full refunds would be automatically provided by the national transporter for its online customers, while those who have booked at the counters can take the refunds up to July 31. Customers will also get full refund of their tickets if they are cancelling their advance bookings of tickets for trains that are not yet cancelled, it said. It also said that no advance reservation of train tickets, including e-tickets will be allowed till further orders though the facility of online cancellation will remain functional. "As far as trains cancelled up to May 3 is concerned, the refunds would be made automatically by the railways online to the customers while those who have booked at the counters, refund can be taken up to 31st July. Full refund will be given for tickets for the bookings made for the trains cancelled. "Full refund will also be there for those cancelling the advance bookings of tickets for trains not yet cancelled," Railways said. Before the pandemic, on an average, around 8.5 lakh tickets were booked daily on the IRCTC website. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced that the lockdown across the country will be extended till May 3 to fight the coronavirus pandemic, saying the measure has produced a significant outcome in containing the infection. After Modi's March 22 announcement of a 21-day lockdown across the country, the railways on March 24 had announced that its suspension of all passenger services will continue till April 14 in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. Around 15,523 trains run by the railways have been affected including 9,000 passenger trains and 3,000 mail express services which are run daily under normal circumstances. The death toll in the country due to novel coronavirus rose to 353 with 29 fatalities reported since Monday evening, while the number of cases saw a record jump of 1,463 to go up to 10,815 cases on Tuesday, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the country stands at 9,272, As many as 1,189 people have recoverd and been discharged, and one has migrated to another country, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-set-to-cancel-around-39-lakh-tickets-booked-for-apr-15-may-3-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown-extension-825380.html
14-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Amit Shah speaks to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray on migrant workers at Bandra||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday called up Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and expressed concern over the gathering of a large number of people in Mumbai's Bandra area in defiance of the ongoing lockdown, officials said. Shah stressed that such events weaken India's fight against coronavirus and the administration needs to stay vigilant to avoid such incidents. "The home minister spoke to the Maharashtra chief minister and expressed concern over the large gathering of people in Mumbai's Bandra area," a home ministry official said. Shah also offered his full support to the Maharashtra government in dealing with the situation, the official said. About 1,000 migrant workers who earn daily wages gathered in Mumbai's Bandra area on Tuesday demanding transport arrangements for them to go back to their native places, hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced extension of the coronavirus-enforced lockdown till May 3. A police official said the migrants were dispersed two hours later and have been assured that they will be provided accommodation and food till the lockdown lasts.  In viral videos, police personnel were seen using mild cane-charge to disperse the migrants, who had gathered near the Bandra railway station in suburban Mumbai. Daily wage workers have been rendered jobless ever since the lockdown was announced late last month to stem the spread of COVID-19, making their lives a constant struggle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-amit-shah-speaks-to-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-on-migrant-workers-at-bandra-825381.html
14-04-2020||National||India Post lends helping hand in battle against COVID-19||As India battles Covid-19, India Post has turned a lifesaver as it transports medicines and medical equipment such as ventilators, masks and testing kits to remote corners of the country. Since all courier and parcel services companies downed shutters due to nationwide lockdown from March 24, the Government declared India Post as “essential service” and tasked it with the delivery of medicines and medical equipment following an ‘SOS’ call from drugmakers and hospitals. The Department of Posts has partnered with Indian Drug Manufacturers Association, Directorate General of Health Services and online pharmaceutical companies to deliver life-saving drugs, Covid-19 testing kits, N-95 Masks, ventilators and other hospital equipment, said an official in the Department of Posts. With flight, passenger trains and other public transport services shut, India Post used parcel trains and cargo planes to deliver consignments. “Delivery of medicines through Speed Post is given the highest priority during the lockdown. The entire postal network across the country has been galvanised for the purpose,” Communication Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said.  India Post has the largest network of over 1.55 lakh post offices of which 1.39 lakh are in rural areas. It also plays a key role in the disbursement of wages under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and old age pension and widow pension schemes. “Thousands of tonnes of medicines and medical equipment has been delivered since lockdown was announced. Postal officers and employees are working round the clock across the country to ensure timely delivery of medicines at doorsteps of hospitals and individual customers, Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-post-lends-helping-hand-in-battle-against-covid-19-825384.html
14-04-2020||National||MEA announces COVID-19 training program for healthcare professionals from SAARC countries||The External Affairs Ministry has announced a training programme on COVID-19 from April 17 for healthcare professionals from SAARC countries. The training programme will be carried out by the Central government's Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC) programme. "Taking forward @PMOIndia's vision on #PrepareNotPanic for #SAARCfightsCoronoa, @MEAIndia announces e-@ITECnetwork training programmes on #COVID19  for healthcare professionals for @SAARCsec countries starting April 17, 2020," the ITEC said in a tweet. At an India-initiated video conference of SAARC leaders on March 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggested that health professionals of the member nations could come together to jointly fight the coronavirus pandemic. Days after the Prime Minister strongly pitched for a regional approach to deal with the pandemic, India proposed setting up of a common electronic platform for all SAARC nations to share expertise and best practices to jointly combat the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mea-announces-covid-19-training-program-for-healthcare-professionals-from-saarc-countries-825391.html
14-04-2020||National||Tamil Nadu reports 31 new COVID-19 patients; one death||While 31 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, a 96-year-old man passed away due to “breathlessness.”  This takes the state’s tally to 1,204 and death toll to 12. However, this is the lowest number of positive patients as the state has been witnessing an exponential increase in the number of COVID-19 cases since March 31. Another good news is that the number of patients discharged has increased to 81 with 23 people leaving various hospitals after treatment in the past 24 hours. “Discharge takes time because we follow a strict protocol. We keep them in hospital for 14 days even if they recover early,” Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh said, adding that the state has so far tested 19,255 samples, including 4,040 repeat samples of same persons. Out of these, 1,204 have tested positive and 777 samples are under process.  She also said 33 children under the age of 10 have so far tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. The state has been testing patients with the Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) every day and out of 69 who were tested on Tuesday, none reported positive. Meanwhile, a COVID-19 positive doctor, hailing from Andhra Pradesh and treated at a private hospital here, was cremated in the wee hours of Tuesday, a day after residents of Ambattur protested against the decision to perform his last rites in their area.  Police also said a migrant worker hailing from Delhi, who was discharged “by mistake” by health officials in Villupuram, has been traced and isolated at a government hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-reports-31-new-covid-19-patients-one-death-825392.html
14-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Indian Railways to cancel 39 lakh tickets||With the Indian Railways extending the suspension of passenger train services till May 3, the national transporter set to cancel around 39 lakh tickets booked for April 15-May 3. Though the railway suspended the booking of tickets from March 24 to April 14 in the first 21 days of countrywide lockdown, it did allow the passengers to book advance reservation from April 14 midnight. However, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcing the extension of lockdown till May 3, national transporter cancelling all tickets booked till May 3. All passengers will get full refund whether ticket booked through online or passenger reservation counters, railways said in a statement.  To avoid any confusion about future travel, the national transporter also suspended booking from May 4 to till further order.  The railways also allowed passengers,  who booked ticket for May 4 onwards journey, to cancel it and promised to return their money without any deduction. "All passenger trains suspended till May 3. "Resumption of train services may be warranted... Keeping in view emergent situation", public safety, to be announced in due course," Railways said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-indian-railways-to-cancel-39-lakh-tickets-825395.html
14-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Relaxation of lockdown measures only after April 20 review||Restrictions imposed to enforce COVID-19 lockdown will continue during the extended period also even as some relaxation could come after April 20 review of the situation. Announcing the extension of the lockdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the government would see how the situation progressed and take a decision on whether to ease restrictions in some manner. Following Modi's announcement, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has issued a fresh order to extend the lockdown. The order signed by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said, "...the lockdown measures stipulated in consolidated guidelines of MHA for containment of COVID-19 epidemic in the country, will continue to remain up to May 3 to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the country."   In a communication to the states, the Ministry of Home Affairs emphasised that under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the States/Union Territories cannot dilute restrictions imposed through these guidelines. While there is no official word on what could be the possible relaxations that could after the review on April 20, sources said whatever relaxations coming next week, would be only in areas where there are no cases reported for a specific period of time.  At present, the view is that opening up movement would invite more trouble and the gains accumulated during the past three weeks would wash away. One of the proposals before the government is to allow relaxation in some basic activities that do not promote huge gatherings. This could include repairing and service activities of house-hold items. Recently, the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) had recommended to the MHA to open up 16 non-essential sectors with reasonable safeguards to improve the economic condition of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-relaxation-of-lockdown-measures-only-after-april-20-review-825396.html
14-04-2020||National||Eight more test COVID-19 positive in Kerala, 13 recover||Eight new fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Tuesday, while 13 more were recovered. All fresh cases were reported from North Kerala districts with four in Kannur, three in Kozhikode and one on Kasargod. Five of them came from Dubai and others got infected through a local contact. Among the 13 recovered, six were Kasargod natives.  Total infected persons in Kerala till Tuesday are 386, of which 211 recovered so far, while two died and the remaining 173 are under treatment.  The state government is likely to announce certain relaxations in lockdown norms by Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eight-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-kerala-13-recover-825409.html
14-04-2020||National||Follow path of social service shown by Ambedkar: Khattar to Haryana's youth||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday called upon the youth of the state to follow the path of social service shown by B R Ambedkar and to come forward to serve society in this hour of crisis. Paying homage to Ambedkar on the occasion of his 129th birth anniversary, the chief minister said the architect of the Indian Constitution waged a spirited battle for social harmony. "In this time of crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic, we all have to fight with the same spirit. I am sure we will win this battle against coronavirus," Khattar said in a televised address to the people of Haryana. "They (youth) must come forward to serve the society and make social service their ideal in this hour of crisis," he said. He said Ambedkar had integrated the Indian society through the Constitution and credited him for adding the Ashoka Chakra, a symbol of peace, to India's national flag. Khattar described Ambedkar as a great thinker who was against Article 370, which granted a special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. "He was against Article 370," Khattar said, adding that granting special status to Jammu and Kashmir was not acceptable to Ambedkar. The Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government scrapped Article 370 in August last year. It also bifurcated Jammu and Kashmir into Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. "Babasaheb Ambedkar always followed the path of harmony, service and dedication. To end discrimination and to bring social awareness were the twin principles of social harmony of Babasaheb Ambedkar," Khattar said. He said it is necessary to bring social awareness in the fight against coronavirus following the same principles. With the nationwide lockdown extended till May 3, the chief minister said, Haryana will be making every possible effort to keep the "coronavirus graph stable". Khattar said he is hopeful that after April 20, the state will be able to start economic and industrial activities in a phased manner. In the world's biggest lockdown, which began on March 25, India's 1.3 billion people were ordered indoors for 21 days by Modi to stem the spread of coronavirus. Earlier on Tuesday, the prime minister announced that the lockdown will be extended to May 3 as the measure has produced a significant outcome in containing the infection. PTI SUN VSD DIV DIV||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/follow-path-of-social-service-shown-by-ambedkar-khattar-to-haryanas-youth-825437.html
14-04-2020||National||DRDO develops COVID-19 sample collection booth to cut down on PPEs||In an attempt to mitigate the dependence of healthcare workers on Personal Protection Equipment (PPEs), the Defense Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has invented an enclosed kiosk that can be used to collect COVID-19 samples from suspected cases. “The concept is based on the missile containers that we use. Here, the main advantage of this design is that the doctor can stand outside the kiosk while the patient goes inside to be examined. Using gloves built into the glass face of the kiosk, the doctor can collect samples from the patient,” an official of the DRDO said. In a statement, DRDO added the invention is a result of its attempts to help mitigate the danger faced by medical staff working at the frontlines of the struggle against COVID-19.  “The people most at risk of infection are those who are in close contact with a COVID-19 patient or who care for COVID-19 patients. So far, successful containment of COVID-19 involves testing patients with oral swabs and isolating the positive cases,” the statement said. The COVSACK (Covid SAmple Collection Kiosk) can help healthcare workers take samples from suspicious patients, without the need of PPE kits, DRDO said.  The kiosk also has a feature to disinfect the interiors automatically without human interaction, after the patient has exited. The solution used will be one percent sodium hypochlorite solution for a period of 1 minute to leave the walls of the chamber disinfected. It will be further flushed with water from the inbuilt sprayers and UV light disinfection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-develops-covid-19-sample-collection-booth-to-cut-down-on-ppes-825446.html
14-04-2020||National||J-K’s coronavirus testing capacity has increased to over 350 samples per day: Jitendra Singh||The capacity for COVID-19 testing has increased seven folds in the last three weeks in Jammu and Kashmir and over 350 samples can be tested on a daily basis, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Tuesday. Allaying apprehensions regarding the availability of ventilators in the Union Territory, he said the designated ventilators for possible coronavirus patients, which were 46 in number till a few days ago, are now 209. This information was also shared by Lt Govenor of Jammu and Kashmir G C Murmu during a conference chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last weekend. "Similarly, the number of quarantine beds has increased nearly four times from 7,909 to 26,943," said Singh, Minister of State for Personnel. He said the increase in capacity of testing of over 350 samples per day is a major achievement. After a detailed audio- interaction regarding COVID-19 healthcare facilities in Jammu and Kashmir, Singh lauded the Union Territory, particularly health authorities, for bringing about a major upsurge in COVID-19 care and prevention capacity during the lockdown period, according to a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry. Compared to many other states and union territories, he said, Jammu and Kashmir has been faster in upgrading its health infrastructure to meet the sudden challenge that emerged in the form of the coronavirus pandemic. For example, the minister said, the number of isolation beds has increased from 1,533 to 2,372 and there are plans for 1,689 additional beds. Jammu and Kashmir was among the first to set up dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, the number of which has now increased to 17. The number of ICU beds designated for COVID patients has also been increased from 25 to 209, the minister said. Singh also credited the Union Territory government for promptly following the various guidelines released from the Centre from time to time, whether it be in respect of setting up of decontamination tunnels or the distribution of AYUSH drugs to boost immunity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/j-k-s-coronavirus-testing-capacity-has-increased-to-over-350-samples-per-day-jitendra-singh-825453.html
14-04-2020||National||Ensure adequate water supply in rural areas during lockdown: Centre advises states||The Health Ministry has issued an advisory to states to ensure adequate supply of potable water during lockdown, particularly in rural areas where medical sanitisers may not be available, stating that frequent washing of hands with frothing soaps is recognised as the most-effective measure to control the spread of coronavirus. It highlighted the need to augment supply in water-deficient areas and give special care to vulnerable sections such as people in relief camps, places of quarantine, hospitals, old-age homes and slums. It asked states to assess the availability of water-purifying chemicals. "The purifying chemicals are among the essential commodities and therefore it may be ensured that these are part of the running supply chain.” It also advised states to ensure round-the-clock vigil and functionality of water supply systems and provide protective equipment like masks and sanitisers to officials managing the operation of the systems. "It is possible that demand during this period may go up and if people have to fetch water from the public stand post, supply hours may be required to be increased to ensure social distancing," the advisory stressed. The Union ministry also told states to make use of tele-medicine and triaging to avoid crowding of hospitals. It said non-COVID-19 services, including health promotion and community-based screening for chronic conditions, could be deferred until the lockdown is lifted. States should develop a phased engagement with the not-for-profit and private sector for use of their infrastructure if there is a shortfall in government health facilities, it said. Suspected coronavirus and other patients should be encouraged to utilise tele-platforms to determine the need to visit a health facility to avoid overcrowding of hospitals and prevent transmission of COVID-19, the advisory added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-adequate-water-supply-in-rural-areas-during-lockdown-centre-advises-states-825457.html
14-04-2020||National||Delhi: 2 doctors at RML Hospital test COVID-19 positive||Two doctors at the Centre-run RML hospital here have tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Tuesday. According to an official, the two women doctors are likely to have contracted the disease from coronavirus infected patients. The official said that contact-tracing has been initiated and several medical staff who have come in contact with these two doctors are being quarantined. "Both the doctors are admitted at the hospital for treatment. They are stable," the official said.   The death toll due to coronavirus rose to 353 and the number of cases in the country climbed to 10,815 on Tuesday according to the Union Health Ministry. However, a PTI tally of figures reported by various states as on Tuesday evening showed at least 10,986 cases and 365 deaths.  There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of deaths announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-2-doctors-at-rml-hospital-test-covid-19-positive-825464.html
14-04-2020||National||With 108 new cases, coronavirus tally rises to 1,005 in Rajasthan||Coronavirus cases in Rajasthan breached the 1,000-mark with 108 more people testing positive for the infection on Tuesday, pushing the state count to 1,005, an official said. Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said of the 108 cases reported on Tuesday, 83 were detected in Jaipur, the worst-hit district in the state with 453 COVID-19 patients. Thirteen cases surfaced in Jodhpur, eight in Kota, two in Jhalawar and one each in Jaisalmer and Jhunjhunu, he added. The Rajasthan tally includes two Italian citizens and 54 people brought from Iran to Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-108-new-cases-coronavirus-tally-rises-to-1005-in-rajasthan-825466.html
14-04-2020||National||246 cases registered, over 3,000 people detained for defying coronavirus lockdown in Delhi||Over 200 cases were registered and 3,316 people detained in the national capital on Tuesday for violating government orders during the lockdown imposed to control the spread of coronavirus, police said. According to the data shared by the police, 246 cases were registered under section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code till 5 pm.  A total of 3,316 people have been detained under section 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers) and 303 vehicles have been impounded under section 66 of the Delhi Police Act, they stated. A total of 555 movement passes have been issued, police said. A total of 132 cases have been registered against people for stepping out of their houses without wearing masks. Since March 24, as many as 80,557 people have been detained for violating orders under section 65 of the Delhi Police Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/246-cases-registered-over-3000-people-detained-for-defying-coronavirus-lockdown-in-delhi-825470.html
14-04-2020||National||Army doctor tests positive for coronavirus, contact tracing begins||An army doctor posted in Delhi tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday, official sources said. Following this, the place where he worked has been sanitised, they said. "One army doctor in Delhi today tested positive. The contact tracing has been started," a source said. The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital on Tuesday increased to 1,561 with 51 fresh cases and two deaths being reported in a day, taking the toll due to COVID-19 in Delhi to 30, according to the Delhi government authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-doctor-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-contact-tracing-begins-825476.html
14-04-2020||National||Over 1,000 samples sent for coronavirus testing in Ghaziabad: Official||A total of 1,089 samples have been sent for testing so far, out of which 673 people tested negative for COVID-19 and 391 reports are still awaited, Chief Medical Officer N K Gupta said. As many as 81,565 people have been quarantined so far, out of which 80,011 have been put under isolation at their homes, Gupta said. Twenty-seven people have tested positive for COVID-19 and seven were discharged after recuperating, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1000-samples-sent-for-coronavirus-testing-in-ghaziabad-official-825478.html
14-04-2020||National||About 3,500 jurists, artists slam FIR against Varadarajan, call it attack on media freedom||About 3,500 jurists, academics, actors, artists, writers as well as people from other walks of life on Tuesday slammed the Uttar Pradesh government and police for filing an FIR against Siddharth Varadarajan, the founding editor of the Wire, and demanded that all criminal proceedings against him be dropped. In a joint statement, they called it an attack on the freedom of the media. A medical emergency should not serve as the pretext for the imposition of a de facto political emergency, their statement said. The signatories to the statement include former Supreme Court judge Madan B Lokur, former Madras High Court judge K Chandru and former Patna High Court judge Anjana Prakash.  Two former Chiefs of Naval Staff -- Admiral Ramdas and Admiral Vishnu Bhagwat -- are also among the signatories along with former finance minister Yashwant Sinha. In their statement, they expressed shock at the action of the Uttar Pradesh government under Yogi Adityanath and police in filing criminal charges against The Wire and one of its founding editors, for an "entirely factual story on the COVID-19 and religious events". "This attack on media freedom, especially during the COVID-19 crisis, endangers not just free speech, but the public’s right to information," the statement said. The signatories called upon the UP government to withdraw the FIR against Varadarajan and The Wire, and drop all criminal proceedings. They also called upon the media not to communalise the pandemic. The Uttar Pradesh police this month booked Varadarajan over comments on Twitter claiming that the day Tablighi Jamaat held its event in Delhi, Chief Minister Adityanath had insisted that a Ram Navami fair will take place as usual. The FIR against Varadarajan also mentioned his remark questioning Adityanath's participation in a religious ceremony at the Ramjanmabhoomi site in Ayodhya during the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. The statement said that the target of this action is a factual story on the Tablighi Jamaat and its exposure to COVID-19. "Towards the end, the impugned article merely pointed out that 'Indian believers' more generally have been late to adopt precautions and avoid congregation, recalling UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s plans, as late as March 18, to proceed with a religious fair at Ayodhya and his flouting of the national lockdown and social distancing norms by taking part in a religious ceremony along with others on March 25," the statement said. Two FIRs were filed under various sections of the law on April 1, one on a complaint by a resident of Ayodhya and the other on the basis of a complaint by the SHO of the Kotwali Nagar police station, Faizabad, it noted. A plain reading of the sections invoked in the FIRs makes it clear they cannot possibly apply to the article in question, the statement said. "The FIRs were followed up with a gross display of intimidation on April 10 when policemen arrived in a black SUV with no number plates at Varadarajan’s residence in Delhi to issue a legal notice ordering him to appear in Ayodhya on April 14 at 10 am," it said. That the Uttar Pradesh government sent policemen driving across 700 kilometres during the national lockdown to issue this summons when the postal system is still operational speaks volumes for its priorities, the statement said. "The UP police's action is just the latest in a series of attempts by the ruling establishment, or persons close to them, to entangle The Wire and its editors in legal cases in an effort to shut them down," it said.  The police action against The Wire also comes against the backdrop of the "demonization of Muslims" in a section of the media as being responsible for the spread of the novel coronavirus in India, the statement said. Several former bureaucrats, including former national security adviser Shivshankar Menon, former foreign secretary Sujatha Singh, Former adviser to the Governor of Punjab & former ambassador to Romania Julio Ribeiro and former CEC MS Gill, among others, are also signatories to the statement. Other signatories include authors Vikram Seth, Nayantara Sahgal, Arundhati Roy, Anita Desai, K. Satchidanandan and Kiran Desai. The statement has also been endorsed by actors and artistes such as Amol Palekar, Naseeruddin Shah, Nandita Das, Farhan Akhtar, and Mallika Sarabhai. Zoya Akhtar, Kiran Rao and Anand Patwardhan are among the film-makers, and Dayanita Singh among the photographers who have backed the statement. Several senior journalists and over a thousand professors from universities across the globe are among academic signatories. The FIR against Varadarajan had referred to a tweet by him which said, "On the day the Tablighi Jamaat event was held, Adityanath insisted a large Ram Navami fair planned for Ayodhya from March 25 to April 2 would proceed as usual and that Lord Ram would protect devotees from the coronavirus". Later, the journalist tweeted, "I should clarify that it was Acharya Paramhans, Hindutva stalwart and head of the official Ayodhya temple trust, who said Ram would protect devotees from coronavirus, and not Adityanath, though he allowed a public event on 25/3 in defiance of the lockdown and took part himself."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/about-3500-jurists-artists-slam-fir-against-varadarajan-call-it-attack-on-media-freedom-825481.html
14-04-2020||National||COVID-19 testing adequate, none turned away: Centre||Under fire from health experts and political leaders over low testing numbers, the government on Tuesday asserted that it had expanded its testing strategy gradually and no person requiring it has been turned away. The assertion came even as the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in India rose to 10,815 and the death toll jumped by 45 since Monday to touch 353. “If we are not able to find people to test for the disease, it shows that the number is falling or the number is low. It is difficult to say. We don't say no to anybody for testing,” Raman Gangakhedkar, Head, Department of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases, ICMR, told reporters. He was responding to a question on the low number of tests for COVID-19 being done in the country which has been criticised by health experts and politicians. Gangakhedkar said the ICMR has increased the number of samples tested per day gradually over the past week and had carried out 21,635 tests on Monday. Of these 18,644 tests were carried out by the ICMR network of laboratories, while 2,991 samples were tested in private laboratories. He said India has adequate testing kits to last for a “pretty long time” than the six weeks stock declared on Monday. As many as 33 lakh RT-PCR kits have been ordered and 37 lakh rapid antibody test kits were expected to be delivered anytime. A health ministry official said that the tests were being carried out as per the protocol laid down by the ICMR.  “If we test randomly, then our testing kits would not be utilised for the people who need to be tested. We have also increased our sampling zone – patients with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) have been included. We have also introduced rapid diagnostic kits in the field. We have expanded the overall process of testing,” Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry said. Asked about the logic for the extension of the lockdown till May 3, Agarwal said the efforts of the government were focussed on breaking the chain of transmission of the disease. “If there are no cases reported for 28 days from a particular area or the last negative case is reported 28 days ago, then we believe that the chain of transmission has stopped as cases have stopped coming,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-testing-adequate-none-turned-away-centre-825484.html
14-04-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi's address hollow, no mention of financial package, says P Chidambaram||The Congress on Tuesday termed as rhetoric and hollow on specifics the prime minister's address to the nation, saying there was no mention of a financial package or concrete steps to revive the economy. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said, "The poor have been left to fend for themselves for 21+19 days, including practically soliciting food. There is money, there is food, but the government will not release either money or food. Cry, my beloved country," he said on Twitter. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced that the lockdown across the country will be extended till May 3 to fight the coronavirus pandemic, saying the measure has produced a significant outcome in containing the infection. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the PM's address was like Hamlet without the Prince of Denmark. "Amazing PM address. Exhortation, rhetoric, inspiration.....yet hollow on specifics! No financial package, no details, no concrete item. Neither for poor nor middle class nor industry nor businesses. Lockdown is good but cannot be end in itself! Where is single livelihood issue," he asked.  He said the PM be assured that all stakeholders will do their duties and will strictly observe lockdown. "After this: should we pray? We want concrete palliatives for these deprived classes and even for middle india  and MSMEs," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modis-address-hollow-no-mention-of-financial-package-says-p-chidambaram-825169.html
14-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: Akhilesh questions PM's claim on screening of travellers at airports coming in from abroad||In a tweet in Hindi on Tuesday, Akhilesh Yadav said, "It was claimed that the screening started at different airports when there was not even a single corona case in the country." "But the question then is how much serious and meaningful it proved. If it is true, then it should be told how the country got its first corona case," said the Samajwadi party president. "The country would be truly benefitted, if and only if the meaningful work is done," added Yadav. While announcing the extension of the current lockdown by another 19 days, the prime minister, in his address to the nation on Tuesday, had said the country had begun taking preventive and precautionary measure against the virus much before the detection of even a single case. "Long before we had even a single case of corona, India had started screening travellers coming in from corona-affected countries at airports," the prime minister had said. "Much before the number of corona patients reached 100, India had made 14-day isolation mandatory for all those coming in from abroad," he had added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-akhilesh-questions-pms-claim-on-screening-of-travellers-at-airports-coming-in-from-abroad-825200.html
14-04-2020||National Politics||PM's address lacked announcements to bring 'relief' to people on economic front: DMK||The opposition DMK in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address to the people on the extension of the national coronavirus lockdown lacked any announcements that would bring 'relief' to them on the economic front. NDA constituent PMK welcomed the extension of the lockdown, saying it was 'inevitable.' DMK President MK Stalin said there were many questions in the minds of people and asked the Prime Minister "when are you going to make an address which will provide relief" to people with such queries. Responding to Modi's announcement on the extension of the lockdown till May 3 as part of India's fight against COVID19, Stalin, however, said there was no other option other than such a prohibitory order as all the affected persons have not been able to be traced while not all the infected could be quarantined. The PM's address on Tuesday has turned out to be an awareness with his seven-point advice to the people, he said. "At the same time, people of the country don't expect just advice from him (but) relief assistance that would enable their survival, help in kind and cash," Stalin said in a statement. "No such announcements were there in the PM's addresses so far, and not today as well," the state Leader of Opposition said. While people confined indoors wanted to know what kind of sops, assistance and 'mercy' the government would give and show them, there was only "disappointment," from the latter, he added. While people will protect themselves from the spread of the disease, the government should have announced its economic plans to safeguard them, he said. Many in the country made a living on a daily basis and the lockdown had severely impacted them. Referring to Congress leader P Chidambaram's statement that remonetising the poor would cost only Rs 65,000 crore, Stalin asked why the Centre could not see the logic in this. China had come out of the pandemic because while people stayed indoors, the government delivered all necessary assistance to them, he said. The Centre had not granted Tamil Nadu's demand of funds towards various efforts in its fight against COVID19, even as provision of local area development funds of MPs has been suspended, Stalin said, adding, these were the issues to which people wanted the PM's response. "All I want to ask is when are you going to answer people's questions that would serve as a relief to them," Stalin added. Meanwhile, BJP ally PMK welcomed the extension of the lockdown. Party's Youth Wing leader and Rajya Sabha member Anbumani Ramadoss said the move was taken with the aim of protecting people and therefore a welcome one. "With the spread of coronavirus showing no signs of abating in Tamil Nadu, the extension of the lockdown in inevitable," he said in a statement. He urged the citizens to strictly follow the prohibitory orders and wear masks compulsorily when they venture out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pms-address-lacked-announcements-to-bring-relief-to-people-on-economic-front-dmk-825222.html
14-04-2020||National Politics||Congress never gave Ambedkar respect, Modi govt fulfilled his vision: J P Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday accused the Congress of never giving B R Ambedkar the respect due to the dalit icon but said the Modi government has "fulfilled" his vision and followed the path he showed. Paying tributes to the architect of India's Constitution, on his 129th birth anniversary, Nadda contrasted BJP's respect for him with the alleged indifference of the Congress. Despite severe opposition, Ambedkar never compromised with his values and raised issues of social inequality and discrimination, Nadda said, noting that he resigned as law minister while fighting for the rights of women. "It is unfortunate that during the lifetime of Babasaheb when the Congress was in power, it never gave him the respect due to him. What is also unfortunate that he was given the Bharat Ratna four decades after his death," Nadda said in a message to BJP workers. He also asked party workers to follow his ideals. Ambedkar, a crusader for dalit rights and social equality, was given India's highest civilian award in 1990 during the V P Singh-led National Front government, which was supported by the BJP. Nadda noted that the Modi government has elevated five places, including where Ambedkar was born and died, as 'panch tirth' (five pilgrimages), asserting he was and will remain an ideal for the BJP in its efforts to empower the backward sections of society. He asked BJP workers to help the poor in this time of a pandemic, saying this will be the best tribute to Ambedkar. What Ambedkar had envisioned has been fulfilled by the Modi government which, Nadda added, has followed the path shown by him to work for the welfare of all sections of society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-never-gave-ambedkar-respect-modi-govt-fulfilled-his-vision-j-p-nadda-825226.html
14-04-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi should spell out strategy to tackle coronavirus: Congress' Manish Tewari||The Congress on Tuesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to spell out the government's strategy to tackle coronavirus and what steps it plans to take to mitigate woes of migrant labourers and farmers waiting to harvest crops. Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari said the prime minister has not talked about the plight of migrant workers who are quarantined at state borders and what the government intends to do about them, as most of them have completed their 14-day quarantine. Addressing a press conference through video, he said the prime minister has also not talked about ramping up mass testing in the country for COVID-19 or about steps taken to increase the purchase of personal protection equipment. He said the prime minister also did not talk about ensuring maintenance of supply chain of essential commodities and for the harvesting of the Rabi crop.  "The PM told the nation what he expects out of the people but the PM did not address concerns of the people or talk about what his government is doing for the people of India, something the people wanted to hear," he said. "What we have not heard from the PM is what is this Govt's strategy regarding testing. Will it be limited to hotspots or will there be community-level screening as it has happened in Bhilwara. What is the strategy of this Government," he asked. "What the PM has not spoken about and made for the most horrifying images when the lockdown was first implemented, is with regard to the plight of the migrant workers. They are in camps, spread out in various parts of the country," he said asking whether the government has any plan to ensure that they are taken back to their homes. "Essentially, if someone has gone through the mandatory quarantine period and is not showing any symptoms, does it not become the Government's responsibility to facilitate their return. That's what we wanted to hear, what is the Government doing about it," Tewari asked. "Are you going to allow them to go back to their homes? Is there a calibrated plan to facilitate their travel," he asked. The Congress leader said the party understands the inevitability of the lockdown and hence the Indian National Congress supports the extension of the lockdown, as the Centre and all the states agree on this. He also asked about steps the government is taking to stop retrenchment of workers and asked whether it will take action against those employers sacking their employees at such time of crisis. "What is Government's roadmap for harvesting? Are you going to allow people to go in the fields, carry out the harvest? How will the harvest then be collected and taken to procurement centres? How will procurement be facilitated, will Govt pay a bonus over the MSP," he said. Tewari said one has not heard from the PM about our frontline workers who are battling COVID-19, health workers, municipal workers and what is the status with regard to procurement of their PPEs. He said the country wanted to hear from the PM is with regard to tests, as there is no vaccine and so far the only medical treatment available is preemption and prevention and for that what we require is mass testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-should-spell-out-strategy-to-tackle-coronavirus-congress-manish-tewari-825228.html
14-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus Lockdown: PM Narendra Modi failed to address economic concerns, say Shiv Sena-NCP||The Shiv Sena and NCP said Prime Minister Narendra Modis address to the nation on Tuesday lacked substance as he did not suggest ways to strengthen the economy or a relief package for the poor and those worst hit by the lockdown. Shiv Sena spokesperson Manisha Kayande also took a dig at the prime minister, saying he thankfully did not give any activity to people this time like clanging utensils or lighting lamps. Modi on Tuesday announced that the lockdown across the country will be extended till May 3, saying the measure has produced a significant outcome in containing the infection. He said implementation of the lockdown will be strictly ensured in its second phase and detailed guidelines will be brought out on Wednesday to ensure that outbreak does not spread to new areas. Some relaxations may be allowed after April 20 in places where there are no hotspots, he said. Kayande said Modi could have announced extension of the lockdown on Wednesday itself along with the new guidelines, instead of declaring it separately. "He could have elaborated steps to be taken to tackle the coronavirus, relaxing restrictions on movements in different areas (depending upon threat posed by the disease)," she said. "His speech normally is more of a rhetoric than substance. Thankfully, he did not give any other event to the people like lighting up lamps or clanging utensils. There was nothing substantial (in the address), the only takeaway was that the lockdown has been extended, she added. Maharashtra Minister and NCP national spokesman Nawab Malik noted that Modi talked about helping the poor. "But, he could have announced a package on behalf of the central government to help the poor, those working in the unorganised sector who are the worst hit due to the lockdown. There was no mention of it anywhere," Malik said. Another NCP spokesman Mahesh Tapase said it was expected that the prime minister would address the economic concerns being faced by the country. "The least to expect was the announcement of a slew of measures to kick-start the economy in a phased manner as and when the restrictions are lifted, he added. Tapase said the employers and employees wanted to know from the government how recession and unemployment will be tackled in the time to come. "Access to capital for business, especially for MSMEs and agriculture, is a big concern. Supply and logistics is the cornerstone of economic activity which has come to a virtual standstill," he said. The 2020-21 fiscal looks grim and hence, the right stimulus from the government coupled with a renewed zeal by the industry will only bring the economy back on track, he suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-pm-narendra-modi-failed-to-address-economic-concerns-say-shiv-sena-ncp-825247.html
14-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: BJP leaders make photos of wearing face masks their Twitter display picture||Several senior BJP leaders, including party president J P Nadda, on Tuesday put pictures of wearing face covers on their Twitter profiles after Prime Minister Narendra Modi did so to emphasise the importance of covering one’s face to keep coronavirus at bay. Modi began his televised address to the nation by greeting people with a 'gamcha' (towel) covering his face before he removed it and continued with the speech.  Wearing a face cover is an essential exercise during the lockdown for people when they step out of their homes, he said. Nadda changed his Twitter profile picture and posted the message "Wear face cover stay safe". Union minister Giriraj Singh also followed suit and changed his profile picture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-bjp-leaders-make-photos-of-wearing-face-masks-their-twitter-display-picture-825277.html
14-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus Lockdown: PM Modi's address a rhetoric, hollow on specifics, says Congress||A host of Congress leaders criticised Modi for not coming out with a financial package or concrete steps to revive the economy and asked what he was doing to mitigate the woes of poor, migrant labourers and farmers waiting to harvest crops. Congress president Sonia Gandhi sought to assure people of her party's support amid the crisis, saying whether the Congress was in power or in the opposition it would extend all help to the people. In her video message, the Congress chief urged countrymen to stay indoors, be safe and observe the lockdown and social distancing stipulations, saying it will not be possible to win this battle without everyone's support. She expressed confidence that with a strong morale, the country will emerge victorious very soon. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said mass testing is the key to fighting coronavirus but India is currently nowhere in the game.  Pointing to low level of testing for coronavirus in the country, he said India is currently in the company of countries like Laos, Niger and Honduras, with only 149 tests per million population. "India delayed the purchase of testing kits and is now critically short of them," he said on Twitter. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala asked where is the country's roadmap to fight coronavirus. He said leadership does not mean making people realise their responsibilities but to fulfil the government's duty of accountability towards the people of the country. "A lot of talk has taken place but where is the roadmap to fight coronavirus," he asked. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said, "The poor have been left to fend for themselves for 21+19 days, including practically soliciting food. There is money, there is food, but the government will not release either money or food. Cry, my beloved country." Modi on Tuesday announced that the lockdown across the country will be extended till May 3 to fight the coronavirus pandemic, saying the measure has produced a significant outcome in containing the infection. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said, "Amazing PM address. Exhortation, rhetoric, inspiration.....yet hollow on specifics! No financial package, no details, no concrete item. Neither for poor nor middle class nor industry nor businesses. Lockdown is good but cannot be end in itself! Where is single livelihood issue." Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari said the prime minister has not talked about the plight of migrant workers who are quarantined at state borders and what the government intends to do about them, as most of them have completed their 14-day quarantine. Addressing a press conference through video, he said Modi has also not talked about ramping up mass testing in the country or about steps taken to increase purchase of personal protection equipment. "The PM told the nation what he expects out of the people but the PM did not address concerns of the people or talk about what his government is doing for the people of India, something the people wanted to hear," he said. "What the PM has not spoken about and made for the most horrifying images when the lockdown was first implemented, is with regard to the plight of the migrant workers. They are in camps, spread out in various parts of the country," he said, asking whether the government has any plan to ensure that they are taken back to their homes. "Essentially, if someone has gone through the mandatory quarantine period and is not showing any symptoms, does it not become the government's responsibility to facilitate their return. That's what we wanted to hear, what is the Government doing about it," Tewari asked. The Congress leader said the party understands the inevitability of the lockdown and hence the Indian National Congress supports its extension as the Centre and all the states agree on this. He also asked about steps the government is taking to stop retrenchment of workers and asked whether it will take action against those employers sacking their employees at such time of crisis.  Singhvi said the PM be assured that all stakeholders will do their duties and will strictly observe lockdown. "After this: should we pray? We want concrete palliative for these deprived classes and even for middle India and MSMEs," he said. "PM address without single specific and without guidelines is like Hamlet without Prince of Denmark. Like PM without details! We want increased GDP allocation; specific targeted monetary injections; Keynesian spending; loosen FMRB etc. not a single word," he tweeted. Chidambaram said the CMs' demand for money elicited no response. "Not a rupee has been added to the miserly package of March 25, 2020. From Raghuram Rajan to Jean Dreze, from Prabhat Patnaik to Abhijit Banerji, their advice has fallen on deaf years," the former finance minister said. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said Modi did not talk on what he was doing to help the poor, marginalised and vulnerable sections who were finding it difficult to even have food in this crisis. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said the PM should have also announced serious relief for those who cannot make ends meet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-pm-modis-address-a-rhetoric-hollow-on-specifics-says-congress-825337.html
14-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: Opposition Finance Ministers to meet via 'webinar' to demand more funds||Amid accusations that the Centre is not providing enough money to fight Covid-19, the CPI(M) is taking an initiative to rally around Opposition-led governments to demand additional funds for tackling the pandemic through a "webinar" this weekend. Thomas Isaac, the Finance Minister of the Left Democratic Front-led Kerala government, has taken the lead for such a "webinar", which is a seminar on the internet, of his counterparts in non-BJP ruled states. "We have raised the issue of funding to the state governments. We are taking the initiative what is called a 'webinar' of Finance Ministers of all non-BJP ruled states. If the BJP-ruled states want to join, they are welcome...I hope all most of the non-BJP Finance Ministers will attend," CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury said. The 'webinar' is scheduled for this weekend, Yechury said adding it is not only the responsibility of the Centre to pay the legitimate dues to the states, which is "denied now", but also additional funds have to be provided. While finding fault with the Centre's response in tackling Covid-19, as the Centre extended the lockdown till May 3, Yechury said the CPI(M) has already demanded that the Companies Act be amended to enable donations under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) schemes to be accrued to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund. The Centre has recently clarified that corporate donations to PM-CARES come under CSR but such donations to CM Relief Funds do not qualify to be under it, which the Opposition parties have described as a move that discriminates against states. "We have therefore demanded that all the funds that have been collected in the new fund created by the Prime Minister be transferred to states forthwith. That is absolutely essential  to succeed in this battle," he said. This issue will also be taken up during the webinar.  Commenting on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement on extending the lockdown, Yechury said the whole country waited for his address to the nation with the expectation that the lockdown may be extended further but with a hope that many of the issues faced during the last three weeks will be addressed. "Unfortunately, this did not happen. Yes, the fight against the pandemic is the country's priority and this is the united fight of India and Indian people. But the experience of past three weeks showed that there needs to be issued which need to be addressed with urgency. These were the fight against pandemic and those concerning people's health, livelihood and their survival. His address to the nation did not spell out concretely what the government will do on these counts," he said. Testing continued to remain at a very low level, one of the lowest in the world, while there is a scarcity of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) for healthcare professionals, he said adding  Both testing and PPE provisions must be undertaken on a war footing. Claiming that the lockdown experience showed a large-scale spread of hunger and inadequate shelter for a significant section of our people, he said it was imperative that the government must immediately implement a Rs. 7500 ex-gratia cash transfer to all non-Income Tax paying families and resort to universal distribution of free foodgrains to all needy people. "The Central Government must ensure that no starvation deaths occur," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-opposition-finance-ministers-to-meet-via-webinar-to-demand-more-funds-825342.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 14, 2020||Till, April 14, 2020, India has registered more than 10,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 325 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Madhya Pradesh: 567 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Madhya Pradesh: 34 Total number of people discharged in Madhya Pradesh: 44 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 10,007 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 325 Total number of people discharged in India: 980 This data was last updated on April 14, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.     Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-in-madhya-pradesh-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-14-2020-823506.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus in Punjab: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 14, 2020||Till, April 14, 2020, India has registered more than 10,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 325 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Punjab: 176 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Punjab: 12 Total number of people discharged in Punjab: 14 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 10,007 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 325 Total number of people discharged in India: 980 This data was last updated on April 14, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.     Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-in-punjab-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-14-2020-823611.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus in Chhattisgarh: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 14, 2020||Till, April 14, 2020, India has registered more than 10,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 325 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Chhattisgarh: 31 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Chhattisgarh: 0 Total number of people discharged in Chhattisgarh: 10 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 10,007 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 325 Total number of people discharged in India: 980 This data was last updated on April 14, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.     Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-in-chhattisgarh-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-14-2020-823495.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus in Haryana: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 14, 2020||Till, April 14, 2020, India has registered more than 10,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 325 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Haryana: 185 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Haryana: 3 Total number of people discharged in Haryana: 29 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 10,007 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 325 Total number of people discharged in India: 980 This data was last updated on April 14, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.     Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-in-haryana-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-14-2020-823500.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 14, 2020||Till, April 14, 2020, India has registered more than 10,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 325 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Himachal Pradesh: 32 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Himachal Pradesh: 2 Total number of people discharged in Himachal Pradesh: 13 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 10,007 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 325 Total number of people discharged in India: 980 This data was last updated on April 14, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.     Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-in-himachal-pradesh-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-14-2020-823501.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Rajasthan reports 93 new cases, total now 897||Ninety-three people tested positive for coronavirus in Rajasthan on Monday, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in the state to 897, an official here said. The virus has so far claimed 11 lives in the state. "As many as 93 new cases have come up on Monday in four districts of the state," Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said. Of the fresh cases, 31 are in Jodhpur, 29 in Jaipur, 11 in Bharatpur, nine in Kota, seven in Banswara, three in Dausa and one in Jhalawar, he said. Two are evacuees from Iran who had landed in Jodhpur last month. Singh said the total number of coronavirus positive cases in the state has risen to 897. The figure includes two Italian citizens and 54 people evacuated from Iran and lodged at Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. Jaipur has reported the highest number of 370 cases so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-rajasthan-reports-93-new-cases-total-now-897-825112.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||4 new coronavirus cases detected in Noida||Four more people tested positive for coronavirus in Gautam Buddh Nagar on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 68, the Uttar Pradesh government said. The four new cases are those confirmed till 6 PM on Monday, according to the figures issued by the Directorate of Health Services in Lucknow. No other related details were available immediately. The Health Department in Gautam Buddh Nagar did not come out with its daily medical bulletin on Monday till the time this report was filed. Phone calls and text messages to administration and health officials by PTI went unanswered. Adjoining Delhi, Gautam Buddh Nagar in western UP is among the 15 districts of the state where hotspots have been completely sealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-new-coronavirus-cases-detected-in-noida-825120.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh coronavirus cases rise by 43 to 615; death toll 50||Madhya Pradesh on Monday reported 43 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total number of the affected people in the state to 615, Health department officials said. At the same time, six more deaths were reported from Indore, Bhopal, Ujjain and Khargone, taking the overall toll to 50 so far. During the last 24-hours, Indore reported three deaths due to COVID-19 followed by Bhopal, Ujjain and Khargone each reporting one death, officials said. All of them tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection after their deaths, officials said. Meanwhile, the number of IAS officials from the state Health department to test positive for the viral infection rose to four on Monday with one more bureaucrat testing positive, they added. Madhya Pradesh has so far tested more than 10,000 samples, said Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Mohammad Suleiman. Out of the total affected persons, 80 per cent cases are from Indore and Bhopal, which suggests that the viral outbreak remains confined to these two cities. "We are conducting up to 1050 tests per day and we have decided to ramp up this capacity to 7000 per day. We are trying to rope in private medical colleges and also tapping other facilities in the state to achieve this target," Suleiman said. He said a total of 1400 samples have been sent for testing to Delhi in a state government plane with the twin objective of expediting the process and clearing the backlog. Meanwhile, Indore continues to lead the chart on Monday as well with 22 new cases being detected in the last 24 hours, taking the COVID-19 case tally in the state's commercial hub to 328. Bhopal has reported three new cases, taking the overall number of the affected people to 142, an official said. Of the total 50 COVID-19 deaths in Madhya Pradesh, Indore alone accounts for 35 deaths, he said. Among other cities, Ujjain has so far reported six deaths, followed by four in Bhopal, three in Khargone, and one each in Chhindwara and Dewas.   According to officials, the virus has now expanded its footprint to 23 out of the total 52 districts in the state. Apart from Indore and Bhopal, Morena district has recorded 14 cases, Jabalpur 10 (with one new case), Ujjain 24 (with 8 new cases), Hoshangabad 15, Khargone 17 (with three new cases), Barwani 14, Raisen 4 (with three new cases) Gwalior 6, Khandwa 5, Dewas 4, Sheopur 3 (with one new case) Vidisha 13, Chhindwara 4 (with two new cases) Satna, Dhar (with one new case) and Shivpuri two. Betul, Shajapur, Sagar, Mandsaur and Ratlam have reported one case each. One of the patients under treatment hailed from another state. So far 51 patients have recovered from COVID-19 and returned home, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-coronavirus-cases-rise-by-43-to-615-death-toll-50-825121.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Pooled tests okayed in low-incidence areas||As the number of COVID-19 cases is set to surge past 10,000, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday issued an advisory to use pooled tests for multiple swab samples per kit to scale up testing for the disease. However, such pooled tests are to be conducted in areas with a low prevalence of COVID-19 to ascertain the actual spread of the disease in India. The ICMR has recommended pooling no more than five samples at one time to avoid the effect of dilution and false negatives. Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Uttar Pradesh have already embarked on pooled testing to enhance the testing capacity within limited resources. “Doing more with less is important while Andaman fights COVID-19. We pool samples thus using one-fourth of test kits. Thus more tests on average in our islands,” Chetan Sanghi, Chief Secretary, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, said on Twitter.  If the pooled sample tests positive for COVID-19, the samples will be tested individually to find out which of the five samples has been infected. “All individual samples in a negative pool to be regarded as negative. Deconvoluted testing is recommended if any of the pools is positive,” the ICMR advisory said. It said the objective of pooled tests was to increase the capacity of the laboratories to screen increased numbers of samples using molecular testing for COVID-19 for the purpose of surveillance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-pooled-tests-okayed-in-low-incidence-areas-825131.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: J&K revokes PSA detention of 36 prisoners||In a bid to decongest jails amid the coronavirus pandemic, the Jammu and Kashmir government has revoked Public Safety Act (PSA) detention orders of 36 persons lodged in different jails. This comes after the Supreme Court directed states and union territories to consider decongesting jails in view of coronavirus threat. Sources said that the J&K Home Department revoked detention orders of 36 persons lodged in different jails. The detainees whose PSA was revoked are lodged in Central Jail in Srinagar (16), Kot Bhalwal Central Jail in Jammu (16), and one each in district jails of Kupwara, Anantnag, Bhaderwah and sub-jail Hira Nagar. Under the PSA, the government is empowered to revoke detention orders passed by district magistrates. Sources revealed that the government has also decided to revoke PSA detention orders of 30-40 prisoners lodged in jails outside Jammu and Kashmir. “To begin with, the government would release 30-40 such detainees,” they said, adding that detention orders are being revoked on recommendations of deputy commissioners, district police chiefs and the J&K Police’s intelligence wing. Earlier, 51 persons during the past two weeks were released from different jails after their PSA orders were revoked by the Home Department. A senior official said the process of revoking PSA detention orders of those lodged outside UT jails was impeded due to nationwide lockdown announced by the Centre to control spread of COVID-19. After the abrogation of Article 370 by the BJP-led Central government on August 5 last year, a few thousand people were detained under different laws in J&K. Of them, 500-600 were held up under the PSA. Politicians in Kashmir, human rights activists and families of detainees lodged in and outside the UT jails are making pleas to bring back prisoners and many of whom have been detained under preventive detention after the August 5 last year. Families say many of the detainees are either of vulnerable age and some have underlying health conditions. States like Maharashtra, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh have also released prisoners held for petty crimes on parole or furlough in the wake of the pandemic. Maharashtra released 11,000 such prisoners last month, fearing that COVID-19 would spread among jail inmates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-jk-revokes-psa-detention-of-36-prisoners-825151.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Noida: 16 new coronavirus cases, total spikes to 80||Two people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin are among 16 fresh cases of coronavirus in Gautam Buddh Nagar, taking the district's virus tally to 80, officials said. Gautam Buddh Nagar in western Uttar Pradesh adjoining Delhi is among the 15 districts in the state where hotspots (areas that have recorded multiple COVID-19 cases) of coronavirus cases have been sealed. The 16 fresh cases were reported on Monday. This is the sharpest single-day spike for the district where the first case was recorded on March 5, according to officials. "On Monday, results of 244 samples were obtained of which 228 were negative and 16 positive. Total cumulative positive cases of coronavirus in Gautam Buddh Nagar so far is 80," district Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said in a statement on Monday night. Thirteen patients have been cured, while another nine will be discharged on Tuesday, the officer said, adding that 58 people are undergoing treatment. Of the 16 new cases, nine are reported from Sector 5 and 8 in Noida and linked to private firm Cease Fire, which is already under government scanner for triggering a chain of cases. An FIR was registered against the firm on March 29. Three cases are related to Fortis Dialysis Unit, where a female paramedic staff had first got infected and now three more people linked to her have tested positive, said Narendra Bhooshan, officer in-charge for COVID-19 response in the district. Two people, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin in March and are from Kulesara village in Greater Noida, have also tested positive for coronavirus, Bhooshan said. Apart from them, one person from Sector Eta 1 in Greater Noida, while one healthcare professional have tested positive for the novel virus, he added. "All positive patients were already in quarantine and under observation from the last few days. Their condition is stable," Surveillance Officer Dohare said. The Health Department stated that 119 test samples were collected on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-16-new-coronavirus-cases-total-spikes-to-80-825158.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus infection cases rise to 657, deaths remain pegged at 5 in UP: Official||As many as 657 people have tested positive so far for coronavirus, which has claimed five lives in Uttar Pradesh till now, a state Health Department official said on Tuesday. Joint Director-cum-State Surveillance Officer Vikasendu Agrawal of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) on Tuesday said, "A total of 657 corona-positive cases have been reported from the state. Till now, the state has reported five deaths -- one each in Basti, Meerut, Bulandshahr, Varnasi and Agra." On Monday, 75 persons tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, taking the total in the state to 558. Additional Chief Secretary (Information) Awanish Awasthi said 80 to 85 per cent of the cases have been reported from identified hotspots. "The total positive cases in the state are 558. So far, 49 patients have fully recovered and discharged," Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters on Monday. Of the 49 cured and discharged patients, 13 were in Noida, 10 in Agra, nine in Meerut, seven in Ghaziabad, six in Lucknow and one each in Kanpur, Shamli, Pilibhit and Lakhimpur Kheri, an official statement issued here said. Prasad said there has been an improvement in the sampling mechanism in the state. "On Sunday, the maximum of 1,980 samples were tested. Now, we are collecting about 2,000 samples a day," he added. The total number of samples sent for testing so far in the state is 13,278. Of these, results of 177 samples are awaited, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-infection-cases-rise-to-657-deaths-remain-pegged-at-5-in-up-official-825160.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi to fully implement lockdown measures amid rise in coronavirus cases: Arvind Kejriwal||Lockdown measures announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be “fully implemented” in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday and asserted that the national capital will succeed in containing the spread of coronavirus. Welcoming Modi's decision to extend the nationwide lockdown till May 3, Kejriwal urged people to strictly adhere to the restrictions so that the city gets rid of coronavirus. Addressing an online briefing, Kejriwal said it is a matter of concern that cases of COVID-19 are increasing in the national capital.   "I am confident that we will succeed in containing the COVID-19 outbreak in Delhi," the chief minister said. Modi on Tuesday announced that the current lockdown will be extended till May 3, saying it is very necessary to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the country.    It was necessary to extend the lockdown, Kejriwal further said. "If we strictly follow lockdown rules, I am very sure that we will get rid of COVID-19," he said. Kejriwal also said that he would visit some COVID-19 containment zones in the city on Wednesday to take stock of the situation. On Monday, the national capital reported a sharp rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in a day with 356, taking the tally to 1,510, while four people died of the disease within 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-to-fully-implement-lockdown-measures-amid-rise-in-coronavirus-cases-arvind-kejriwal-825181.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||No essentials for those without masks in Uttar Pradesh's Balrampur||No masks, no provisions is the dictum of the district administration here to ensure that people cover their faces while stepping out of their homes. Superintendent of Police Devranjan Verma on Tuesday said, "Due to the outbreak of COVID-19, social distancing is being strictly implemented in the district. Medical stores, grocery stores, petrol pumps, gas agencies and seed stores have been directed, if people turn up without wearing a face mask, then they should not be given any item." Violation of this order will invite stringent action against the shopkeeper.  The SP added that 11 persons were arrested in various parts of the city for not wearing masks.  "The hands of the arrested people were sanitised, and they were made to wear masks. An awareness campaign is being run in the district in this regard," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-essentials-for-those-without-masks-in-uttar-pradeshs-balrampur-825189.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Amidst wage-cuts, Centre sets up 20 control rooms to address grievances||Amid lay-offs and wage cuts on the rise during the Covid-19 lockdown, the Ministry of Labour and Employment has set up 20 control rooms across the country, including in Bengaluru, to address wage-related grievances of workers as well as coordinating with state governments to address problems of migrant labourers. The control rooms will work under the Officer of Chief Labour Commissioner and managed by Labour Enforcement Officers, Assistant Labour commissioners, Regional Labour Commissioners, and Deputy Chief Labour Commissioners. The Chief Labour Commissioner will monitor the functioning of the control rooms on a daily basis.  These facilities set up at the 20 regional offices will "address wage-related grievances of workers employed in the central sphere" and coordinate with state governments to mitigate the problems of migrant workers. "All the concerned officers have been advised to adopt a humane approach to assist the aggrieved workmen to the maximum possible extent and ensure delivery of timely relief to the needy ones," a statement said on Tuesday.  The setting up of control rooms comes at a time there were reports of the sacking of employees, non-payment of salaries and wage cuts in various sectors. In March, the Ministry had issued an advisory warning against the sacking of employees, delaying payment of salaries and cutting wages during Covid-19 lockdown. It also said wages should not be cut if an employee is unable to attend office due to lockdown. Last week, CITU General Secretary Tapan Sen had written to Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar referring specifically to the sacking or forced resignation of at least 469 people working in eight IT and ITES companies in Bengaluru besides salary of several others in some other firms being slashed after Covid-19 lockdown was enforced in the country. DH had earlier reported that the lockdown is likely to result in huge job losses, pay cuts and freeze on hiring over the next few quarters. Based on the best available estimates currently, there could be an estimated job loss of 10-12 million, across travel, tourism and hospitality sectors. The manufacturing sector is directly dependent on how soon the government lifts the lockdown, thus enabling people to go back to work. In Bengaluru, four officers have been given charge -- Deputy Labour Commissioner Ganpati Bhatt (dyclcbangalore@nic.in, 09845617274), Regional Labour Commissioner K A Sebastian (rlc.bengluru@gmail.com, 09443704669), Assistant Labour Commissioner Sandeep V (sandeep.v@gov.in, 09611135878) and Labour Enforcement Officer Durgaprasad (leodurgaprasad@gmail.com, 07829673393).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-amidst-wage-cuts-centre-sets-up-20-control-rooms-to-address-grievances-825193.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Majority of COVID-19 fatalities in Delhi reported at RML Hospital||Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, one of the nodal facilities to combat the coronavirus, has reported the most number of COVID-19 fatalities in Delhi, official data showed Tuesday. Till Sunday, 12 of the 24 deaths had taken place at RML Hospital, the data showed. Three deaths took place at LNJP Hospital, five at private hospitals, and one each at Safdarjung Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital and AIIMS-Jhajjhar. One COVID-19-affected person died at home. "Most of the COVID deaths that have occurred in our hospital are of the patients who were referred from other hospitals at an advanced stage and had significant comorbidities," RML Hospital in a statement, referring to existing medical conditions in the patients. The patients admitted to the hospital early in their course of their diseases or do not have“significant comorbidities are faring very well”, it added. On Monday, the number of coronavirus cases in the national capital spiralled to 1,510, with356 fresh cases and four deaths reported in a day, pushing the death toll to 28. Of the 1,510 cases, 35 belong to RML Hospital, out of which 23 are active and the rest 12 died, putting the COVID-19 fatality rate at the hospital at nearly 35 per cent. Of the 23 active cases, eight are in ICU, according to the Delhi government. Of the total cases, 1,071 are those who were detected in “special operations”, the data showed. Officials said 30 people have been discharged and one has migrated out of the country. Meanwhile, Delhi government authorities have identified four more zones as “hotspots”. The total number of hotspots in Delhi now stands at 47.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/majority-of-covid-19-fatalities-in-delhi-reported-at-rml-hospital-825202.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||In times of financial crises, J&K government spends money to barricade roads||At a time when financial crises are looming large in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, the Jammu and Kashmir government has been spending lavishly on concrete barricading of the infected areas - raising concerns over public movement in case of emergencies. For the past around a week, since the government started red zoning of the affected area where from COVID-19 positive cases were reported, the roads leading to such residential localities have been sealed with barricades made of cement and steel. In doing so the government is not only damaging the roads and making expenditure to the tune of millions, but the barricading has also raised concerns over the movement of people in the time of emergencies like those of fire or health. Official sources said most such expenditure on barricading is being done in Srinagar, where the authorities have given a formal go-ahead for the job. But people are fuming against the decision. “How will an ambulance or fire tenders reach such areas, can’t authorities bother to apply commonsense,” asked Majid Hyderi, a TV commentator. Faisal Azmat, an executive engineer working in a semi-government department, said even if authorities want to barricade the roads the better option would have been a steel drop gate with lock and key arrangement which could have taken care of the emergencies. “Things done by implementing agencies are without application of mind,” he said. Khalid Gul, a local journalist while expressing his views over the issue, said, “Digging roads and erecting barricades in your localities won't help in stopping the spread of the infection. This vigilantism is only going to complicate the problem further. Staying indoors and not venturing out of your homes unnecessarily is the only alternative.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-times-of-financial-crises-jk-government-spends-money-to-barricade-roads-825214.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh Coronavirus Lockdown: B R Ambedkar's birthplace in Mhow wears deserted look||The birthplace of Dalit icon Dr B R Ambedkar here in Madhya Pradesh wore a deserted look on his 129th birth anniversary on Tuesday, in view of the lockdown enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus. Only a few local administration officials wearing masks went to the memorial in the morning and lit candles. Ambedkar's followers were not allowed to visit the site in order to avoid crowding. Ambedkar, the architect of the Indian Constitution, was born on this day in 1891 in Kali Paltan area of the Mhow town, which is a major army base located in Indore district. A grand memorial, after lot of obstructions, was constructed in his memory here in 2003-04. On his birth anniversary on Tuesday, only a handful of local administration officials went to the memorial site and lit candles. "No one is allowed to visit the premises as social distancing guidelines need to be followed during the coronavirus crisis," one of the officials said.  A senior citizen from the area said had it been a normal time, top political leaders and public would have queued up in the town to pay their respects to Ambedkar on his birth anniversary. Mhow was rechristened as Dr Ambedkar Nagar in 2003.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-coronavirus-lockdown-b-r-ambedkars-birthplace-in-mhow-wears-deserted-look-825232.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Tikamgarh now 24th district in Madhya Pradesh to report coronavirus case||Tikamgarh in Madhya Pradesh has become the 24th district in the state to report a coronavirus positive case, an official said on Tuesday. The lone COVID-19 case from the district is a 38-year-old man from Lamera village who recently returned from the worst-hit Indore, he said. "With this, the coronavirus has expanded itsfootprint to 24 districts out of the total 52 districts in Madhya Pradesh," he said. The man had worked at the hospital of a Indore-based doctor who had died of COVID-19 last week. He returned to Tikamgarh district on March 28, said Chief Health and Medical Officer, Tikamgarh district, Dr M K Prajapati. He said family members of the infected man, who was admitted to hospital, have tested negative for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tikamgarh-now-24th-district-in-madhya-pradesh-to-report-coronavirus-case-825246.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh govt will follow Centre's guidelines on coronavirus lockdown: Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan||With Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday extending the national lockdown to fight coronavirus till May 3, the Madhya Pradesh government has said that it will draft a plan on the implementation after the Centre issues guidelines on Wednesday. Announcing that the lockdown in the state will remain in force till May 3, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, "Prime Minister has guided the entire country. The country and Madhya Pradesh will follow the path shown by the Prime Minister to defeat the coronavirus pandemic".  He said the state government will prepare its strategy after the Centre issues the guidelines and added that the lockdown will remain in force in Madhya Pradesh till May 3. Madhya Pradesh has so far reported 730 COVID-19 cases with 50 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-govt-will-follow-centres-guidelines-on-coronavirus-lockdown-chief-minister-shivraj-singh-chouhan-825248.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||5 LeT terrorist associates arrested in Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla||Five terrorist associates of Lashkar-e-Taiba were arrested in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said Tuesday. Arms and ammunition were recovered based on disclosures made by them, the police said. Security forces nabbed five terrorist associates belonging to LeT on Monday night, a police official said. Incriminating materials, including five hand grenades, one under barrel grenade launcher (UBGL) and one UBGL grenade, were recovered at their instance, he said. Further investigation is underway, the police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-let-terrorist-associates-arrested-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-baramulla-825259.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Three more die of coronavirus in UP; total 657 infected in state||Among the fresh deaths, two were reported from Agra and one in Moradabad.   Agra has reported the maximum fatalities in the state with three people succumbing to the infection in the district till now. State Surveillance Officer Dr Vikasendu said the rest six five deaths were reported from Basti, Meerut, Bulandshahr, Varnasi and Moradabad. Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters, "A total of 657 coronavirus positive cases have been reported from 44 districts. Of them, 49 have been treated. So far, eight deaths have been reported from the state.” He added that those who died of the infection were suffering from other health problems too. “They are mostly elderly or had some medical condition," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-more-die-of-coronavirus-in-up-total-657-infected-in-state-825283.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Lockdown Effect? Man, dogs share spilled milk||It was a sight, which could affect even the toughest. A pack of stray dogs and a man sharing spilled milk. The distressing incident happened in Uttar Pradesh's Agra town, about 350 kilometres from here, on Monday. The town, which has reported the maximum number of Coronavirus positive cases, has over one hundred hotspots. The incident came to light, when a video showing a man and some dogs sharing the spilled milk, went viral on the social networking sites. According to the reports, there was a collision between a biker and a milkman riding a cycle with a few small tanks containing the milk in Rambagh area in the town. The milk tanks fell on the ground and the lids got opened as a result of which a large quantity of milk spilled on the road. The video shows a man collecting the spilled milk in his hands and pouring the same into an earthen pitcher. A few dogs are also seen licking the same a few feet away. The administration rejected assertions that the man, who was collecting the spilled milk, might not have been going hungry owing to the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-effect-man-dogs-share-spilled-milk-825288.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||I am confident that we will succeed in containing the COVID-19 outbreak in Delhi: CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said he is confident that we will succeed in containing the COVID-19 outbreak in Delhi.   More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-am-confident-that-we-will-succeed-in-containing-the-covid-19-outbreak-in-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-825292.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||With eight new COVID-19 positive cases, Jammu and Kashmir's tally reaches 278||After witnessing a surge for the past one week, COVID-19 positive cases showed a decline in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday with only eight new patients tested positive in the Union Territory. With new eight cases, the toll number of COVID-19 infected people in J&K reached 278 out of which four have died and 14 have recovered. For the past six days, J&K had been seeing an average of 24 cases a day. It was after April 6, that J&K reported positive cases in single digits. “For now our luck seems to be holding!!!  8 new cases, 14 recoveries. New cases- 06 from Kashmir and 02 from Jammu Division.14 recoveries, all from Kashmir. Total cases now 278 (sic),” J&K government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal, tweeted. Divisional Commissioner Kashmir, Pandurang K Pole said that the number of COVID-19 positive cases were expected to rise in coming days as J&K was increasing the quantum of testing. “People should not get scared with the rise in cases. Every identified case is a step towards bringing epidemic under control,” he said.  Meanwhile, the lockdown owing to COVID-19 in the Valley continued on Tuesday even as restrictions were intensified in Red Zones leaving roads and markets completely deserted. As restrictions completed the 27th day, deployment of security forces was strengthened especially in all the Red Zones. In several parts of the Valley, police vans were seen making announcements since morning asking people to stay indoors while concertina barbed wires were laid at various places to check the public movement and gatherings. In some places, permanent steel barricades were placed on main roads to stop the movement of traffic. Restrictions were first imposed in many parts of the valley on March 19 to contain the spread of the virus. The measures were taken after the detection of the first positive case of Coronavirus in the Valley on the evening of March 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-eight-new-covid-19-positive-cases-jammu-and-kashmirs-tally-reaches-278-825338.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||J&K witnesses drop in COVID-19 cases for first time||Jammu and Kashmir saw a drop in the number of active COVID-19 cases on Tuesday as 14 patients were discharged from hospitals and only eight fresh cases were detected in the Union Territory, officials said. The total number of novel coronavirus cases now stand at 278, they said. "For now our luck seems to be holding!!!  Eight new cases, 14 recoveries. New cases -- six from Kashmir and two from Jammu division. Fourteen recoveries, all from Kashmir. Total cases now 278," Government spokesman Rohit Kansal said on Twitter. Earlier in the day, officials said 14 patients were discharged from hospitals in Kashmir and sent to home quarantine as per the standard operating procedure. With this the total number of patients who have recovered in the Union Territory has gone up to 20, while four patients died due to the infection.  There are now 258 active cases in Jammu and Kashmir, a drop of two cases compared to 260 on Monday. This is for the first time that the number of active COVID-19 cases in the Union territory has decreased, the officials said.  Meanwhile, two fresh cases were reported in the neighbouring Union Territory of Ladakh, taking the total positive cases there to 16. "We had two fresh cases detected today --one each from Leh and Kargil.  The number of active cases in ladakh now is five as 11 patients have already recovered," an official of the Ladakh COVID control room said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-witnesses-drop-in-covid-19-cases-for-first-time-825344.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Off-duty J&K CRPF officer feeds needy with savings||CRPF ASI Padmeswar Das is on leave at his home in Assam but he is not off-duty as he prepares ration packets, using his savings, for the poor in his village who are worst hit by the coronavirus lockdown. The 48-year-old trooper, whose unit is deployed in south Kashmir's terrorist violence-hit Shopian district, is helping those affected by the lockdown in his tiny village of Chatanguri, about 76 kms from the district headquarters of Morigaon district. Moved by the plight of the distressed, Das discussed with his mother and wife about the possible help they could extend and they enthusiastically joined him in the endeavour. "I came home for my scheduled leave on March 3 and by the time I was supposed to return, the lockdown was declared in the country. My unit based in Kashmir valley also sent in a message asking me to stay put and not return." "Had I been with my force, I would have had an army of my colleagues and officers to help the needy. Then I thought I can be one-man army," Das told PTI over phone from his village. "My force stands for the motto 'service and loyalty' whether a jawan is alone or in a group," he said. The Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI), who joined the CRPF as a constable in 1991, said he took his scooty and went to the nearest market to fetch about 80 kg of rice and other dry rations.  The next day he and his family prepared over 50 packets containing 2 kgs of rice, 1 kg potato, a small bottle of mustard oil, a packet of salt, onions and half kg pulses in each. "I spent about Rs 8,000-10,000 for purchasing and packing these items, Das says hesitatingly as he does not seem keen to share the cost of his noble deed. Das says he used his uniform for the service of the people. "I donned my uniform as movement of civilians was barred due to the lockdown, used my 'gamocha' (traditional Assamese scarf) as a mask and got a handcart to distribute the packets among the needy. When reminded that he acted like a good samaritan, Das says he only knows that "efforts of any kind always count".  "My colleagues in my delta company unit in Shopian and in the entire force are spread out to help in fight against coronavirus and the lockdown affected people in whatever way they can. I am just one among them," Das, who has a young son and daughter, said. natHis boss and Commandant of the 76th battalion of the force (based in Jammu) Neeraj Pandey is all praise for his "tough and dedicated" colleague. "I am proud of what Das did to help people despite being on official leave. He has gone beyond his call of duty but that is what our ethos and regimentation are all about," Pandey said. Unfazed by the continuing lockdown, Das plans to replenish the stocks for those who need his help again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-off-duty-jk-crpf-officer-feeds-needy-with-savings-825354.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Uttar Pradesh records biggest one day spike, death toll mounts to nine||Uttar Pradesh recorded its biggest one day spike in COVID 19 cases on Tuesday taking its tally to 657 even as four more persons died from the virus infection in the state in the past 24-hours. According to the official sources here, 107 new cases of COVID 19 were reported from different parts in the state. The highest number of cases were reported from Agra. A government spokesman said that so far 49 patients had recovered fully and discharged from the hospitals. He attributed the spike in the cases to more number of testing in the state. Over 2600 samples were tested on Monday, he added. Four persons died from COVID 19 in different parts in the state in the past 24-hours taking the total number of deaths in the state to nine.   The spokesman said that so far 13287 samples had been tested of which 12642 turned out to be negative. The Coronavirus infection has now spread in 43 of 75 districts in the state. He said that the state government would strictly enforce the extended lockdown from Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-uttar-pradesh-records-biggest-one-day-spike-death-toll-mounts-to-nine-825360.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Bihar protests return of people from Rajasthan's Kota||The Bihar government has lodged a protest with the Centre over the Rajasthan's Kota administration issuing passes to students of various coaching centres and their parents in the COVID-19 hotspot town in the northwestern state for their return to the home state here. A large number of medical and engineering aspirants from Bihar join various coaching institutes in Kota every year. The students' parents and guardians too often accompany them and stay there till satisfactory arrangements are made for their boarding and lodging. The nationwide lockdown has left the coaching institutes and those joining them in a quandary. In a letter to Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, Bihar Chief Secretary Deepak Kumar on Monday said, "Such movement from Kota is not at all advisable in the present scenario. In Bihar, we are now medically examining the returning students as well as their guardians accompanying them, and instructions are being issued to quarantine them." "This unprecedented situation could have been easily avoided by strict enforcement of the lockdown in Kota," said the Bihar chief secretary, pointing out that "earlier we had to tackle the unprecedented influx of migrant workers because of the poor implementation (of the lockdown) by other states". The chief secretary's remark was an obvious reference to the large-scale exodus from the Delhi-NCR region in the last week of March when migrant workers reached the UP border in droves, allegedly at the instance of the Aam Aadmi Party that rules Delhi, and were ferried to their home state on buses plied by the Yogi Adityanath government for the purpose. The chief secretary pointed out that "Kota has 40 confirmed corona cases" and requested the Union home secretary "to issue necessary instructions for strict enforcement of the lockdown. The Kota district magistrate too should be warned for violating the MHA guidelines against the movement of people in the country".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-bihar-protests-return-of-people-from-rajasthans-kota-825361.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Now, food and night shelters on Google Map||Finding it difficult to locate a food or night shelter for poor and migrant labourers during the Covid-19 lockdown, help is  now a click away in over 30 cities in the country, with Delhi being the latest addition. Google India has mapped such facilities with the help of state governments and volunteers in cities and towns over the past couple of weeks and made available on its map. At present, 33 cities and towns are mapped for food and night shelters and more are being added. The towns and cities include Mangaluru and Hubballi-Dharwad in Karnataka, Kota and Jaipur in Rajasthan, Agra and Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh, Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, Rajkot in Gujarat among others. The service is now available in English and Hindi. Anyone can now easily search for their nearest food centre typing ‘food shelter’ on Google Maps app or searching for ‘Food Shelters near me’ on the search box. Delhi government, with the support of a team of volunteers and researchers, has now mapped all such relief shelters. The government has partnered with Google to display the locations of 1,047 food and night shelters initially on Google Maps, with more being added in the coming day.  Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said, “as we prepare for an extended lockdown, we are proud to work together with GoogleIndia Maps in ensuring easy accessibility of all our food and night shelters. We are committed to do everything possible to make life easy for those most affected by the lockdown.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-now-food-and-night-shelters-on-google-map-825375.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Now locate Delhi govt’s food distribution centres and night shelters on Google Maps||The Delhi government's over 1,000 food distribution centres and night shelters for the needy affected by the nationwide lockdown can now be located on Google Maps and Map My India. Welcoming the collaboration, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday tweeted, “As we prepare for an extended lockdown, we are proud to work together with @GoogleIndia Maps in ensuring easy accessibility of all our food and night shelters. We are committed to do everything possible to make life easy for those most affected by the lockdown.” The city government had announced relief measures for the people whose livelihood means were affected by the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of coronavirus.  It had initially opened all 223 night shelters run by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board for providing food and shelter to the affected people in the city. Later, the government started over 1,500 free food distribution centres along with temporary shelters for migrant workers who were trying to leave the city for their native states. “The AAP-led Delhi government, with the support of a team of volunteers and researchers, mapped all such relief shelters. The government has partnered with Google to display the locations of 1,047 food and night shelters initially on Google Maps, with more being added every day,” the government said in a statement. Anyone can now easily search for their nearest Delhi government food centre on Google Maps application by typing in 'food shelters near me' in the search box, it said.  “Food and night shelters can now be found in #Delhi and 32 other cities to help those in need. Please spread the word and help this message reach them,” Google India said in a statement on Twitter. The government has also partnered with Map My India and these locations are available on Map My India's COVID 19 guide at 'maps.mapmyindia.com/corona' and Move application, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-now-locate-delhi-govt-s-food-distribution-centres-and-night-shelters-on-google-maps-825382.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Decline in calls regarding domestic violence, crimes against women since coronavirus lockdown: DCW||The Delhi Commission For Women (DCW) helpline has seen a decline in the number of calls pertaining to domestic violence and crimes against women during the lockdown, the panel said on Tuesday. Interestingly, the National Commission For Women (NCW) had said it observed a spike in domestic violence cases during the lockdown. The DCW said it is working 24X7 during lockdown through its women helpline and rape crisis cell, and its Mahila Panchayat teams are also working and assisting women and their families in getting ration, especially in JJ cluster areas.  It said the DCW helpline 181 receives between 1500-1800 calls per day. Upon analysis of the calls, it was observed that there has been no rising trend in domestic violence cases but on the contrary, the number reported to the commission has decreased, the panel said. During the lockdown, the helpline received a higher number of calls between March 26 and March 31. It received 4,341 calls on March 27, 5522 calls on March 28 and more than 3,000 calls on March 29 and 30. Majority of the calls were from people who were having doubts related to the imposition of the lockdown. After April, the commission has been receiving around 1300 to 1500 calls per day. The Delhi Commission for Women has been guiding as well as counselling all the complainants, the panel said. "No definite conclusion can be drawn as it can be assumed that the victims might be hesitant in reporting the crimes due to fear or inability to move away from the perpetrator to seek help," the panel said. The commission has also observed a decline in cases of molestation, sexual assault, stalking etc. The commission received an average of six complaints related to molestation per day between March 12 and March 24. The complaints have reduced to an average of two to three per day, it said.  The reported cases of rapes have also decreased by 71 per cent approximately. The commission received an average of three to four complaints per day which has reduced to a maximum of one or two complaints per day, it said, adding that kidnapping cases have also seen a fall of more than 90 per cent. However, it is worrying that even during the lockdown, the commission continues to receive some cases of violence against women including cases of rape, POCSO, domestic violence and cybercrime, said its chief Swati Maliwal. "Although there has been a fall in the number of crimes in the capital due to coronavirus, it is heartbreaking that even in such tragic times when the entire country is in lockdown and fighting against coronavirus, crimes against women and girls like rape, domestic violence and others continue to occur," she said. "We are working on all reported cases with the help of our team and Delhi Police," Maliwal added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/decline-in-calls-regarding-domestic-violence-crimes-against-women-since-coronavirus-lockdown-dcw-825400.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: BJP's coronavirus task force holds first meeting||The special task force constituted by the ruling BJP to tackle coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh held its first meeting through video conference on Tuesday. With the Congress attacking the one-man Shivraj Singh Chouhan government over the spurt in coronavirus cases in the state, the BJP formed the task force, comprising Chouhan and some prominent state BJP leaders, on Monday. "There were suggestions during the video conference that public participation and motivation should be scaled up to fight COVID-19," former state minister and leader of opposition Gopal Bhargava told PTI.  "Suggestions poured in for making ration available for the poor during the lockdown which has been extended till May 3," he added. The task force would work for better coordination between the government and the party to fight off the virus, Bhargava said. State BJP chief V D Sharma is the convener of the 10-member task force. Other members including BJP general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, former health minister and Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalist Tulsi Silawat, former minister Narottam Mishra also gave suggestions, sources said. On Sunday, Congress leader and former chief minister Kamal Nath had alleged that central government delayed taking precautionary measures to prevent the pandemic as it was busy bringing down his government in the state. When the assemblies of Odisha, Chhattisgarh and other states were adjourned due to virus, Parliament was kept in session so that the MP assembly could also operate, he had alleged. Congress's Rajya Sabha member from Madhya Pradesh, Vivek Tankha had also written to President Ram Nath Kovind alleging that the Chouhan government was "unconstitutional" as it was functioning without a council of ministers.  Cabinet expansion would not be an easy task for the BJP as it is expected to accommodate former Congress leader Scindia's loyalists who defected to the saffron party. According to sources, Scindia wants Silawat to be deputy chief minister, while Narottam Mishra too is a contender for the post. The first four confirmed cases of COVID-19 were reported from Jabalpur in the state on March 20. Now the number of cases has crossed 730.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bjps-coronavirus-task-force-holds-first-meeting-825405.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan minister writes to CMs of four states, seeks protection for workers||In a letter to the CMs of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, the minister sought protection for the workers from Rajasthan. More than a thousand workers of Karauli district alone are trapped in these four states and facing a major crisis of livelihood, Meena said in a statement. The minister has sent the names of the workers along with their address and mobile numbers, demanding that adequate food and proper lodging be provided to them. Meena said the workers are stranded in cities like Chandrapur, Sangli, Pune and Mumbai in Maharashtra; Mallapuram, Palakkad and Kasaragod in Kerala; Chennai and Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-minister-writes-to-cms-of-four-states-seeks-protection-for-workers-825411.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Private hospital shut, 20 staff members at Lucknow's govt-run KGMU quarantined after patient tests coronavirus positive||A private hospital and a diagnostic centre were ordered shut and 20 staff members at government-run KGMU here quarantined after coming in contact with a coronavirus patient, officials said on Tuesday. The quarantined doctors and paramedics at King George’s Medical University tested negative for the virus, a hospital statement said. The staff members at the two private facilities have also been asked to home quarantine themselves. Initially, KGMU sources said 65 staff members – 13 of them doctors -- were asked to go into quarantine. However, the hospital later said only the 20 who came in “direct contact” with the 65-year-old patient are in quarantine. ”Now only these 20 people have been kept in quarantine. Rest 45 who were not in direct contact have been discharged," the statement, issued later in the day, said. The diabetes patient visited Lucknow's Medwell Hospital, complaining of fever and cough, over a week ago. He was told to get an X-ray done, for which he went to Charak Diagnostic Centre.  As the man's condition deteriorated and he complained of breathlessness, he was brought to the KGMU trauma centre on Saturday. He then came under the treatment of the hospital's neurology department. Later, he tested positive for coronavirus and was sent to the isolation ward. Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said the KGMU staff members had tested negative but will remain in quarantine as a precautionary measure. Chief Medical Officer Dr Narendra Agarwal on Monday wrote to the private hospital and the diagnostic centre, asking them to shut all operations.  He also asked them to provide a full list of their staff members who attended to the patient, so that they can be tested. "Ensure that all staff of the centre be kept in home quarantine for 14 days," the letter read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/private-hospital-shut-20-staff-members-at-lucknows-govt-run-kgmu-quarantined-after-patient-tests-coronavirus-positive-825412.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Punjab: COVID-19 positive man dies, toll rises to 13||A coronavirus positive man died in Jalandhar on Tuesday while eight new COVID-19 cases were reported across Punjab, pushing the statewide total to 184, an official said. The overall death toll in the state is 13. Among the fresh cases, four were reported in Pathankot, two in Mohali and one in Jalandhar, according to the medical bulletin. Gurdaspur reported its first coronavirus case on Tuesday with a 60-year-old man contracting the infection, official said. COVID-19 has marked its presence in 18 districts of Punjab. Meanwhile, the state government started rapid testing in Mohali and Jalandhar which are the worst affected districts in the state. The government has received 1,000 rapid testing kits from the ICMR and 500 kits each will be used in these two districts, official said.  Among 184 cases, Mohali district continued to top the COVID 19-tally in Punjab with a total 56 coronavirus cases. Jalandhar reported 25 cases, followed by Pathankot (22), Nawanshahr (19), Ludhiana, Mansa and Amritsar (11 each), Hoshiarpur (7), Moga (4), Rupnagar and Faridkot (3 each), Fatehgarh Sahib, Sangrur, Patiala, Kapurthala and Barnala (2 each), and Muktsar and Gurdaspur (1 each). One patient is critical and on ventilator support, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 13 have died while 27 patients have been discharged from hospital. A total of 4,844 samples have been tested so far in the state of which, 4,047 were found to be negative while reports of 613 are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-covid-19-positive-man-dies-toll-rises-to-13-825419.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus outbreak: 2 deaths, 51 fresh cases in Delhi||Two more fresh deaths and 51 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the national capital on Tuesday with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal expressing concern over the rise in the number of cases in the past few days. With fresh figures, the toll has risen to 30 while the number of cases has touched 1,561. There are 1,500 patients still in the hospital, including eight on ventilators. The capital has witnessed a huge rise in numbers since April 10. On Monday, the capital had a record in the number of cases for a single day at 356. "In the last few days, we have seen a considerable rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi. On 9th April, only 51 new cases were observed, but on 10th April, 183 new cases were observed, on 11th April, 166 new cases were observed, and on Monday, 356 new cases were observed. This is a cause of worry for me as the Chief Minister of Delhi, and it is a major cause of worry for the people of Delhi," Kejriwal said.  "This is because Delhi is the capital of the country, it has been burdened because a lot of passengers from other nations landed in the city in the last two months. Covid-19 had already been spread in other nations, it entered India because of this influx of people from those nations. Another incident related to Markaz also caused an additional burden on Delhi and increased the number of cases in the city," he added. He said he would visit some of the 47 containment zones, which have been mapped by sealing areas that have three or more Covid-19 positive cases, on Wednesday. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday visited some of the containment zones. A total of 692 samples have been collected from the high-risk contacts of positive cases in the identified containment zones and sent for testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-outbreak-2-deaths-51-fresh-cases-in-delhi-825431.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Don't allow any large gatherings in Delhi: Chief secretary to police, DMs||After hundreds of migrant workers gathered in Mumbai and Surat, Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev on Tuesday directed police and district magistrates to not allow "any large gatherings" in the national capital. A government official said that the orders have also been issued to the Delhi Transport Corporation and divisional commissioner to ensure that lockdown, imposed in the wake of the novel coronavirus outbreak, is strictly enforced. Only buses placed at the disposal of the police and health department will operate and the rest will be confined to depots, the chief secretary said in his order.  "Special Commissioners of Police, Joint CPs, DMs and SDMs have been asked to be on ground to monitor situation closely," the official said. Dev in his order said that "any gathering will not be allowed as curfew and lokdown are in force". "There is no question of large gatherings," he directed officers. The direction comes in the wake of over 1,000 migrant workers in Mumbai defying the lockdown to gather in suburban Bandra, demanding that transport arrangements be made for them to go back to their native places. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also appealed to migrant workers not to fall prey to rumours about bus arrangements being made to ferry them to their native places and asked them to stay put wherever they are.  In a video appeal, he said the Delhi government has made sufficient arrangements for their accommodation and food. "Don't fall prey to rumours about bus arrangements," he said in a video message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-allow-any-large-gatherings-in-delhi-chief-secretary-to-police-dms-825439.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Mercury nears 40C mark in Delhi||The mercury in the national capital neared the 40 degrees Celsius-mark on Tuesday, the first time this season, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The city recorded a maximum of 39.7 degrees Celsius, which was four notches more than the normal, and a minimum of 23.2 degrees Celsius. Weather stations at Palam and Ayanagar recorded a maximum of 41.2 degrees Celsius and 40.4 degrees Celsius, respectively. Humidity levels oscillated between 34 and 76 per cent.    The IMD said the maximum temperature is expected to hover around 40 degrees Celsius till April 20. The weatherman predicted a partly cloudy sky on Wednesday. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to settle at 39 and 23 degrees Celsius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mercury-nears-40c-mark-in-delhi-825448.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Consumer Affairs Ministry seeks replacement of absentee officials amid coronavirus||As monitoring of essential commodities is necessary during the lockdown, Consumer Affairs Secretary Pawan Kumar Agarwal on Tuesday said his department has decided to seek replacement of officials unable to report for work due to medical conditions or other valid reasons. A decision has been taken after some of the Consumer Affairs Ministry officials did not show up for work despite the government's directive on the weekend. "Our ministry has a crucial role as it monitors the supply of essential commodities and prices. Some officers are required for this purpose. If they remain absent, then I have to seek replacement from the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT)," Agarwal told PTI. A list of officers who are unwilling to come for work is being prepared, he said, adding that an office memorandum has been issued in this regard. Agarwal said the department will decide not to deploy on duty those officials who have medical conditions and other valid reasons and ask for replacement from the DoPT for the manpower. The government has exempted movement of essential commodities from the lockdown, which has been extended till May 3 to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the country. Stating that the office memorandum (OM) has created some confusion, Consumer Affairs Minister Ram Vilas Paswan later said the OM was intended to compile the list of staff and officers, who are not able to come for emergency duties during the lockdown period either due to medical conditions or for any other valid reason (such as staying in hotspot areas) so that such persons are not deployed for such duties.    "In view of ambiguity in the language of this OM, this is withdrawn forthwith," he said. The department would compile such information and use it while drawing up roster duty of officers / staff during the lockdown period so that no one is put to any hardship, while the work of the department is carried out smoothly, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/consumer-affairs-ministry-seeks-replacement-of-absentee-officials-amid-coronavirus-825488.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Fire in hospital lab in Jammu; none hurt||A fire broke out in the laboratory area of the Shri Maharaja Gulab Singh hospital here on Tuesday, causing damage to lab equipment, officials said. No one was reported to be hurt in the incident which took place in Shalimar area around 9 pm and the flames was brought under control by the Fire and Emergency services personnel, they said. An official of the Fire and Emergency services said some equipment in the microbiology unit got damaged in the incident. “The team is still at the spot and the exact details about the incident are awaited,” the official said, adding that preliminary investigation suggests a short circuit caused the fire. Principal of the Jammu Government Medical College, Sunanda Raina said, “COVID-19 tests were not being done at the laboratories.” She said the on-duty Chief Medical Officer was informed about the smoke coming out from the laboratory area housing pathology, biochemistry and microbiology units. “The fire and Emergency services department was immediately informed and simultaneously efforts were also made to put out the fire by the staff,” Raina said. She lauded the efforts of the fire fighters and said their timely intervention brought the situation under control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-in-hospital-lab-in-jammu-none-hurt-825490.html
14-04-2020||North and Central||Pakistani army shells areas along LoC in J&K's Poonch||The Pakistan army shelled areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Tuesday night, officials said. "At about 9.15 pm today, the Pakistan army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along LoC in Balakote and Mendhar sectors in Poonch district," a defence spokesman said.  The Indian Army is giving a befitting reply, he said.  The Pakistan army has resorted to heavy firing and shelling along the LoC in Poonch, Rajouri and Kupwara sectors of Jammu and Kashmir during the past one week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-army-shells-areas-along-loc-in-jks-poonch-825495.html
14-04-2020||Opinion||Another Narendra Modi speech high on politics and low on specifics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's fourth address to the nation in the current situation (first on March 19 calling for ‘Janata Curfew’, followed by the March 24 speech announcing a nationwide lockdown, and thereafter on April 2 calling for the of lighting lamps) was a well-structured speech demarcated into various sections and aimed at monopolising all kudos for stewarding the nation through the coronavirus pandemic. In that sense, it is as political a speech that one can hear in the times of a pandemic. Like all previous speeches, this too was aimed at securing his position beyond the present challenge. As a ploy, he chose to be liberal with generalities while being miserly on specifics. There was nothing specific for any section feeling the brunt of the once-in-a-century catastrophe – from rich industrialists to daily wage earners or even the homeless. No financial stimulus was announced, no promise of where the next meal would come from, just recognition that there are general problems. The speech was merely a series of exhortations: Pay wages to your staff, take care of the poor and elderly, adhere to lockdown guidelines, adopt Ayush recommendations and so on.  Modi's speech was not aimed at conveying to the people either the blueprint to chart the country out of this crisis or any emerging plan in the 'reopened' corridors of power (ministers and officers up to joint secretary level began attending offices from Monday, April 13) regarding how the long tunnel of uncertainty will be traversed on the highway to recovery. Keeping his constituency engaged  The prime minister's address began as a reach out to his constituency, the core voters and neo-converts. He thanked them for sacrificing and bearing pain to "save the country". He expressed gratitude towards them for having borne problems – of shortage of food, of being stranded while on their way home, and continuing to stay away from family or friends. In a way, this sent a message to people that to continue finding favours with the prime minister it is best not to ask questions.  One may ask people how they gain by being on the right side of the premier? This is where Modi succeeded. In his first address, similar to John F Kennedy’s inaugural address in January 1961, Modi did not use the exact words but conveyed the same sense: "Ask not what your country can do for you – ask what you can do for your country." The message to people is that the prime minister respects sacrifice. This is enough recognition for people who want to do "their bit". By expressions of gratitude, or even regret, which he used dramatically on April 2,  Modi ensured a sense of participation among people in all that the government is doing and has done so far – be it adhering to lockdown guidelines, distancing themselves from others in society, or joining activities that Modi designed: Clapping hands, ringing and banging plates and lighting lamps. Once people become stakeholders in a 'project', they ignore shortfalls and instead look only at the positives. Showcasing India as a world leader Modi showcased positives in his speech. He reminded a figure few remember at this point: That when he ordered complete nationwide lockdown, the total number of COVID-19 cases in the country was barely over 500. This has grown exponentially to more than 10,000. But the rise in the number of cases is not presented as alarming. Rather, this is juxtaposed with the incidence rate of the virus in other countries, especially those that are considered more affluent than India.  He said India was successful in keeping the incidence rate down because it reacted early. Although the crisis continues to hold the nation in a vice-like grip, the prime minister did not hesitate to showcase the lower incidence rate as his success – because we acted early, was his argument. Already, joint secretary in the health ministry, Lav Agarwal said on April 11 that had the government not taken the steps it did, by April 15 the total number of COVID-19 positive cases would have been 8.2 lakhs. No explanation was provided about how the figure was arrived at. The speech did not respond to questions that have been flagged by many – should India have acted earlier and why is the country continuing to have a very low testing rate when compared to several countries? Setting more tasks In his speech, after thanking people, sharing 'good' news and showcasing data, it was time for the prime minister to make a case for why his approach of harsh lockdown was the 'only path' that could be followed. He did soften the blow somewhat by talking of relaxation of norms if people 'behaved' and if they succeeded in 'graduating' to the next level. The idea is very clear, to keep people focussed on adhering to rules and regulations and ensure they remain unconcerned about politically bothersome matters like lack of planning, mishandling and absence of impetus. Like always, the Modi messaging template included a set of tasks. This time it was a seven-point memo. From taking care of elderly to feeding the poor, people are asked to act responsibly. They were also directed to download the Aarogya Setu app although independent technology experts have pointed to its intrusive nature and surveillance capacities.  The decision to extend nationwide lockdown was taken with a certain amount of circumspection and hesitancy – a fact proven by the consultation state chief ministers. But once they fell into his 'trap' by suggesting what he wanted to say, he felt no need to acknowledge their role. As a result, although acknowledging that CMs too suggested extension beyond the initial 21 days, he listed out all that has been done so far as only his achievements. This demonstrates that the politician in him is beginning to look beyond this episode and planning for the next electoral joust. (Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay is a Delhi-based journalist and author. His latest book is RSS: Icons Of The Indian Right. He has also written Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times (2013))     The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/another-narendra-modi-speech-high-on-politics-and-low-on-specifics-825351.html
14-04-2020||Panorama||Coronavirus: 'Clamour for HCQ due to anxiety'||Although the antimalarial drug Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) has been in the news since mid-March as a potential cure for COVID-19, a malaria scientist and an expert on HCQ said that the jury is still out on whether this is the “wonderdrug” a world weary of coronavirus has been waiting for. Professor Govindarajan Padmanaban (82) was the Director of the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) from 1994 to 1998. Today, he remains a professor emeritus of IISc and is still researching. “I am a molecular biologist by training,” Professor Padmanaban said, adding that his selected area of expertise, malaria, had revealed to him the substantive benefits of HCQ-- and its shortcomings. Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), which has been around since World War II and is derived from the bark of the cinchona tree. Like quinine, it is a centuries-old antimalarial drug, which is now generic and easy to get a hold of. It has been used extensively to treat malaria and other medical conditions such as lupus, but its efficacy is rapidly wearing off in the treatment of malaria itself, with the drug having no efficacy against one of the two plasmodiums causing malaria-- plasmodium falciparum and plasmodium vivax. Where the drug entered the coronavirus picture is less clear, although Professor Padmanaban described HCQ’s manifestation in the popular imagination as a “wonder drug” as being largely a product of the times. “These are desperate times, people are looking for all kinds of molecules and antibiotics to find a quick fix,” Professor Padmanaban said. He added that he believed two early, published research papers were largely responsible for the drug being, what he described as “hyped up” by US President Donald Trump. One of the papers was by a Chinese research group in March, in which the scientists claimed to have used chloroquine phosphate in almost 10 hospitals in Wuhan, with “very good” results. There is another paper by a French Group, which saw HCQ tested among 24 patients, which were not selected at random as per standard testing norms. Professor Padmanaban said that he believes that efficiency of the drug in the malaria-causing plasmodium, coupled with its readily available status has prompted the scientists to extrapolate its efficacy against the SARS-Cov-2 virus. “How the drug works is that it gets into the lysosomes inside the malarial parasite. These are spaces inside the cell, protected by a membrane, which act like an internal stomach. They contain the enzymes and cofactors required for the parasite to safely break down haemoglobin and lock away the toxic haem waste products, which the parasite normally converts into an inert molecule known as hemozoin,” Professor Padmanaban said. As in the human stomach, the pH is lower inside the lysosome than in the rest of the cell, and this acidic environment causes HCQ to build-up to the point where it cannot diffuse back out. Once inside, it causes a build-up of haem that ultimately kills the parasite. “So, this is one of the mechanistic operations of HCQ on the malaria-causing plasmodium. However, at present there is no proof that this mechanism is being repeated against the Sars-CoV-2 virus,” Professor Padmanaban added. Although in-vitro tests a decade ago showed that the drug had some efficacy against the 2003 SARS virus, Dr Padmanaban pointed out these tests were all culture studies. “There is a lot of difference between what happens invitro and what happens inside an animal or in the human because of factors like absorption, metabolism, blood level...etc,” he said. He clarified, however, that although with many countries now starting human clinical trials, that the questions about how effective the drug would be against the coronavirus would soon be answered. “What is needed are a large number of clinical trials to determine the efficacy of HCQ against the Sars-CoV-2 virus. There are many international labs which have started these trials and a massive amount of data will be generated. Within a month or so, we will get enough information about whether it works or not. Soon, we will know if the hopes which have been placed on this drug are justified,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/coronavirus-clamour-for-hcq-due-to-anxiety-825084.html
14-04-2020||Panorama||‘June-July could be the peak period of COVID-19 in India’||With India now reporting thousands of COVID-19 cases, up from a handful just days ago, there is huge concern about the consequences of the pandemic in India and what lies ahead. DH’s Kalyan Ray spoke to Prof T Jacob John, one of the country’s leading experts and a retired professor of clinical virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, on the pandemic’s progress in India. Why are the numbers not so high in India compared to the US, Italy, Spain and China? Is the curve flattening here? A forest fire will rage if sparks fell in a thousand spots, but if sparks fell only in 10 spots, the fire will rage only after a long lag time. My guess is that the volume of travel between China and India is far less than that between the US, Italy and Spain. We got very few virus introductions from China, but far more from countries west of India and those introductions were mostly in March; in other words, only quite recently. If this explanation is correct, India’s numbers will rise fast from when we lift our lock-down. The universal use of mask, however, will have an effect on slowing down the spread. So, the speed of increase may be slower than in those countries. China’s low number, less than 90,000 for a country of 1.4 billion people, will remain a mystery until some explanations become available. I had called that the ‘Great Chinese Puzzle’.  Is it too early for India, and the peak may come by April-end or May as widely speculated?                                          Speculation is just that -- speculation. Not epidemiological projection. India does not have enough data for meaningful epidemiological projection. If the bulk of introductions were in March, our surge in numbers may not come before May-June. But that is my speculation. The lockdown would have dampened transmission a little bit; universal mask use will dampen it further.  So, June-July could be the real peak period.   Will the summer have an impact on the virus transmission in India?                                That is the optimist’s expectation. The pessimist may say, no. The truth can only be ascertained after summer is past. What if climate makes no difference? If hot weather slows down transmission, when temperatures fall, cases will rise. So, as an epidemiologist, I will not count on weather as a factor that we include in any plan. Is there any evidence of mutation of the virus?  This is a “single-stranded positive sense RNA virus”. In all our cells, in all bacteria, the genes are DNA, double-stranded. Mutations are rare because of ‘proof-reading’ mechanism during replication. Single-stranded positive sense RNA is directly translated in the host cell as if it were messenger RNA, the replication products of which, especially the progeny virus RNA, gets poor proof-reading. So, mutations are fairly common. However, the likelihood of mutations varies in different regions of viral RNA. Many mutations have been detected, but the virus remains true to its grandparent in spike protein structure, infectivity, virulence, etc. The bottom line is that one vaccine will work against all viruses anywhere in the world. This is according to currently available information.  Is the current lockdown an effective one? Should it be extended? The lockdown per se is effective to slow down speed of transmission -- to flatten the epidemic curve. The spur-of-the-moment lockdown (imposed) in India is not the ideal lockdown. So, its effectiveness will be sub-optimal. Humans are consumers and producers of wealth. So, health and economic activity should be seen as mutually beneficial. Many states want extension (of the lockdown). That makes sense as they have understood the value of time required for strengthening healthcare infrastructure to face the epidemic. For that reason alone, extension by a week or maximum two, is justifiable, if not essential.  Did the Tablighi Jamaat event act as a ‘super spreader’? The caseload was much less before it occurred.                Perhaps the less said, the better. I am at a loss to understand how it all happened in Delhi, our National Capital Region.  These people became victims of infection and spreaders of infection. That shows the reality of the problem of a contagious virus and also the failure of the public health system in not detecting and intercepting on time. In one large gathering of many days, only one virus introduction is enough to cause a big chain reaction.  Do we have an adequate number of ventilators to cope with rising number of COVID-19 infections?  I have trust in our government and when they say they have calculated the need and have enough for immediate need and more on order for surge requirement, I believe it.  I am not worried about ventilators. My worry is the grossly inadequate personal protective equipment (PPE) for healthcare workers. Every person coming to any hospital for any illness must be assumed to be infected with SARS-CoV-2, even without symptoms of Covid-19. As a corollary, every doctor attending on patients should have sufficient PPE for “respiratory precautions.” All healthcare personnel with direct contact with patients must wear a proper mask, goggles and a transparent visor covering the entire face. Gloves, gown and cap are part of universal precautions, included in PPE.  Many healthcare workers have complained of inadequate supply of PPE, forcing much risk on them.  Letting healthcare workers work without standard PPE is unethical.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/june-july-could-be-the-peak-period-of-covid-19-in-india-825082.html
14-04-2020||Right in the Middle||The tale of a hunger strike||Hello, friends and fellow countrymen! Allow me to present a question to all of you--how many of you would have observed hunger strike or a bhook hartal in 1942 at the age of eight or nine years? If you have, join me in hailing the day with a loud “Hurray”! How many of my friends when I was about eight years old knew what bhook hartal meant? I did not and I am sure that 100% of my friends had no idea what it meant and I was one among that group. Possibly, at that age, I thought that bhook hartal meant that no sweets for the day! Let me recount the day as it happened in 1942 when I was about nine years old living in Srirangam near Tiruchirapalli in Tamil Nadu. I was a student in Srirangam high school. Subhash was a close friend of my age and also my neighbour. During our holidays we used to play as we wished and in our houses as we desired. His mother was an active Congress party worker and used to address small groups of people in her house or in their garden and Subhash and I had listened to the speeches often without understanding a word! One day I was told by his mother that the next day was very important for all Indians as a day of fasting in “reverence to all those who sacrificed their lives for freedom”. Subhash and I decided then to fast the next day. Usually, we would carry our lunch--curd rice and some pickle--in small tiffin carriers. As usual, I left home with my school bag with my books and the tiffin carrier. Our class teacher talked to us about fasting and the unethical way youngsters were asked to observe the bhook hartal. He then asked those who were “fasting“ to stand up and the two of us from a class of 40 boys stood up! We were admonished--for no fault of us-- and were told to eat our lunch then and there without further delay. The two of us sat down and ate our lunch in a jiffy! We were following our teacher’s orders! One question that nobody asked us to this day is why we brought a tiffin box when we were observing a bhook hartal! I still recollect our unique bhook hartal almost 78 years later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-tale-of-a-hunger-strike-825079.html
14-04-2020||Second Edit||Uncertainties, coronavirus haunt Biden||With Bernie Sanders exiting the race for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination, former vice president Joe Biden is the party’s presumptive nominee. Sanders had campaigned on a progressive agenda. He has advocated universal healthcare, tuition-free public college and increasing minimum wages. His exit from the race is disappointing. However, doubts over his electability persisted throughout his campaign in the Democratic primaries. The chances of a democratic-socialist, secular Jew like Sanders winning a presidential election in a country that is predominantly conservative were seen to be slight. The possibility of the Democrats taking the White House in the presidential elections in November has brightened somewhat with Biden becoming the presumptive candidate to take on incumbent President Donald Trump. In almost every opinion poll over the past month, Biden has led Trump, but his advantage in these polls has varied and is not decisive. Biden’s immediate task is to unite Democrats behind him. He needs to win the backing of Sanders and his supporters. Throughout the primaries, it was evident that voters under the age of 45, who comprise the bulk of Sanders’ support base, rejected Biden’s “return to normalcy” message. He needs to win them over now. He needs to take substantial steps to win the backing of leftists in the Democratic party. Taking elements of Sanders’ progressive policies on board his agenda may do the trick. The coronavirus pandemic’s impact on the US presidential election is likely to be huge. Biden’s campaign is already suffering on its account. His outreach to the public is limited to television interviews and podcasts as he is confined to his home. Meanwhile, Trump is using the daily White House coronavirus taskforce briefings to project himself as a ‘wartime President.’ How the coronavirus pandemic unfolds in the US in the coming weeks could decide who will occupy the White House in the next four years. Trump has mishandled the crisis so far. His administration’s indifferent initial response and lack of preparedness has angered many in the country. Approval of his handling of the pandemic dipped to 42% last week from 48% the preceding week. Should this fall continue, Trump’s return to the White House would be doubtful. New York’s Democrat governor, Andrew Cuomo, has been winning public praise for his calm but resolute handling of the public health crisis. There is a possibility of Biden choosing him as his running mate. Speculation is rife over the possibility of Cuomo replacing Biden as the Democrat challenger against Trump. New uncertainties could still trip up Biden’s chances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/uncertainties-coronavirus-haunt-biden-825070.html
14-04-2020||South||Coronavirus in Karnataka: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 14, 2020||Till, April 14, 2020, India has registered more than 10,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 325 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Karnataka: 247 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Karnataka: 7 Total number of people discharged in Karnataka: 59 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 10,007 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 325 Total number of people discharged in India: 980 This data was last updated on April 14, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.     Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-in-karnataka-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-14-2020-823503.html
14-04-2020||South||Coronavirus in Kerala: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 14, 2020||Till, April 14, 2020, India has registered more than 10,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 325 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Kerala: 378 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Kerala: 3 Total number of people discharged in Kerala: 179 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 10,007 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 325 Total number of people discharged in India: 980 This data was last updated on April 14, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.     Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-in-kerala-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-14-2020-823504.html
14-04-2020||South||Coronavirus in Andhra Pradesh: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 14, 2020||Till, April 14, 2020, India has registered more than 10,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 325 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Andhra Pradesh: 439 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Andhra Pradesh: 7 Total number of people discharged in Andhra Pradesh: 11 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 10,007 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 325 Total number of people discharged in India: 980 This data was last updated on April 14, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.     Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-in-andhra-pradesh-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-14-2020-823289.html
14-04-2020||South||Telangana govt should allow private labs to conduct coronavirus tests: Governor||The Telangana government should immediately allow private laboratories to test COVID-19 samples to effectively contain the spread of the disease in the state, Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said on Monday. Talking to PTI over phone, she said it is time the government "which is doing a commendable job to contain the virus" adds up resources for testing along with state institutions. Soundararajan, who herself is a doctor, asserted that there is no community spread in the southern state. "Three private labs along with six government testing centres have been approved by ICMR, but the state government has some reservation on allowing testing in private labs. I have already written a letter in this regard to the government and also plan to hold a meeting with the chief secretary," she said. The governor said Telangana too should opt for rapid testing kits, which when used, can be more useful as the "test result can be known in 15 minutes".  She also suggested the ruling TRS government to allow "plasma treatment" to fight coronavirus. Under this treatment, plasma from cured COVID-19 patients is used to treat the affected people, she said. Soundararajan also highlighted the need to procure more testing kits. "The ICMR-approved Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology in Hyderabad, which is producing 1,500 COVID-19 testing kits per day, says it has the capacity to produce up to 10,000 kits per day. Procuring more such kits will be helpful in widespread testing of suspected cases," she said. The governor said 38 people have been affected with dengue in Wanaparthy in the state. "As Telangana is fighting coronavirus, reports of 38 persons affected with dengue in Wanaparthy town came to my knowledge. I immediately directed the officials to take measures to ensure that the vector borne disease does not spread," she added. Telangana has reported 562 coronavirus cases, state officials said on Monday. While 100 people have been cured after treatment, 16 succumbed to the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-govt-should-allow-private-labs-to-conduct-coronavirus-tests-governor-825132.html
14-04-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: Low-key celebrations mark Tamil New Year in Tamil Nadu||The lockdown prompted muted celebrations, as people confined themselves to homes to offer prayers indoors. People greeted each other over phones and through social media platforms, even as temples, generally buzzing during the new year, remained closed due to the lockdown.  Many households prepared special delicacies to enjoy the Tamil new year, the first major festival to be celebrated during the ongoing lockdown. Incidentally, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced extension of the national lockdown till May 3 as part of the country's fight against COVID19. On Monday, Palaniswami had announced that the state was extending the lockdown till April 30. Extending his greetings, Purohit said the new year is celebrated on the first day of Tamil month 'Chithirai' every year to "mark the onset of peace, prosperity and joy in our families" and stressed on social distancing. "It (the new year) marks the greatness of our tradition, heritage and culture. May the state and its people be filled with hope and happiness for a glorious future during this year," he said in his message. Purohit urged people to resolve to work together in the spirit of harmony and friendship to usher in progress and development so as to create a brighter and better tomorrow. "I also request all the people of Tamil Nadu to follow the government guidelines regarding COVID-19 scrupulously and to stay at home and be safe," he said. Palaniswami said the Tamil people, known for their pluralism and culture, had been celebrating the new year in 'Chithirai' for long.  His government was striving to realise the late chief minister J Jayalalithaa's aim of making the state numero uno in many areas, including economy and social justice. "Let prosperity flourish in the homes on the occasion of the new year and let there be light of joy in all our lives," he said in his greetings. TNCC president K S Alagiri, AMMK leader and independent legislator TTV Dhinakaran and Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan also extended their new year greetings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-low-key-celebrations-mark-tamil-new-year-in-tamil-nadu-825204.html
14-04-2020||South||We want financial aid, not praise: Kerala Finance Minister to PM on coronavirus address||Slamming Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not announcing any additional financial package to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic, Kerala Finance Minister Thomas Isaac said it was not just praise which states wanted, but assistance to tide over the difficult situation. He told reporters here that that banks were charging heavy interestfrom states during the present crisis and the states expected financial assistance from the centre and not just praise. "The Prime Minister, in his address to the nation, praised the states for the effective dealing of the pandemic. I feel that states just don't require praise alone, but financial assistance. When we approach banks for loans, the interest rate is nine per cent. Most of the states have limited the borrowing to Rs 500- 1000 crore and started cutting off salaries or halting other developmental activities," he said. Isaac said the lockdown extension would control the deadly virus and urged the centre to conduct intense testing in the country. He said the states will be constrained without additional resources. Isaac said the state cabinet would take a decision on restrictionsduring the second phase of lockdown, on Wednesday after the centre issues guidelines. The Minister said that though the situation in Kerala was improving, it was not the case in other parts of the country. "It seems like the number of patients are doubling every four days. Lockdown is the only way to preventit from spreading. Also we have a learneda lesson that we need more testing in our country," he said. Isaac also said that the centre must learn lessons from the past three weeks. "The first lesson is that without extensive testing, lockdown will not be effective and the second is that without income support, migrant workers across the country will refuse to comply with lockdown protocol and start travelling to their native lands," Isaac said. He said lack of extensive testing is a "weak point" of the country even though an effective lockdown was imposed. "Livelihoods will collapse asthe number of families employed in MGNREG falls to one per cent of normal. The centre should transfer at least half of last year's wages, as advance at least to the accounts of every registered worker. It should also increase the work days to 150," he said. The Minister said the Centre should provide financial assistance by borrowing money from the Reserve Bank and provide it to states. He also said the restrictions in Kerala can be relaxed in those districts where there were no new cases for over a week or there was a reduction in the number of patients. Agriculture, small-scale industries, construction sector mainly road constructions and repair, export sectors are priority areas which are likely to get relaxation in restriction. The decision in this regard will takenbetaken by the cabinet tomorrow, Isaac said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/we-want-financial-aid-not-praise-kerala-finance-minister-to-pm-on-coronavirus-address-825227.html
14-04-2020||South||Did Kerala government compromise health data privacy for coronavirus surveillance?||All local bodies in Kerala were directed by the government to feed the basic health information of individuals to Software as a Service (SaaS) application, Sprinklr, a Malayali-headed social media analytics firm in the US. The data is stored on Amazon Web services cloud servers in Mumbai. This prompted the Opposition Congress in Kerala to allege that government was compromising health data of individuals with a US firm, that was also reportedly associated with the US presidential election campaign. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who also holds the state IT portfolio, refused to give convincing replies to queries over health data privacy. Even as a written explanation from the government on Monday evening mentions about a non-disclosure agreement to prevent misuse of the data, the government has not yet come out clean by making public such agreements.  The allegation assumed much significance as personal health details involved individual rights it even does not come under RTI's purview. Moreover, the data could be widely misused by corporate. The Chief Minister's justification for the deal without any tenders was that Ragy Thomas, founder CEO of the firm, was quite impressed by the welfare measures being offered by the Kerala Government in the wake of COVID-19, especially to the elderly, as his parents in Kerala were also getting the benefit and hence he offered service of the firm's software to Kerala, free of cost. The CM evaded queries on data security and said that IT department would give an explanation. The IT department's explanatory note said that the service of the the US firm was availed as the state government's IT agencies did not have enough tools or server capabilities to handle and analyse the unstructured big data being collected from various sources. Steps for enhancing Amazon Web Server Cloud of state government agency Centre for Development of Imaging Technology was being initiated and the data would be subsequently transferred from Sprinklr's server. The stated purpose of the Sprinklr's service is to have quick and effective interventions against COVID-19 especially since the coronavirus threat is likely to stay for a long period and there could be an influx of Malayalis in huge numbers from COVID-19 hit countries once the lockdown is relaxed. The Opposition Congress in Kerala is making use of the row as it has been quite worried over the increasing popularity that the Pinarayi Vijayan government was gaining with the activities against COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/did-kerala-government-compromise-health-data-privacy-for-coronavirus-surveillance-825229.html
14-04-2020||South||Kerala observes low key Vishu amid coronavirus crisis||Amid COVID-19 lockdown, Keralites celebrated a low key "Vishu" , the Malayalam new year, on Tuesday, hoping that days of plenty, prosperity and peace will return. People woke up in the early hours to see the auspicious "Vishu Kani", symbolising hope, promise and fine prospects they wish to have in the year ahead. The ritual comprises arranging on platters auspicious articles like seasonal fruits, vegetables, flower, gold and clothes which together form the first sight when the family members wake up on the Vishu day. Normally, Keralites dressed in their traditional attire throng temples across the state. However, this year due to the lockdown restrictions, temple visits were given a go by. The famed Sri Krishna temple at Guruvayur and the Lord Ayyappa shrine at Sabarimala witnessed heavy rush of devotees during the Vishu day. But pilgrims were not allowed inside and only temple officials and security personnel were present for the"Vishu kani". Rehaman, a small time trader, said very few people have come out for Vishu purchases due to the restrictions. It is fine as it is for a good cause, while Radha, a young woman said she could not celebrate the festival. "We have no money, no job. With whatever little we have, we are celebrating the festival", she said. 87-year-old Vilasini Nambiar, a retired college professor, said vishu has visited the state during a most bewildering time. "It should, however, remind us that every mountain must have its valley, desert its oasis, every storm cloud its rainbow, every night its day. We are prepared to believe that we will overcome this misfortune", she told PTI. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, Home Minister, Amit Shah, Kerala Governor, Arif Mohammed Khan and Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, were among those who greeted people on the occasion of Vishu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-observes-low-key-vishu-amid-coronavirus-crisis-825230.html
14-04-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Kerala undertakes 'well challenge' to combat scarcity||While many are spending the lockdown days by with cooking new dishes and dressing up challenges, some families in Kerala were making productive use of the lockdown days by digging wells to combat water scarcity. 55-year-old Damodaran, a native of Perambra in Kozhikode district, Kannur native Saneesh and Kollam native Bhaskaran were among those who successfully dug wells at their residential premises amid the lcokdown. Bhaskaran, who lives near Kottarakara, about 25 kilometres from Kollam town, decided to dig a well as he had no other way to spend time during the lockdown. He discussed this with local authorities to ensure he would not be in a legal tangle for digging a well without necessary permissions. His son and grandson helped in this mission and within ten days water started flowing in. Shaneesh, a native of Pinarayi in the Kannur district, had been keeping in abeyance his wish to have a well in his house as it was an expensive affair. But with the lockdown, Shaneesh and his elder brother took up the challenge themselves. Even though they felt t would be tough, with the help of the other members of the family, including women and children, they were also succesful in accomplishing the mission. With the scarcity if water and his existing well running dry, Damodaran, a native of Peramabra in Kozhikode, was forced to dig another well amid the lockdown. With the help of his son and nephew he was able to finish the challenge in 11 days. These lockdown wells are also doing the rounds on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-kerala-undertakes-well-challenge-to-combat-scarcity-825331.html
14-04-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Malayali pregnant woman from Bengaluru held up at Kerala border overnight||A pregnant Malayali woman settled in Bengaluru had to spend a night in the forest region of the Wayanad-Gundlupet border seeking special permission from Kerala authorities to enter the state. Later, following intervention from the Kerala Chief Minister's office, the woman was allowed to enter Kerala. Shjila, a native of Thalassery in Kannur district, came from Bengaluru with permission from the police to travel. She was also accompanied by a child and two relatives and travelled through Mysore to Wayand. But she was stopped by the Kerala police at the border near the Muthanga forest area on Monday night as norms permit only patients in critical condition and requiring emergency medical facilities, available in one state, to travel to the other state. Shjila, who was nine months pregnant, insisted on proceeding to her native and remained near the border area in her vehicle. By Tuesday, the Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, took note of the matter and subsequently a special permission was granted for Shijila and her child to enter Kerala, on the condition that she would remain under quarantine at a COVID-19 care centre in Kannur. The others travelling with her had to return.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-malayali-pregnant-woman-from-bengaluru-held-up-at-kerala-border-overnight-825359.html
14-04-2020||South||Man who distributed food packets to Tamil Nadu police tests positive for coronavirus||The man, who is said to be close to a local politician, had returned to Coimbatore from Delhi on March 23 and was asked to be under home quarantine after it came to light that some of those who attended the Tabliqi Jamaat event in the national capital were his co-passengers. Since several policemen are believed to have come in contact with him, officials were burning the midnight oil to trace the patient’s contacts. “We are still trying to trace all his contacts. We have quarantined some people and we are still on the job,” Dr. G Ramesh Kumar, Deputy Director of Health Services, Coimbatore, told DH. Coimbatore stands second in the number of positive cases in Tamil Nadu at 126. Officials said tracing the contacts of the 61-year-old is proving to be a tough task since he is understood to have travelled to several places in Coimbatore from March 24 to April 9, the day he tested positive.   The state had identified people who were then asked to quarantine themselves at home s after checking their travel history. Tamil Nadu government has mandated all those returning from foreign countries and people who came in secondary contact with positive patients for 28 days.    The police had last month booked three persons, including a father-son under various sections of the IPC and two other acts for violating the home quarantine guidelines issued by the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-who-distributed-food-packets-to-tamil-nadu-police-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-825406.html
14-04-2020||South||Congress too moves HC against restrictions over COVID-19 relief by political parties in Tamil Nadu||After its ally DMK, the Congress in Tamil Nadu also moved the Madras High Court challenging a state government directive restraining political parties and charitable organisations from direct distribution of COVID-19 relief materials during the lockdown period. The public interest litigation (PIL) petition, filed by the party's Chennai East District unit chief, wanted the court to direct the state government not to impose any 'unreasonable' restriction in distribution of relief materials to poor and needy.  The petition is likely to be taken up for hearing by a special bench of Justice R Subbiah and Justice R Pongiappan on Wednesday when the DMK's plea is also scheduled to come up. The DMK has alleged that those in power were unable to digest the "philanthropic activities" undertaken by the party in distributing assistance to the needy during the lockdown to check coronavirus and imposed the restrictions. The Congress petition said from day one of the nationwide lockdown, various political parties and charitable organisations along with their volunteers were involved in distribution of relief materials to the poor and needy. All such relief activities were carried in strict compliance of guidelines issued by the governments as well as the World Health Organisation (WHO), it said. Initially, the state government did not oppose such activities, but latter due to "political vendetta", it restrained political parties from directly distributing assistance and wanted them to be routed through official agencies, petitioner Siva Rajashekaran alleged.  Therefore, they must not be restrained from doing such activities, he added. The state government had on Monday clarified in a press release that it only insisted that volunteers and other service organisations should work together with the district administration and ensure food and other relief materials reached the needy with due precaution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-too-moves-hc-against-restrictions-over-covid-19-relief-by-political-parties-in-tamil-nadu-825451.html
14-04-2020||South||Telangana focus on Hyderabad, accounting about half of state's COVID-19 cases||With about half of Telangana’s COVID-19 cases reported from Hyderabad, Telangana’s health machinery has concentrated anti-virus measures in the capital area to contain the surging statistics in the state. 307 out of 626 positive cases, reported as of Tuesday night, are from the Hyderabad civic body jurisdiction, prompting chief minister Chandrasekhar Rao to ask officials to focus their attention on the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. 626 is the number of active cases (516) and those recovered (110). Most of the 18 dead in the state are also from Hyderabad. A vast majority of Telangana's cases are connected to the Tablighi Jamaat event. GHMC is spread over three districts – Hyderabad, RangaReddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri. “More cases are getting registered in the densely populated Greater Hyderabad area, where the probability of the virus spread to others is high. Hence, there should be a special strategy for GHMC,” Rao said in his virus situation review on Monday.  Following the CM’s instructions, a senior medical officer is assigned for each of the 30 circles of the GHMC, to be assisted by a municipal, police and revenue officer. This is in place of one medical and health officer for one entire district, normally. “Since the majority of cases are in GHMC, we are adopting a special strategy in Hyderabad where a robust containment effort is initiated. In the 30 GHMC circles, senior officers (Doctors) are being vested with the DMHO powers to ensure immediate action,” a senior health department official said. Out of the 221 containment clusters in Telangana, 139 are in Hyderabad, where in and out public movement is totally prohibited with high barricades and heavy police deployment. Government machinery is supplying essential commodities to people inside. The crowded Mallepally in old quarters of Hyderabad where the Tablighi activities are centered is one such spot. Several of Markaz attendees have reportedly stayed in a religious place here for a few days on their return from Nizamuddin, before returning homes in various parts of Telangana. Stating that measures taken by the government alone as insufficient, Rao appealed that people should strictly adhere to the government instructions to help prevent further spread of the virus. 1398 persons are home quarantined in Hyderabad. “Identification of Markaz attendees; their tests are going on. In case of someone failing to undergo tests, they should come forward voluntarily. This is for their own and family members’ safety and wellbeing,” the CM said, after a review meeting on Sunday, while expressing concern that Coronavirus spread as not stopping.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-focus-on-hyderabad-accounting-about-half-of-states-covid-19-cases-825452.html
14-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Telangana Minister asks officials to act tough against those bypassing lockdown in 'containment zones'||Telangana Municipal Administration Minister K T Rama Rao and Health Minister E Rajender on Tuesday appealed to citizens to strictly follow the lockdown rules and asked officials to act tough on those who bypass norms in 'containment zones'. Rama Rao, known as KTR, and Rajender held a meeting with officials and discussed the plan of action and the precautionary measures to be taken to control the spread of COVID-19 in Hyderabad in view of a large number of cases being reported from the city. "Minister KTR appealed to the citizens to strictly follow the lockdown rules and said that social distancing is the only way one can keep the coronavirus away. "The Minister instructed the officials to close all the entries to the containment zones and leave only one route open, under police surveillance," an official release said. Rama Rao, who is the WorkingPresident of ruling TRS, asked the officials to make necessary arrangements to send essential goods to the citizens directly, at their doorstep. He told the officials of police, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and Health department to work in coordination and check the health conditions of every person. He asked them to shift the suspect persons to hospital for COVID-19 test and also to check their travel history if they test positive.  The Health Minister said the coming 10 days will be very crucial and appealed to the citizens not to venture out of their homes. He said all medical arrangements are in place and asked police and medical teams to immediately move those persons in the containment zone, who show any symptoms of coronavirus, to the hospital. State Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar stated that special teams, comprising police, medical and municipal officials, were functioning 24/7 in the GHMC limits. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday asked officials to pay more attention to the GHMC area in COVID-19 containment measures as more number of cases are being reported from the city. According to a media bulletin on COVID-19 on Monday night, out of the total 472 active cases in the state, 216 were from the GHMC area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-telangana-minister-asks-officials-to-act-tough-against-those-bypassing-lockdown-in-containment-zones-825459.html
14-04-2020||State||Karnataka govt mulls remote monitoring of COVID-19 patients||Two doctors treating COVID-19 patients tested positive recently and in to check such instances in future, the Department of Medical Education is planning remote monitoring, which reduces doctors’ exposure to patients. Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar has consulted some of the doctors in the United States who are already using this technology to treat the COVID-19 positive cases. The minister is also having a meeting with representatives of some of the companies which provide such technology.   “I spoke to a team of epidemiologists and heads of certain departments at the United States to know about the remote monitoring technology they are using. I am also meeting the representatives of a few such companies which can provide us with the technology at our hospitals,”  Dr Sudhakar told DH. The minister added, “We have heard reports of many doctors and other health professionals succumbing to COVID-19. We don’t want to take risk.” Explaining the technology, Dr Sachidanand, Vice Chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences said that remote monitoring uses a software with which specialist doctors can monitor health condition of patients and treat them by not getting exposed directly. The presence of all the doctors in COVID-19 is not necessary when patients are monitored remotely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-mulls-remote-monitoring-of-covid-19-patients-825125.html
14-04-2020||State||Covid-19 scare: MNREGS projects facing acute shortage of workers||Though the government has hiked the wages being given to workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) in order to ensure that they are fed and taken care of during the lockdown, labourers are hesitating to come for work due to the Covid-19 scare. In order to maintain the social distancing norm, the government has allowed work in which only a few labourers are required, and stopped large projects like road and check dam construction and lake desilting.  Bund construction, digging trenches for planting saplings, interior road construction, cattle shed building are some of the projects that the government has allowed to continue. But even the labourers with job cards are not coming forward to work in such projects because they fear Covid-19. The number of applications for job cards has also come down drastically.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-scare-mnregs-projects-facing-acute-shortage-of-workers-825281.html
14-04-2020||State||Sira doctor helps Covid-19 patients battling for life in USA||Dr Arun Ranganath, who originally hails from Sira in Tumakuru district, is treating Covid-19 positive patients at the Maine General Medical Centre in the USA 15 hours day.  Dr Arun is the son of Late Ranganath and Shivakumari of Sira. After his schooling in Sira, he graduated from Mysore Medical College and served for a while in Delhi and England. He has been serving in Maine, USA for the last four years.   Dr Arun is heading the intensive care unit (ICU) where Covid-19 patients who are in a critical condition are treated.  Speaking to Prajavani (DH's sister publication), Dr Arun said that doctors play a critical role in the current scenario wherein the Coronavirus is taking lives across the world. "Some doctors are hesitating to come forward and treat patients. Others with them should build confidence in them. If doctors fail to provide care in such a crisis, it is wrong," he opined.  "Covid-19 will not go away due to a lockdown. Lockdown is a precautionary measure. The number of cases is lower in India because of the lockdown imposed and this is helping doctors treat the sick," he observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sira-doctor-helps-covid-19-patients-battling-for-life-in-usa-825324.html
14-04-2020||State||Liquor sale banned till April 20||Anxious tipplers, who expected the government to ease restrictions on liquor sales after the first phase of lockdown ended on April 14, will now have to wait till April 20. The Excise Department has issued an order Tuesday banning the sale of liquor till the midnight of April 20. Earlier, the sale of liquor was banned by the department till the midnight of April 14. Tuesday's order came after much speculations about the possibility of opening liquor stores from Wednesday. With Prime Minister Narendra Modi pushing for more stringent lockdown, the department, keen on selling liquor at MSIL and CL-2 license MRP outlets, issued the order shutting all liquor shops. Excise Minister H Nagesh told reporters that the department cannot pursue proposals for the sale of liquor now. "The prime minister has said that we must strictly follow the lockdown (norms). So, I don't think we can propose (the sale of liquor) now. It’ll be difficult to control the crowd and ensure social distancing at liquor outlets. So, I think it’ll be difficult to relax this till April 20 at least," he said. On Monday, the authorities appeared to be keen on resuming the sale of liquor and photographs of preparations for the sale in front of MSIL outlets were shared widely on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/liquor-sale-banned-till-april-20-825462.html
14-04-2020||State||Infections continue to surge in Kalaburagi, Bagalkot dists||The Covid-19 cases continued to surge in the virus hotspots of north Karnataka region as Kalaburagi and Bagalkot districts reported three cases each while Belagavi saw its tally rise to 18 with one new case on Tuesday. A 10-year-old girl among three tested positive for novel coronavirus in Kalaburagi on Tuesday, taking the tally to 16, including three deaths. Throat swab of a 51-year-old brother of the man, who died of Covid-19 on Monday, returned positive. A 10-year-old grand daughter of the man, who died of infection on April 7, also tested positive.A 35-year-old woman also confirmed positive. Primary contacts of the positive patients are being traced and home-quarantined, said health authorities. Meanwhile, the throat swab sample of a 69-year-old from Chapparband Galli in Vijayapura, who died on April 12, has returned positive on Tuesday. With this the death toll has gone up to 10 in the state. Three persons from Bagalkot, all middle aged and neighbours of the 75-year-old man who died due to Covid-19, have tested positive for the virus. According to district authorities, a couple - 43-year-old man and 39-year-old woman - and a 32-year-old woman have contracted virus. The district have 11 active cases, of which 10 cases are from Bagalkot town. The authorities have sealed wards 7 to 10 and have upped surveillance. The Belagavi district reported another case on Tuesday. With this the number of cases has increased to A 33-year-old man (P258) from Peeranwadi in the taluk has tested positive for coronavirus. He had recently returned from Delhi. All his contacts have been told to go on self-quarantine. The district authorities have declared containment zone within 3 km radius of Peeranawadi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/infections-continue-to-surge-in-kalaburagi-bagalkot-dists-825463.html
14-04-2020||State||People from Covid-19 hit regions 'sneak' into S’mogga||Shivamogga continues to be a zero Covid-19 district, even after the first phase of the lockdown. This has prompted people with links to the district to take shelter here, as protection from the virus. Native people of Shivamogga district working in other parts of the state and those settled in Bengaluru and other big cities are returning home after a gap of many years. Many from the Covid-hit regions are coming here to the homes of their friends and relatives. Though the district administration has set up 17 inter-district checkposts to check movement of vehicles, more than 1,000 people have reportedly arrived in the district in the last one week. Some of them came by ambulance posing as patients and others came here by vehicles ferrying vegetables, milk and other essential commodities.   The Tunganagar and Sorab police have registered two cases in this regard. Drivers of ambulances have been booked for ferrying people from Bengaluru to Shivamogga, citing medical reasons. Besides, some people misused passes issued by the district administration by photocopying the same for travel purposes. Though more than a thousand people have arrived in Shivamogga through various means, the district administration is keeping a close watch on 584 persons. The throat swabs of 152 have been sent to the laboratory for tests. Speaking to DH, Superintendent of Police K M Shantaraju said, "We have already booked two cases in connection with illegal movement of vehicles. Those who came in ambulance and other vehicles have been quarantined and are being monitored by officials of the health department." He asked people to alert the police if they have information on illegal movement of vehicles. Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar admitted that people were  trying to violate the lockdown rule for their benefit. “We are monitoring the entry and exit of goods vehicles at 17 checkposts across the district. We are doing our best. We will continue our vigil," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/people-from-covid-19-hit-regions-sneak-into-s-mogga-825469.html
14-04-2020||State||Coronavirus: Bengaluru to use call details to trace patients’ contacts||The Bengaluru Urban district administration will take the help of police in tracing the primary/secondary contacts of COVID-19 patients, after health officials expressed their helplessness in collecting the details due to non-cooperation from patients and family members.  The district administration will now use the call detail record (CDR) of patients to track their contacts. Bengaluru Urban Deputy Commissioner G N Shivamurthy on Tuesday issued an ultimatum to trace the primary and secondary contacts of COVID-19 patients within 12 hours and 24 hours respectively, by using the patients' mobile phone call data. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting of all Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCPs) of Bengaluru, tahsildars and district health officials of Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural.   Shivamurthy said, “Health officials couldn't trace the contacts due to non-cooperation by family members and neighbours. While the normal deadline for health workers to find details of the contacts is seven days, they are unable to do so even after 15 days.”    He said they decided to collect call details using police investigation method as tracing of contacts is crucial to break the chain and arrest the spread of the pandemic. The police, after collecting the details of people whom the patient was largely in touch with, must pass them on to health officials. They must also put the contacts under strict quarantine at the designated places facilitated by the state government in and around Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-bengaluru-to-use-call-details-to-trace-patients-contacts-825493.html
14-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Liquor shops could open after April 14 in Karnataka||The state government on Monday hinted at allowing sale of liquor after April 14, with the excise department floating the idea of allowing sales at MSIL and CL-2 licensed outlets. Chief Minister Yediyurappa said discussions were underway on the issue, while authorities gave indications that some stores may open during the second phase of the lockdown starting April 15. “We will decide after April 14,” Yediyurappa told reporters. Sources said that several Cabinet members were keen on allowing restricted sale of liquor and an order to that effect was likely to be issued on Tuesday, pending guidelines by the Centre. However, the move was opposed by Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi.  During the day, reports of barricades being put in front of MSIL outlets emerged from parts of the state, a hint that supply of liquor at select outlets could resume. While welcoming the government’s decision, Federation of Wine Merchants Association, Karnataka, wanted sale of liquor to be allowed only for a certain period of time every day in the state. There are 789 MSIL shops in Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/liquor-shops-could-open-after-april-14-in-karnataka-825071.html
14-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Closely-monitored, more stringent lockdown till April 20: CM B S Yediyurappa||A total of 57,633 vehicles have been seized, 4,169 people arrested and 2,181 FIRs registered for violating lockdown regulations. Police have collected Rs 95 lakh fine from violators. "We will have to take more stringent action in the coming days," he said.  Responsibility is on the people to ensure that all activities run smoothly after lockdown ends on May 3 by strictly following the regulations, he said. He also appealed that people to follow the seven measures advised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, such as taking care of elders in the house especially those suffering from chronic illness, maintaining social distancing, helping the poor and needy and to be considerate about colleagues and employees and not to sack them. "There is no scarcity of medicine, essential services and goods. We will make all efforts to carry out agriculture activities without any hurdle," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/closely-monitored-more-stringent-lockdown-till-april-20-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-825168.html
14-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: More checking, more barricades in Karnataka till April 20||There will be more checking and more barricades in place throughout Karnataka to restrict the unnecessary movement of people during the lockdown period. In districts, where there are more cases, ADGP rank police officials will be deputed to monitor the situation, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, said Tuesday. The Central government is also planning to micromanage hotspots to contain the pandemic, he said.  "In Bengaluru and other districts, lockdown will be more stringent. After April 20, we will review the situation at taluk and district levels and take a call on easing restrictions," he said. Though there were strict guidelines at hotspots, some unnecessary movements continued, which will be curbed too, Bommai said, noting that districts are not being sealed down. In districts such as Bidar, Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Belagavi, Mysuru, Dakshina Kannada and others - where there are more cases, ADGP rank officials have been deputed. While four officials are already in the districts, rest will be deputed soon to supervise the lockdown, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-more-checking-more-barricades-in-karnataka-till-april-20-825175.html
14-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt has become bankrupt: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Tuesday said the BJP-ruled state government was ‘bankrupt’ and flayed Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa moves to generate revenues by selling corner sites of the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA). “By auctioning sites en masse with the hope of generating Rs 15,000 crore, doesn’t it show the government has become bankrupt?” Siddaramaiah said, referring to Yediyurappa’s plans to auction 12,000 BDA corner sites. Siddaramaiah, who holds the record of presenting a record 13 budgets, also criticized the government's plan to utilize Rs 1,000 crore available with the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS). “When we were in power, the RGUHS had Rs 600-700 crore. We didn’t touch it, because it’s the money that’s come from hospitals and students and we wanted to use it for the university’s development. But this government is so financially bankrupt that it’s using this money, too,” he said.  The reasons for the government’s financial crisis include wasteful expenditure, reduction in the state’s share of Central taxes, delay in GST compensation and corruption, Siddaramaiah said. “I agree that the lockdown has affected the collection of commercial taxes, motor vehicle taxes, stamps & registration fees, and excise, but what are you doing to cut wasteful expenditure? Instead, they want to sell off government assets.” Siddaramaiah said PM Modi’s address to the nation on Tuesday morning was disappointing. “Industries have closed, agriculture is suffering, labourers are stranded and the rural population is in distress. PM Modi should’ve announced programmes for economic revival,” he said.  Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar also felt let down. “We’re ready to cooperate in the fight against COVID-19, but it’s very unfortunate and shocking that no economic package was announced,” he said. To mark BR Ambedkar's 129th birth anniversary, the KPCC on Tuesday arranged a low-key event that saw some party leaders read out the preamble of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-has-become-bankrupt-siddaramaiah-825385.html
14-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt to consider MSP for fruits, vegetables: Agri minister||Agriculture Minister B C Patil on Tuesday said that the government would consider the demand of support price for fruits and vegetables. He was speaking at a meeting to review farming activities in the district.  “Farmers have submitted a memorandum seeking support price for fruits and vegetables as the produces are getting damaged due to lockdown. The government will consider the demand,” he said. ”The farmers should not lose hopes. People will suffer if farmers stop farming activities due to lockdown. I have undertaken a statewide tour to instill confidence among farmers. The government will conduct a survey to help farmers in this regard,” Patil said. There are reports that pesticides used for fruits and vegetables lack quality. The department will take action in this regard. About Rs 20 lakh worth stocks of low quality pesticides have been seized in Chikkaballapur, he said. “There is no question of government procuring horticultural and agricultural produces from farmers as the government has commissioned open market system,” the minister said. “Stern action will be taken against agents for torturing farmers. Action will be taken against selling fertilisers in the black market. A vigilance squad has been constituted to keep an eye in this regard,” he said. Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said that he has discussed with the Maharashtra government the proposal of sending grapes. The Maharashtra government has assured to sell 10 kg boxes of grapes if they are packed and sent. The grapes will soon be sent to Maharashtra. MLA S N Subba Reddy sought measures to fill up 50% vacant posts in agriculture department in Bagepalli taluk. Patil assured that the problem of staff shortage in the agriculture department in the district would be solved. “The staff of agriculture department on deputation to other departments will be called back. The government is recruiting 3,200 candidates with diploma in agriculture. Each candidate will handle two gram panchayats. The government will issue Kissan credit cards to farmers which will provide all data needed for farmers,” Patil said. ZP president M B Chikkanarasimhaiah, vice-president Nirmala P Muniraju, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Fouzia B Taranum, deputy commissioner R Latha, SP G K Mithun Kumar and leaders of farmers’ bodies were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-to-consider-msp-for-fruits-vegetables-agri-minister-825416.html
14-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||5 head to Belur in ambulance, quarantined||The police on Tuesday seized an ambulance for ferrying five youths from Bengaluru to Belur violating lockdown guidelines. The police have decided to keep the youths, who work in Bengaluru, under home quarantine, besides initiating legal action. According to the police, checking was tightened following reports of ambulances ferrying people illegally. The police stopped the ambulance at a checkpoint on National Highway 75 on Hassan-Mandya border. Dr Shivaswamy declared them healthy after screening. The ambulance driver, a resident of Sakleshpur, had reportedly collected Rs 7,000 from the youths to drop them in Belur taluk, Hassan district, added the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/5-head-to-belur-in-ambulance-quarantined-825418.html
14-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Konkan Rly takes up track maintenance during lockdown||The Konkan Railway is putting the lockdown into good use by taking up track maintenance on its route. The suspension of train services has made the task easier for the personnel. The route has high density of passenger trains. By the time normal life resumes after lockdown, rains would set in and the workers find it difficult to take up track maintenance.  The officials of Konkan Railway said that they were checking the quality of the track using railway maintenance vans. The work is being taken from Belapur in Navi Mumbai till Thokuru near Mangaluru. The necessary maintenance work had already been carried out at Rathnagiri (Maharashtra), Goa and Karwar.   Konkan Railway has allowed freight movement and RoRo service also to ensure supply of essential commodities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/konkan-rly-takes-up-track-maintenance-during-lockdown-825420.html
14-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DC facilitates labourer to conduct last rites of father||Thanks to the efforts of Deputy Commissioner S B Bommanahalli, a labourer under quarantine, was facilitated to attend his father's funeral in Rajasthan. In view of the ban on the interstate movement of vehicles, the unidentified Rajasthani labourer, along with other labourers, were intercepted by the police on the Pune-Bengaluru national highway, while they travelling towards their home state in a goods truck during the lockdown. At least 250 of them including men, women and children were housed in a Social Welfare Department hostel at Nehru Nagar and at the Morarji Desai Residential School hostel at Halbhavi in Hukkeri taluk near the national highway. One of the Rajasthani labourer who hails from Barmer, received a call on Sunday, that his father had passed away. He wanted conduct the last rites of his father and informed the hostel authorities. He also assured to pay for the taxi if permission was granted by the district administration to leave the city. The hostel authorities brought the matter to the notice of Bommanahalli who verified the same from the officials in Barmer. He got him the due permission letters issued for travel, along with permit for the taxi, he boarded to travel. Bommanahalli told DH that necessary permission documents were issued to the labourer for his travel to Barmer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dc-facilitates-labourer-to-conduct-last-rites-of-father-825422.html
14-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Task forces of specialists to monitor Covid-19 in dists||The medical education department has decided to constitute scientific task force committees at the district level, to monitor Covid-19 cases. These committees will comprise specialists from all faculties and monitor each Covid-19 positive case reported from that particular district. This follows suggestions given by experts from medical associations during the video conference held by Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar recently. The committees will have specialists like paediatricians, gynaecologists, virologists, pulmonologists, critical care and general physicians. Till date, there are Covid-19 positive cases reported in 19 districts including Bengaluru Urban. The recent case reported from Vijayapura has raised a concern among the doctors in the state. As per government protocol, every district hospital is getting ready and some of them have already set up facilities to tackle Covid-19. The teleservices are arranged from the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases in Bengaluru, to guide doctors in the districts. During the video conference, the doctors brought to the notice of the minister that the Shivamogga district administration has already constituted such a team of doctors and it is effective in curbing the spread of Covid-19 and requested the minister to follow the same model in other districts. Dr Kiran Deshmukh, who practises in Kalaburagi, said, “We must have a task force in each district so that there is coordination of work. Constituting such a committee will help in following instructions and treatment protocols." Sudhakar said this option can be explored given the large pool of doctors in the state. “In fact we have a high number of doctors compared to other states and we can easily build a team to monitor the progress in each district. Critical care and paediatricians are key areas where we need more inputs from the doctors.” The minister directed the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences to collect details of doctors and specialists available in each district in a day or two. Soon after collecting the details, the department will constitute the district-level committees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/task-forces-of-specialists-to-monitor-covid-19-in-dists-825424.html
14-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Survey finds disparity in ration given to kids, pregnant women||Despite the government orders for door delivery of dry ration items during the Covid-19 lockdown crisis, children, pregnant women and lactating mothers in villages are seeing a great disparity in the distribution of such benefits, a random survey conducted in 80 villages has found.  The People’ Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL), which has filed a petition in the high court in this regard, has submitted a report of the survey conducted in the villages, spread across 20 districts, in the state. “Of the 80 villages or localities, anganwadi centres in 10 areas have not yet provided rations for children between the ages of 0-6 years. In other anganwadis, there is a wide disparity between the quantity of ration being provided per child,” the PUCL said. The following are some of the findings of the survey: The quantities ranged from ‘very little’ or ‘480 grams rice only’ in some districts to comprehensive packages of 4.17 kg of the nutritional mix (ragi, rice and green gram) and 200-gram sugar for children between six months and three years.  For children between three and six years, a package of 2.85 kg rice, 500-gram jaggery, 232- gram groundnut, 380-gram tur dal, 190 grams green gram, 1 kg broken wheat and sugar were provided.  Eggs, though mandatory, were not provided to 70% of respondents while milk was not given to children up to the age of six years in 43.75% of areas. “Even where provided, the quantity varies wildly, with 70-gram milk powder being given in some areas and 500 gram in other areas. There is often uncertainty about the period for which the rations were provided. Only in 17 of 80 cases did respondents have a vague idea about when the next set of rations would be provided,” the petition said.  The disparity in the quality and quantity was echoed by pregnant women in 75% of the surveyed areas were provided with some amount of ration. “Significantly, 73.75% of respondents had not received the Iron/Folic Acid tablets that must be given to pregnant women to counter anaemia,” it said, adding that in the case of adolescent girls, only 13.75% of respondents said they received the benefits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/survey-finds-disparity-in-ration-given-to-kids-pregnant-women-825426.html
14-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Five discharged from Karwar Naval hospital||Five people who recovered from Covid-19 were discharged from the Naval Hospital here on Tuesday. They are now shifted to quarantine centre in Bhatkal. Deputy Commissioner Dr K Harish Kumar said that all the five had responded well for the treatment and their health would be monitored for 14 days in quarantine. "As of now, one more patient is recovering at the Naval Hospital. The patients from Bhatkal admitted at the hospital in Udupi are also responding well for the treatment," the DC said. A total of nine people, all from Bhatkal, tested positive for Covid-19 in Uttara Kannada district. Two of them have already been discharged. Meanwhile, the deputy commissioner said that the third round of "fever survey" would be conducted in the district during the last week of April. As many as 1,059 people suffering from fever were identified during the second round of survey conducted between April 10 and 13. However, primary medical investigation revealed that none of them has Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-five-discharged-from-karwar-naval-hospital-825428.html
14-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Horticulture colleges launch online classes||All the nine colleges under the Bagalkot-based University of Horticultural Sciences have launched online classes for their students. First and second year undergraduate students are attending classes using Zoom app on their mobile phones. The university has affiliated colleges in Sirsi, Arabhavi, Bidar, Bagalkot, Bengaluru, Mysuru, Kolar, Munirabad and Devihosur. "The semester classes were in the initial stages for first and second year students before declaration of lockdown. Even internal tests were not held for them. Therefore, we have launched online classes in the interest of the students' academics. A WhatsApp group including students of each class, their faculty and dean has been constituted. Notes are shared in this group," said Dr Indiresh K M, the Vice Chancellor of University of Horticultural Sciences. He said that Zoom app can accommodate 100 members while each class has around 70 students. Each college has created its own group. The  VC added that 90% of the syllabus had been covered for third-year students while the fourth-year students had to submit dissertation and appear for examinations. Dr N K Hegde, the Dean of College of Forestry, Sirsi, said that instead of the usual one-hour period, half day has been reserved for a specific course in online classes. "This arrangement has been done due to issues with mobile network. The classes are conducted from 9 am to 1 am and 2 pm to 5 pm. The voice in the app lacks clarity with the increase in the number of members. Therefore, it has been decided to furnish audio recording of the classes to students," Dr Hegde added. A student said that those in remote villages do not get network to attend online classes. "They cannot go to any other place in search of better network as their movement is restricted due to lockdown," the student added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/horticulture-colleges-launch-online-classes-825429.html
14-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Labour dept warns against sacking, pay cuts||With employees in several industries grappling with job insecurity during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Labour department has has warned the private sector against sacking staffers or cutting their salary. In a circular issued by Labour Secretary P Manivanna, the department has directed all public and private companies not to fire employees, especially those working on contract. "Given the emergency situation caused by Covid-19, employers are directed not to dismiss their employees, especially on casual employment or on contract and their salaries should not be cut. If any worker has taken leave during this period, such worker should not face any effective cut in salary and must be considered as employed or on-duty. Also, if it so happens that working from the office is not possible due to Covid-19, workers belonging to such working unit must be considered as employed or on-duty," the circular stated.  "The labour department has issued a circular directing the private sector employers to abstain from layoffs or unpaid leaves during this countrywide lockdown. Employees would be paid wages on the due date without any deduction during this period," Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar said in a tweet.  The government will soon set up a labour helpline to receive complaints in this regard, Manivannan said in the circular. Organisations found violating the government’s directions will be penalised. "Any violation is punishable under the Disaster Management Act, 2005," the circular stated.  This move is expected to help the working class in factories and other establishments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/labour-dept-warns-against-sacking-pay-cuts-825460.html
14-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Girl ends life in Karnataka after being chided by mother over excessive use of mobile phone||A 13-year old girl allegedly ended her life in Udupi district, upset at being chided by her mother for excessive use of mobile phone, police sources said here. The girl, a seventh standard student of a school at Padubidri, was found hanging from a steel pipe fixed in a room at her house in Yellur on Monday. Sources said the girl's mother scolded her for excessive use of mobile phone and asked her to help with household chores. Apparently upset at the rebuke, the girl went to her room and shut it. When the parents looked for her a little later, she was found hanging. Though she was rushed to the hospital, doctors pronounced her dead. Kaup police have registered a case of unnatural death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/girl-ends-life-in-karnataka-after-being-chided-by-mother-over-excessive-use-of-mobile-phone-825461.html
14-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'New timetable for SSLC exam after lockdown ends'||The revised timetable for SSLC and second year PU (one subject) examinations will be announced after the end of lockdown period. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said that students and parents need not worry about exams. "We are working in the interest of students and once the timetable is finalised I will personally announce it" he said. Following the extension of lockdown up to May 3, Suresh Kumar said the timetables will not be announced now. The examinations will be conducted only after everything comes to normalcy. The minister told students and parents to be careful about rumours about online classes. "There were reports about online classes for SSLC students from the department. But there is no such initiative from the department," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-timetable-for-sslc-exam-after-lockdown-ends-825472.html
14-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||4 deaths in 24 hours in Karnataka, 13 fresh cases||Karnataka saw four deaths in 24 hours, two from Bengaluru Urban, one from Vijayapura and one from Kalaburagi. With this, both Kalaburagi and Bengaluru Urban districts have witnessed three deaths each. One patient from Gauribidnur had died in the city earlier. P219, a 76-year-old heart patient from Bengaluru, was admitted to Vikram Hospital here on April 7 with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI), according to the health department. His sample was sent on April 8. “His death was due to co-morbidities like diabetes, chronic kidney disease and he had already undergone PCTA or angioplasty,” said an IAS officer in charge of contact tracing of patients in the state. The patient died on Tuesday.  P252, a 65-year-old man, also a case of SARI, was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases on April 12. He died in the wee hours of Tuesday. But his results came only in the evening. “He had complaints of cough, high fever, loose stools and dyspnea (shortness of breath) for two days. He was put on assisted oxygen. The patient collapsed after going to the washroom. His vitals were not detectable. CPR was done but he could not be revived,” the officer said.   A 55-year-old man died of Covid 19 in Kalaburagi on Monday evening. He was P-205 and was being treated at ESIC Hospital. P257, a 69-year-old man and resident of Vijayapura, died there on Monday morning. His 60-year-old wife is also Covid-19 positive. His test results came after he died.  Thirteen new cases were confirmed on Tuesday. The state tally stood at 260. Seventy-one have been discharged so far. On Tuesday, 11 were discharged. Out of the new cases, three were from Bagalkot, one SARI patient from Chikkaballapur admitted in Bengaluru Urban, two from Bengaluru Urban, one of them a SARI patient and one who had a travel history to Hindupur in Andhra Pradesh by a two-wheeler on April 7.  Another patient from Bengaluru is the contact of P199. Three patients are from Kalaburagi, one of them a 10-year-old girl. One patient from Vijayapura who died is the husband of P221. One patient from Belagavi had a travel history to Delhi. One patient is from Bhatkal, Uttara Kannada, husband of P176.  Thirty-two people have so far been discharged in Bengaluru Urban, 12 in Mysuru, eight in Chikkaballapur and seven in Dakshina Kannada.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/4-deaths-in-24-hours-in-karnataka-13-fresh-cases-825491.html
14-04-2020||West||Coronavirus in Maharashtra: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 14, 2020||Till, April 14, 2020, India has registered more than 10,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 325 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Maharashtra: 2334 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Maharashtra: 160 Total number of people discharged in Maharashtra: 217 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 10,007 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 325 Total number of people discharged in India: 980 This data was last updated on April 14, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.     Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-in-maharashtra-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-14-2020-823507.html
14-04-2020||West||Coronavirus in Goa: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 14, 2020||Till, April 14, 2020, India has registered more than 10,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 325 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Goa: 7 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Goa: 0 Total number of people discharged in Goa: 5 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 10,007 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 325 Total number of people discharged in India: 980 This data was last updated on April 14, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.     Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-in-goa-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-14-2020-823496.html
14-04-2020||West||Coronavirus in Gujarat: Total number of COVID-19 positive cases, deaths on April 14, 2020||Till, April 14, 2020, India has registered more than 10,000 confirmed patients and has witnessed 325 deaths. Only essential services are allowed to operate during the lockdown. The first confirmed positive case of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) in India was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala. Total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in Gujarat: 572 Total number of deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in Gujarat: 26 Total number of people discharged in Gujarat: 47 The total number of coronavirus (COVID-19) positive cases in India: 10,007 Total deaths due to coronavirus (COVID-19) in India: 325 Total number of people discharged in India: 980 This data was last updated on April 14, 2020 Note: The tally shown above also include foreigners who have been infected with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). While the Centre and the State governments have been trying hard to check the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.     Source of data: Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DH News Service, PTI, ANI & Reuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-in-gujarat-total-number-of-covid-19-positive-cases-deaths-on-april-14-2020-823498.html
14-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Maharashtra professor develops torch to disinfect food||Seeking to prove the proverb  - "necessity is the mother of invention",  a Kolhapur-based professor has developed a torch that can disinfect food and other things. At a time when COVID-19 pandemic is sweeping the world, this can be a useful device in the times to come. The ultra violet (UV) torch has been developed by Prof Rajendra Sonkawade, who teaches physics at the Shivaji University, Kolhapur. Prof Sonkawade was assisted by his kids - son,  Aniket, a student of Deendayal Upadhyay Kaushalya Kendra in Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar University, Aurangabad and daughter,  Poonam, a microbiology student at the Abasaheb Garware College, Pune.   "It is a very useful device," minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant said in a press statement. The UV sanitising device is being introduced in two compact models - 16 watt/1 kg costing Rs 4,500, and 33 watt/1.2 kg costing Rs 5,500.  According to Prof Sonkawade,  the UV torch has been tested and now production will be started by Mumbai's Pla Electro Appliances Pvt. Ltd. The cost will get reduced in the times to come. "It can be used in homes, shops, offices, stores, hospitals," he said. The research has been inspired by a recent research paper published by Cornell University, New York, which has given details of how to eliminate such harmful bacteria-viruses as the world grapples with the COVID-19 pandemic. According to Samant,  the UV torch simply needs to be moved above the target - food packets, vegetables, milk pouches, currency notes for a couple of minutes. "The UV rays will kill all bacteria or viruses, including COVID-19 and make them safe for use," Prof Sonkawade said. The UV rays used in the torch are within the normal parameters prescribed by the International Commission for Non-Ionising Radiation, Prof Sonkawade added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-maharashtra-professor-develops-torch-to-disinfect-food-825108.html
14-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: 37 new cases detected in Pune district; tally 313||At least37 fresh cases of coronavirus were reported in Pune in the last 24 hours, taking the overall figure to 313 in the district, while the death toll reached 34, an official said on Monday. Two more COVID-19 patients succumbed during the same period, taking the death toll in Pune district, the second worst affected by coronavirus in Maharashtra after Mumbai, to 34, he said. According to the Pune Municipal Corporation's health officials, 33 cases were reported in areas falling under the civic body's jurisdiction taking the figure to 276. Four more positive cases were reported from neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad, taking their number in the industrial township to 35, they said. Two more COVID-19 patients died at state-run Sassoon General Hospital since Sunday night, they said. Meanwhile, taking the cognisance of increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, PMC commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad on Monday proposed to seal more 22 areas and turn them into containment zones to stop the spread of the virus. The areas which are being proposed to be sealed are densely populated from where fresh cases have been reported. These areas are: Tadiwala Road, Ghorpadi, a portion of Wanwadi Gaon, Handewadi Road, part of Yerwada, Sayyadnagar, Mohammadwadi, Parvati Darshan, Patil Estate in Shivajinagar, entire Kondhwa, Vimannagar, Vadgaonsherri and Dhanori.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-37-new-cases-detected-in-pune-district-tally-313-825126.html
14-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: People pop up, stock hydroxychloroquine; Gujarat govt intervenes||People in Gujarat have been consuming and stocking up hydroxychloroquine, being touted as 'game changer' in the fight against coronavirus, prompting the state government to issue a warning against its health hazards and a directive to chemists not to sell it over the counter. India is the world's largest manufacturer of hydroxychloroquine, which is used in the treatment of malaria. But, its demand has now increased after US President Donald Trump requested the Indian government to allow its export to America to treat COVID-19 patients. "We have come to know that people were rushing to medical stores to buy hydroxychloroquine after it came in news and was also mentioned as an effective medicine by US President Trump for those infected by COVID-19," Gujarat Food and Drug Control Authority Commissioner H G Koshia told PTI. It has come to light that many people are taking the medicine or stocking it due to the coronavirus fear, he said. "This is a scheduled H drug, which can be sold by chemist on a prescription of a registered medical practitioner. It is not in the interest of normal people to take the scheduled H drug if they do not have COVID-19 symptoms, he said. This type of self-medication can cause harm and side effects if not taken under proper care of doctors, he warned. "Therefore, we have advised people not to take the medicine without the prescription of doctors. We have also asked chemists not to sell the drug to patients coming without the doctors' prescription," the official said. Chemists have been asked to maintain a register of purchase and sale of the drug, which they have to do for all the scheduled H drugs, he said. A chemist in Bopal area of Ahmedabad said many people come to his store asking for hydroxychloroquine in a day, but he sells it only to those who have proper prescription. Koshia said the Gujarat government has enough stock of the medicine, but an advisory has been issued so that there is no shortage of the drug in the open market. "If everybody starts stocking or consuming the drug, it will create shortage in the market. This advisory is issued so that this anti-malarial drug is available for patients who need it, he said. The Gujarat government stockpiled over one crore shots of the medicine as it became clear that this can be a useful medicine against coronavirus, he said, adding that the drug is manufactured in a large quantity in the state. "The Food and Drug Control Authority of Gujarat has given approval to 28 companies to produce hydroxychloroquine. Of these, three companies produce active drug ingredients, which are raw material for production of the medicine, he said, adding that Gujarat will not face its shortage. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani recently said three companies from the state have been asked to produce hydroxychloroquine to export it to the US, after President Trump asked the Indian government for its supply. On the effectiveness of the drug in the fight against coronavirus, Koshia said some studies, especially in France, say that it works. "The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has recommended that this drug should be given to frontline health workers who are involved in treating those suffering from COVID-19, he said. Earlier, India had banned the drug's export after it was found that it can be key to the treatment of COVID-19. However, after requests of US President Trump and from other countries, the export curbs were partially lifted. Gujarat has so far reported over 570 COVID-19 cases and 26 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-people-pop-up-stock-hydroxychloroquine-gujarat-govt-intervenes-825155.html
14-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Mumbai Police to use eyes in the sky to enforce social distancing||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh was given a demonstration at  Worli in Mumbai in the presence of Mumbai's Joint Commissioner of Police Vinay Choubey. On an average, India has only one police personnel per 761 people. In Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, and Gujarat this further increases to 950 people. In light of the challenges that coronavirus has thrown up, enforcing the lockdown and social distancing even while maintaining law and order can further stretch the already stretched police force. "Drones and AI will help maximise the police's reach in dense, difficult to reach pockets and become their eyes in the sky," said Deshmukh.  According to him, the technology will allow the police to address people and instruct them to disperse if there is crowding.  "It will also be able to contain the exposure of the police personnel if this is a contaminated area."  He further underlined how the COVID-19 has forced authorities world over to think out of the box. "The Maharashtra government is also doing its best to keep both citizens and police personnel safe. The deployment of drones is part of that endeavour," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-mumbai-police-to-use-eyes-in-the-sky-to-enforce-social-distancing-825163.html
14-04-2020||West||45 new coronavirus cases in Gujarat; state tally rises to 617||The number of COVID-19 cases in Gujarat rose to 650 on Tuesday with detection of 78 new patients, a Health department official said. While the number of cases in Ahmedabad shot up by 53 to 373, Surat reported nine fresh cases, followed by Vadodara (6) and Bhavnagar (3). Chhota Udepur and Mehsana each reported two cases while one case each was reported from Anand, Dahod and Gandhinagar.  "A total of five patients have recovered from COVID- 19, taking the total number of such patients in the state to 59," said Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi. All the new patients found in Ahmedabad and Surat are from hotspot areas, principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi said. "The patient from Bhavnagar was in quarantine. The two new patients from Mehsana had travelled to Mumbai following the death of their relatives, while the patient from Dahod is a health worker who was involved in the treatment of a child infected with COVID-19," he said.  Out of the nine critical patients, seven are in Ahmedabad and one each in Bhavnagar and Kutch, Ravi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/45-new-coronavirus-cases-in-gujarat-state-tally-rises-to-617-825184.html
14-04-2020||West||6 new coronavirus cases, including 2 deaths in Dharavi; slum tally now at 55||Six new coronavirus cases, including two deaths, were reported from Dharavi on Tuesday, taking the total number of people affected by the disease in Mumbai's slum area to 55, a civic official said. New cases were found in Muslim Nagar, Kalyanwadi, Janata Society andRajiv Nagar localities of Dharavi, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. "High risk contact-tracing of all new cases is being done," he said. So far, seven deaths have been reported from Dharavi, which is one of the biggest slum areas of Asia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/6-new-coronavirus-cases-including-2-deaths-in-dharavi-slum-tally-now-at-55-825221.html
14-04-2020||West||Koregaon-Bhima case: Prof Teltumbde surrenders before NIA||Dalit scholar-activist Prof Anand Teltumbde on Tuesday surrendered before National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Koregaon Bhima caste riots case. The surrender by Prof Teltumbde came on the day of 129th birth anniversary of  Dr  Babasaheb Ambedkar, the chief architect of India's Constitution. The NIA, that has arrested nine human rights activists and civil rights defenders, earlier, is probing the links of Prof Teltumbde with Maoists. Among other things, the probe includes an investigation of a CPI (Maoist) plot to overthrow the elected government in India and assassinate Prime Minister Narendra Modi like the way Rajiv Gandhi was killed. Prof Teltumbde is the brother-in-law of three-time former MP and Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi Prakash Ambedkar, the grandson of Dr Ambedkar. Prof Teltumble's younger brother Milind Teltumbde, who is Secretary of the Maharashtra State Committee (MSC) of CPI (Maoist), and is underground for decades now by and wanted by police forces of various Naxal-affected states.  The surrender or arrest of Prof Teltumbde was imminent after he ran out of all options form the Bombay High Court and Supreme Court. Prof Teltumbde drove to the NIA office at Cumbala Hill and surrendered before authorities. His wife, Rama and Prakash Ambedkar accompanied him. "Keeping with the directive of the Supreme Court, Prof Teltumbde surrendered before NIA," his lawyer Mihir Desai said. The academician has been booked under UAPA. Prof Teltumbde had  earned a mechanical engineering degree from Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology, an MBA from the Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad, and an honorary doctorate (D.Litt) from Karnataka State Open University. He also has a PhD in cybernetic modelling. Prof Teltumbde was a senior executive at Bharat Petroleum and managing director of Petronet India Limited before becoming an academic.He was a professor at the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur and later became a senior professor at the Goa Institute of Management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/koregaon-bhima-case-prof-teltumbde-surrenders-before-nia-825223.html
14-04-2020||West||121 new coronavirus cases in Maharashtra; state tally surges to 2,455||The number of coronavirus cases in Maharashtra rose to 2,455 after 121 more people tested positive for the disease on Tuesday, a health official said. Among the new cases, 92 were reported from Mumbai, 13 from Navi Mumbaai, 10 from Thane city, five from Vasai-Virar (in Palghar district) and one from Raigad, he said. Maharashtra has so far reported 160 deaths due to coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/121-new-coronavirus-cases-in-maharashtra-state-tally-surges-to-2455-825225.html
14-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: 37 held in Maharashtra over objectionable messages, rumours||He warned of strict action if one engaged in circulating rumours or messages that may lead to fissures within communities. Strict action will be taken if anyone will try to spread rumours or create fissures among communities through WhatsApp, Facebook or any other social media during the lockdown period. Till now, 197 offences have been registered against such people, while 37 persons have been arrested. Deshmukh sought people's cooperation for strict enforcement of the lockdown, clamped since March 25 to stem the spread of COVID-19. "Requesting all of you with folded hands to cooperate with the police, Deshmukh said in a video message. PTI ENM RSY RSY||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-37-held-in-maharashtra-over-objectionable-messages-rumours-825252.html
14-04-2020||West||3,131 offences registered, 5,600 booked for violating coronavirus lockdown in Mumbai||As many as 4,220 persons were arrested under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code since March 20, but were released on bail, the official said. Over 1,130 offenders were released after being issued notices to appear before court, while 259 accused are still at large, he said. Of the 3,131 offences, 2,271 were registered for unlawful assembly at public places during the lockdown, while 10 cases were related to violation of quarantine measures and 629 offences were for illegal movement of vehicles, he said. The remaining offences were related to keeping shops and establishments open despite the lockdown, he added. The highest number of cases were registered in the eastern suburbs of Mumbai with 801 offences, while Northern Mumbai has 790 offences, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/3131-offences-registered-5600-booked-for-violating-coronavirus-lockdown-in-mumbai-825255.html
14-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Hundreds of migrants gather at Bandra demanding to go back home||Hundreds of migrant daily wage earners came to the streets at Bandra in Mumbai on Tuesday demanding to go back to their respective states. Majority of the crowd, that included women, hailed from the states of Uttar Pradesh,  Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal.  The Mumbai police reached the spot and dispersed the crowd from near the Bandra suburban station. The spontaneous gathering took place hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation and extended the three-week Covid-19 India lockdown till 3 May. Police had to resort to a cane charge to disperse the mob. The crowd was apparently driven by rumours like - distribution of free ration and starting of long-distance trains form midnight. "The crowd has been dispersed now," deputy commissioner of police (operations) Pranay Ashok, who is the Mumbai police spokesperson, said.  According to him,  the crowd comprised of more than 1,500 persons. A huge posse of police had reached and ringed the area.  The place of protest is a couple of kilometres away from Thackeray's residence. The incident has put the social distancing concept for a toss. What happens also puts a question mark on the intelligence gathering,  security and administration. There were reports of a similar incident in Mumbra in neighbouring Thane district, however,  there is no official confirmation of it - though some clips went viral on social media. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that what has happened is serious. "Hundreds of people assemble in the road and ask people to allow them to go back to their homes or provide food is something that is very serious," he said. Senior BJP leader Kirit Somaiya said that the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government has failed in handling the crisis. "The place where it happened is in fact a bastion of Congress and NCP," he said,  adding that helpless people are not getting rations. Shiv Sena leader and state's Tourism Minister Aditya Thackeray has shot back.  "The current situation at Bandra Station, now dispersed or even the rioting in Surat is a result of the Union Govt not being able to take a call on arranging a way back home for migrant labour. They don’t want food or shelter, they want to go back home," he tweeted.  Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said the situation at Bandra station where migrant workers gathered now under control and state will ensure accommodation, food for them. "A crowd of thousands gathered near Bandra station in Mumbai after a rumour broke out that long-distance trains were running. The crowd gathered at Bandra West. Another rumour of free ration being distributed made matter worse for the police. Majority of the crowd consisted of migrant workers who were keen to return to their villages," Bandra East Congress MLA Zeeshan Siddiqui said.  Amit Shah speaks to Uddhav Thackeray Union Home Minister Amit Shah called Maharashtra Chief Minister  Uddhav Thackeray expressed concern over the Bandra gathering. According to reports, Shah told Thackeray that such events weaken India’s fight against Covid-19 and that administration must stay vigilant to avoid such incidents. He offered the full support of the Centre to Maharashtra government. Don't worry, stay with us: Uddhav Thackeray Saying that "lockdown is not lock-up",  Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the Bandra incident was unfortunate and could have been triggered by rumour-mongering. "Stay with us,  let us fight out together," he told migrants population.  He also urged politicians and political parties not to play politics over it.  "We have done whatever possible... I am with you,  Prime Minister Narendra Modi is with you," he said, adding that people were expecting that the lockdown would end and trains would start. He said that he was of the opinion that lockdown must continue and welcomes the announcement of Modi. Mumbai police in the process of filing an FIR. It will be filed under section 188 of IPC and epidemic act. Sections of rioting will also be added in the FIR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-hundreds-of-migrants-gather-at-bandra-demanding-to-go-back-home-825311.html
14-04-2020||West||Dalit scholar Anand Teltumbde in NIA custody till April 18||A special court here on Tuesday remanded Dalit scholar and activist Anand Teltumbde in the custody of the National Investigation Agency till April 18 in Elgar Parishad-Maoist link case. Teltumbde was arrested by the NIA earlier in the day after he surrendered before it following the Supreme Court's directives. He is the grandson-in-law of Dalit icon Dr B R Ambedkar, whose 129th birth anniversary is being observed on Tuesday. Civil rights activist Gautam Navlakha, a co-accused in the case, also surrendered before the NIA in Delhi. His anticipatory bail plea was also rejected by the apex court. Navlakha was to be produced before special NIA court here through video conference, but the court said since he had surrendered in Delhi, he will have to be produced before a court there first.  An NIA lawyer said he would be produced before a court in the national capital for seeking his transit remand after which he will be brought to Mumbai. Teltumbde reached the NIA office here in the afternoon with his wife Rama Teltumbde and brother-in-law and Dalit leader Prakash Ambedkar and surrendered. In the court, the NIA sought ten-day custody of Teltumbde, but judge A T Wankhede granted it remand till only April 18. The Supreme Court on March 17 this year had rejected pre-arrest bail pleas of Anand Teltumbde and Navlakha, and directed them to surrender before the investigating agency. Teltumbde, Navlakha and nine other civil liberties activists have been booked under the stringent provisions of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for having alleged Maoist links and conspiring to overthrow the government.  The activists were booked initially by Pune Police following violence that erupted at Koregaon-Bhima in the district. According to police, the activists made inflammatory speeches and provocative statements at the Elgar Parishad meet held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which triggered violence the next day during 200th commemoration of the battle of Bhima Koregaon. The police also said these activists were active members of banned Maoist groups. The case was later transferred to NIA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dalit-scholar-anand-teltumbde-in-nia-custody-till-april-18-825312.html
14-04-2020||West||Mahaarashtra: NGO demands inquiry into leopard's death in Aurangabad||A local NGO has demanded an inquiry into the death of a leopard, which was rescued at Paithan tehsil in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district. The three-year-old leopard was rescued in Thergaon by a team of forest officials, policemen and villagers on Sunday afternoon, but died sometime later possibly due to cardiac arrest. Amravati-based NGO Disha Foundation wrote to Forest Minister Sanjay Rathod and concerned department, demanding an inquiry into the death. In the letter, the NGO alleged that a video of the rescue operation, which went viral on social media, clearly showed that the standard operating procedure prescribed by the Union environment ministry had been violated. The leopard was trapped using a net without being injected with a tranquiliser first and moreover, the video also showed eight to 10 persons sitting on the animal, activist Yadav Tarte Patil, who runs the NGO said in the letter. Meanwhile, deputy conservator of forests Satish Wadaskar had earlier said that the animal had died of suspected cardiac arrest while being transported to the district office and it was supposed to be released at Gautala Wildlife Sanctuary in Kannad tehsil here. PTI AW ARU ARU||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mahaarashtra-ngo-demands-inquiry-into-leopards-death-in-aurangabad-825340.html
14-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: 55 'take down' notices issued to social media platforms  ||In a bid to check the spread of hateful messages and rumour-mongering on social media vis-a-vis the coronavirus situation, the Cyber wing of the Maharashtra Police has issued 55 "Take Down" notices to Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter and other such platforms during the lockdown period, an official said on Tuesday. While a total of 32 such objectionable posts have been removed, police have arrested 37 people and identified 114 others. The Maharashtra Cyber has registered 196 cases related to spreading of fake news, rumours and hateful messages as well as for circulation of misinformation during the lockdown period till April 14, he said. While 188 of the total 196 cases are converted into FIRs, the rest eight cases were registered as Non-Cognizable (NC) offences, he said.  The official said the trend of spreading hateful messages has been on the rise since the last seven days. "At least 104 (of the 196) offences registered at various police stations across the state were related to spreading of hate speech on Whatsapp, Facebook, Twitter, Tik Tok, YouTube and other social media platforms," he said. At least 68 more cases related to rumour mongering and fake news while 27 cases of circulating misinformation on the overall coronavirus situation have been registered, the official added. He said various social media platforms have removed 32 such posts from their platforms, after Cyber Police approached them. The official said 93 of these cases are related to WhatsApp alone.  "These posts can be removed due to the nature of technology and encryption," he said, adding that notices were issued to other social media platforms as well in the rest 80 cases, and that the process of removal of these posts is in progress. He said more than 30 notices were issued under section 149 of CrPC, which empowers the police to prevent cognisable offence. According to the official, police found that WhatsApp was misused the most (93 cases), followed by Facebook (61 cases), Tiktok (3 cases) and Twitter (2 cases) for spreading of hateful messages and rumours, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-55-take-down-notices-issued-to-social-media-platforms-825386.html
14-04-2020||West||COVID-19 brings curfew in India's first 'World Heritage City'||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday announced the imposition of curfew in the walled city of Ahmedabad, better known as India's first "World Heritage City", in view of rising coronavirus cases. These densely populated areas were already under strict lockdown for being the hotspots of the virus spread.  Out of 650 cases reported till Tuesday evening news bulletin, Ahmedabad alone had 373 positive cases. Out of 28 deaths, 13 patients died in the city which is among the top ten hotspots of the country. There are nearly 20 residential localities which will be impacted due to the curfew.  "Ahmedabad city has recorded 350 (increased to 373) positive coronavirus cases and to stop the infection further it has been decided to bring the entire walled city and Danilimbda area under curfew from April 15 to April 21. Relaxation will be given only to women to buying essentials such as grocery, medicine, among others, for three hours every day between 1 PM and 4 PM," chief minister Rupani said. In the walled city, areas such as Dariapur, 56, Kalupur, 27 and Jamalpur, 26, among others, are the worst hit. Another area which has been put under curfew is Danilimbada where over 40 cases have been detected. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation officials said that out of 373 cases, nearly 200 have been detected from the walled city areas and Danilimbada alone. Although these areas were brought under clusters containment strategy by the civic body but, officials said, with entry and exit of these clusters sealed, it could not stop people stepping out of their homes. Lockdown was brought under section 144 of Indian Penal Code that prohibits the gathering of more than 4 people together, but curfew altogether prohibits stepping out of homes.  Earlier in the day, local MLAs from Jamalpur Imran Khedawala, Shahpur MLA Gayasuddin Sheikh and Danilimbda MLA Shailesh Parmar met the chief minister in Gandhinagar where they were informed about the decision and were asked to help the authorities in implementing curfew.  Ahmedabad police commissioner Ashish Bhatia told reporters late in the evening that over 2000 policemen including paramilitary forces including Border Security Force jawans will be deployed in the walled city along with health workers teams. Director-General of Police Shivanand Jha said that "This is a tough decision that has been taken by the government to check the spread of coronavirus."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-brings-curfew-in-indias-first-world-heritage-city-825402.html
14-04-2020||West||Two more COVID-19 patients die in Gujarat; toll now 28||Two more coronavirus positive patients succumbed in Gujarat on Tuesday, taking the toll to 28, a senior health department official said. A 50-year-old man died in a Bhavnagar hospital, while a 58-year-old man succumbed in Vadodara, taking the death toll of COVID-19 patients in the state to 28, Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi said. The patient in Bhavnagar also had diabetes, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-more-covid-19-patients-die-in-gujarat-toll-now-28-825404.html
14-04-2020||West||Gujarat: Hours after PM Modi's lockdown announcement, migrant workers hit streets in Surat||Hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of lockdown in the country till May 3, hundreds of migrant workers on Tuesday evening came out in open in Surat demanding permission to travel back home.  This is the second incident in less than a week in the city where the migrant workers have defied lockdown and hit the roads demanding money, food and permission to travel back. According to local police, nearly 700 to 800 migrant workers in Mohanagar on Varacha Road in Surat came out of their homes and demanded permission to travel back to their natives.      By the evening, the workers started pouring in on Varacha road, known for diamond market, wearing masks but defying section 144 of Indian Penal Code that prohibits the gathering of more than four persons without police permission.  Soon, the road started teeming with the agitated workers who complained that they didn't have money, work or even food and they wanted to go back home.  A group of policemen including several senior officers approached the workers, who are mostly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and employed in textile mills, to pacify them. "They are getting impatient but the police alone can't resolve it. If some concrete steps are not taken, such agitation may turn violent," said a senior police officer who requested not to be quoted. Earlier on April 10, a group of workers, mostly from Odisha, had gone violent in Sarthana area of the city. They attacked policemen and burnt several handcarts near a vegetable market. The police arrested 81 of them. A similar incident happened on March 30 when police arrested migrants for attacking police. These workers were also trying to go back to their homes in UP and Bihar but were stopped by the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-hours-after-pm-modis-lockdown-announcement-migrant-workers-hit-streets-in-surat-825414.html
14-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown is not lock-up, stay put: Maharashtra CM Uddhav to migrants||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday tried to reassure migrant workers who are stranded in the state that lockdown is not "lock-up", and appealed them to face the "challenge" of coronavirus by staying back. He was speaking in a live webcast after hundreds of migrant workers gathered near Bandra railway station here, seeking to head back home, even as country-wide lockdown was extended till May 3.  The Chief Minister spoke briefly in Hindi as he made a direct appeal to the migrants. Thackeray also said his government was working on how to lift the lockdown and resume industrial activities. Rising number of cases in Mumbai and Pune was a cause of concern, he admitted. Maharashtra has conducted maximum number of coronavirus tests and has asked the Centre to allow experimental plasma treatment, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-is-not-lock-up-stay-put-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-to-migrants-825447.html
14-04-2020||West||Migrants on Mumbai streets: Very serious incident, says ex-CM Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday blamed the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government for hundreds of migrant workers gathering outside Bandra railway station here by defying the coronavirus lockdown norms. Terming it as a "very serious" incident, the former chief minister said it was the responsibility of the state government to arrange for proper food for the workers, but it did not happen. On the other hand, Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik said the workers gathered outside the station allegedly after a message about trains resuming operations started doing rounds. He said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had been demanding the Centre to facilitate the return of the migrant workers to their respective native states, but the Centre did not allow it. "It is a very serious incident that thousands of workers took to the street in Bandra. This picture pains my mind. It is the responsibility of the state to arrange for the workers from outside the states, to give them proper food, facilities," Fadnavis tweeted.  The Leader of Opposition said the state government should learn a lesson from this incident and take care that such incidents do not recur. "But it is unfortunate that the Centre is being blamed in such a situation to escape (from the responsibility). The fight against corona(virus) is not political, please note this at least now. It is my earnest request that we fight this battle seriously," he said on the micro-blogging site. Fadnavis did not name any leader who blamed the Centre for the incident though Maharashtra Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray has pointed fingers at the Centre for the protest by hundreds of migrant workers near the railway station. Thackeray also sought a road map to facilitate the return journey of workers to their states. Another BJP leader Kirit Somaiya targeted the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, questioning how come these many people gathered outside the station and what the intelligence wing was doing. "From where these people came? How suddenly so many could gather there in spite of (section) 144 (of CrPc being in force)? Since the lockdown started, Bandra Police never allowed more than 4 persons to gather there. Then how and why today?" Somaiya asked. Meanwhile, Malik said Thackeray had been demanding the Centre to make arrangements so that the migrant workers could return to their native states, but the NDA government did not allow it. "Migrant workers were demanding to go to their villages and hence the crowd. It is said that somebody circulated a message that a train is to leave (for the home states of the migrant workers)...If anyone has indeed circulated such a message, it will be probed into," Malik said. Maharashtra Revenue Minister and Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat said the state government had arranged for the accommodation and food for the workers, who are now not willing to stay back in Maharashtra. "Thousands of people gathered near Bandra to head back to their native states. This is an explosion, the Centre should look into this and take steps," the state Congress chief said. He also said the prime minister announced extension of lockdown, but did not answer the issues concerning the commoners.  Thorat also charged the Centre with not providing the state with enough PPE kits and other medical equipment required to fight the coronavirus. Hitting back at Somaiya, Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the biggest problem with the country is that it has "irresponsible and insensitive" leaders like Somaiya who allegedly thinks of a conspiracy angle during the crisis. "Shld we say same for #Surat or Delhi incidents? Problem of migrants need to be understood with empathy which #bjp doesn't hv," Sawant tweeted. He further claimed the migrant workers are more interested in returning to their respective villages than getting food. Former Maharashtra minister and Congress leader Naseem Khan asked the BJP to stop politicising the issue and urged all parties to come together to fight the coronavirus. He also demanded that the state government act against those who spread the rumour that the train services will resume.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/migrants-on-mumbai-streets-very-serious-incident-says-ex-cm-fadnavis-825465.html
14-04-2020||West||Maharashtra MLA paying tribute to B R Ambedkar booked for violating lockdown norms||Rana and others removed barricades installed by the police to reach the Irwin Square where they paid tributes at Ambedkar's statue at around 1 am, said Gadgenagar police station inspector Manish Thakare. Police have invoked section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), as provided under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, against the MLA and his supporters, the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mla-paying-tribute-to-b-r-ambedkar-booked-for-violating-lockdown-norms-825467.html
14-04-2020||West||Congress MLA who had met Gujarat CM tests COVID-19 positive||A Congress MLA tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday evening hours after holding meetings with top ministers, including Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, his deputy Nitin Patel, who also holds the health ministry portfolio, and several top police officers, sending the entire government machinery into a tizzy. The meeting was held at Rupani's residence where, apart from Rupani and Patel, Minister of State for Home Pradipsinh Jadeja was also present along with several officers from the health department and top police officers.  Congress MLA Imran Khedawala, who represents the Jamalpur-Khadia assembly seat, was tested positive and admitted to SVP hospital. Earlier in the day, he had gone to the state capital Gandhinagar along with two of his colleagues, Dariapur MLA Gayasuddin Sheikh and Danilimda MLA Shailesh Parmar, all from Congress, to meet Chief Minister Rupani and other ministers and health officials. Khedawala, Shaikh and Parmar had gone to Gandhinagar in one car, sources said. Secretary to Chief Minister Ashwani Kumar said, "The MLA was sitting 15 to 20 feet away from the chief minister and they never came close. However, tomorrow the chief minister will take opinion from the expert doctors and act accordingly." Kumar also criticised Khedawala for attending the meeting despite having normal fever two days back. The MLA's sample was sent two days back for testing. Sources said the Khedawala had also addressed a press conference after the meeting in Gandhinagar.  The three MLAs had been called on by the state government to assist it in the curfew since most of the areas where curfew has been announced are dominated by the minority community. Khedawala has also been helping the health workers in those locality as a community leader. Jamalpur, Dariapur, Kalupur among others in the walled city of Ahmedabad are the worst-affected localities where curfew has been imposed. When contacted, Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi told DH, "This is a very serious situation. I hope all required precaution is being taken." Despite repeated attempts, principal secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi and Health Minister Nitin Patel didn't respond.  Till Tuesday evening, Gujarat's coronavirus tally stood at 650 cases while the state's death toll climbed to 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-mla-who-had-met-gujarat-cm-tests-covid-19-positive-825489.html
