15-04-2020||First Edit||Extended: Coronavirus lockdown, but no help||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given a broad but definite message about the extension of the nationwide lockdown which was imposed last month to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. It was expected that the lockdown would be extended by two weeks, but he has gone beyond that to May 3, and said that it would be enforced strictly. The incidence of Covid-19 and the implementation of the lockdown has varied from state to state, region to region and district to district. The Prime Minister has promised a review of the situation on April 20, which may lead to conditional relaxations and dilution in certain areas. The overall burden of the address was the need to enforce the lockdown strictly and the government’s readiness and resolve to do so. There cannot be any difference of opinion with the government over this, because fighting the virus is the most important national task now. The Prime Minister proposed a seven-point programme to be followed by everybody to make the campaign a success. This included the need to take care of elderly persons, to wear masks, to maintain social distance and to protect and support medical personnel. Everyone would agree that these are prime duties. But where the Prime Minister fell short of expectations was in his handling of the implications and consequences of an extension of the lockdown for some sections of the population and the economy as such. He was not forthcoming and clear about these in his previous addresses. This time also, he did not make any concrete proposals on these issues and made only some suggestions and general expressions of hope which may not be of much use. Modi’s call to protect jobs has not been heeded by many employers. It is not known how the government would back up the call. He has also made a request to the people to help the poor and the needy. Helping the poor, the daily wage workers and the migrant labourers affected by the lockdown is not just a humanitarian matter to be left to individuals and society. The government has the highest responsibility for that, and it is seen to have largely failed in discharging it. Agriculture, industry and business are waiting for support packages from the government, but the Prime Minister was silent on that. He has congratulated the states and the people for their efforts in fighting the virus. But good words are not enough. All states are badly short of money, materials and resources and have asked for aid from the Centre. They would be disappointed by the Prime Minister’s failure to make any promise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/extended-coronavirus-lockdown-but-no-help-825525.html
15-04-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Mother allowed into COVID-19 isolation ward in Karnataka||The district administration has allowed the 32-year-old woman, wife of P-236, to stay with her children. The couple has three children: a three-and-half-year-old son (P-234), a five-year-old son (P-233) and a seven-year-old daughter (P-235). On April 13, the medical reports of P-236 (the father) and the three kids came back positive, while the swab test of the mother was negative for the virus. According to the protocol, the kids and their father were shifted to the isolation ward, while the mother was housed in a government facility for quarantine. “The father and their uncle (P-194) found it difficult to ‘manage’ the three kids, especially the boys. Even the medical staff and doctors tried their best to console the kids, but could not,” said a family member and added that the mother requested the doctors and district administration to allow her to be with her kids.    After consulting with the deputy commissioner, the KIMS doctors allowed the mother to stay with her kids. She was provided with all protective gear, including PPEs, hand gloves and masks. She is being regularly checked for any symptoms. Senior doctors said, the rules are very strict when it comes to Covid-19 treatment. Apart from medical staff and doctors, no one else is allowed inside isolation wards. However, there was no point keeping the kids away from their mother since they have been in quarantine for several days and the mother had not shown any symptoms. Even the five positive patients were stable and a majority of them are asymptomatic, so there was no harm seen in sending the mother inside the quarantine ward with protection.    “We were confident that Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan would allow the mother to stay at the isolation ward as she too is a mother and understands the plight of both the mother and kids,” said the family sources and thanked the administration for all the support they have been receiving. Speaking to DH, Deepa said, the mother has been allowed to enter the ward with PPEs and other safety gear. “We allowed her as the kids are too small and need thd mother’s care,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/mother-allowed-into-covid-19-isolation-ward-in-karnataka-825805.html
15-04-2020||In Perspective||Toward a holistic defence innovation policy||On March 20, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) released the draft version of the Defence Procurement Procedure (DPP 2020), which aims to enhance the acquisition efficiency, while also steadfastly pursuing self-reliance in defence production. On the face of it, the twin goals are not necessarily compatible, and often involve tricky trade-offs as the indigenous production of defence equipment is prone to time and cost-overruns, especially in the context of catching-up countries like India. The new DPP, nevertheless, firmly commits itself to pursue ‘indigenisation’ and ‘Make in India’ goals, alongside addressing procurement efficiency through several other measures. Drafted by a high-level committee, the DPP 2020 has introduced a variety of forward-looking measures in the areas of indigenous innovation, local value addition, and to enhance acquisition efficiency. On indigenous innovation, the DPP 2020 significantly expands the scope of ‘make’ procedure by including new features like ‘innovation contests’, and acceptance of ‘unsolicited bids’ from the industry, which adds to existing features like R&D procurement and technology development fund. It emphasises the role of India’s growing fleet of tech start-ups and MSMEs to deliver new-generation defence capabilities. The ‘make’-related procurement in conjunction with the ‘strategic partnership’ model (SPM) of DPP 2016 provides for the accumulation of technological capabilities through both internal and external technology acquisition routes. The distinction presented in chapter three of the DPP between ‘make’ and ‘innovation’ categories, however, is somewhat confusing as the two involve much conceptual overlap. Under make category, the DPP 2020 calls for leveraging the Indian expertise in the software sector, which holds strong potential for creating a new defence-centric software market, and also to deliver niche capabilities and military advantages to Indian defence. Further, the DPP also aligns itself with Industry 4.0 goals by identifying the need for greater interface with artificial intelligence in defence platforms. Overall, the wide-range of demand-side instruments incorporated in the DPP offer immense potential for infusing innovation dynamism in the Indian industry and proper implementation is vital to exploiting their full benefits. On domestic value addition, the DPP 2020 introduces new acquisition categories such as ‘Buy’ (Global -- manufacture in India) and increases the level of domestic content requirements (DCR) in various ‘buy and make’ categories by about 10% from DPP 2016. The stipulation of higher DCR, i.e. upto 50% in Buy (Global -- manufacture in India) is aimed at incentivising local value addition by sourcing raw materials, intermediates, special alloys, components, etc., from the local industry. The DCR is regarded as useful to forge backward linkages between MNCs and local suppliers and to induce a technological change. However, the DCR is also prone to causing inefficiencies, especially when there is little R&D or creative technological effort on the part of domestic firms. A periodic review or a sunset clause would be appropriate to ensure that DCR helps to serve ‘Make in India’ objectives. The offset policy is another important instrument under the DPP to foster the participation of Indian firms in global value chains. DPP 2020 strengthens the offset policy framework by proposing higher incentives, especially to support MSMEs in the industrial corridors in Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. Among others, the new offset tools incorporated in DPP 2020 include multipliers upto four for critical technologies, offset obligations through the building and exporting of products rather than components, third-party assessment for offset discharge through transfer of technology (ToT), etc., which are promising for the Indian industry. Finally, in the area of acquisition efficiency, the new DPP proposes several useful reforms to cut down procedural delays and minimise procurement timelines. One of the key provisions, in this respect, includes ‘leasing’ of platforms and equipment, when direct procurement is considered to be unviable or when leasing works out to be cheaper than direct procurement. The leasing option would help the resource-constrained MoD to ease financial pressures in capital acquisitions while also enabling the induction of mega-platforms like transport fleets, trainers, simulators, etc., with minimal lead time. Also, among various new provisions in the DPP, which were not adequately dealt with in the previous manuals, include ‘optimised’ life-cycle cost approach for new acquisitions, ‘price variation clause’ to deal with cost-escalations during the stages of bid submission and contract negotiations, ‘field evaluation trials’ to be conducted by specialised trial wings, etc. The optimisation approach, however, is likely to pose challenges for developmental programmes as opposed to systems/platforms with wider user-base. A new chapter on procurement of software and systems has been added with the intent of ensuring flexibility in the procurement process and to keep up with the changing pace of technology. In sum, DPP 2020 gets the overarching demand logic right as it incorporates diverse instruments to spur innovation and technological capabilities. It might, however, benefit from the experience of other catching-up countries in preparing the technological upgradation of domestic suppliers by combining demand with appropriate supply-side measures. Pushing domestic firms into DCR, offsets and complex innovation projects do not always work if they lack requisite R&D and innovation capabilities. Therefore, an appropriate combination of demand and supply-side incentives are necessary. The DPP by being an acquisition manual, however, leaves R&D and innovation issues out of its scope. It is necessary that the MoD works toward a holistic defence innovation policy that takes into account the entire eco-system, and combines various tools to support ‘Make in India’ goals. (The writer is a researcher in science diplomacy programme at Research and Information Systems, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/toward-a-holistic-defence-innovation-policy-825528.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus lockdown forces two Mangaluru men to stay in car for last 21 days in Gujarat||Ashiq Hussain from Samethadka and Mohammed Thakeen Maril from Kemminje village in Puttur taluk in Dakshina Kannada district have been living in their car at Umbergaon in Valsad in Gujarat for the last 21 days following lockdown.  The duo had been to Gujarat for a business to find a market for area nut.  They had left Rajkot on March 20, but on their way back to Mangaluru, they were stopped at a check post at Umbergaon in Valsad district.  A social worker in the area has arranged food and medicines for them. Without a lodging facility, they have been sleeping in the car. With the extension of lockdown till May 3, they are now seeking help from elected representatives and Dakshina Kannada district administration to return to their native place.  The owner of a nearby restaurant has allowed them to use their bathroom and toilet.  Ashiq Hussain and Mohammed Thakeen had reached Rajkot a month ago. After COVID-19 began to spread across India, they decided to return. However, they remained stranded at Umbergaon near Gujarat – Maharashtra border.    Rasheed Vitla, a social worker who is in touch with Hussain and Thakeen, has brought the issue to the notice of DC.  Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh has sent a letter to her counterpart in Valsad district requesting for food and accommodation for Ashiq Hussain and Mohammed Thakeen. “This is with regard to the representation received from Rasheed Vitla, stating that two people belonging to Puttur taluk of Dakshina Kannada district are stuck at the RTO check post of Umbergaon. They are staying in their car, without proper accommodation and food. Hence, I request you to kindly facilitate these people with accommodation and food,” the DC requested in a mail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-forces-two-mangaluru-men-to-stay-in-car-for-last-21-days-in-gujarat-825550.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Minister distributes eggs to pourakarmikas||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar distributed eggs to civic workers and also inspected facilities established to supply food during lockdown. The Minister distributed eggs to pourakarmikas at Deputy Commissioner's office here. He also inaugurated help desk established by Mysuru city corporation to distribute food at DC Office. Somashekar also visited a food preparation unit established by BJP leader H V Rajeev at Chamundipuram. The food is being supplied to more than a thousand people every day. Later in the day, Somashekar will have a discussion with vegetable and fruit vendors. The Minister will also discuss with the representatives of tobacco farmers and people representatives. The Minister will also meet the members of royal family of Mysuru Pramod Devi Wadiyar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-distributes-eggs-to-pourakarmikas-825588.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||10 more test positive for COVID-19 in Mysuru||Another 10 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Mysuru on Wednesday. Of 10, nine are employees of Nanjangud based Jubilant Generic and one 73-year-old man is a severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) case reported from Mysore city. With this, the number of active cases increased to 46. In all, as many as 58 tested positive and 12 of them have recovered||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/10-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mysuru-825606.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Amid lockdown, animal world relaxes in zoo||Ever since the century-old Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens (Mysuru Zoo) was closed for visitors, as part of the lockdown imposed since March 25, to check the spread of coronavirus or Covid-19, the animals and birds in the menagerie are a relaxed lot. Tuesday is the weekly holiday for the Mysuru Zoo since many years, may be since its establishment in the year 1892 by Tenth Chamaraja Wadiyar. But, holiday for a zoo means that entry of visitors is restricted, as the animals have to be fed and maintained regularly. However, even Tuesdays are open during certain weeks, like when it is a public holiday or vacation for educational institutions. Thus, the 40-day lockdown is a good opportunity for the animals in the zoo for some privacy. The second longest ever break for the Zoo was in 2017, from January 4 to February 2, due to bird flu scare. Retired professor P V Nanjaraja Urs recalled that a rare holiday to the zoo was on September 23, 1974, when Jayachamaraja Wadiyar, the last maharaja of the erstwhile Mysuru state, died. Chronicler of Mysuru Echanuru Kumar said, except for the one-month break in 2017, even when pandemics like plague struck, the zoo was not closed for more than a week. With no tourist footfall, there seems to be a change in the behaviour of animals, irrespective of species. The zoo is home to 1,400 plus animals and bird of 152 species, from over 25 nations. Chimpanzee Mason is in a dull mood as he enjoys human movement, while the remaining animals are in a happy and relaxed mood. Zoo Executive Director Ajith Kulkarni said, “It’s happy time for animals and birds. Reduced human movement and no noise inside and also from outside the zoo is a bliss. We have nearly 200 staffers, but, due to social distancing, we have limited their entry to around 130, during the lockdown. Use of masks and sanitisers is a regular protocol in the Zoo. The only addition is use of sanitisers at the main entrance and the use of masks by those who feed the animals and birds. We used to spray disinfectants once a month in our entire premises. We have increased its frequency to once a week now.” “During summer, animals do not come out of their enclosures often. Hence, additional arrangements like water sprinklers, ice, fruits, electrolytes and others are made, to beat the heat. It has become a norm during summers to adopt scientific methods for animal care,” he added. Mysore Zoo, with 80 acres of land, includes Karanji Lake and is spread over 157 acres. Nandankanan Zoological Park, a 437-hectare zoo and botanical garden, in Bhubaneswar, Odisha, established in 1960, is the largest facility in India. However, Mysuru Zoo figures in the list of top 5 zoos of Asia, by Listly, followed by Singapore Zoo and Khao Kheow Open Zoo, Pattaya Thailand. It also figures in the list of top 10 zoo in Asia, according to Trip Advisor poll, followed by Singapore Zoo; Khao Kheow Open Zoo; Chimelong, Xiangjiang Safari Park, Guangzhou, China; Adventure World, Shirahama-cho, Japan; Million Years Stone Park and Pattaya Crocodile Farm, Thailand; and Asahiyama Zoo, Asahikawa, Japan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/amid-lockdown-animal-world-relaxes-in-zoo-825659.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Telemedicine fever clinic launched in Kodagu||The district administration has launched an online telemedicine fever clinic, for consultation with doctors. The website is www.kodaguedoc.letstart.in A control room has also been set up with a doctor and the number is 9480610807. People having fever and other symptoms of Covid-19 can log into the website and register. Later, with the help of the registration ID number, the person should call the control room number. The doctor in the control room will obtain the registration ID and will prescribe the medicine through the website.  The person should later log into the website again and download the prescription and consult the doctor online. The website will be operational soon, Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/telemedicine-fever-clinic-launched-in-kodagu-825745.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Progressive farmer builds treehouse to maintain social distancing||The issue of social distancing to contain Covid-19, came in handy for a lecturer-cum-progressive farmer to relive a childhood dream of many, by building a treehouse at Nadumane in Punchappadi village of Savanur in Puttur taluk. Vivek Alva serves as a lecturer at K S Gowa ITI at Ninthikallu in Sullia and is also a progressive farmer. “Keeping the rule of social distancing in mind, I have built a treehouse in the mini forest developed by me near my house six years ago. It helps me to enjoy nature and hone my creativity as well," said Alva. The treehouse is also creating awareness among people on the need to maintain social distancing and to contain Covid-19. The treehouse is located at a height of 18 feet from the ground (3X3 metre width). For safety, shadow net and tarpaulin were both used. A ladder has been placed to reach the treehouse and recharge bulbs had been used to illuminate it after dusk. Even a bird's nest and flower pots had been placed to give the treehouse a refreshing look. With the help of an assistant, the tree hut was constructed within a week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/progressive-farmer-builds-treehouse-to-maintain-social-distancing-825756.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Lockdown: With APMC shut, copra trading on sly thrives in Tiptur||Because the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) market is shut down due to the countrywide Covid-19 lockdown, procurement of Tiptur's copra, which is famous all over Asia, has come to a standstill. However, it is alleged that throwing caution to the winds, and violating the ban on copra exports announced by Law and District in-Charge Minister J C Madhuswamy, certain traders are buying copra directly from farmers and transporting it to Kerala, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh-- where the number of Covid-19 cases is high.   These traders are buying copra costing Rs 10,300 directly from farmers in the rural areas of Turuvekere and Gubbi like Chelur, Channarayapatna, Bellur Cross and Gandsi for Rs 12,000 and allegedly transporting them out of the state. Other honest traders have asked the government to fix a time for copra trading just like it has for buying vegetables and essentials like milk and grocery. Some traders are getting past checkpoints claiming that copra is an essential commodity too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lockdown-with-apmc-shut-copra-trading-on-sly-thrives-in-tiptur-825763.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Tablighi returnees hiding in mosques in AP' video creates anxiety||A video broadcast by an Andhra Pradesh (AP) news channel stating that 140 Tablighi Jamaat returnees are hiding in mosques in Hindupur (AP), has gone viral and created anxiety among people in the border taluks like Madhugiri and Pavagada.  It may be recalled that a Tablighi returnee died of Covid-19 in Sira taluk and his son tested positive for the virus weeks ago.   According to the video clip, Tablighi returnees are allegedly hiding in the Mukkatapeta and other mosques in Hindupur city, after returning from Delhi and Gujarat. It is learnt that when doctors went to Mukkatapeta to survey the situation, Muslim youth near the mosque turned them away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tablighi-returnees-hiding-in-mosques-in-ap-video-creates-anxiety-825764.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Shakthi PU college starts online classes||Shakthi PU College, Shakthinagar, Mangaluru, launched online classes for the benefit of their students who hail from other states and also within the state. The students of the college can fully utilise this benefit from staying safe at home during the lockdown. The lecturers and the resource persons will share tips on facing competitive examinations. The google classroom will be held for four hours a day and the students have to log in to their smartphone or computer. Outstation students of Shakthi PU College in Arunachala Pradesh, Assam, Maharashtra, Goa and the students, spread over different regions of Karnataka, are keen on making full use of such facilities, principal Prabhakar G S said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shakthi-pu-college-starts-online-classes-825776.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Police take out flag march in Tumakuru||Police, officials, and Asha workers took out a flag march in Tumakuru city on Wednesday and passed through BH Road, Ashoka Road, Mandipet, JCR Colony, Gubbi Gate, BG Palya Circle, Subramanya Temple, Idgah Mohalla and other places. The flag march began at Townhall.  If there is a necessity, people can go alone on bikes without a pillion rider said the police chief. Nearly 2,500 vehicles have been seized for violating norms said Superintendent of Police Vamshi Krishna. He said people should come out only once a week to buy essentials. He added that 150 cases had been booked and violators can be punished with one to two years in jail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-take-out-flag-march-in-tumakuru-825791.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||MLAs and DC handed over charge of emergency works||District In-charge Minister V Somanna said that the lockdown directions issued by the Centre and the state government should be strictly adhered to. Presiding over a meeting of officials at the ZP auditorium on Wednesday, he said that he will hand over the charge of emergency works in the district to the MLAs and the deputy commissioner. A committee comprising the MLAs, DC and SP will conduct a meeting on Thursday to take up necessary measures towards the completion of pending development works in the district, he said and stressed on the completion of houses, protective walls and bridge works in the district. The minister meanwhile directed the district administration to provide ration items to about 4,500 families that have applied for BPL cards. MLA Appachu Ranjan pointed out urgent measures needed to procure raw materials such as iron and M-sand for various construction works. Works taken up by the PWD and Panchayat Raj departments are being delayed. The works should be completed soon. Supply of drinking water should be ensured, he also added. MLA K G Bopaiah asked the minister to direct the police and transport department to allow the transportation of construction materials. MLC Veena Acchaiah, MLC Sunil Subramani, Zilla Panchayat President B A Harish, Vice President Lokeshwari Gopal, Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy, Superintendent of Police Dr Suman D Pennekar, Zilla Panchayat CEO K Lakshmi Priya, Additional Deputy Commissioner Dr Sneha, Assistant Commissioner T Javaregowda, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Dr K Mohan and Kodagu Institute of Medical Sciences Dean Dr Cariappa were present during the meet.  'CM has the ultimate power' "It is the prerogative of the chief minister to allocate responsibilities to the ministers in the cabinet. I will adhere to his instructions. I am also a disciplined member of the party and will not make any move which might cause embarrassment to the party or the government," District In-charge Minister V Somanna said. He was responding to a query related to withdrawing of district in-charge of Mysuru. The minister said during the press conference that an exclusive laboratory for Covid-19 tests will be established in Kodagu at a budget of Rs 2 crore, by the end of May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mlas-and-dc-handed-over-charge-of-emergency-works-825804.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Man to stay in hospital due to heavy viral load||An electrician, who was third person to test positive for Covid-19 in the district, will continue to stay in the isolation ward as the swab samples have revealed a heavy viral load.  The 29-year-old man had returned from Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala and had developed the symptoms of Covid-19. He was admitted to the isolation ward in district Dr TMA Pai hospital on March 26.  Subsequently, he tested positive for Covid-19 on March 29.  Post the treatment, the samples of the patient were sent for testing on April 13 and April 14. The electrician was forced to continue his stay in the hospital after the reports revealed that the viral load was still prevalent in the samples.  Sources in the district health office said that though the patient from Udupi had no symptoms of Covid-19, the samples collected on April 13 and 14 had revealed a heavy viral load in the samples. The sample will be again sent for testing after a gap of 14 days. If the samples test negative, then he would be discharged from the hospital, along with the strict advice to follow 14 days of home quarantine.  Eight persons with symptoms of Covid-19 were admitted to the isolation wards in the district on Wednesday, while seven were discharged from hospital quarantine.   As many as 231 swab samples collected from the suspected are pending for the report, sources added.   As many as 108 swab samples were collected in the district and sent to the laboratory for testing. A total of 56 are under home quarantine.  As many as 2,147 people have been screened in the district for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-man-to-stay-in-hospital-due-to-heavy-viral-load-825823.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||300 acres of forest land destroyed in fire||Around 300 acres of forest land was destroyed in a wildfire at Kothanuru wildlife range, coming under Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary, in the taluk on Wednesday. The fire that started at 10 am continued till 7 pm. The forest area destroyed vegetation at Muthathi, Anakalagudi, Kere Ane, Byatarayana temple and surrounding areas. There were several complaints that the firelines were not created properly at the Kothanuru Wildlife range, which is the reason for the recurring fire incidents. Fire was spotted at Sundralli Beat on January 15. Again on April 4, fire was spotted at Doddamaralu forest area, destroying 200 acres forest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/300-acres-of-forest-land-destroyed-in-fire-825828.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Temple town now turns into virus hub||Amidst fear in the wake of a total of 46 persons, either employees or contacts of employees of the town-based Jubilant Life Sciences testing positive for Covid-19, and also following rumours that many more employees and their family members may be infected, a near total lockdown has been imposed in the temple town Nanjangud. The police personnel took out a route march recently, to create confidence among the citizens. The town, on the banks of River Kapila, which is otherwise famous for Srikanteshwara temple, various industries, Ayurveda products of B V Pundit’s Sadvaidyasala and also seer Raghavendraswamy of Mantralaya, who is a native of the town, has turned into a Covid-19 hub of late. The first case related to Nanjangud and the third one for Mysuru district is a 35-year-old man (P52), who had no travel history. He tested positive on March 26. Two days later, on March 28, five of his colleagues tested positive. On Monday (March 30), another four persons tested positive. On Wednesday (April 15), the number reached 46. The total positive cases in Mysuru district reached 58 on Wednesday. Most of the positive tested persons of Jubilant are residents of Nanjangud town and nearby villages. Many employees of Jubilant, who are under home quarantine, are residing in neighbourhood villages and also towns. Thus, the residents are cautious. According to the officials, 753 persons are under home quarantine in Nanjangud town alone. In the villages, under four five hoblis -- Kasba, Hullahalli, Doddakavalande, Biligere and Chikkaiahna Chatra -- there are a total of 675 persons under home quarantine.  Some of them have been shifted to public quarantine facilities in both Nanjangud town and Mysuru city. The officials have formed teams to monitor the situation. A police constable is deputed for 10 houses each to provide groceries and vegetables, so that their family members need not come out for anything. The officials have taken this step in the wake of complaints that those under quarantine are coming out of their houses on some excuses. Meanwhile, the municipal council personnel have sprayed disinfectants on the roads and footpaths across the town.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-temple-town-now-turns-into-virus-hub-825829.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Nikhil’s wedding moved to Bidadi farm||In the light of the extended lockdown and the Covid-19 crisis, the wedding of actor-politician Nikhil Kumaraswamy will be held in a farm in Ketaganahalli, near Bidadi. The event will be held on April 17 in the farm, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy, Nikhil’s father, said on Wednesday.  While the event was earlier meant to be on a grand scale in Ramanagar, keeping social distancing in mind, it has now been decided to conduct it only in the presence of family members. “Please bless the bride and the groom from where you are. Once the pandemic passes, the couple will stand before you for your blessings. If everyone gathers now, it will send a wrong message to society,” Kumaraswamy appealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nikhil-s-wedding-moved-to-bidadi-farm-825830.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Registration of properties should begin'||District In-charge secretary Naveen Raj Singh directed the officials concerned to get ready for property and vehicle registration process in the district. Presiding over a review meeting to discuss the measures taken for controlling the spread of Covid-19 in Hassan on Wednesday, he said that the Transport Department should begin the process for registration of new vehicles and renewal. "All taluk administration should start registration of land documents. In the first phase, prepare to limit it to around 20 registrations per day, issue tokens and complete the formalities by maintaining distance," he said. Speaking about Covid-19, Naveen Raj said, "Primary and secondary contacts of the infected, who have been tested already, should be monitored and tested again after 28 days. The suspected carriers and those suffering from respiratory disorders should be closely observed." Deputy Commissioner R Girish said, "If labourers prefer to return to their districts, they should be subject to health screening. If they are free from any infection, they can be allowed to go. The District Health and Family Welfare officer will take necessary steps and decisions in this regard." All private hospitals have been directed to get registered under Prime Minister's Arogya Karnataka Suraksha Yojane and Arogya Karnataka scheme. All residents of the district are being checked for any fever and respiratory problem and are sent to nearby government health centre, the DC said. Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda, ZP CEO B A Paramesh, Additional DC Kavitha Rajaram and District Health and Family Welfare Officer Dr Sathish attended the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/registration-of-properties-should-begin-825831.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||'No problem to transport agri commodities'||Cooperative and District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar said that there is no problem to transport agriculture commodities. Addressing the officials and people’s representatives at the Zilla Panchayat, here, he said, “The Union Home Ministry has ordered to allow vehicles transporting agriculture products. But, the vehicles must carry proper documents.” Somashekar warned of legal action against vegetable and fruit vendors if they overcharge. He said, “There are complaints that the vendors at APMC and Hopcoms are procuring vegetables and fruits for lesser prices and are selling them for higher prices.”    He directed the officials concerned to take immediate action against the vendors. Somashekar directed to ensure cleanliness at APMC yards and urged to ensure social distance among the people. The state government wants no one to go hungry. Thus, it is supplying ration among cardholders. Somashekar directed Food and Civil Supplies Joint Director P Shivanna to ensure transparency in the distribution of ration. The minister said, “People’s representatives and people are demanding to restrict goods vehicles from Kerala. But, restricting vehicles movement will have an adverse effect on vegetable vendors.” MLA S A Ramdas said Hopcoms was selling fruits and vegetables at higher prices. He urged the minister to allow farmers to sell vegetables directly. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said, “More than 8,000 farmers and vendors do business at APMC in Mysuru. There is a need to provide basic facilities at APMCs.” Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde and APMC president Prabhuswamy were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-problem-to-transport-agri-commodities-825834.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Minister prepares projects for post-lockdown rollout||The State government is keen on beginning the drinking water projects lined up for the year, as soon as the lockdown is lifted, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said here on Wednesday. In a meeting with the department officials and the heads of the various water boards, the minister directed them to keep the Detailed Project Reports (DPR) ready for the projects slated for this year.  Works for the projects would be taken up as soon as the lockdown is lifted, he said, asking officials to ensure that no drinking water scarcity in summer.  For 2020-21, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has announced that the government would commence works on the Kalasa-Banduri (Mahadayi) drinking water project, along with the commissioning of the Yettinahole project.  The government allocated Rs 1,500 crore for commissioning the Yettinahole project in monsoon this year, along with Rs 500 crore for beginning works with regards to the Kalasa-Banduri drinking water project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-prepares-projects-for-post-lockdown-rollout-825835.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Banana on 6k acres left unharvested in Hosapete||The extension of national lockdown till May 3 has caused great distress among farmers engaged in banana cultivation in the district. Farmers are now set to suffer heavy losses as the produce in over 6,000 acres is getting damaged. The growers are unwilling for the harvest due to closure of markets, lack of transportation facilities and non-profitable price. Banana is grown on as much as 10,000 acres in and around Hosapete and Kampli in Belgavi district. The regions are irrigated by the River Tungabhadra. A large number of farmers chose to grow banana due to copious water availability owing to heavy rains. The growers were expecting a rich harvest too. However, the recent untimely rains accompanied by strong winds shattered their hopes. Then came the lockdown and its subsequent extension. The growers say that they could not transport the produce to markets due as vehicles were not available. Though some buyers approach farmers for purchasing the produce, they quote very less price - with which the farmers cannot even recover their costs. “The region is known for the Elakki and Sugandhi varieties. The produce is sent to markets in Bengaluru, Hubballi, Hyderabad and Mumbai. There are no buyers as these markets are shut down,” said Nagaraj, a farmer from Kamalapur. “I’ve grown banana in eight acres and I have to harvest the produce. But, there are no buyers. Even if there are buyers, the price offered is very low. They are quoting Rs 2 per kg of Elakki variety while it fetches between Rs 20 and Rs 22 per kilo in the market,” Nadeem, a farmer from Hampi said. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene general secretary J Karthik sought the government to procure the produce directly from farmers and to facilitate the sale also. “The produce is getting damaged in the fields. Further delay by the government in procuring the produce will worsen the situation for farmers,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/banana-on-6k-acres-left-unharvested-in-hosapete-825839.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Newborn flown to Belagavi for treatment||An air ambulance ferrying a newborn for treatment from Surat landed at Sambra airport in Belagavi on Tuesday. “The air ambulance had permission from Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The lockdown guidelines have provisions to carry out air operations for cargo, emergency and relief purposes,” the airport director Rajesh Kumar Maurya told DH. Though cause for medical emergency remains unknown, a team of medical staff, who travelled by the flight, were in personal protective equipmentcoverall. According to Maurya, the flight landed after 3 pm on Tuesday and departed on Wednesday. The landing facility was provided on humanitarian grounds. Minimum human resources are used for such purposes between 9 am and 2 pm during the lockdown period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/newborn-flown-to-belagavi-for-treatment-825841.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Gadag-Wadi rail line gets green clearance||The MoEF has cleared the proposal by the railways to acquire 40 acres of forest land  for construction of new line between Gadag and Wadi. Seven years after the project was sanctioned by the Railway Board, construction of the 257 km railway line has remained a big challenge due to multiple hurdles. The ambitious project is expected to provide public transport connecting four districts to the financial nerve centre of northKarnataka. In its recent meeting, the regional empowered committee of Bengaluru has approved the proposal by the South Western Railways, noting that the forest land falls in the arid zone of Karnataka with a moderate canopy density (0.1). In return, the railways has been told to submit a plan for tree planting in the surroundings of the proposed railway station in the forest area and along the railway line in lie of the trees felled. Additionally, compensatory afforestation has to be carried out in degraded forest, it said. The new line, estimated to cost Rs 1922 crore, was sanctioned in 2014-15. It will connect four districts - Koppal, Raichur, Yadgir and Kalaburagi. The line involves construction of Talkal, situated 39 km from Gadag, to Wadi and passes through Yelburga, Kushtagi, Mudgal, Lingasgur, Sholapur and Shahpur. A senior official in the SWR said the green signal for forest land acquisition has come as a major relief but said more problems have come up in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. “Land acquisition is the major problem. The chief secretary has been taking up the issue with the deputy commissioners in almost every meeting. We are still finding it difficult to execute first two phases of the project,” the senior official said. The Phase 1 of the project involves 57 km line from Koppal while the 47-km Phase 2 stretch starts from the other end. Compensation is yet to be given to farmers in some parts, which had made the work challenging. “If the government provides land, we could have completed the project in two years. We don’t know how the financial crisis brought by Covid-19 will affect the projects,” another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gadag-wadi-rail-line-gets-green-clearance-825844.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Coronavirus lockdown: Staffers in 14 essential govt depts to work||Fourteen government departments that have been identified as essential will have their offices open during the extended phase of the COVID-19 lockdown in Karnataka.  According to a circular issued by Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar, the 14 departments are: Health & Family Welfare, Medical Education, Home, Revenue, Rural Development & Panchayat Raj, Urban Development, Food, Civil Supplies & Consumer Affairs, Information & Public Relations, Transport, Energy, Personnel & Administrative Reforms (e-Governance), Finance (including treasuries), Animal Husbandry & Fisheries and Forest, Ecology & Environment.   All classes of employees in these departments are to come to work, Bhaskar said. In all other departments, only Group-A employees are required to report on duty. Those visually-impaired or physically-handicapped are exempt from work. The circular will be valid till April 19, the circular said.    During the first phase of the lockdown, the e-Governance, Finance (treasuries), Animal Husbandry & Fisheries and Forest, Ecology & Environment were not declared as ‘essential’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-staffers-in-14-essential-govt-depts-to-work-825822.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP govt neglecting Cong MLAs in Karnataka, says DK Shivakumar||“Our Bengaluru MLAs - Sowmya Reddy (Jayanagar), Ramalinga Reddy (BTM Layout), Byrathi Suresh (Hebbal), Krishna Byre Gowda (Byatarayanapura) and others have complained in writing that their constituencies are getting little or no help at all from the government and that only the ruling party MLAs are getting attention,” Shivakumar told reporters.  Congress MLAs have claimed that their constituencies had been shortchanged in the supply of ration and other relief measures.  “We’re also getting complaints from farmers that they have not received any help,” Shivakumar said. The Congress’ task force is looking into all this, he said. “Kannadigas stuck in other states near the borders are citing the example of how Gujarat arranged for transportation for stranded Gujaratis,” he added.     Shivakumar also said that there was a need to look into whether or not Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits had reached doctors fighting the COVID-19 on the ground.     “Another thing is that the state and Centre seem to have failed on the testing front. In the coming days, a Congress delegation will meet Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa to appraise him on all these issues,” Shivakumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-govt-neglecting-cong-mlas-in-karnataka-says-dk-shivakumar-825825.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||COVID-19 Outbreak: MLA missing at this hour of crisis||Former minister and MLA Tanveer Sait, who survived an attack in November last, is conspicuous by his absence at this hour of crisis. Narasimharaja Assembly constituency, which he represents, is comparatively backward among the three constituencies of the city. The other two are: Krishnaraja, represented by former minister S A Ramdas; and Chamaraja, represented by former chairman of Mysuru Urban Development Authority L Nagendra. Both Ramdas and Nagendra are attending meetings with district in-charge minister and officials to discuss issues related to the pandemic, coronavirus or Covid-19, and they are also extending help to the people. However, the people of Narasimharaja or NR segment, are left to fend for themselves. The only solace is the steps taken by the district administration and Mysuru City Corporation, to lend a helping hand to the citizens, to wade through the crisis. It has to be recalled that Sait, who created a record with his fifth victory in a row, in 2018, was attacked by one Farhaan Pasha, during a wedding reception, on November 17, 2019. Following a surgery, treatment and therapies in a private hospital in the city, the MLA took rest for some time in a Gulf nation. He returned to Mysuru on February 24. On February 25, speaking to media persons, Sait said that he had almost recovered and would start participating in public functions soon. He also took part in the Assembly Session from March 2 to 24. However, since the attack, Sait is provided round-the-clock police security. The MLA is active only on social media. his post reads: “As known to all, We are going through a pandemic & since I am unable to be with You, Guide you through & Serve you because of My Health. I pray to be with you at the earliest, This Coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak has been Devastating, Globally. Of that, We can all agree. With the Casualties rising, Worrying press conferences, Small businesses shuttering for the foreseeable & an over-extended health service, There’s not been a lot of positive news to come out of the pandemic, Naturally if we keep precautions by following the rules of social distancing, By staying at home we will fight this pandemic & come out in good health inshalla. #StayHome #StaySafe #StayUnited #SaveHumanity #COVID19 #Coronavirus”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/covid-19-outbreak-mla-missing-at-this-hour-of-crisis-825832.html
15-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||CM B S Yediyurappa forms groups of ministers to tackle COVID-19 crisis||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday constituted three Groups of Ministers (GoM) to ramp up the government’s efforts to enforce the Covid-19 lockdown without disrupting essential services. Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwathnarayan will head a GoM that will oversee the supply of essential goods, including agriculture and horticulture commodities. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, who is Karnataka’s Covid-19 spokesperson, will head a GoM that will focus on the lives of migrant workers. Revenue Minister R Ashoka has been asked to head a GoM to monitor the public distribution system (PDS), or ration, in Bengaluru. Narayan’s GoM is the biggest in terms of size and scale. “My GoM will also have Cooperation Minister S T Somashekhar, Horticulture Minister K Narayana Gowda, Food and Civil Supplies Minister K Gopalaiah and Agriculture Minister B C Patil,” Narayan told DH. “The GoM will look at the entire supply chain, including the uninterrupted functioning of essential factories.” 1,192 relief camps Suresh Kumar will be assisted by Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar to take care of migrant labourers. Till date, Karnataka has opened 1,192 relief camps that house 1.30 lakh migrants.  Ashoka’s GoM will have Gopalaiah to ensure there is no pilferage in the supply of ration, especially after the government decided that even those without ration cards will be covered. About 2.5 lakh people without the cards will get free ration, including 55,000 already identified in Bengaluru. The GoMs add to a long list of administrative measures the government has in place to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. There are at least 17 other committees in charge of various aspects of the outbreak and the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-forms-groups-of-ministers-to-tackle-covid-19-crisis-825838.html
15-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Rs 9,000 worth liquor stolen||Miscreants burgled liquor bottles from a wine shop on BB Road here on Tuesday night. According to the police, the suspect drilled a hole on the wall of Balaji Wine Shop and gained entry inside. They took away three tetra packs containing liquor worth Rs 9,000. They shifted some boxes of liquor bottles outsides, but failed to take them away. The police and the Excise Department officials rushed to the spot on being alerted on Wednesday. The police suspected the involvement of alcohol addicts in the theft. A case has been registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/rs-9000-worth-liquor-stolen-825726.html
15-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Coronavirus Lockdown: Four wards sealed down in Chikkaballapur||After the death of a man from Anjuman road due to Covid-19 in Bengaluru on Wednesday, the district administration sealed down four wards (wards-10, 12, 13 and 17). The officials have directed residents of these wards not to venture out of their houses. The district administration has constituted a team of volunteers and nodal officers to deliver medicine, fruits, vegetables, groceries and other daily essentials at doorsteps. Residents of the remaining wards have been permitted to venture out to buy daily essentials without violating social distancing guideline. The health department officials shifted six members who came in contact with the man to Covid-19 ward in the district hospital. These six include his family members. Their throat swabs and blood samples have been sent to laboratory for reports. The health department officials are now tracing the source that transmitted novel coronavirus to the man. The number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district is now 13. Of them, the 72-year-old woman died, while eight others were recently discharged from the district hospital. Three others are undergoing treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/coronavirus-lockdown-four-wards-sealed-down-in-chikkaballapur-825808.html
15-04-2020||Main Article||Coronavirus: Are our children safe?||Whenever there is any kind of emergency or crisis, schools are closed first. And rightly so, because children are most vulnerable and entirely dependent on us for their safety. It is therefore to be lauded that this time, the governments of most states in our country jumped early into the fight against the COVID-19 epidemic. First, the schools and colleges were closed, followed by the closure of malls, theatres, pubs and restaurants and other places where large crowds gather. I do wish, however, that the governments would go a little further and understand the implications of the lockdown. Schools for the privileged have the advantage of having technology at school and homes so even when closed, learning can go on either through online classes. These are the times when one can test the promise and the hype created over the years about the efficacy of technology in education. While technology is essential and beneficial to add depth and width to learning for children, how good it is to replace the teacher and the classroom is yet to be seen. Whatever it may be, this benefit is reserved for only the privileged and not for children that go to government schools and free schools like ours. It is a common discourse that government schoolchildren are at least three grades behind those of a mainstream school. Now, this virus and lockdown are going to push them behind even further. Apart from the hiccup in the learning process, these children from the slums are exposed to an even greater danger. They are now susceptible to the machinations of the rowdies that wield power in the slums. It is important to recognise that young children are fascinated with the temptations that these anti-social elements have to offer. Now that the schools are closed and these young children are roaming around free, they are getting ensnared into petty thefts and experimentation with drugs that is rampant in the slums. So, while the schools are closed to keep these children safe, in real terms they are not safe at all. To add to the lack of safety, many of these children are going hungry. During the lockdown, they are missing out on the mid-day meals they were served in their schools. In some schools such as ours, they would be given all three meals. With no school to go to now, these meals have been snatched away from them. And that leads to a vicious downslide. With lack of nutrition, they will be more susceptible to any virus around. Even if they return to school post-lockdown, they will be too weak to participate in class activities and active learning. And then, the gap between the privileged and the marginalised will continue to increase even more. So, what then is the solution? This is a great opportunity for the anganawadis in the slums to be resurrected, sanitised and made available to these children as crèches where learning can continue and meals can be served. I am so happy that government teachers have been asked to attend school and do some planning work even though the children are not coming. This move by the education department should be praised because for the first time, the teachers are being told what the role of a teacher is. This should work as long as the teachers are not exposed to crowded buses and classrooms. These teachers can teach in the crèches created near their schools. A rough estimate can be taken of how many teachers come to school by their own two-wheelers and how many by bus and the plans can be made accordingly. This is also the time when temples, churches and mosques can be opened for the true purpose of God. These places of worship should be thoroughly sanitised and provide a safe environment for children. It is best to close the doors to the regular devotees and open them up for the children to keep them well-fed and safe. Some of us are having our teachers prepare assignments on a weekly basis and give it to the children to confine them at home. Their parents come once a week to school to return the homework of the kids and get a fresh set of work. The parents come to the schools in a staggered manner and their temperatures are checked before entry. They have been trained on how to take care of themselves and their children and not be either callous or panic-stricken. They are also given some rice and dal, together with fortified ragi malt, that is to be given to their children. These are simple measures but the parents know that we care for their children, and that while we are as helpless as they are in this situation, something can always be done. Most importantly, the privileged must give their house helps and maids fully paid leave so that they too can respond to this crisis as equals. Many of these maids have little children going to government schools. It is these children that are out on the streets today. I think we need to realise that by giving the poor their equal rights, we will actually be protecting ourselves, too, and our cities and the world. While many of us have the privilege of ‘working from home’, what happens to the homeless? They are likely to be victims and carriers of the virus as well. How can we contain this epidemic if our prevention plan does not include them? These are tough times that call for tough measures and while all cannot be kept happy, at least our children can be kept safe. (The writer is Founder-CEO, Parikrma Humanity Foundation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/coronavirus-are-our-children-safe-825526.html
15-04-2020||National||Pak summons Indian diplomat over ceasefire violations||Pakistan on Tuesday summoned a senior diplomat from the High Commission of India and registered its protest against the alleged ceasefire violations by Indian troops along the LoC. The Foreign Office claimed that due to the “indiscriminate and unprovoked firing”, a 65-year-old civilian sustained serious injuries in Jandrot Sector along the Line of Control (LoC). The Indian security forces along the LoC and the Working Boundary (WB) have continuously been targeting the civilian populated areas with artillery fire, heavy-caliber mortars and automatic weapons, the FO alleged, adding that India has so far this year committed 765 ceasefire violations. Pakistan urged India to allow the United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) to play its mandated role as per the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolutions. India maintains that UNMOGIP has outlived its utility and is irrelevant after the Simla Agreement and the consequent establishment of the LoC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pak-summons-indian-diplomat-over-ceasefire-violations-825497.html
15-04-2020||National||Migrant workers crisis a time bomb, says MNM chief Kamal Haasan||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) chief Kamal Haasan on Tuesday took a swipe at the Union government over the migrant workers issue in Mumbai, saying the crisis was a "time bomb" and that the "balcony government" should keep an eye on the ground. More than 1,000 migrant workers, who earn daily wages and been stuck in Mumbai since the last three weeks, gathered in Bandra in Mumbai on Tuesday demanding transport facilities to go back to their native places, hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the coronavirus-enforced curbs till May 3. Haasan, earlier while flagging the need to address the problems of such migrant workers, had sarcastically remarked that the Centre should not remain a "balcony government", alluding to the relatively better off citizens. "All the balcony people take a long and hard look at the ground. First it was Delhi, now Mumbai," he said, in an apparent reference to the migration of labourers in Delhi in large numbers earlier during the lockdown. "The migrant crisis is a time bomb that must be defused before it becomes a crisis bigger than Corona. Balcony government must keep their eyes on what's happening on the ground too," he said on his Twitter handle. All the balcony people take a long and hard look at the ground. First it was Delhi, now Mumbai.The migrant crisis is a time bomb that must be defused before it becomes a crisis bigger than Corona. Balcony government must keep their eyes on what's happening on the ground too.  The gathering in suburban Bandra in Mumbai earlier in the day, in violation of lockdown norms, created a potential law and order situation and the police had resorted to mild force to scatter the crowd. On Tuesday morning, Modi had announced the extension of the ongoing lockdown till May 3, as part of the country's fight against the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-workers-crisis-a-time-bomb-says-mnm-chief-kamal-haasan-825507.html
15-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Indian man stranded in US eyes cargo plane to fly back home and be with pregnant wife||A desperate chartered accountant stuck in New York asked on Twitter if he could fly onboard a cargo aircraft to return to India to take care of his pregnant wife. Another Information Technology professional stranded in Houston wondered if he and a few others could charter an aircraft to return to India.  Soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi formally announced the extension of the lockdown that was enforced on March 24 to contain the COVID-19 pandemic; the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) followed it up and extended the ban on arrival of any international passenger aircraft at any airport in India till May 3, making it clear that Indians stuck abroad will have to wait at least three more weeks before they could come back home.    And they took to Twitter to pour out their desperation, frustration, anxiety and even anger.  “Sir, since Cargo flights are still in operation, could you help me to send back to (sic) home as my wife is pregnant and need (sic) me. Please do some arrangement,” Bharat Maheshwari, who has been stuck in New York for several weeks now, tweeted on Tuesday, drawing the attention of India’s ambassador to the United States, Taranjit Singh Sandhu. “I'm in panic state now due to this lockdown. Please help help (sic).”  Maheshwari has been regularly urging the Embassy of India in Washington D.C. on Twitter to help him return to India. His wife, Shubha, too has been tweeting seeking help from the government to bring her husband back home. The chartered accountant couple is expecting their first child.  Not only Maheshwari, but the extension of the ban on the arrival of all international passenger aircraft let down many Indians, who are stuck in the US, United Kingdom, France and many other countries and have been hoping that the curbs would be eased after Tuesday and they would be able to come back home.    “Can we few Indians contribute and check with any private flight company and plan a chartered plane to rescue us from USA to India? Please let me know what kind of permission is required and with whom for the same. Also confirm the procedure if any. Please expedite (sic),” Tushar, an IT professional, posted on Twitter, tagging the Consulate General of India in Houston.     What has triggered panic among Maheshwari, Tushar and others as well as their families in India is the spurt in the number of cases of COVID-19 infection in the US.  At least 553,822 people have been infected by the COVID-19 in the US and 21972 of them have died so far, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).  The situation is worsening in the UK and France too.  The virus infected over 97, 000 in France and killed over 15,000 of them so far. The UK reported over 11,000 deaths out of over 88000 cases of COVID-19 infections.  “How much patience do you want us to keep?” Sharon Goveas, a student at a business school in Paris, tweeted on Tuesday. “Pls (Please) understand that we are students and we have limited resources. (The) Cases (of COVID-19 infections) keep on increasing everyday (in France) and still there’s nothng (nothing) done from the GOI (Government of India),” the 19-year-old added, apparently perturbed, as she would now have to wait for at least three more weeks before she could return to her home in Navi Mumbai.  “Its (It’s) very difficult fr (for) students to survive alone and (it) is taking a toll on our health. At least help the students to get back home. They r (are) the most severely hit in such a time of crisis, both financially and psychologically,” Sadaf Sheikh, another Indian student in France, tweeted.  “M (I am) sorry, but I hv (have) lost all hopes frm (from) our govt (government) now. We hv (have) been left alone to face our own challenges in a foreign land,” Arti Singh, who got stuck in Norwich in the UK with her family, tweeted replying to the Prime Minister’s tweets announcing the extension of the lockdown. New Delhi has not yet carried out any evacuation operation to bring back Indians from the US, France or the UK. Neither has it planned for one in the coming days. A source in New Delhi pointed out that it would be difficult to evacuate Indians from the US, France or the UK, not only because the number of people willing to return would be huge, but also because the government would first have to make arrangements for testing them for COVID-19 infections. India earlier evacuated its nationals from Iran and Italy, but only after making arrangements for testing all the prospective evacuees for COVID-19 infections and only the ones, who were found to be uninfected by the virus, were brought back home onboard special aircraft of Air India. Besides, all evacuees were quarantined for 14 days on their return to India.   “If the government decides to evacuate such a large number of Indians from the countries like the US, UK, or France, it will require many huge facilities to quarantine them,” said the source. The Government either evacuated or facilitated the return of nearly 28000 Indians from a number of foreign countries affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, including China, Iran and Italy. It however almost stopped doing so after the ban on arrival of international passenger aircraft was enforced on March 23 in the wake of the spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases in India. “Dear Sir, as of now, no evacuation is planned and neither have we received any directive from the concerned authorities. If there is any change in travel restrictions, we will update you,” the Embassy of India in Paris tweeted on Tuesday in response to a query on plan for operating special flights to bring home Indian nationals from France.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-indian-man-stranded-in-us-eyes-cargo-plane-to-fly-back-home-and-be-with-pregnant-wife-825536.html
15-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 15, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.  Stay healthy, stay safe||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-15-2020-edition-825524.html
15-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 15||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 12,403 as of April 15.      States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 414 Meghalaya: 1 Andhra Pradesh: 14 Assam: 1 Bihar: 1 Delhi: 30 Gujarat: 33 Haryana: 3 Himachal Pradesh: 2 Jammu and Kashmir: 4 Jharkhand: 2 Karnataka: 12 Kerala: 3 Madhya Pradesh: 50 Maharashtra: 187 Odisha: 1 Punjab: 13 Rajasthan: 11 Tamil Nadu: 12 Telangana: 17 Uttar Pradesh: 8 West Bengal: 9 Coronavirus in India: States/UTs with confirmed positive cases (Details are updated as we receive information) Maharashtra: 2,801 Tamil Nadu: 1,242 Delhi: 1,578 Rajasthan: 1,076 Madhya Pradesh: 987 Uttar Pradesh: 735 Gujarat: 695 Telangana: 647 Andhra Pradesh: 525 Kerala: 387 Jammu and Kashmir: 300 Karnataka: 277 West Bengal: 213 Haryana: 199 Punjab: 186 Bihar: 72 Odisha: 60 Uttarakhand: 37 Chhattisgarh: 33 Himachal Pradesh: 35 Assam: 33 Jharkhand: 28 Chandigarh: 21 Ladakh: 17 Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 11 Puducherry: 7 Goa: 7 Manipur: 2 Tripura: 2 Mizoram: 1 Arunachal Pradesh: 1 Nagaland: 1 Meghalaya: 7 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 1306 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-15-825539.html
15-04-2020||National||For first time, no passenger train on railway anniversary due to coronavirus lockdown||On April 16, 1853 at 3:35 pm, the first passenger train of the Great Indian Peninsula Railway left Bori Bunder station in Bombay for Tanna. The train took fifty-seven minutes to reach Tanna - and covered a distance of 21 miles, which is 33.8 km.  It was exactly 167 years ago - and marked the launch of railways not only on the Indian sub-continent but the whole of Asia. Three steam locomotives - Sahib, Sindh and Sultan - hauled the first train, carrying the first passengers. Bombay is now Mumbai and Tanna is now Thane.  At Bori Bunder, the Victoria Terminus came into being, now known as Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus.  The Great Indian Peninsula Railway has now taken shape of Central Railway.     The date, April 16,  always have a place in CR and Indian Railway. This is the first time in the history of Indian Railways that a passenger train would not run on its anniversary. After 1853,  there have been several landmark events - the Indian Rebellion in 1857, the Quit India Movement of 1942, the First World War between 1914-18 and the Second World War between 1939-45. The Indian Railway has seen the biggest disruption from May 8-27,1974, when late socialist leader George Fernandes led the railway strike for 20 days. "Currently the railways in India is seeing the biggest shutdown because of the COVID-19 India lockdown, and, incidentally it coincides with the anniversary day," a railway heritage lover said. The Indian Railway network is not running any passenger trains and only freight movement is taking place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/for-first-time-no-passenger-train-on-railway-anniversary-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown-825544.html
15-04-2020||National||No plan to run special trains for stranded migrant labourers: Railways||Indian Railways on Wednesday denied the rumors of running passengers trains to clear rush of stranded migrant labourers from various locations to send them to their villages.  Because of rumors that Secunderbad based South Central Railway will run Jansadharan Special trains, a large number of migrant labourers gathered at railway stations on Tuesday night in different states.  "No decision has been taken to run any Jansadharan Special trains to clear the rush of stranded migrant labourers from various locations over South Central Railway ( SCR). It is also stated that such news may lead to unnecessary crowding at stations, thereby, defeating the purpose of the fight against COVID-19 spread", Railways clarified.  Railways already extended the suspension of passenger trains till May 3 midnight and stopped advanced ticket booking till further order. Railways also announced that passengers who have booked tickets for May 3 onwards journey will also get a full refund if they desired to cancel their ticket. Railways suspended over 13,500 passengers trains since March 24 after nationwide lockdown took place||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-plan-to-run-special-trains-for-stranded-migrant-labourers-railways-825564.html
15-04-2020||National||Here are MHA's guidelines, rules for the extended lockdown till May 3||Hoping to ease the burden on people, the Government on Tuesday announced opening up of industries in rural areas, construction sector, IT and IT Enabled Services (ITES), Special Economic Zones (SEZ), activities related to agriculture as well as work under MNREGA from April 20 but with restrictions during the Covid-19 lockdown that has now been extended till May 3. The guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) also made wearing of masks compulsory, prohibiting spitting in public places besides banning sale of liquor, gutka and tobacco while insisting local authorities to ensure that social distancing should be practised in strict sense in both public and work spaces. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday announced extending the 21-day lockdown ending that was to end on April 14 but had said there would be relaxations to allow economic activities to re-start. The guidelines now allow the partial opening up of industrial sector, which was severely hit by the lockdown, and the government now hopes that the "limited exemptions" to resume economic activities would be beneficial for rural and agricultural development and job creation. Though the Centre has allowed starting operations in certain sectors from April 20, the guidelines have made it clear that the states should first prepare ground for it before allowing the resumption of activities. According to the guidelines, industries operating in rural areas (outside the limits of municipalities and corporations), manufacturing and industrial establishments with access control in SEZs, Export Oriented Units, industrial estates and industrial townships are allowed to resume operations. However, these establishments will have to make arrangements for the stay of workers as far as possible in its premises or adjacent buildings. An official statement said relaxations were aimed at ensuring that agricultural and related activities remain "fully functional", the rural economy functions with "maximum efficiency" and employment opportunities are "created" for daily wage earners among others. The guidelines also expanded the scope of relaxations for IT industry by now allowing IT and ITES services to start operations but with a capacity of a maximum 50% staff as well as IT hardware manufacturing units. Earlier, only essential services under the IT sector were allowed. However, private call centres continue to be the ambit of the exemptions, as only data and call centres related to government are allowed to function. Plantation sector also got some relief as coffee, tea and rubber plantations as well as services linked to it are allowed to function but with a maximum of 50% workers. Food processing units in rural areas, packing material manufacturing units, production and related activities of mines and mineral production are also allowed along. In another attempt to boost activities in rural areas, brick-kilns in such localities are also allowed to operate. In some relief for realty sector, government allowed continuation of works in construction projects in urban areas where workers are available on site and nor workers are required to be brought from outside. Similar activities in rural areas also will start with the guidelines permitting allowing building of roads, structures, industrial projects and industrial estates. Construction of renewable energy projects are also allowed. In a bid to provide relief for the rural poor, especially the migrant workers who have returned to villages, the government also decided to allowed work under the rural job guarantee scheme so that there is cash flow in these areas. MNREGA works will be allowed with strict implementation of social distancing and face mask. Priority should be given to irrigation and water conservation works. Other central and state schemes in irrigation and water conservation must be allowed to be implemented and suitably dovetailed with MNREGA works. The guidelines have also asked states to ensure cargo movement. It has now allowed two drivers and a helper in goods and carrier vehicles. Shops for truck repair and dhabas on highways will also be allowed. "To provide an impetus to the rural economy, industries operating in rural areas, including food processing industries; construction of roads, irrigation projects, buildings and industrial projects in rural areas; works under MNREGA, with priority to irrigation and water conservation works; and operation of rural Common Service Centres (CSCs) have all been allowed.  These activities will create job opportunities for rural labour, including the migrant labour force," it said. The government believes that the resumption of manufacturing and other industrial establishments with access control in Special Economic Zones, Export Oriented Units and industrial estates and townships as well as IT hardware and coal among others will see these sectors seeing a "revival" and create job opportunities. In what could be a relief for people, they can avail the services of electricians, plumbers and motor mechanics during this period. This would also help these self-employed people earn money though the continuing ban on taxis, auto-rickshaws and cab aggregators would hit drivers. The government machinery will also be augmented with the guidelines allowing all central government officers above the level of Deputy Secretary being asked to report for duty while for the remaining staff, only up to 33% staff are to be deployed. So far only senior officers from the rank of Joint Secretaries and above and essential staff were manning government offices while others were working from home. At public places, no organisation or manager of a public place allow gathering of five or more persons. Gatherings such as marriages and funerals will remain regulated by District Magistrate. All work places shall have adequate arrangements for temperature screening and provide sanitisers at convenient places. Work places should have a gap of one hour between shifts and will stagger the lunch breaks of staff to ensure social distancing. Persons above 65 years, persons with co-morbidities and parents of children below the age of five years may be encouraged to work from home.    Below are the detailed guidelines:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/here-are-mhas-guidelines-rules-for-the-extended-lockdown-till-may-3-825569.html
15-04-2020||National||Coronavirus extended lockdown: List of economic activities that will be allowed after April 20||Fresh guidelines were issued by the government on Wednesday for enforcing the second phase of the coronavirus lockdown, with the Union home ministry barring all kinds of public transport and prohibiting the opening of public places during this period. Inter-state, inter-district movement of people, metro, bus services continue will be prohibited till May 3, the Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines said. Educational institutions, coaching centres, domestic, international air travel, train services will also remain suspended till this time, it said.  Public places like cinema halls, malls, shopping complexes, gymnasiums, sports complexes, swimming pools, bars will also be shut till May 3, the new lockdown period declared by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday. Here's a list of economic activities that will be allowed after April 20: 1. Transportation of goods will be permitted without any distinction of essential or non-essential. 2. All health services (including AYUSH) to remain functional such as hospitals, nursing homes, clinics, etc.  3. All agricultural and horticulture activities will be fully functional. Farming operations, including procurement of agricultural products, agriculture marketing through notified Mandis and direct and decentralized marketing, manufacture, distribution and retail of fertilizers, pesticides and seeds; activities of marine and inland fisheries; animal husbandry activities, including the supply chain of milk, milk products, poultry and live-stock farming; and tea, coffee and rubber plantations will be allowed. 4. RBI and other financial markets and entities like NPCI, CCIL, payments system operators to be functional.  5. MGNREGA work will be allowed with strict implementation of social distancing and wearing face masks.  6. Industries operating in rural areas, including food processing industries; construction of roads, irrigation projects, buildings and industrial projects in rural areas; works under MNREGA, with priority to irrigation and water conservation works; and operation of rural Common Service Centres (CSCs) have all been allowed. These activities will create job opportunities for rural labour, including the migrant labour force.  7. Manufacturing and other industrial establishments with access control have been permitted in SEZs, EoUs, industrial estates and industrial townships after implementation of SOP for social distancing. Manufacture of IT hardware and of essential goods and packaging are also allowed. Coal, mineral and oil production are permitted activities. 8. The digital economy is critical to the services sector and is important for national growth. Accordingly, e-commerce operations, operations of IT and IT enabled services, data and call centres for Government activities, and online teaching and distance learning are all permitted activities now. 9. The revised guidelines also permit all health services and the social sector to remain functional; public utilities to function without any hindrance; the supply chain of essential goods to operate without any hindrance; and, important offices of Central and State Governments and local bodies to remain open with the required strength. 10. Print and electronic media including broadcasting, DTH and cable services will be allowed. IT and IT-enabled services will be allowed to function with 50% strength. Data and call centres for government activities only are allowed. Ecommerce companies and vehicles used by ecommerce operators will be allowed to ply with necessary permissions. 11. Ecommerce companies and their vehicles will be allowed to ply with necessary passes. 12. Hotels, homestays, lodges and motels, which are accomodating tourists and persons stranded due to lockdown, will be allowed to function. 13. Private vehicles will be allowed to ply for emergency services and for procurement of essential commodities. 14. Offices of Government of India such as Defence, Central Armed Police Forces, its autonomous subordinate offices will remain open. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-extended-lockdown-list-of-economic-activities-that-will-be-allowed-after-april-20-825575.html
15-04-2020||National||COVID-19 lockdown: 1.3 million BPL people in J&K struggle to access basic necessities||According to official figures, 10.35% of the population in the union territory (UT) lives below the poverty line, with the rural areas holding more poor than the urban centres. The prolonged lockdown for them is a “terrible experience.” As hundreds of thousands among them work in the unorganized sector and are not registered with the Labour Department or Social Welfare Department, they won’t get any financial assistance from the government.  “The outbreak of COVID-19 has proved to be catastrophic for the poor like me. I used to earn Rs 400-500 daily after selling second-hand clothes in the Batamaloo area. However, in the last month, I have not earned even a single penny,” said Mohammad Ibrahim, who is the lone breadwinner of his family of six. He said whatever savings the family had got used after the security lockdown last August in Kashmir in the wake of revocation of Article 370. “Now we barely manage to meet the ends and the announcement of another lockdown has broken the back of the poor like me,” Ibrahim said amid sobs. Ghulam Hassan Sheikh, a cobbler, says he had never imagined such a situation would arise. “Even in the toughest of times during militancy and unrest, we would survive as well-off people would take care of the needy in the hour of crisis. However, this time due to strict lockdown, people are not allowed to move from one place to another,” he said. Asked whether he received any financial assistance from the government, Sheikh said he has no bank account. “I don’t know about any welfare schemes by the government for the poor. Now when the lockdown will end, I’ll register myself,” he said. “Earlier when there used to be shutdowns and clampdowns in Kashmir, I would manage the things by doing petty jobs like selling petrol along the roadside or working at construction sites. But the situation is totally different right now; neither can I go out nor there is any work,” Sheikh added.  A volunteer of an NGO said that the difficulties faced were not specific to one or two areas but symptomatic of every settlement where people lack the financial capacity to stock up food for a long period.  “And the situation worsens when the areas are put under a complete lockdown making it difficult for them to even avail ration shops or the subsidised state-run food service,” he said. Jammu and Kashmir, whose population and geographical area are almost double to that of Himachal Pradesh, is trailing behind the latter by Rs 54,119 in respect of per capita income (2015-16 NSDP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-13-million-bpl-people-in-jk-struggle-to-access-basic-necessities-825582.html
15-04-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: COVID-19 situation in the North East||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast gives you a bird’s-eye view of the COVID-19 situation in India while focusing on one chosen issue in every episode. In this episode, we speak with Deccan Herald’s Sumir Karmakar on the situation in the North East of India. We also speak to Avril Quadros, a transformational coach helping people relieve stress in these testing times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-covid-19-situation-in-the-north-east-825594.html
15-04-2020||National||India set to experience normal monsoon this year: IMD||India is set to experience a “normal” monsoon in which the country would receive 100% of its long-term average rainfall between June and September, India Meteorological Department announced here on Wednesday. “The 2020 South-West monsoon will be 100% of the long period average with a model error of 5% on either side,” M Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences said here. India’s long period average rainfall is 88 cm, which is the average monsoon rainfall between 1961 and 2000. The news about a normal monsoon comes amidst the COVID-19 gloom with the pandemic hitting the economy hard. Riding high on the normal monsoon, India hopes to record a good agricultural productivity to alleviate some of the economic pain.  Rajeevan flagged high probability of a normal monsoon this year. There is 41% probability of a normal monsoon (96-104% of the LPA); 21% probability of above normal monsoon (104-110% of LPA) and 9% probability of excess (above 110%) monsoon. Taken together, there is more than 70% chance of the monsoon being a normal or excess. The chances of a poor show are slim with the IMD model recording 20% probability of below normal (90-96% of LPA) rainfall and 9% probability of a deficient monsoon. El Nino (unusual warming of the Pacific) and Indian Ocean Dipole (a temperature seesaw in the Indian Ocean) – two weather events that adversely impacts the monsoon – are neutral at the moment, which is good news for the monsoon. Rajeevan said there was a chance of La Nina (reverse of El Nino) developing towards the second half of the monsoon season, which may further boost the rainfall. IMD director general M Mahapatra said the weather bureau would issue its forecast on the onset of monsoon around May 15.  The met office has also modified its baseline record of monsoon onset and withdrawal dates based on the rainfall pattern seen at 149 stations in the last few years. While the onset date remains the same, monsoon now arrives 3-7 days late in western India. Also the withdrawal from north-west India is now delayed by 7-14 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-set-to-experience-normal-monsoon-this-year-imd-825608.html
15-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Rahul Gandhi asks govt to bring back Indian workers stuck in Middle East||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday urged the government to organise flights to bring back Indian workers stuck in the Middle East and desperate to return. He said the workers are in deep distress there due to shutting of businesses in the Middle East due to the COVID-19 pandemic. "The Covid19 crisis and shutting of businesses in the Middle East have left thousands of Indian workers in deep distress and desperate to return home.  "The Government must organise flights to bring home our brothers and sisters most in need of assistance, with quarantine plans in place," he said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-rahul-gandhi-asks-govt-to-bring-back-indian-workers-stuck-in-middle-east-825609.html
15-04-2020||National||States cannot dilute COVID-19 guidelines: MHA||While insisting that social distancing measures are to be strictly followed, it said the "limited exemptions" provided in the guidelines were aimed at resumption of economic activities that are critical from the perspective of rural and agricultural development and job creation. "States and union territories shall not dilute these guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act 2005, in any manner, and shall strictly enforce the same," the MHA order said. However, states can impose "stricter measures" than those outlined in the order as per the requirement of local areas. While some states have started selling alcohol and others contemplating the measure to augment revenues, the MHA has made it clear that there should be a strict ban on the sale of liquor across the country. It also made clear that the relaxations allowed from April 20 will not be applicable for containment zones and hotspots. There will be strict perimeter control in these zones to ensure that there is no unchecked inward or outward movement of people except for maintaining essential services. "The objective of the revised guidelines is to consolidate the gains achieved during the first phase (March 25-April 14) of lockdown and further slow down the spread of COVID-19 and at the same time provide relief to farmers, labourers and daily wage earners," an official statement said. It said relaxations were aimed at ensuring that agricultural and related activities remain fully functional, the rural economy functions with maximum efficiency and employment opportunities are created for daily wage earners and other members of the labour force. Select industrial activities are also allowed to resume their operations, with adequate safeguards and mandatory standard operating protocols (SOPs). "To provide an impetus to the rural economy, industries operating in rural areas, including food processing industries, construction of roads, irrigation projects, buildings and industrial projects in rural areas, works under MNREGA, with priority to irrigation and water conservation works, and operation of rural Common Service Centres (CSCs) have all been allowed. These activities will create job opportunities for rural labour, including the migrant labour force," it said. The government believes that the resumption of manufacturing and other industrial establishments with access control in Special Economic Zones, Export Oriented Units and industrial estates and townships as well as IT hardware and coal, among others, will see these sectors seeing a "revival" and create job opportunities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-cannot-dilute-covid-19-guidelines-mha-825619.html
15-04-2020||National||Need to repair your vehicles, home appliances? It's easy from April 20||Getting your electrical appliances, vehicles and computers repaired will be easy during the second leg of COVID-19 lockdown with the government on Tuesday allowing self-empoyed technicians to start operations from April 20 in their localities Fresh guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has exempted services provided by self-employed persons, including electricians, plumbers, motor mechanics, carpenters and IT mechanics from the lockdown. This comes following the difficulties faced by people during the past 21 days of lockdown when they could not get their appliances repaired. With summer setting in, there were also demands for servicing air-conditioners with officials saying such services will be allowed under the new guidelines from April 20.  While the economic hardship of this section of self-employed people is likely to ease, the trouble for drivers of taxis, cab aggregators and autorickshaws are likely to continue as the new guidelines have continued with the restrictions on such modes of transport.  Even cycle rickshaws are not allowed to ply. Public transport has already been restricted to ensure that people do not get an opportunity to get out of homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-repair-your-vehicles-home-appliances-its-easy-from-april-20-825637.html
15-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown 2.0: Money and jobs gone, stranded migrants desperate to return home||Migrant labourers who leave their villages in search of work during non-agricultural months are stranded in cities across India, leaving their families fearful that their harvest-ready crops will wither and die on the stalks and push them deeper into debt. With three weeks gone and maybe another three to go before they can even contemplate returning to their villages, the days ahead stretch interminably for the thousands of migrant labourers who decided to not take the long walk home but wait for the lockdown to end. And now, with the lockdown extended till May 3 to stem the spread of the coronavirus, the little money they had is mostly gone and so is hope it will end anytime soon. Anil Yadav, a daily wager with the parcel department of the railways who was ready to rush back to his village in Maharajganj in Uttar Pradesh to harvest the wheat crop, is still stunned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on Tuesday extending the pan India shutdown by 19 days. “I have already lost the entire sugarcane crop sown in my one 'bigha' land. It could have brought my family some money. But I can’t go back and no one can harvest the wheat on the remaining two 'bighas',,” said the 28-year-old.    “My wife, two children (aged one and three) and old parents have no support. They can’t step out even to buy necessary items. They don’t have money and now I am stuck here,” he told PTI. Sitting under a tree in the complex, dispiritedly eating his ‘dal-rice’ lunch, Yadav added that his family is staring at a huge financial crisis and plead with him everyday to return home. “But how can I?” he asked. He earned Rs 7,000-8,000 a month in his job but the money and the job have both gone. With all of India under lockdown, there are no train or inter-state bus services. Yadav is one of the 330 people, including the homeless and migrants, staying at the Yamuna Sports Complex camp that has been turned into a shelter home by the Delhi government. On April 1, a week after the first phase of the lockdown came into effect, Yadav was one of the many thousands who went to the Anand Vihar Interstate Bus Terminal hoping to manage a seat. Instead, he was packed into a bus by police and sent to the Yamuna Sports Complex.     Asha Devi, a mother of four, tries hard to fight back her tears as she talks about her two sons, one 14 and the other only six, alone at their village in Uttar Pradesh’s Banda district. “My two sons are all alone at home. The older one works as a daily wage labourer and looks after his younger brother. I am so scared,” the 36-year-old said. Sitting next to her is a group of 13 daily labourers, including her husband and her extended family members, from Uttar Pradesh’s Banda district. The group left their homes early last month to work in a brick kiln in rural Ghaziabad After the lockdown, which came into effect after Modi’s announcement on March 24, the contractor who hired them assured them of rations but suddenly disappeared leaving them with no money or food. With no option left, the group walked miles to reach Anand Vihar, only to be herded by the police to the Yamuna Sports Complex. She was forced to step out of the village with her 11-year-old daughter who helped her in the brick kiln. The eldest, also a girl, is married. “I want to go back home. If we have to die, we will do that together,” she said. She, like the others, was pinning her hopes on the lockdown ending on Wednesday. Yadav and Asha Devi echo the woes of tens of thousands of stranded migrant workers across the country, including in Mumbai where large crowds came out in Bandra on Tuesday clamouring to return to their villages.  Many complain there is no one to harvest their standing crop. Some said their families are being pushed to the brink with no money. With their jobs gone, the crops could help them sustain themselves. However, losing the crop would mean certain starvation. Gopesh Kumar, who works as a daily wager in farms in Haryana for Rs 400 a day, said he started working in a farm in Rohtak from March 15. When the lockdown began, the contractor he was working for suddenly asked him to go back. Kumar, who belongs to Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh and is spending his days like the others at the Yamuna Sports Complex shelter, said time is running out.   “I can’t earn till the lockdown ends. My family does not have money back home. Our entire standing crop of wheat has to be harvested. Who will do that?” he said.   “There would have been some relief if the lockdown was lifted. At least, I could have gone back home. But with the extension, I have to wait here for another two weeks,” he said, not quite sure of his age. Raju Kushwaha, 38, from Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, has the same question. “How will my family, including three sons, survive if we can’t harvest the crop. And if I am not there, who will do it?” Monu, 34, was planning to go home to his village in Hathras near Agra on Holi but stayed back in Delhi hoping to earn some more money so he could take his family for a pilgrimage to Rajasthan. But that never happened and Monu, who works as a waiter, is now stranded, while his wife, mother and two young children are in the village. "I had sent some money during Holi. But that was last month. Now there is no money left with the family," he said. "Due to the lockdown, I have not been able to earn anything for the past three weeks. With the extended lockdown, I will have no money for the next two weeks," Monu said. The Delhi government is feeding an estimated 7,00,000 people a day in its various camps. These include migrant labourers, beggars and other homeless people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-20-money-and-jobs-gone-stranded-migrants-desperate-to-return-home-825647.html
15-04-2020||National||Think before you give lift during COVID-19 season||Allowing a pillion rider on your motorcycle or a third person in car can land you in trouble during the extended leg of COVID-19 lockdown. The guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Wednesday have put restrictions on the number of people that can travel in a private vehicle. Movement of persons is allowed in private vehicles for emergency services, including medical and veterinary care, and for procuring essential commodities.  "In such cases, one passenger besides the private vehicle driver can be permitted in the back seat, in case of four-wheelers. However, in the case of two-wheelers, only the driver of the vehicle is permitted," the guidelines said. Like during the first leg of lockdown (March 25-April 14), buses for public transport, air, rail and metro services will not be allowed till May 3, the deadline for the extended leg of lockdown.  Inter-district and inter-state movement of individuals is allowed only for medical reasons as well as other activities permitted in the guidelines like cargo movement. All domestic and international air travel of passengers and all movement by trains, except for security purposes has been prohibited. Taxis, cab aggregators, autorickshaws and cycle rickshaws have also been banned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/think-before-you-give-lift-during-covid-19-season-825652.html
15-04-2020||National||Two injured in shelling by Pakistan Army in Rajouri||Two members of a family, including a 10-year-old girl, were injured in overnight shelling by the Pakistan Army along the Line of Control in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Wednesday. A mortar shell from across the border hit the house of Nazir Hussain at village Lamibari in Rajdhani area of Manjakote sector, resulting in injuries to two persons, the officials said. They said the injured – 70-year-old Rafiq Khan and Sonia Shabir – were rescued by a police party headed by station house officer of the local police station Manzoor Kohli amid intense shelling and shifted to district hospital Rajouri. The Pakistani Army shelled forward villages in the sector besides Balakote and Mendhar in nearby Poonch district late Tuesday. The Indian Army retaliated and the cross-border shelling between the two sides continued intermittently for several hours, the officials said adding the casualties suffered by Pakistani Army in the retaliatory action was not known immediately. The officials said a live mortar shell was found lying unexploded near a residential area in Mendhar town this morning. An Army team is at the scene to neutralize the shell, they said. Pakistani rangers also shelled areas along the IB in Hiranagar sector of Kathua district, causing panic among border residents. The firing and shelling in Chandwa area of Hiranagar began at around 9.30 pm Tuesday and continued throughout the night, they said, adding Border Security Force (BSF) personnel retaliated effectively. The guns fell silent around 4 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-injured-in-shelling-by-pakistan-army-in-rajouri-825654.html
15-04-2020||National||Provided protective kits to sanitation workers, WHO guidelines followed on coronavirus pandemic: Centre to Supreme Court||The Centre told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that sanitation workers in the country have been provided with requisite protective kits and the authorities are following the guidelines of the World Health Organization (WHO) on the coronavirus pandemic. The Centre said this before a bench of Justices N V Ramana, S K Kaul and B R Gavai which was hearing, through video-conferencing, a plea seeking directions to the authorities concerned to provide personal protective equipment (PPE) to sanitation workers who are carrying out their work amid coronavirus or COVID-19. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said doctors, healthcare professionals and other "corona warriors" like sanitation workers have been provided requisite protective gears. Advocate Mehmood Pracha, appearing for the petitioner, argued that sanitation workers are the least protected and vulnerable but proper protective kits have not been provided to them. When Pracha referred to media reports and said that one sanitation worker had died in Mumbai and such incidents have happened in other places also, the bench observed, "Don't make sweeping statements." Mehta had objected to Pracha's submissions regarding death of sanitation workers in Mumbai and at other places.  The bench, which disposed of the plea while taking into account the argument advanced by the Centre, told Pracha that he could approach the concerned high court if he has any specific case. The plea, filed by social activist Harnam Singh, had said that sanitation workers have no adequate protective gears while carrying out their work. "The present system of making the safai karamcharis /sanitation workers clear household waste and clean areas which carry the risk of potential infection of the coronavirus without the COVID-19 protective gear/PPE, is callous and amounts to violation of their fundamental right to life," the plea said. It said that unlike doctors, who work in more controlled and sanitised environment, sanitation workers function in unhygienic conditions and run a higher risk of getting infected with the virus. The plea had also sought a direction to the authorities to conduct COVID-19 testing of sanitation workers and their family members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/provided-protective-kits-to-sanitation-workers-who-guidelines-followed-on-coronavirus-pandemic-centre-to-supreme-court-825665.html
15-04-2020||National||West Bengal govt makes wearing masks compulsory for patients, relatives when visiting hospitals||In its bid to combat the spread of coronavirus cases, the West Bengal health department has made wearing masks mandatory for patients and their relatives while visiting hospitals. Those found without masks will not be allowed entry, said the memorandum on the "Standard operating protocols for preventing mixing of suspected COVID-19 patients with others" issued by the department on Tuesday night. The state government on Sunday had already made wearing masks compulsory for people visiting public places. The advisory also mentioned that "a patients relative will not be allowed to enter the isolation ward and designated ward" meant for COVID-19 patients.  A security personnel wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) would screen all patients and their relatives with thermal scanner before they enter the emergency department, it said. Anybody having fever should not be allowed to enter the emergency department. Instead he has been advised to attend fever clinic, it stated. According to the memorandum, a senior medical officer physician (SMOP), wearing protective gear, will be present in the emergency room throughout the day for primary screening of suspected COVID-19 patients. And before referring any patient to the medicine ward the emergency medical officer (EMO) should consult a senior doctor, the advisory said.  A suspected COVID-19 patient found gasping will be treated in a separate room and sent to the emergency where resuscitation facility is available, the memorandum stated. At present, West Bengal has 64 hospitals for treating COVID-19 patients and seven testing centres authorised by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-govt-makes-wearing-masks-compulsory-for-patients-relatives-when-visiting-hospitals-825672.html
15-04-2020||National||Supreme Court refuses to entertain plea for alternate medicines to treat coronavirus||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to entertain a plea seeking directions to the authorities to explore possibilities of alternate Unani and Homeopathic medicines to treat pandemic COVID-19. A bench headed by Justices N V Ramana was told by the counsel for the petitioner that since there was no medicines or treatment available for novel Coronavirus, alternate Unani and Homeopathic medicines may be explored. However, the bench also comprising Justices Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai, said."Corona is a new virus. We cant experiment around. Let experts come up with a vaccine. Wait,"  The bench then dismissed the PIL filed by one Dr C R Sivram on the issue which was heard through video conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-refuses-to-entertain-plea-for-alternate-medicines-to-treat-coronavirus-825676.html
15-04-2020||National||Govt asks all deputy secretaries, above level officers to join offices amid coronavirus lockdown||All deputy secretaries and above level officers were on Wednesday asked to join offices by the central government, nearly three weeks after they began working from home due to the lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus, according to an official communique. All joint secretaries and above level officers had joined respective central government departments from Monday. "Remaining officers and staff to attend up to 33 per cent as per requirement," according to the guidelines for the lockdown issued by the Home Ministry. All the ministries and departments, and offices under their control are to function with 100 per cent attendance of Deputy Secretary and levels above that, it said. Besides, defence, central armed police forces, health and family welfare, disaster management and early warning agencies, national informatics centre, food corporation of India, NCC, Nehru yuva kendras and customs to function without any restrictions, the guidelines said. With respect to offices of the state and union territories, the Home Ministry said district administrations and treasury (including field offices of the accountant general) will function with restricted staff. "However, delivery of public services shall be ensured, and necessary staff will be deployed for such states," it said. All other departments of state and UT governments will work with restricted staff, it added. "Group A and B officers may attend as required. Group C and levels below that may attend up to 33 per cent of strength, as per requirement to ensure social distancing," the guidelines issued by the ministry said. Police, home guards, civil defence, fire and emergency services, disaster management, prisons and municipal services will function without any restrictions, it said. "Resident Commissioner of states/UTs, in New Delhi, (will remain open) only to the extent of coordinating COVID-19 related activities and internal kitchen operations," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-asks-all-deputy-secretaries-above-level-officers-to-join-offices-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-825686.html
15-04-2020||National||Coronavirus effect: Kerala's Thrissur Pooram called off||This year's Thrissur Pooram, a famous temple festival of Kerala with much tourist attraction, has been called off in view of COVID-19. The parading of elephants and fireworks are the major attraction of the Thrissur Pooram held at the Thekkinkadu ground premises of the Vadakkunnathan temple in Thrissur town. This year's Pooram was scheduled to be held in the first week of May. A meeting of representatives of ten temples associated with the festival was convened by the government on Wednesday. All the temples, including the Paramekavu Bhagavathy temple and Thiruvambadi Sri Krishna Temple, backed the government's decision to call off the Pooram. Though there were proposals to parade at least one elephant, it was also turned down as it could even attract a crowd.  Agriculture Minister V S Sunilkumar, who chaired the meeting, said that all events planned as part of this year's Pooram were called off. Only the rituals inside the temple would be held, said Mr. Sunilkumar, who is the Thrissur MLA. The Pooram festival, considered as a mother of all temple festivals in Kerala, is being held over the last two centuries. It was called off only on a few occasions like Mahatma Gandhi's assassination and India-China war. The last time the festival was called off was in 1960's owing to some dispute among the organisers. But even on those occasions one elephant used to be paraded.  At least 1,000 temple festivals in Kerala had to be called off due to COVID-19. March-April is the peak season of temple festivals in Kerala. Animal rights activists are quite relieved that the cancellation of festivals brought relief to the elephants from the torture they allegedly face while being paraded in scorching heat for hours. Every year there used to be instances of elephants running amok during festivals and claiming lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-effect-keralas-thrissur-pooram-called-off-825687.html
15-04-2020||National||COVID-19: SC refuses to consider PIL by Agnivesh on guidelines being ignored on farming activities during lockdown||The Supreme Court, on Wednesday, refused to consider a plea by activist Swami Agnivesh alleging that guidelines allowing farming and allied activities were not being followed by the police authorities. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing on behalf of the Union Government, stated that there is full monitoring and implementation of the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare on March 28, 2020, and it will be ensured that the concerned police authorities would also naturally follow these guidelines. “I have serious reservations for this particular petition. These are self-employment generating petitions. The court should not entertain such petitions," he further said. The countrywide lockdown was imposed since March 25 to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, making all activities, including commercial, industrial and agricultural come to standstill in several states. On March 28, the government, however, granted relaxation in the nationwide lockdown for activities related to agriculture farming and allied activities with a view to address problems being faced by the farming community. This will also ensure uninterrupted harvesting of crops, it had said. On Wednesday, a bench of Justices NV Ramana, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and BR Gavai recorded the statement made by Mehta and disposed of the PIL by Agnivesh. During the hearing, senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for Agnivesh, said that general statements don’t help in the matter.  Mehta, however, said the court has no reason to not trust us.  On this, the court wrapped up hearing on PIL after recording SG’s statement that appropriate steps are being taken to address the prayers in the petition, and that everything has been stated in multiple affidavits. "Gonsalves is the busiest lawyer nowadays. He is everywhere," Mehta also said, during the hearing conducted through video conferencing. Responding to a plea by activists Harsh Mander and Anjali Bharadwaj on plight of migrant workers, the Centre had, on April 7, asked the court not to encourage "self-serving petitions" filed on the basis of newspaper reports, when "pro-active and pre-emptive steps" were being taken to come out of the unprecedented global crisis due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Centre had also submitted that as many as 22,567 relief camps have been set up by state governments, housing 6,31,119 workers. As many as 4,05,908 workers were kept at 3,909 relief camps set up by the NGOs. It also pointed out 54,15,458 workers were given food by the government, 30,11,051 by NGOs and 15,05,107 by their employers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-sc-refuses-to-consider-pil-by-agnivesh-on-guidelines-being-ignored-on-farming-activities-during-lockdown-825689.html
15-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Prasar Bharati makes it mandatory for staffers to install COVID-19 tracking 'Arogya Setu' app||Public service broadcaster Prasar Bharati has made it mandatory for its staff reporting to duty in office or in the field to download and activate the government's coronavirus tracking mobile application 'Arogya Setu'. The mobile application, launched by the Union Health Ministry on April 2, helps users identify whether they are at risk of COVID-19 infection. It has been developed by the National Informatics Centre, a part of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. The Prasar Bharati, in an office memorandum to all its departments, said the government has launched 'Aarogya Setu Mobile App' which is available for both Android and iOS mobiles. This Application also provides people with important information, including ways to avoid corona infection, its symptoms, etc., it said. "The staff reporting to duty, be it in the office premises or in the field (for reporting or other activities), mandatorily install the aforesaid application," the memorandum dated April 14 said. "Security to be instructed to ensure that all those entering and leaving the premises of Prasar Bharati establishment should confirm that they have activated the app," it said The memorandum also asks all staffers to create general awareness regarding the application and encourage greater adoption and activation of the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-prasar-bharati-makes-it-mandatory-for-staffers-to-install-covid-19-tracking-arogya-setu-app-825701.html
15-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: SC considers Centre's stand of helping poor during lockdown, disposes PIL on it||The Supreme Court on Wednesday took note of the Centre's submission that it was taking steps to implement relief measures to help needy people during nation-wide lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic and disposed of a PIL seeking reliefs such as financial help and food for poor persons. A bench headed by Justice N V Ramana recorded the statement of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who explained the steps taken by the centre to address the concerns raised in the petition. The apex court, through video conferencing, was hearing the PIL filed by activist Swami Agnivesh seeking immediate relief for poor, homeless and all Economically Weaker Sections during the nation-wide lockdown to contain the spread of novel Coronavirus. The bench, which also comprised Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai, took note of Mehta's statement that the Central government was taking all steps to ensure that the benefits of relief measures reach to the poor and needy people.  The law officer said the Centre would ensure that state governments also do the needful to help the poor and its (Centre's) day-to-day directives are being complied by them. Agnivesh, represented by senior lawyer Colin Gonsalves, submitted that the government should have paid wages to the migrant workers in this hour of need. He contended that though the Centre, in its affidavit, has claimed that everything has been done to help people, but at the ground very few things have been done. During the hearing, the bench said the grievance of the petitioner was that at the ground level, the administrative authorities were not implementing relief measures. The law officer said there is no reason to "not to trust" the Centre. He said "these are self employment-generating petitions. This court should not entertain such petitions". Taking note of the submissions of the Centre, the bench then disposed of the PIL.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-sc-considers-centres-stand-of-helping-poor-during-lockdown-disposes-pil-on-it-825703.html
15-04-2020||National||COVID-19: West Bengal Governor wants police and govt officials suspended for failing to enforce lockdown||Implementation of the nationwide lockdown in West Bengal became the new bone of contention between Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday. During the day, Governor stated in a tweet stated that lockdown must be enforced successfully and the option of requisitioning Central paramilitary force can be explored. Within hours of his tweet Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee without naming the Governor said that instead of extending cooperation some are talking about deploying paramilitary forces. “Lockdown must succeed-examine central  para forces requisitioning!,” tweeted Dhankhar. Reacting to his comment without directly naming him Banerjee said “ instead of extending cooperation in such a situation some are saying that para military force are needed ( to enforce the lockdown). Why?” Dhankhar further stated that state government and police officials who are failing to enforce the lockdown should be shown the door. Emphasizing on the importance of properly enforcing the lockdown to stop the spread of COVID-19 the Governor stated in a tweet that it has to be “thoroughly implemented.” “Lockdown protocol has to be thoroughly implemented to ward off #coronavirus. Police and administration @MamataOfficial failing to effect 100% #SocialDistancing or curbing religious congregations be shown door...” Dhankhar stated in a tweet.  However, later in the day, Dhankhar lauded the efforts of the Kolkata Police in enforcing the lockdown. The development comes days after the Union Home Ministry wrote to the state’s Chief Secretary and Director General of Police regarding the “gradual dilution” of the lockdown in some areas of West Bengal. Most of these areas are minority-dominated. Reacting to the Home Ministry’s letter Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had said that “we are not fighting a communal virus but trying to fight a virus that spreads through human contact.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-west-bengal-governor-wants-police-and-govt-officials-suspended-for-failing-to-enforce-lockdown-825718.html
15-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Day after protest, cops arrest man over posts, book TV scribe||Left red-faced after a protest by migrant workers during the lockdown, authorities in Maharashtra moved to take action in the matter as they arrested a man on Wednesday for offensive social media posts and registered an FIR against a TV journalist over a false news report. A Navi Mumbai resident was arrested on early Wednesday for posting messages on his social media accounts which allegedly led to hundreds of migrant workers, stuck in Mumbai due to the lockdown, gathering near suburban Bandra railway station on Tuesday afternoon, police said. The accused, Vinay Dubey, was produced in a court which remanded him in police custody April 21, a police official said. Dubey had uploaded a video on social media in which he demanded that the Maharashtra government make travel arrangements for migrants, who are stranded due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown and want to go back to their native places, he said. He had also tweeted about the issue and called for a national-level protest if trains are not arranged till April 18 to ferry migrants workers to their native places, he said. Dubey has been booked under IPC Sections 153 A (promoting disharmony, enmity or feelings of hatred between different groups), 117 (abetting commission of offence), 188 (disobedience of order by public servant), 269, 270 (negligent and malignant act likely to spread infection of disease danger to life) and provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, he said. In a related development, an FIR has been registered against a television journalist over his report that trains would restart, which may have prompted the gathering in Bandra, a second police official said. The accused, Rahul Kulkarni, based in Osmanabad district of Maharashtra, has been detained and police are in the process of bringing him to Mumbai, he said. In a recent news report, Kulkarni claimed Jan Sadharan (unreserved) special trains would resume for people stranded due to the lockdown, he said. He has been booked under IPC Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant and 269, 270 (negligent, malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 117 (abetting commission of offence by public), the official said. Openly defying the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, more than 1,000 migrant workers, most of them from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, had taken part in the Bandra protest. They were demanding that the state government make transport arrangements so that they can go back to their native towns and villages. Police had used mild force to disperse the crowd.  Meanwhile, the NCP termed the protest as unfortunate, while the Congress demanded a thorough probe. Both parties are constituents in the Shiv Sena-led government in the state. NCP chief Sharad Pawar termed the gathering of migrant workers as unfortunate and stressed such incidents should not recur in the face of the COVID-19 crisis. Pawar said people gathered outside the station after somebody circulated the rumour that trains services will resume, adding precautions need to be taken to ensure that such confusing messages are checked. The former Union minister urged political parties to desist from scoring points over each other during the ongoing crisis and asked them to defeat COVID-19 collectively. Congress leader and Maharashtra minister Ashok Chavan demanded a thorough probe into the gathering and said it was an attempt to disrupt communal harmony and negate the state's efforts to fight the coronavirus outbreak. Addressing a press conference in New Delhi through a video link, Chavan cited a letter of the South Central Railways for starting special trains to transport migrant labourers that might have triggered the gathering at Bandra. The former chief minister said a police probe into the matter has already been launched and the guilty will be brought to book. Chavan said he smelt a political conspiracy behind the campaigns being run on social media to impose President's Rule in Maharashtra. "Whatever happened on Tuesday, there needs to be a thorough investigation into it. There are some who want to disturb the communal harmony in Maharashtra and negate the state's efforts to fight coronavirus," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-day-after-protest-cops-arrest-man-over-posts-book-tv-scribe-825721.html
15-04-2020||National||Railways to refund Rs 660 crore for cancellation of over 39 lakh ticket bookings||Indian Railways will forgo around Rs 660 crore in revenue as it is refunding the amount towards cancellation of around 39 lakh ticket bookings for travel between April 15 to May 3, the extended phase of the nationwide lockdown to fight coronavirus pandemic. The Railways had not stopped bookings for journeys beginning April 15. On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced extending the 21-day nationwide lockdown till May 3. The initial spell of the drastic measure was scheduled to end at midnight of April 14.  “The total amount that will be refunded is around Rs 660 crore. Around 39 lakh bookings were made between April 15 and May 3,” a top official of the national transporter told PTI. The Indian Railways has said that all passengers will get a full refund for tickets booked for the period of the extended lockdown. It added that the amount would be automatically refunded to online customers, while those who booked tickets at the designated reservation counters could claim the refund till July 31. Following the prime minister's announcement, the Indian Railways extended the suspension of all its passenger services till the end of the lockdown. According to official data, a staggering 20 million people travel daily on nearly 15,000 passenger trains across the country. The Railways said no advance reservation of train tickets, including e-tickets, will be allowed till further orders, though the facility of online cancellation will remain functional. However, people on social media said that the Railways has deducted the convenience fee per online booking while making the refunds. “When train is cancelled, the passenger is refunded full fare. Convenience fees is not refunded which are nominal to an individual and used for day-to-day maintenance and upgradation of the ticketing facility,” the railways explained in a statement.  The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) charges nominal convenience fee of Rs 15 per ticket for booking non AC travel and Rs 30 for air conditioned and first class tickets. "A full refund will also be there for those cancelling advance bookings for trains not cancelled yet," the national transporter said. Before the coronavirus outbreak, on an average, around 8.5 lakh tickets were booked on the IRCTC website daily. After the prime minister's announcement of a 21-day lockdown across the country, the railways had announced suspension of all passenger services till April 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-refund-rs-660-crore-for-cancellation-of-over-39-lakh-ticket-bookings-825724.html
15-04-2020||National||Mamata's officials failing to enforce coronavirus lockdown be shown the door: Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar||Unhappy over the way the lockdown is being enforced in West Bengal, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said on Wednesday the police and administrative officials not following the protocol be shown the door and depoloyment of central paramilitary forces be considered. "Lockdown protocol has to be thoroughly implemented to ward off #coronavirus. Police and administration @MamataOfficial failing to effect 100% #SocialDistancing or curbing religious congregations be shown door," Dhankhar tweeted. "Lockdown must succeed-examine central para forces requisitioning!" the governor added. Lockdown must succeed-examine central para forces requisitioning! The Union Home Ministry had also recently flagged "gradual dilution" of the lockdown in some parts of the state. Most of these localities are minority-dominated, and the state BJP unit has repeatedly alleged that lockdown was not being properly enforced in these areas. The home ministry also said despite the Centre issuing orders from time to time under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, these were not being followed. Reacting to the Centre's letter, Banerjee had said the Union government was only interested in "extra vigilance in some specific areas". "We are not fighting any communal virus, we are fighting a disease spreading through human contact. Wherever we find any problem, steps will be taken to ensure that the lockdown is imposed there, but that doesn't mean shops would remain closed... We are keeping a close watch," she had said. Dhankhar has been at loggerheads with the state government over a host of issues ever since taking office in July last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamatas-officials-failing-to-enforce-coronavirus-lockdown-be-shown-the-door-governor-jagdeep-dhankhar-825727.html
15-04-2020||National||COVID-19: SC disposes of plea against Kerala HC order for lifting road blockade||The Supreme Court, on Wednesday, disposed of two petitions, including by Advocates Association Bangalore, arising out of the Kerala High Court's order to remove closure of national highway by Karnataka on high incidence COVID-19 patients in Kasargod. The top court noted that the issue has already been resolved by Karnataka and Kerala on intervention by the Centre. A bench of Justices NV Ramana, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and BR Gavai found that two petitions filed by Congress leader Mithun M Rai, and the Advocates Association, Bengaluru, have thus become infructuous. During the hearing, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted with the top court's order of April 7 passed on Karnataka government's petition, that the matter had already been resolved. Kerala and Karnataka had then agreed to movement of patients for medical treatment at the inter-state border at Talapadi. Rai, who fought the Lok Sabha polls unsuccessfully from Dakshina Kannada constituency, had filed a special leave petition in the top court through advocate Sanjay M Nuli. He had challenged the Kerala HC's order of April 1 for removal of the blockade. He contended that the large inflow of people from Kasargod to Mangaluru would place a huge burden upon the healthcare facilities in Mangaluru, in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. A similar plea was filed by the Advocates Association, Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-sc-disposes-of-plea-against-kerala-hc-order-for-lifting-road-blockade-825728.html
15-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Indian Railways to produce PPEs on a large scale||To boost the supply of PPEs (Personal Protection Equipment), Indian Railways is planning to produce it on a mass scale.  In the current month, different workshops of the national transporter will produce over 30,000 PPEs and another 1,00,000 units in the next month.  Production Units, Zonal Railway Workshops and field units of Indian Railways have geared up to manufacture PPE in large numbers, the railways said in a statement.  In order to fill the gap in availability and requirements of PPEs, Jagadhari Workshop of Northern Railway had taken the initiative to design and manufacture a prototype PPE coverall. The railways' prototype PPEs already cleared the prescribed tests with the highest grades at the authorised DRDO laboratory at Gwalior.  The railway is already working on to convert more than 5000 of its passenger coaches into mobile quarantine/isolation facilities, in a very short period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-indian-railways-to-produce-ppes-on-a-large-scale-825732.html
15-04-2020||National||Coronavirus tally mounts to 727 in UP, govt ramps up testing||With 67 people testing positive for Coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh in the past 24-hours, the total number of COVID 19 cases in the state has gone up to 727. The number of deaths from virus infection also rose to 11 after three more people lost the battle against COVID 19 on Wednesday. Most of the people, who died from the infection, had one or the other underlying medical conditions.  A government spokesman here said that as many as 55 Coronavirus positive patients had recovered fully and had been discharged from the hospitals so far. He said that over 2400 samples were tested on Tuesday. ''We have asked the district authorities to send more samples for testing,'' the spokesman added.  He said that the district officials had been directed to strictly enforce the lockdown and allow people to come out of their homes only in the event of emergencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-tally-mounts-to-727-in-up-govt-ramps-up-testing-825738.html
15-04-2020||National||As COVID-19 cases cross 500, Andhra Pradesh to double tests to 4000 daily||Andhra Pradesh government has decided to double the COVID-19 tests to 4,000 per day, as cases crossed 500 in the state. As of Wednesday (April 15) morning, a total of 502 positive cases are registered in the state. While 475 patients are undergoing treatment in the hospitals, 16 have recovered and discharged. COVID-19 has claimed 11 lives till now.   Guntur with 118 cases is topping the chart, while Srikakulam and Vizianagaram have reported zero cases, so far. Reviewing the situation on Wednesday, Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has directed officials to augment the COVID-19 testing capacities.  At present over 2000 tests are being conducted daily which would be scaled up to 4,000 a day in 4-5 days using the TrueNat TB testing equipment, officials said. The third round of health survey covering 1.43 crore households out of a total of 1.47 crore households in the state had identified 32,349 people for medical examination. CM has asked officials to later conduct random tests on the public considering mandal, as a unit. The state has seven viral research diagnostic labs with the capacity to conduct 300-400 tests every day. On Monday, 2010 samples were tested across the state and the cumulative number of samples tested till Tuesday evening is 10505.  Last week, Reddy had unveiled a COVID-19 test kit costing Rs 1200, which can reveal the results within 55 minutes. These cartridges are PCR – Polymerase Chain Reaction based, into which nasal or throat swab samples are taken and assessment is carried utilizing the existing 230 Tuberculosis test machines. The Visakhapatnam based Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone is manufacturing 2000 such testing cartridges per day, as of now. As of Tuesday (April 14), 5864 people are in 338 quarantine centres in the state’s 13 districts. Officials informed Rs 500 as being spent daily on every person for their food, bed and blanket, Rs 50 for sanitation purpose, and Rs 600 on from home and back transportation. Reddy has ordered Rs 2000 financial assistance to the poor who are returning home from quarantine centers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-covid-19-cases-cross-500-andhra-pradesh-to-double-tests-to-4000-daily-825741.html
15-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Effect: NHAI revenue loss estimated at Rs 1,822 cr, says Icra||National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is likely to incur revenue losses of Rs 1,822 crore due to suspension of toll collection on national highways during the 40-day lockdown, rating agency Icra said on Wednesday. The revenue loss for NHAI operated toll plazas is estimated at Rs 821 crore, while the compensation to BOT Concessionaires under force majeure (political) event is estimated at Rs 1,001 crore, Icra said in a statement. The Ministry of Road Transportation and Highways (MORTH) has suspended tolling on all national highways, following the 21-day lockdown as per Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) guidelines, which has now been extended by another 19 days till May 3. As per the MORTH circular dated March 25, 2020, the toll suspension would be treated as force majeure event and thereby results in a loss to NHAI.  "The total estimated loss to NHAI due to lockdown is likely to be Rs 1,822 crore. With goods traffic (both inter and intra state) allowed to ply from April 20, 2020 onwards, in case if the toll suspension is revoked with effect from April 20, the loss could reduce to Rs 1,181 crore," the statement said. Rajeshwar Burla, Vice President, Corporate Ratings, Icra said, "There are around 570 operational toll plazas on the national highways across the country which includes both public funded (under NHAI) and projects under build-operate-transfer (BOT) (Toll) and toll-operate-transfer (TOT) mode. For the BOT Toll and TOT projects, under force majeure (political) event, the revenue loss is compensated in the form of extension in concession period". In addition, 100 per cent of operations and maintenance (O&M) and interest costs are reimbursed for the BOT Toll projects for the affected period, he said, adding this would amount to 50-55 per cent of loss of revenue incurred by these projects. Whereas for projects which are public funded (currently being tolled by NHAI through toll contractors), the suspension would result in a direct revenue loss for NHAI. The statement said the suspension may be revoked from April 20, 2020 as the goods traffic is allowed to ply as per new MHA guidelines in which case, if toll suspension is revoked from April 20, the loss could reduce to Rs 1,181 crore. Icra said the total amount of toll collected through the 570 toll plazas in FY2019 stood at Rs 24,396 crore, averaging Rs 66.84 crore per day which was assumed to increase at 3 per cent thereafter. Drawing parallels with de-monetisation in November 2016, Icra note said that after the 24-day period toll suspension post de-monetisation, NHAI offered compensation to the toll road SPVs under force majeure political clauses and incurred loss in the range of Rs 650-700 crore. Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari yesterday said that the NHAI may be directed to compensate the losses incurred.  "In view of COVID-19, it has been ordered to temporarily suspend the collection of toll at all toll plazas across India," Gadkari had announced last month. This will not only reduce inconvenience to emergency services but also save critical time, the minister has said. NHAI had rolled out the electronic toll collection programme across India in December on its over 500 toll plazas while doubling toll charges from the vehicles entering FASTag lanes without the tag. In order to give prime importance to existing FASTag users, dissuade defaulters and further encourage adoption of FASTags by national highway commuters, vehicles without FASTags entering the FASTag lane were being charged double the toll fee, and last month over Rs 20 crore were collected from 20 lakh vehicles encroaching FASTag lanes across India. About two crore FASTags have been issued through multiple Point of Sale (PoS) locations. FASTag transaction by NHAI last month had crossed four million per day. In order to further increase digital collection of user fee via FASTag at national highways fee plazas, NHAI had also waived off the FASTag cost of Rs 100 for NHAI FASTag.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-effect-nhai-revenue-loss-estimated-at-rs-1822-cr-says-icra-825746.html
15-04-2020||National||Very strong containment measures will be implemented in hotspot districts: Govt||Very strong containment measures will be implemented in the hotspot districts accounting for a large number of COVID-19 cases or those with the fast growth of such cases, the government said on Wednesday. All health services, including AYUSH, hospitals, nursing homes, clinics, telemedicine facilities, dispensaries, chemists, pharmacies as well as all kinds of medicine shops, Jan Aushadhi Kendras and medical equipment shops, will remain functional, according to the new guidelines issued by the Centre a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the extension of the nationwide lockdown till May 3. "Very strong containment measures will be implemented in the hotspot districts accounting for a large number of COVID-19 cases or with the fast growth of cases," a government statement on the guidelines said. "Only essential services are to be permitted in these zones and strict perimeter control and strict restrictions on movement enforced," it said. "Hotspots'' -- areas of large COVID-19 outbreaks -- or clusters with a significant spread of COVID-19 will be determined as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW), the guidelines said. Later, the health ministry declared 170 districts hotspots and identified 207 as non-hotspots. In the hotspots, containment zones will be demarcated by states/union territories/district administration as per the guidelines of the health ministry, it said. "In these containment zones...There shall be strict perimeter control in the area of the containment zones to ensure that there is no unchecked inward/outward movement of population from these zones except for maintaining essential services (including medical emergencies and law and order related duties) and government business continuity," they said. The guidelines stated that medical laboratories and collection centres, pharmaceutical and medical research labs, institutions carrying out COVID-19 related research, veterinary hospitals, dispensaries, clinics, pathology labs and sale and supply of vaccine and medicine will remain operational.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/very-strong-containment-measures-will-be-implemented-in-hotspot-districts-govt-825747.html
15-04-2020||National||Police invokes culpable homicide charges against Tablighi chief; Look Out Circular against 1,900||Delhi Police has invoked charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad Kandhalvi and others in connection with the mid-March religious gathering in the National capital that led to the spread of COVID-19. Police has also issued a Look Out Circular against 1,890 followers of Tablighi Jamaat for visa violations to ensure that they do not leave the country. Investigators have also issued fresh notices to Maulana Saad and 16 others to join the probe. Eleven of them, including Maulana Saad, have not joined probe citing they are on home quarantine. Over 2,300 people were evacuated from Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in south Delhi's Nizamuddin late in March after reports emerged that those who left the National capital for their home states and their contacts have contracted COVID-19. A large number of COVID-19 cases were traced back to the mid-March religious gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat. Earlier, Maulana Saad was traced to his Zakir Nagar residence in south-east Delhi. According to the FIR registered on March 31, Maulana Saad and officials Dr Zeeshan, Mufti Shehzad, M Saifi, Younus, Mohd Salman and Mohd Ashraf were named as the accused. The case registered under Epidemic Diseases Act and Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code. They were accused of organising the religious gathering and allowing visitors to continue living in the campus despite instructions from the authorities. Police are also looking into the veracity of an audio clip in which Maulana Saad is purportedly heard saying there was no need to fear COVID-19 and insisting that there was no need to obey the instructions. Police said they had asked the Tablighi Jamaat authorities to ensure social distancing in its campus. On its part, the Tablighi Jamaat said it had no new visitors after the lockdown was imposed in the country and all inmates were stuck inside the campus due to the restrictions imposed by the government. It had also claimed that it had sought government help to transport these people out of Delhi. Early in April, the Ministry of Home Affairs had revoked the tourist visas of 960 foreigners belonging to Tablighi Jamaat, which is linked to a surge in COVID-19 cases, and put them in a blacklist for indulging in missionary activities by violating the norms. The MHA also directed Delhi Police and Directors General of Police of other states to take necessary legal action against 960 foreigners for violating the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946 and the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-invokes-culpable-homicide-charges-against-tablighi-chief-look-out-circular-against-1900-825752.html
15-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: PM Modi lauds chess players' innovative method of raising money||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday lavished praise on Indian chess players, including world champion Vishwanathan Anand, for coming up with an "innovative" way to raise funds for the country's fight against COVID-19 pandemic. Five leading players Vidit Gujrathi, P Harikrishna and B Adhiban, Koneru Humpy and Dharika, alongside Anand had participated in an online chess exhibition and helped raise Rs 4.5 lakh for the PM-CARES Fund. "Innovative effort and kind gesture by our chess players, including @vishy64theking, @viditchess, Pentala Harikrishna, B. Adhiban and @HarikaDronavali," Modi tweeted. "Am sure the participants would have had an enriching experience," he added. In India, the COVID-19 pandemic has so far claimed over 350 lives while infecting close to 12,000 across the country. On Tuesday, Modi extended the lockdown till May 3 in a bid to contain the spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-pm-modi-lauds-chess-players-innovative-method-of-raising-money-825753.html
15-04-2020||National||Encouragement to rural activity focus of relaxation from April 20: MHA||Encouragement to the rural economy is the focus of relaxations given under the consolidated revised guidelines issued by the Home Ministry for the extended lockdown period to contain the spread of coronavirus, a senior official said. The relaxations to some activities given in the guidelines announced on Wednesday will come into force from April 20 and are only for areas which are not declared COVID-19 hotspots, Additional Secretary in the Home Ministry Govind Mohan said. Addressing a press conference, he also made it clear that no movement of migrant labourers is possible till the lockdown continues as no public transport is permitted to operate during the period. The home ministry has provided funds under state disaster relief provisions to extend facilities at relief and shelter camps for labourers and shall continue to extend support, Mohan said. He said the activities allowed as per the revised guidelines are focussed at providing encouragement to the rural economy. "Keeping in mind encouragement to rural economy, MNREGA activities have been permitted with conditions of wearing masks and adopting social distancing norms. Priority of MNREGA works should be water conservation and irrigation works," Mohan said. He said the ministry kept agriculture-related activities open in previous guidelines also which have been reiterated in the revised guidelines. "Besides, states and UTs have been asked to decentralise procurement and marketing in agriculture as much as possible so that farmers do not face any problems in procurement and marketing of products," he said. People involved in animal husbandry, aquaculture and horticulture have been allowed to work, Mohan said, adding that supply chains in animal husbandry and rural industries with focus on food processing have been allowed.  Common Service Centres in rural areas where people can pay their bills and download the Arogya Setu app will now be open, he said. Addressing a press conference, the official said the relaxations come with two main conditions -- all the directives of the guidelines should be strictly followed and some preliminary action needs to be taken with regard to social distancing in sectors where activities are being permitted. He said the health ecosystem was fully functional. Essential goods supply chains, neighbourhood stores, kirana stores can remain open, he said. All district magistrates have been asked to strictly implement the National Covid Directives issued under the guidelines, like wearing masks, social distancing, prohibition on gathering of over five persons, etc., Mohan said, adding that violations will attract penalty. "All industrial, commercial and other establishments allowed to function under the guidelines will have a standard operating procedure in conformity with social distancing protocols," Mohan said. "The lockdown will continue, there should be no doubt in anyone's mind," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/encouragement-to-rural-activity-focus-of-relaxation-from-april-20-mha-825767.html
15-04-2020||National||Government to ensure potable water to everyone amid coronavirus pandemic, says Health Ministry||Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) has issued an advisory on the supply of safe drinking water amid coronavirus pandemic. The advisory asks all Public Health Engineering Departments/ Boards/ Nigams of the State Governments need to ensure supply of potable water to vulnerable sections of the society. The vulnerable section includes people residing in relief camps, places of quarantine, hospitals, old age homes, poor strata of society and slums. The MoHFW has also suggested various measures for clean drinking water, which includes adding of bleaching powder, chlorine tablets, potash alum, Sodium hypochlorite solution to purify water. These chemicals are listed under essential goods. In order to fetch water from a commonplace, the government suggested maintaining social distancing. To ensure water safety in rural areas, the government will provide water testing kits to keep a check on the water quality round the clock. "Sufficient field test kits may be made available to the villagers trained in their use and they may be advised to do periodic testing of water supplied and alert all concerned in the event of any contamination," said the advisory. The government has issued the advisory amid the virus crisis that has affected more than 11,000 people across India, causing deaths of over 390 people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-to-ensure-potable-water-to-everyone-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-says-health-ministry-825769.html
15-04-2020||National||Andhra Pradesh High Court sets aside Jagan govt's English medium order||An ambitious plan of the Jaganmohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh to offer English medium education in all the government schools has hit a legal barricade. The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Wednesday set aside the government orders intended to convert school education to English medium, saying that children and parents should be given the choice in the language of learning. Reddy’s decision last year has attracted disapproval from various quarters – from a section of academics to politicians like TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu, JanaSena’s Pawan Kalyan and even vice-president of India M Venkaiah Naidu, who advocated teaching in the mother tongue. According to the YSRCP government’s earlier plans, classes 1 to 6 would switch to English medium from 2020-21 academic year, while 7th to 10th would be added gradually in the next four years. There are 44,512 government schools in the state, with Telugu as the primary language. After the transformation, Telugu was to remain only as a compulsory subject in every class.   Reacting to criticism, Reddy had called Chandrababu Naidu, Pawan Kalyan and Venkaiah Naidu hypocrites for sending their kids, grandchildren to corporate schools but wanting the poor to uphold Telugu pride and language sentiment. The GOs were challenged in the High Court through PILs, including that of a local BJP leader.   Reacting after the order, AP’s school education minister Adimulapu Suresh stated their English medium plan as in accordance with aspirations of the common man, sending their kids to private schools for English, paying fees beyond their capacities. “Is it a crime to offer English medium education to the poor sections of the society?” the minister reportedly asked while accusing the opposition TDP as playing politics in a matter of children’s future. The government has defended its move saying that a Telugu medium school would function, one each in every mandal. Over one lakh teachers are already trained for the change, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-high-court-sets-aside-jagan-govts-english-medium-order-825771.html
15-04-2020||National||Kerala man carries aged father on shoulders as police blocks vehicle||A middle-aged man at Kollam in Kerala had to carry his father on shoulders for nearly a kilometre as police blocked vehicle. George, a native of Kulathupuzha on the outskirts of Kollam district was admitted to Punalur government hospital a few days back. He was discharged on Wednesday and his son Roy went with his autorickshaw to bring him home.  Roy alleged that the police stopped his vehicle about one kilometre ahead of the hospital and turned down his request that he may be allowed to take the autorickshaw to the hospital to bring his father. Hence he had to park the autorickshaw about one kilometre away from the hospital and carried his father on his shoulder.  The local police, however, maintained that traffic restrictions were made as there was considerable movement of vehicles, but they did not come across anyone traveling with genuine needs and convincing documents being blocked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-man-carries-aged-father-on-shoulders-as-police-blocks-vehicle-825774.html
15-04-2020||National||Ensure public servants behave sensibly while enforcing lockdown: NHRC to Centre||Amid reports of high-handedness by officials while implementing Covid-19 lockdown, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Wednesday asked the government to ensure that public servants, including police personnel, behave in a "sensible manner" with people, particularly those belonging to the vulnerable sections. The direction came after the NHRC took cognisance of communication it received from one of its Special Monitors and human rights activist Maja Daruwala. "In order to effectively implement the lockdown guidelines, the public servants, including the police personnel, across the country, sometimes under tremendous pressure, tend to deal with the people, especially the ill-informed poor labourers, in a very harsh manner undermining their rights," Daruwala was quoted by the NHRC in a statement as saying. While acknowledging that the government agencies were "sincerely working" to deal with the "unprecedented" situation, the NHRC said it found it appropriate to bring the issues raised by the complainant to the notice of the Centre. The Centre should issue "suitable" guidelines, advisory or Standard Operating Procedures to all states and Union Territories emphasising that the public servants should "behave in a sensible manner with the people, particularly belonging to vulnerable sections, respecting human rights relating to their life, liberty and dignity", the NHRC said. The NHRC statement also said that Daruwala acknowledged that police are "doing many good things" during the lockdown and chopping of a policeman's hand in Punjab is "unforgivable". "But those, among them, who are using this time to be cruel and harsh must be stopped. Allegedly, those who are illiterate and less informed mainly the poor labourers and daily wages workers etc, are facing extreme difficulties due to shortage of food and other facilities for themselves and their families. They can be asked to stay off the streets with some degree of compassion without being cruel and abusive using excessive force," Daruwala was quoted as saying in her complaint. Earlier, the NHRC had taken cognisance of a complaint raising the issue of violation of human rights of the people suffering from mental illness during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-public-servants-behave-sensibly-while-enforcing-lockdown-nhrc-to-centre-825790.html
15-04-2020||National||37 patients walk out of hospitals in TN; baby saved from COVID-19||Tamil Nadu had something to cheer on Wednesday as 37 COVID-19 patients walked out of hospitals after recovery and a new-born baby testing negative for the virus, though it had a few things to worry about. On the same day, the state reported 38 new patients, two deaths and 22 districts were announced by the Centre as “hotspot districts with clusters.” The number of cases reported today is the second-lowest recorded in April in the state which now has a total of 1,242 positive cases, including 14 deaths and 118 discharges. The state has also increased its testing numbers in the past few days and has so far tested 21,994 samples of which 4,159 are repeat samples of the same persons. The state currently stands at the third position in the number of cases in the country, even as Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar claimed the state was prepared since January to tackle COVID-19. As many as 37 patients have walked out of various hospitals across the state since Tuesday evening taking the total number of patients discharged to 118.  “The government is well-prepared to handle the situation. Just now we have come to know that a newborn baby in Thanjavur has tested negative for Coronavirus. The mother is positive, but the baby has tested negative for COVID-19,” Vijayabhaskar told reporters on Wednesday evening. The child was born last week, and the woman had contracted COVID-19 from her family members, who had been to a “single source event”.  In the past 24 hours, the state reported two deaths – a 47-year-old man who was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital and a 59-year-old man who was receiving treatment at a private hospital. The death rate is now at 1.1 percent, which is lower than the national average, the Health Minister said. He also assured that the government has enough supply of PPEs and other medical gear needed for health care professionals. To a question, the Minister said the state has 558 containment zones and people with the influenza-like illness are being tested, besides those with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/37-patients-walk-out-of-hospitals-in-tn-baby-saved-from-covid-19-825792.html
15-04-2020||National||Only one fresh COVID-19 case in Kerala, seven negative||Only one fresh COVID-19 case was reported in Kerala on Wednesday, while seven infected persons were cured, bringing down the number of infected persons now to 167, while 218 got cured and two died. It was for the first time after March 19 that only one fresh case was being reported in Kerala.   As part of continuing the vigil, the health authorities in Kasargod initiated door to door visits by health workers to ensure the health status of individuals. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that a decision on relaxing lockdown norms in Kerala would be decided by the Cabinet on Thursday.  Meanwhile, 21 cancer care centres were opened across Kerala to ensure swift medical attention to cancer patients in case of any illness during lockdown days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-one-fresh-covid-19-case-in-kerala-seven-negative-825793.html
15-04-2020||National||22 more test positive for coronavirus in J&K, toll 300||While 18 of these cases were detected in the Kashmir division, four were reported from Jammu. The total number of positive cases in Kashmir has reached 246 while Jammu has 54 cases. “22 new cases reported from J&K today. Jammu-4 Kashmir-18. All contacts of positive cases. Total number of positive cases now 300 Jammu-54 and Kashmir-246 Daily bulletin follows-will indicate further details,” J&K government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal, tweeted. Jammu and Kashmir's 300 cases put it at number 11 in terms of number of cases among all states and union territories in India.    An official in the health department said the surge in testing has been initiated by pooling infrastructure and manpower from various departments and institutions. He said the purpose of the scale up was to reduce further spread of infection, a strategy that the J&K government has embarked on to flatten the curve of COVID19.    Meanwhile, authorities in the Valley have completely sealed off the red zones to contain the spread of coronavirus even as the lockdown in J&K entered the 28th day on Wednesday. Police and paramilitary forces have sealed off main roads in most places in the valley and erected barriers at several other places to check the movement of the people and to enforce the lockdown. At several places permanent barricades have been erected on roads and lanes in Srinagar, drawing flak from the public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/22-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-jk-toll-300-825796.html
15-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Centre allows States to restart MGNREGS works to ease rural distress||Centre has allowed the State Governments to restart works under the rural job scheme from next week to open up livelihood opportunities in the villages.     The works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) will be exempted from the nationwide lockdown from Monday. The move is apparently aimed at easing the distress in the rural economy caused by the curbs imposed to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. The Centre, however, asked the State Governments to ensure strict adherence to the social distancing norms in order to protect the workers from the COVID-19 virus. The villagers would also have to wear face masks always while participating in the MGNREGS works.    “All district and state-level authorities must be sensitized to imperatives of maintaining social distancing, use of home-made protective face covers and repeated washing of hands with soap and water,” Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary of the Ministry of Rural Development, wrote to the senior officials of the state governments on Wednesday.  Soon after the Union Government on March 24, imposed the lockdown as well as travel and transport curbs to contain the pandemic, the implementation of the MGNREGS was officially suspended in several states.  The lockdown, which was originally scheduled to end on April 14, has now been extended till May 3. But the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Wednesday issued revised guidelines for the extended period. It also announced certain exemptions that would come into effect next Monday. The works under the MGNREGS has now been included in the list of exemptions from the lockdown. With the Centre now focusing on agriculture and allied sectors to start the process of bringing the economy back on track, it asked the State Governments to prioritize works related to irrigation and water conservation while selecting the jobs to be done under the MGNREGS. The other Central and State schemes in irrigation and water conservation may also be allowed to be implemented (during the lockdown) and suitably dovetailed with the MGNREGS works, according to the MHA guidelines.  The MGNREGS – mandated by Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act – is designed to guarantee at least 100 days of wage employment in a financial year to every rural household having adults ready to do unskilled manual work. With tens of thousands of jobless migrant workers fleeing the cities in the wake of the lockdown and returning to the villages, the demand for the MGNREGS job is likely to go up in the coming months. The implementation of the MGNREGS will continue to remain prohibited in the COVID-19 containment zone. “It is also reiterated that if any new area is included in the category of (COVID-19) containment zone, the MGNREGS activities allowed in that area till the time of its categorization as a containment zone will be immediately suspended,” Bhushan added in his letter to the State Government officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-allows-states-to-restart-mgnregs-works-to-ease-rural-distress-825799.html
15-04-2020||National||Zoos asked to remain on high alert of COVID-19, SC told||The Central Zoo Authority has informed the Supreme Court that it has issued instructions to monitor regularly and initiate fortnightly Covid-19 testing of the suspects among mammals and carnivores especially the cat, ferret and primates. Zoos in India have been asked to remain on high alert in view of a Tiger having been found Covid-19 positive in New York. The USA Department of Agriculture's National Veterinary Services Laboratories, in a statement on April 5, 2020, has confirmed SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19) in a Tiger housed in the Bronx Zoo, New York. The Central Zoo Authority comes under Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. It has filed a response to a PIL filed by activist Sangeeta Dogra seeking urgent steps to take care of the animals housed in zoos across the country, on the emergence of Covid-19 pandemic. In a status report about measures being undertaken, it said samples of suspect cases would be sent to the designated animal health institutes while following all biocontainment and safety measures required to handle this high-risk pathogen as per the ICMR guidelines. The designated centres are National Institute of High-Security Animal Disease, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, National Research Centre on Equines, Hisar, Haryana, and Centre for Animal Disease Research and Diagnostic, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar, Bareilly, UP. Giving further measures, it said, "Zoos in the country have been asked to remain on highest alertness, watch animals on 24X7 basis, using CCTV for any abnormal behaviour or symptoms, keepers or handlers not to be allowed in the vicinity without safety gear preferably Personal Protective Equipment, isolate and quarantine sick animals and have the least contact while providing the feed."  It has asked all zoo personnel to strictly adhere to safety and disinfection protocol issued by the government, time to time, on novel coronavirus disease. Zoos were further advised to coordinate with designated nodal agencies of the government responsible for public health response and permit screening, testing and surveillance, the authority said. The top court has fixed April 20 for hearing the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zoos-asked-to-remain-on-high-alert-of-covid-19-sc-told-825800.html
15-04-2020||National||India says WHO's response should be judged after world comes out of coronavirus crisis||Even as the United States President Donald Trump accused the World Health Organisation (WHO) of “covering up the spread” of the Covid-19 virus from its epicentre in China, India on Wednesday argued that the “question” could be revisited when the world would come out of the crisis.   New Delhi cautiously avoided taking a position on Trump’s decision to suspend funding for the WHO and to review the international health agency’s role in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. Even as Trump accused the WHO of “severely mismanaging and covering up the spread” of the Covid-19 from Wuhan in central China, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is unlikely to join the US in a campaign against the international health agency, at least not overtly.  A source in New Delhi told the DH on Wednesday that the efforts and the attention of the Government of India was at present “fully focused” on dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. “Once the world has addressed this crisis, we can revisit this question,” he added, subtly hinting that the international community should now allow the WHO to guide and coordinate the global response against the pandemic and postpone evaluating its response to the outbreak at Wuhan in China later. New Delhi is keen to make it sure that its position on the issue does not appear to be overly critical of the WHO, as it will also involve indirectly supporting the theory that the international organisation was biased towards China and colluded with the government of the communist country to cover up the severity of the outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-whos-response-should-be-judged-after-world-comes-out-of-coronavirus-crisis-825811.html
15-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: SC asks Centre to consider plea by IIM prof on allowing use of labour for rabi harvest||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to consider a plea by Prof Trilochan Sastry, a faculty member at IIM Bangalore, for immediate movement of requisite labourers across districts and states for the harvest of rabi crops and sowing of Kharif crops, adversely affected due to countrywide lockdown on Covid-19 pandemic.  A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to treat the PIL by Sastry as the representation for "issuing relevant guidelines". The court said that it was aware of the various problems being faced by farmers and the agricultural sector. It stressed on the necessity to find solutions to these problems in these difficult circumstances.  The bench further observed that it had seen reports stating that certain measures were already being taken by the states in order to tackle the problem of labour shortfall.  The petitioner, a founder-secretary of the Centre for Collective Development (‘CCD’), a not-for-profit organisation working with small and marginal farmers, was led by senior advocate Nikhil Nayyar during the hearing. Nayyar argued that a total of 662.13 lakh hectares was reported as sown with various rabi crops in 2019-20 which was to be harvested in April-May 2020. But migrant labour from cities, which typically worked as farm labourers in rural India during the rabi harvesting season, have not been allowed to get to their destinations, thereby creating a gruelling shortage of labour, he said.  He also said many leading companies in the organised foods industry have been noting disruptions in their supply and distribution chains, and that their factories are working with severely reduced manpower. However, due to such shortage of labour, the entire purpose behind granting exemption of farming-related activities during the lockdown period failed as essential economic activities were being unable to reach normalcy.  The Solicitor General, for his part, said that the Union government was also cognisant of the difficulties faced by the agricultural sector and they are taking constant measures to ease the situation, including further guidelines.  Sastry sought a direction to the Centre to all necessary steps to prevent any further food grain, vegetable, or fruit loss. He also asked the court to issue specific and detailed directions for transmission and dissemination this information amongst law enforcement agencies and the general public involved in farming and food production, distribution and transport activities, keeping in mind the safety and security of the moving populace.   Sastry also contended that the State must identify all logistical bottlenecks in the food supply chains of the country, including anticipated logistical bottlenecks for the harvest of the rabi crops (2019-20 season) and sowing of the Kharif crops (2020 season), and address them immediately and in a time-bound fashion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-sc-asks-centre-to-consider-plea-by-iim-prof-on-allowing-use-of-labour-for-rabi-harvest-825818.html
15-04-2020||National||SC dismisses plea for guidelines to check police 'brutality'||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea to restrain police personnel for beating up the general public who ventured out during the lockdown. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai said that the police authorities are working hard to implement the lockdown order and without the cooperation of the citizens, they would not be successful.  The court also said that the citizens must follow the norms of social distancing and stay indoors for the benefit of their family and community.  A Public Interest Litigation, by Amit Goyal, a practising advocate from Guwahati, argued that lack of clear guidelines in public movement during the lockdown has led to uncertainty and chaos in certain areas.  The police are also not aware of the exemptions granted against movement of the public, he said.  Goyal asked the court to issue directions to the Union government to formulate guidelines to regulate the movement of the public. A similar PIL by Vishal Tiwari, also practising advocate, sought directions to the Union and state governments for registering FIR under Section 302, 304 part II, 323, 325, 341 of IPC against police officers for indulging in brutalities during the Covid-19 lockdown. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, on the contrary, submitted that relevant guidelines are already issued in the public domain and the authorities have been updated about it.   The court, however, said in the present circumstances, it would not be appropriate to pass general order or directions as the appropriate authorities have already taken cognizance of the matter. Dismissing the petitions, the bench further said if any specific instances of police excesses were found, it can be brought to the notice of the appropriate court. The petitioner, in his support, cited various instances in states of Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Telangana concerning police brutalities committed during the lockdown. After hearing the counsels on behalf of both parties, the bench observed that such instances have already been taken cognizance of by the High Courts concerned and the Human Right Commissions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-plea-for-guidelines-to-check-police-brutality-825821.html
15-04-2020||National||IMD changes monsoon onset, withdrawal dates for regions & states||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday announced new dates for onset and withdrawal of monsoon for regions and states. The dates, however, remain same for the country as a whole with onset on June 1 and withdrawal on October 15, the department said. For regions and states, the IMD said, the present normal monsoon onset and withdrawal dates was based on records of only a few stations (149 stations) from the period 1901-1940. The normal dates of onset have been revised based on data during the 1961-2019 period. The normal dates of withdrawal have been revised based on data during 1971 to 2019, it said. Monsoon onset over Kerala remains the same, which is June 1, the IMD said. "However, new monsoon advance dates over the states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar and parts of Uttar Pradesh are delayed by three to seven days compared to the existing normal dates,” Secretary, Ministy of Earth Sciences, M Rajeevan, said.   The normal monsoon onset date over Chennai was June 1 but it has now been revised to June 4. Similarly, the onset date for monsoon over Kolkata and Mumbai was June 10, but has been revised to June 11. Monsoon will be delayed by four days in the national capital. The new onset date for Delhi is June 27. In the northeast, monsoon will reach Imphal on June 5. The earlier revised date was June 1. Similarly, the onset date in Dimapur in Nagaland and Guwahati in Assam has been revised from June 2 to June 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/imd-changes-monsoon-onset-withdrawal-dates-for-regions-states-825826.html
15-04-2020||National||COVID-19 Lockdown: CRPF extends leave of personnel till May 3||The country's largest paramilitary force CRPF has extended the leave period of its personnel till the new lockdown deadline of May 3, a senior official said.  The nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 till April 14 to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, but on Tuesday it was extended till May 3 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The 3.25-lakh personnel strong Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) had earlier extended the leave period of its personnel who are at home and prohibited the movement of those on training till April 15. "The matter has been reviewed and in view of the current scenario, it is hereby directed that force's personnel who are away on leave should be advised not to return for duty till the lockdown period is over," a CRPF order, which has been accessed by PTI, said. The order was issued on Tuesday. The move is aimed to break the chain of COVID-19 and also to save our troops from infection, a senior official said. Similarly, there will be no movement of personnel who had gone on training or some courses. They have also been asked to "stay where they are", he said. Only emergency operational movements will be sanctioned after review by supervisory authorities, the official said. The CRPF is the country's lead internal security force with its three main combat theatres being anti-Naxal operations, counter-terrorist offensive in the Kashmir valley and taking on armed insurgency in the north eastern states||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-crpf-extends-leave-of-personnel-till-may-3-825851.html
15-04-2020||National||COVID-19: NITI vice-chairman, members, EAC-PM chairman take 30% salary cut for a year||Government think-tank NITI Aayog Vice-Chairman Rajiv Kumar and its members have decided to take a salary cut of 30 per cent for a year in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, an official statement said on Wednesday. Bibek Debroy, chairman of the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister, has also decided to take a 30 per cent salary cut for a year.  "In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and to shore up the government's efforts to battle the national crisis, vice-chairman and members of NITI Aayog and chairman of the EAC-PM have voluntarily decided to take a salary cut of 30 per cent for a year," the statement said. The money will be contributed to the PM Citizens' Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situation (PM-CARES) fund, it added. The Union government has set up a public charitable trust under the name of the PM-CARES Fund in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is chairman of the trust and its members include defence, home and finance ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-niti-vice-chairman-members-eac-pm-chairman-take-30-salary-cut-for-a-year-825858.html
15-04-2020||National||India allows rural poor to work in coronavirus lockdown||Restrictions on movement in the world's second-most populous nation of 1.3 billion people -- put in place in late March -- have hit the poorest the hardest, including rural migrant workers and other labourers. In cities and towns, usually bustling streets are deserted with shops shuttered, while jobless migrants who did not manage to make the long journey home to villages, often on foot, are living in crowded shelters in cities. The lockdown has also taken place during the harvest season, with farmers worried their reaping and sowing cycles will be severely disrupted and place further pressure on India's food supply chain -- already hit by transport delays. "To mitigate hardship to the public, select additional activities will be allowed," the Home Affairs Ministry said. "The revised consolidated guidelines are aimed at operating those sectors of the economy which are critical from the perspective of rural and agricultural development."    Under the new guidelines to be implemented from April 20, agriculture and related sectors including farmers' markets, logistics, repair shops and brick kilns will be restarted. Strict measures will be enforced, including the wearing of face masks or coverings. Some factories such as manufacturing will also be re-opened but staffing will be limited and working hours staggered. Factory owners are required to try and provide dormitories for workers or arrange special transport to and from the plants. Refineries, coal production and some construction will also be permitted.    The rural and industry sectors make up about 40 percent of India's GDP. Some 70 percent of India's workforce lives in rural regions. Many fear India's lockdown has pushed millions of workers, particularly in the informal economy, deeper into poverty. "There are no buyers and I'm selling very little," vegetable seller Waseem Ahmed at a market in the capital New Delhi told AFP Wednesday, adding he did not know where or when his next meal would come from. Ahmed, who is 28 and supports a family of 10, said he couldn't even leave the wholesale market as local police were beating anyone seen outside during the lockdown. India has reported just over 11,400 coronavirus cases including 377 deaths. But experts warn that more testing needs to be done to gauge how widely the infectious disease has spread. There are concerns that weaker public health care systems in South Asian nations will be unable to cope with a major outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-allows-rural-poor-to-work-in-coronavirus-lockdown-825884.html
15-04-2020||National Politics||We sought trains for migrants, Centre didn't respond: Minister||The Maharashtra government had demanded special trains from Mumbai to some places in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh to allow migrant workers to return to their natives places, but the Centre did not respond to it, a state minister said on Wednesday. More than 1,000 migrant workers, most of them from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, gathered near Bandra railway station here on Tuesday afternoon. They were demanding that the state government make transport arrangements so that they can go back to their native towns and villages. The migrants were dispersed after a couple of hours and were assured accommodation and food till the lockdown lasts, a police official earlier said. "The state government was well aware of the demands of migrant labourers that they wanted to return their home. It is evident that if there is no work, no one will allow them to stay at their current temporary accommodations in Mumbai or other parts of the state, the minister told PTI. Just before the announcement of lockdown last month, there were reports of how migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar were rushing to board any train heading towards their hometowns, he said. "That was the first time, we had requested the Centre to run special trains, he said. On March 29, when Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said his government had set up some 163 centres across the state to provide food, water and temporary shelter to the migrant labourers, the state administration was able quantify the approximate figures of migrant labourers. "The figure was between five to six lakh - of people who had approached the state run centres. Some of them had already started walking towards their hometowns while some tried to hide inside containers or tankers to reach their homes," a Shiv Sena MP from Mumbai said. A fresh update was shared with the Centre, but "it was turned down" again, he said. "We informed the Centre that we will provide enough food to these migrants so that they could reach their homes. With most of the rail routes closed, the trains leaving from Mumbai to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar would have reached in much shorter time, he said. A basic list of stations was also prepared with the help of local contractors of migrant labourers about their current location in Mumbai and at which particular station they would alight in Uttar Pradesh or Bihar, he said. The plan also included a condition that the state will allow only fit and healthy migrants to travel, while those having any kind of illness will be admitted to state-run hospital for treatment, the Shiv Sena leader said. It would have certainly restricted spread of any contagious disease, he said. "I wonder why such an idea was turned down. After all, these are the people who would suffer a lot," he said. The issue of running dedicated trains for migrant workers had come up during the video conference meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief ministers of various states, but received no positive response, another senior Shiv Sena leader said. "The government has categorically said it would arrange food for these people for next three months, but it is their request that they want to go home. We simply want to facilitate them, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/we-sought-trains-for-migrants-centre-didnt-respond-minister-825684.html
15-04-2020||National Politics||Probe role of Railways Ministry for migrant crisis: Congress to govt||The Congress on Wednesday asked the government to probe the "role" of the Railways Ministry for migrant crisis in the country, with party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra urging Prime Minister Narendra Modi to help the stranded workers reach their villages. The Congress also questioned the government on why railway bookings continued during the lockdown. "After all, why does every disaster break on the poor and the workers? Why are decisions not taken while taking them into consideration. Why are they left on God. Why was booking of railway tickets allowed to continue during the lockdown," Priyanka Gandhi asked. She said the workers were the backbone of the country and the government should help them reach their villages. "For God's sake, Narendra Modi ji please help them," Priyanka Gandhi said. "Why were special trains not arranged? Their money has finished and so have their stock of ration. They are feeling insecure and want to go home in their villages. Arrangements should have been made for them. They can still be helped with proper planning," the Congress general secretary said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress leader Ahmed Patel said the "role" of the Railways Ministry must be probed for the crisis among the migrants. "Why were train services abruptly stopped leaving migrants stranded? Why was railways accepting bookings despite no clarity on lockdown extension," he asked. Chaotic scenes were witnessed in some railway stations in Mumbai on Tuesday after a large number of migrants landed up there looking for trains to reach their homes. Police had to intervene to disperse them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/probe-role-of-railways-ministry-for-migrant-crisis-congress-to-govt-825708.html
15-04-2020||National Politics||Dividing people on religion country's worst enemy: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday came down heavily on reports that separate wards have been created in an Ahmedabad hospital for patients of different faiths, and said anyone seeking to divide people on religious lines is the worst enemy of the country. "We are one nation, and we are fighting to save ourselves from a devastating pandemic which does not distinguish between us. "Anyone seeking to divide us along the lines of religion, caste or creed is the worst kind of enemy of this great nation and its brave people," she said on Twitter. Her remarks came amid reports that the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital had earmarked separate wards for COVID-19 patients on the basis of faith.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dividing-people-on-religion-countrys-worst-enemy-priyanka-gandhi-825761.html
15-04-2020||National Politics||Aarogya Setu becomes world's fastest app to reach 5 crore downloads: Niti Aayog CEO||Government's mobile app Aarogya Setu, developed for tracking coronavirus patients, has become the world's fastest app to reach 5 crore downloads in just 13 days, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said on Wednesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation on April 14 appealed to people to download the app. "Telephone took 75 years to reach 50 million users, radio 38 yrs, television 13 yrs, Internet 4 yrs, Facebook 19 months, Pokemon Go 19 days. AarogyaSetu, India's app to fight COVID-19 has reached 50 mn users in just 13 days-fastest ever globally for an App," Kant said in his tweet. The death toll due to coronavirus rose to 377 while the number of cases in the country climbed to 11,439. Aarogya Setu app alerts people if any known or person in their vicinity has tested positive. District administration has been asking all educational institutions, departments etc to push downloading of the app. The app was developed under a committee set up by the Prime Minister's Office with the active involvement of Niti Aayg and Ministry of Electronics and IT. According to sources, Tata Consultancy Services is working on testing and some of the other aspects while Tech Mahindra and the Mahindra group is working with the committee on the next version of this application and leveraging next-generation technologies like AI, machine learning, data science. Tech Mahindra is also working on expanding the reach of Aarogya Setu on all types of phones. The current version of Aarogya Setu app is fit for use on smartphones only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aarogya-setu-becomes-worlds-fastest-app-to-reach-5-crore-downloads-niti-aayog-ceo-825798.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Be cautious and main social distance: Delhi police commissioner tells force||Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava on Tuesday asked his force to be cautious and maintain social distance while performing their duties, saying they have an important role to play in the fight against coronavirus pandemic. In an audio message to his force, the commissioner appreciated them for doing their job in a systematic manner and motivated them. Shrivastava said so far five police personnel and two family members were tested positive for coronavirus, while 168 police personnel and 12 family members were quarantined, terming it a cause of worry. Police and those associated with the medical field have an important role to play during the pandemic and under such circumstances, the Delhi Police cannot limit themselves to their homes during lockdown, he said. The police personnel will have to be extremely cautious and will have to take precautionary measures while working with colleagues, dealing with public and while performing their duties of verification, issuing challan, on picket and while visiting hospitals, as in such circumstances, they are in danger of getting infected, he added. The commissioner asked the personnel to strictly follow social distancing and maintain at least a six or seven feet distance while working with colleagues or dealing with public.  He asked them to take care of their families since police were deployed at vulnerable spots and only if they stay safe, will they be able to keep others safe. He also urged his force to download the 'AarogyaSetu' app for the health and well-being of everyone, saying it was useful. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced that the lockdown would be extended till May 3, saying it was very necessary to contain the spread of the coronavirus in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/be-cautious-and-main-social-distance-delhi-police-commissioner-tells-force-825510.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Eerie silence looms over Varanasi cremation ghats amid coronavirus pandemic||The stench of smouldering funeral pyres usually hangs heavy by the Ganges river in Varanasi, the mystical Indian city where Hindus believe being cremated will free them from the cycle of rebirth. But because of a nationwide coronavirus lockdown, the 200 to 300 bodies from all over India and beyond that are typically cremated here daily cannot be transported to the city. Now barely 30 to 40 funerals are taking place per day, all of them locals, and the usual teeming crowds of mourners, pilgrims and tourists in one of India's holiest places are eerily absent.  "We still haven't stopped working," Jagdish Chaudhary, 51, told AFP from Manikarnika, the main cremation "ghat" or embankment in Varanasi, reputedly one of the oldest cities on Earth. "But none of us has experienced this drastic fall (in cremations) and deserted ghats along the river in our lifetimes." He belongs to the Doms, the special caste who are keepers of the fire and custodians of the cremation grounds where fires burn 24 hours a day, and have done since time immemorial. The Doms pass flaming torches to the chief mourner -- whose head is freshly shaved -- to ignite the wooden pyres topped by a corpse wrapped in a white shroud and decorated with marigolds. They take turns tending the fires all night to make sure they burn properly, adding more wood or ghee -- clarified butter -- as necessary. The Doms then present the relatives with the ashes, which are given up to the sacred Ganges, where others scour the shallows for any jewellery that may have survived the flames. The Doms rely mostly on handouts of money and food, but not only are there fewer cremations now but also just five or so mourners at each, against 50 or even several hundred before. "Even through some of the worst calamities and violence, the city and its cremation ghats never looked this quiet," said Chaudhary. But, he said, at least now he can get some sleep, the first in five generations from his family to make it home to his bed at night instead of tending the fires. "At this point, everyone is just praying to the gods that coronavirus goes away soon," he added.     It's not just the locals in Varanasi affected by the lockdown -- which has been extended to at least May 3 -- but some of its visitors too. Many like Naga Bhushan Rao, a 64-year-old pilgrim from southern India's Andhra Pradesh state, are now stuck in the holy city indefinitely because all transport has stopped nationwide. "I came here with my brother's family to pray at Shiva temples. But the lockdown was announced soon after we reached here," Rao, a truck driver, told AFP. "We never thought our stay would be so long," he said by telephone from the guest house room he has now been sharing with six family members for several weeks. Tens of thousands of pilgrims who flock to Varanasi's temples from different parts of the country, as well as some who came for cremations, are confined to Varanasi, according to some estimates. Many have run out of money and locals have been helping them with food handouts, while some hotels have stopped charging. Some local activists managed to get Rao the medicine he needs for a liver complaint. "There are so many families," Narsingh Das, deputy chairman of Varanasi municipal council, told AFP. "Some are from Odisha, Maharashtra and other southern states. We are just trying to ensure all of them stuck in different hotels and accommodations get what they need," Das added. "These Varanasi ghats and temples never looked this deserted."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eerie-silence-looms-over-varanasi-cremation-ghats-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-825557.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Eight-year-old girl raped by teenager who took her to buy toffees||An eight-year-old girl was allegedly raped in Greater Noida by a 14-year-old boy who lured her on the pretext of buying her sweets, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Monday in Dankaur area of Greater Noida and the accused boy has been apprehended and sent to a juvenile correction facility, the police said. "The girl and the boy belonged to the same neighbourhood. They knew each other and often played together. Their families also know each other. On Monday, the boy told the girl's mother that he was taking her to buy her toffees," a police spokesperson said. "Later, the boy raped the girl and the matter came to light after which a complaint was filed by the girl's family and an FIR was registered," the spokesperson said. The FIR against the teenager has been registered under Indian Penal Code sections 376 (rape), 342 (wrongful confinement) and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. Further proceedings were underway, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-eight-year-old-girl-raped-by-teenager-who-took-her-to-buy-toffees-825558.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Authorities in Kashmir seal off containment zones to ensure strict lockdown amid coronavirus pandemic||Authorities in Kashmir have sealed off the containment zones to ensure strict adherence to the standard operating procedure to contain the spread of coronavirus even as the lockdown in the Valley entered the 28th day on Wednesday, officials said. The restrictions on the movement and assembly of people in Kashmir continued on Wednesday, they said. The officials said the security forces sealed off main roads in most places in the valley and erected barriers at several other places to check the unwanted movement of the people and to enforce the lockdown. Only persons with valid passes are allowed to move, they added. In the declared containment or red zones across the valley, the restrictions have been intensified as authorities have sealed those zones to ensure strict adherence to the standard operating procedure and warned of strict action against anyone who violated the prohibitory orders, the officials said. "While all entry-exit points of areas declared as containment zones have been sealed, at least half of these points in each one of these areas have been sealed with removable barriers, enabling access into and out of them as and when required," they said. The local mohalla committees of all such areas have been reached out to and are onboard the administration's efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19, the officials said. The administration has put in place an elaborate and a comprehensive mechanism to ensure all requirements and needs of the residents are covered for as long as these areas remain under restrictions, they said. Markets across the valley were shut and public transport was off the roads with only pharmacies and groceries allowed to open, the officials said. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir has risen to 278. Four patients have died of the disease while 20 have recovered in the union territory More than 55,000 people have been kept under surveillance including those who are either in government established quarantine facilities or in home isolation. "Till date 55,498 travellers and persons in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance which include 7,760 persons in home quarantine including facilities operated by government, 365 in hospital quarantine, 244 in hospital isolation and 30,952 under home surveillance. Besides, 16,173 persons have completed their 28-day surveillance period," the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/authorities-in-kashmir-seal-off-containment-zones-to-ensure-strict-lockdown-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-825584.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: All 5 who died of coronavirus in Bhopal were gas tragedy victims||All five persons who died due to coronavirus in Bhopal were victims of the 1984 gas tragedy in the Madhya Pradesh capital, an official said on Wednesday. On March 21, some organisations working for the survivors of the Bhopal gas tragedy had written to the authorities concerned, saying such people were five times more vulnerable to the coronavirus infection. "All the five persons who died after contracting COVID-19 here were victims of the Bhopal gas tragedy," the official said. A hospital in the city dedicated for the treatment of gas mishap survivors has been turned into a facility for coronavirus patients, causing hardship to these people, Rachna Dhingra, member of the NGO Bhopal Group for Information and Action, told PTI. The first coronavirus victim in Bhopal, a 55-year-old man, died at a hospital on April 5 due to negligence of authorities, she alleged. Another 80-year-old gas tragedy victim, who was a retired employee of the Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL), was also not given due medical care. He died on April 8 and his sample came out positive for coronavirus on April 11, Dhingra said. Besides, a 40-year-old gas tragedy victim, who was suffering from oral cancer for more than a year, died on April 12 and his sample test report later came out positive for coronavirus, she said. Another 52-year-old gas mishap survivor, who suffered from a permanent injury, had a history of tuberculosis and could not get prompt care for his respiratory problems. He recently tested positive for coronavirus and died on his way to the COVID-19 ward at Hamidia hospital, she said. Also, a 75-year-old senior journalist, who survived the gas tragedy, died on April 11 and his sample test report came out positive for coronavirus on Tuesday, she said. On March 21, some organisations working for the welfare of gas tragedy survivors wrote to the state and central authorities concerned, saying an overwhelming number of gas victims suffer from respiratory, cardiovascular, kidney problems and cancer as a result of exposure to the toxic gas that leaked at the Union Carbide factory here in 1984. They claimed that these survivors were at least five times more vulnerable to COVID-19 than other people. Instead of paying special attention to the needs of Bhopal gas victims, the state government took over the only super-speciality Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Center (BMHRC)for gas victims, and turned it into a medical facility for COVID-19 patients, Dhingra said. For the last 22 days, no gas victim is even allowed to avail emergency services there, she said. In a letter to gas relief hospital's monitoring committee chairman, retd Justice V K Agrawal, the NGOs pointed out all these aspects and urged him to re-start the medical facility for gas victims considering their vulnerability.  The NGOs have also filed a writ petition in the Madhya Pradesh High Court, demanding that gas victims be provided a dedicated medical facility for their treatment, as was the practice earlier. Arif Aqueel, the former state minister of Bhopal Gas Tragedy Relief and Rehabilitation Department, also said that the decision to close BMHRC for gas victims was not in the interest of these people, and they should be given treatment at this facility on priority, especially in the OPD. Asked whether the five persons who died of coronavirus here were gas tragedy victims, Aqueel said he has no information about it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-all-5-who-died-of-coronavirus-in-bhopal-were-gas-tragedy-victims-825587.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||117 new COVID-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh; tally rises to 544||The total number of coronavirus cases in Indore went up to 544 after 117 new cases were reported from the Madhya Pradesh city on Wednesday, an official said. Till late Tuesday night, the state's industrial hub reported 427 COVID-19 cases. "A report from a Delhi-based laboratory has found 117 more people of Indore infected with the coronavirus. Now, the number of COVID-19 cases in the city has gone up to 544. Of these, 37 patients have so far died during treatment," Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Praveen Jadia said. An analysis of the data shows that till Wednesday morning, the death rate of COVID-19 patients in the city was around 6.8 per cent, higher than the national average. "Most of the new patients from Indore are either relatives or close acquaintances of people who earlier tested positive for coronavirus. All those who came in contact with these patients have already been isolated as a precaution," Jadia said.  So far, 37 people have been discharged after recovery, he said. The local administration has imposed curfew in urban limits since March 25 after the first coronavirus patients were found in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/117-new-covid-19-cases-in-madhya-pradesh-tally-rises-to-544-825596.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Police invokes culpable homicide charges against Tablighi Jamaat chief; LOC against 1,900||Delhi Police has invoked charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against Tablighi Jamaat chief, Mauala Saad Khandalvi, and others in connection with the mid-March religious gathering in the national capital that led to the further spread of COVID-19. Police has issued a Look Out Circular against 1,890 followers of the Tablighi Jamaat for visa violations to ensure that they do not leave the country. Investigators have also issued fresh notices to Maulana Saad and 16 others to join the probe. Eleven of them, including Maulana Saad, have not joined probe citing they are under home quarantine.    Earlier, Maulana Saad was traced at his Zakir Nagar residence in south-east Delhi. According to the FIR registered on March 31, Maulana Saad and officials Dr Zeeshan, Mufti Shehzad, M Saifi, Younus, Mohd Salman and Mohd Ashraf have been accused.    The accused were booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act and Sections 269 (negligent actions likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant action likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code. They were accused of organising the religious gathering and allowing visitors to continue living in the campus despite instructions from authorities. Police are also looking into the veracity of an audio clip in which Maulana Saad is purportedly heard saying there was no need to fear COVID-19 and insisting that there was no need to obey the instructions. Police said they had asked the Tablighi Jamaat authorities to ensure social distancing in its campus. On its part, the Tablighi Jamaat said it had no new visitors after the lockdown was imposed in the country and all the inmates were stuck inside the campus due to the restrictions imposed by the government. It also claimed that it had sought government help to transport these people out of Delhi. Early in April, the Ministry of Home Affairs had revoked tourists visas of 960 foreigners belonging to Tablighi Jamaat and blacklisted them for indulging in missionary activities by violating the norms. The MHA also directed Delhi Police and Directors General of Police of other states to take necessary legal action against 960 foreigners for violating the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946 and the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-invokes-culpable-homicide-charges-against-tablighi-jamaat-chief-loc-against-1900-825599.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Strict lockdown to continue in Kashmir beyond April 20||With Kashmir emerging as hotspot of COVID-19 cases, authorities have decided to continue strict lockdown in the entire valley beyond April 20. On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his TV address, said that some relaxations may be allowed after April 20 in places where there are no hotspots. However, Kashmir’s Divisional Commissioner, Pandurang K Pole, said as all districts of the Valley had more than one COVID-19 hotspot, a bar on public movement will continue. A senior health official said that the J&K government was preparing a micro-planning document to effectively contain COVID-19 in places where there were clusters. “Although many parts of the Valley had relatively lesser number of cases, the clusters have the potential to spread further. The government has been completely sealing areas which are reporting more than two cases in the neighbourhood,” he said. He added that the situation would be watched for two weeks and stricter curbs will be implemented in “red zones”, whereas “green zones”, those which are not reporting cases, will see some respite thereafter. Srinagar has 73 COVID-19 positive cases, Bandipora 53, Baramulla 40, Kupwara 23, Shopian 14, Budgam 11, Ganderbal and Kulgam five each, Pulwama three and Anantnag one. In Srinagar, which has seen the highest number of positive cases, COVID-19 containment zones have been sealed to ensure strict adherence to the SOP the government has notified for the purpose, an official spokesperson said. He said while all entry-exit points of all areas declared as containment zones have been sealed, at least half of these points in each one of these areas have been sealed with removable barriers. “Hundreds of officials have been deputed in these areas and concerned officers and departments made responsible for relevant facilities and requirements,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-strict-lockdown-to-continue-in-kashmir-beyond-april-20-825600.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Not wearing masks, spitting in public places? Be ready to pay fine||No organisation or manager of public place should allow gathering of five or more persons while gatherings such as marriages and funerals will remain regulated by the District Magistrate. Spitting in public places will be punishable with a fine. Though spitting in public places already attracts fine, incidents of some patients and locals spitting at healthcare professionals as well as threatening to do so have prompted the authorities to emphasise the punishment in guidelines. Workplaces should have a gap of one hour between shifts and will stagger the lunch break of staff to ensure social distancing while persons above 65 years, persons with co-morbidities and parents of children below the age of five years may be encouraged to work from home.  Manufacturing units should frequently clean common surfaces and ensure that workers wash their hands regularly. In Standard Operating Procedure for Social Distancing for Offices, Work Place, Factories and Establishments, the MHA said entrance gate, canteens, meeting rooms, equipment, lifts, washrooms, walls and other surfaces should be disinfected. For workers coming from outside, special transportation facility will be arranged without any dependency on the public transport system. These vehicles should be allowed to ply with just 30-40% capacity. In job sites, training sessions and official meetings, seating should be arranged in such a way that two persons are sitting at least six feet away. While the use of a staircase for climbing should be encouraged, not more than 2-4 persons should be allowed to use lifts at a time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-not-wearing-masks-spitting-in-public-places-be-ready-to-pay-fine-825603.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||29 fresh coronavirus cases in Rajasthan; total number rises to 1,034||Rajasthan recorded 29 more cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the tally in the state to 1,034, an official said. The virus has so far claimed 11 lives in the state. "As many as 29 new cases have come up today -- 15 in Jaipur and seven each in Jodhpur and Kota," Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said. He said the total number of coronavirus positive cases in the state has risen to 1,034. Among the coronavirus cases in Rajasthan are two Italian citizens and 54 people who were brought back from Iran and admitted to Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. Jaipur has reported the highest number of 468 cases in the state, followed by 102 in Jodhpur, 64 in Kota and 59 in Banswara. Rajasthan is under a strict lockdown from March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to trace the contagion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/29-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-rajasthan-total-number-rises-to-1034-825612.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Minor girl raped by cousin in Uttar Pradesh||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her cousin in Uttar Pradesh's Chitrakoot district, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place under the Markundi police station area Tuesday afternoon when the girl was returning home after handing over lunch to her father, who was working in an agricultural field, a police officer said. The victim's father filed a complaint with police, following which an FIR was lodged against the 22-year-old accused Tuesday evening, he said. The girl has been sent for medical examination, the officer said. The accused is absconding and efforts are on to nab him, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-girl-raped-by-cousin-in-uttar-pradesh-825639.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus cases in Haryana reach to 190||Coronavirus cases in Haryana rose to 190 on Wednesday, with six more persons testing positive for infection in various parts of the state. Worst-hit district Nuh reported three fresh cases while Panipat, Panchkula and Sonipat each reporting one new case. Out of total 190 positive cases, the total number of active cases in the state is 146, with 42 patients getting cured and discharged, said the state health department's daily bulletin, the state has recorded two COVID-19 related deaths. As many as 7,098 samples have been tested so far, out of which 5,291 have tested negative. Reports of 1,617 samples, however, are awaited. Among the total coronavirus cases reported in Haryana, 10 are foreign nationals while 64 are from other states, as per the bulletin. The worst affected districts of the state with maximum number of positive cases are Nuh (48), Gurugram (32), Faridabad (33) and Palwal (29). Bhiwani, Jind, Hisar, Kaithal and Kurukshetra have so far reported two cases each while Rohtak district has only one coronavirus case. Health Minister Anil Vij has been saying that the spike in corona-positive cases was due to a number of Tablighi Jamaat members testing positive. On Tuesday, he had said 110 of the Jamaat members had tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-cases-in-haryana-reach-to-190-825640.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Amid COVID-19 lockdown, kitchen gardens replace lawns in Kashmir||Colorful tulips, pansies, roses and daffodils won’t grace the flowerbeds at lawns of many of the residential houses in Kashmir this summer.  Since vegetables are an inseparable part of daily diet, every individual is concerned about its supplies, freshness and quality. Kitchen gardening is seeing vegetable crops being grown in residential houses to meet, either in full or in part, family requirements seasonally or throughout the year. While some in Srinagar have already replaced the flower beds with vegetables, for a few it’s the time to convert entire lawns in vegetable fields. For businessman Manzoor Wangnoo, spring this year hasn’t been the same when he would love watering the colorful beds. The man, who lives on the banks of picturesque Niggen lake, has converted his lawn into a kitchen garden. “Assuming the effects of COVID-19 will ripple through food systems, I am set out to turn my green grassy lawn into a traditional vegetable garden. Turning a field of green carpeting into a productive vegetable kitchen garden seems satisfying and noble at this juncture,” he posted on Facebook.    In response, Masoodi Rajpuri, former registrar of tertiary care SKIMS hospital, wrote: “Start thinking of production before it is too late - good idea!” Similar views were expressed by Gazzala Amin, a woman entrepreneur from Srinagar. “Not doing flowers doing vegetables in flower beds this year,” she wrote on her Facebook wall. Nighat Hafiz, an academician, while endorsing Amin’s call, said: “Need of the hour. Flowers can wait till we resurrect.”   Javeed Kakroo, who served as an officer in J&K agriculture department for more than three decades, says in the coming days as essential supplies will dwindle, kitchen gardening will be the best possible option for people. “Agriculture Department, Kashmir, has already started a campaign to grow vegetables at home. The idea is to promote growing vegetables on available land strips within homes to meet the demand in the coming days,” he told DH. Stressing for self-reliance and self-sufficiency in the present scenario, Kakroo said, “There can be a situation when despite having money, you can’t find essentials in the market. Growing essential supplies for the family through kitchen gardening can save us from so many hassles,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-covid-19-lockdown-kitchen-gardens-replace-lawns-in-kashmir-825644.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown 2.0: Relief for plantation sector as govt allows operations||However, only a maximum of 50% of workers can allowed to engage in activities at a single time.    In the animal husbandry sector, operation of poultry farms, hatcheries and livestock farming activities are allowed. Animal feed manufacturing and feed plans, including supply of raw material such maize and soya are also allowed.    "Operation of animal shelter homes, including 'gaushalas' (cow-shelters)" can also function. The government had already made relaxations for the agricultural sector as well as fisheries earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-20-relief-for-plantation-sector-as-govt-allows-operations-825649.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Indore cops tonsure heads to stave off coronavirus||Policemen in Madhya Pradesh's Indore city, which is the worst coronavirus-hit region in the state, have tonsured their heads as a preventive measure against contracting the deadly disease. Some of these men in khaki, with their shaved heads, were seen manning the streets of Chandan Nagar and other areas of the walled city during the COVID-19 lockdown. "A head constable and four constables of Chandan Nagar police station have tonsured their heads to reportedly protect themselves from the virus, as they believe that the pathogen can latch on to their hair," town inspector (TI) Yogesh Tomar of Chandan Nagar police station said. Apart from this, police personnel deployed in the affected areas washed their hands frequently to stave off the infection, he said. Some policemen also believe that after tonsuring their heads they can apply sanitisers on their scalps as an extra precaution, the official said. A constable, on condition of anonymity, said he had tonsured his head as a preventive measure since he was deployed in one of the most severely hit areas of the city. "The shaved head also provides some respite from the summer heat," he added. Meanwhile, chief medical and health officer Praveen Jadia said 544 people in the city had tested positive for COVID-19 so far, of which 37 had succumbed to the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-indore-cops-tonsure-heads-to-stave-off-coronavirus-825656.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: 16 arrested in Amethi for violating coronavirus lockdown orders||As many as 16 people were arrested in Uttar Pradesh's Amethi district on Wednesday for allegedly violating lockdown orders, police said. All of them have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), they said. "On Wednesday, 16 people were arrested in Musafirkhana area of the district for violation of lockdown orders. A case has been registered against them under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC," Superintendent of Police Khyati Garg said. In the world's biggest lockdown, which began on March 25, India's 1.3 billion people were initially ordered indoors for 21 days by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stem the spread of coronavirus. On Tuesday, he announced that the lockdown will be extended till May 3 as the measure has produced a significant outcome in containing the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-16-arrested-in-amethi-for-violating-coronavirus-lockdown-orders-825661.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Uttar Pradesh man coughs during ludo, gets shot||In what could be termed as an example of 'corona paranoia', a youth was shot at and critically injured in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar district by his rival player after the former coughed while playing Ludo. According to police sources, the incident happened at Dayanagar village in the district on Tuesday night. The youth, identified as Prashant Kumar, has been admitted to the hospital. Police said that Prashant and Jaiveer, who was also the resident of the same village, were playing Ludo at the village temple compound, when Prashant suddenly coughed.  ''Corona dega kya?'' ("Do you want to give me teh coronavirus?"), Jaiveer, who was carrying a country made pistol, said and fired at Prashant. Jaiveer managed to escape from the spot after perpetrating the crime.  A case was registered and a hunt was launched to ban the alleged culprit. teh doctors said that Prashant did not have any symptoms of COVID-19.  Gautam Buddh Nagar (Noida, Greater Noida) has emerged as one of the COVID-19 hotspots in the state. So far 80 cases of COVID-19 have been reported in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-uttar-pradesh-man-coughs-during-ludo-gets-shot-825679.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Quarantine, social distancing best tools to fight coronavirus: AI expert||He says an AI epidemiologist was the first to identify the first signs of the pandemic, scanning millions of tweets and blog posts to pinpoint a new disease coming out of Wuhan back in December 2019. "AI can be (and is being) used across many levels of the fight to beat the coronavirus. AI is also being used in the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of COVID-19," says Walsh, Scientia Professor of AI at the University of New South Wales and a fellow of the Australian Academy of Science. "Technology will help. But old-fashioned tools will help win the war. The best tool we have is the oldest - the one we've used for 700 years against any pandemic, namely quarantine. In Venice in 1377, ships from plague-stricken countries were forced to wait off its port for 40 days to assure that no latent cases were aboard," Walsh told PTI in an interview.    "The next best tool that will help us prevent the spread is social distancing. Technologies like AI will help on top of this. But it is these simple, blunt and old tools that will ultimately decide how many people die," he says. On the role of AI in the fight against this deadly virus, he says, "AI is being used in the hunt to search for existing drugs that can be repurposed to fight the disease. It is also being used to understand the biochemistry of the coronavirus. Besides, AI help is taken to diagnose those infected with COVID-19 by reading CT-scans for the distinctive patterns on people's lungs." Walsh has recently come out with a book "2062: The World that AI Made" in which he explores the impact artificial intelligence will have on work, war, economics, politics, everyday life and even human death. He started writing the book, published by Speaking Tiger, the day he finished reading Yuval Noah Harari's "Home Deus".    "AI is a profound technology that will change the very fabric of our society. But we won't become gods. In fact, it's quite the opposite. It is our mortality and our humanity that will become deeply important as the features that will distinguish us from the immortal and omnipotent machines that we will create," he says. When Walsh finished writing the book, his eight-year-old daughter asked him what it was about. "I told her the book was about the world she will inherit. How will the world in 40 or 50 years be when machines are as smart if not smarter than us, when machines can do almost all our jobs. Will these machines even be conscious? What will our society be like then? And then I did the maths, and in 2062, she will be exactly my age to the year," he recalls. "This book focuses on the year 2062. Most experts in AI believe that there's a 50 per cent chance we will have created machines that can think as well as us by 2062," he says. Artificial Intelligence, says Walsh, will change the world dramatically. "We need, therefore, to think big about the changes we should make to society today if we are to ensure that the world of 2062 is the one we want," he says. "If we make the right choices, AI promises to make life better - not just for the few but for the many. It can let us all live healthier, wealthier and perhaps even happier lives," he adds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/quarantine-social-distancing-best-tools-to-fight-coronavirus-ai-expert-825683.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: UPSC will review exam, interview schedule from time to time||According to a statement, a decision on fresh dates for the remaining Civil Services-2019 Personality Tests will be taken following the second phase of the lockdown, which is after May 3. It had earlier postponed these interviews without specifying a date. It also said the dates announced for Civil Services-2020 (Preliminary), Engineering Services (Main) and the Geologist Services (Main) Examinations had already been announced and any rescheduling in these examinations, if necessitated by the evolving situation, will be notified on the website of the UPSC.      Already, deferment notices have been posted for the Combined Medical Services Examination, the Indian Economic Service and the Indian Statistical Service Examination 2020. Dates for the CAPF Exam 2020 will also be notified on the UPSC website.   The National Defence Academy (NDA-I) Examination has already been postponed till further intimation and a decision on the NDA –II Examination will be posted on June 10, 2020, the scheduled date for its notification.      Any other decision of the Commission in respect of all the Examinations, Interviews and Recruitment Boards will be promptly made available on the Commission’s website, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-upsc-will-review-exam-interview-schedule-from-time-to-time-825734.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Priyanka, Akhilesh slam Centre, UP govt over Bandra railway station incident||The BJP and the opposition parties were engaged in a verbal duel over thronging of Bandra railway station by hundreds of migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and some other states with both blaming each other for the crisis. While the opposition Congress and Samajwadi Party (SP) leaders accused the centre and the UP government of 'ignoring' the plight of the migrant workers, the BJP slammed them for indulging in politics in times of a national crisis. Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said that the decision over the lockdown should have been taken keeping in mind the problems being faced by the migrant workers. ''Why is that every time the labourers have to bear the brunt of crisis? Why are they always left at the mercy of the God? They are running out of rations, they are feeling unsafe and want to go to their villages,'' Priyanka said in a post on her Twitter handle. SP President Akhilesh Yadav said that the government could bring the rich from abroad by air but could not arrange a train to bring home the poor labourers. UP BJP President Swatantra Dev Singh shot back asking Akhilesh not to ''speak like an illiterate''. ''Don't talk like an illiterate....the UP government has appointed nodal officers to resolve the problems being faced by the migrant workers,'' he said. UP minister Brijesh Pathak blamed the Maharashtra government for the incident. Hundreds of migrant workers had thronged the Bandra railway station on Tuesday following rumours that special trains had been arranged to take them home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-priyanka-akhilesh-slam-centre-up-govt-over-bandra-railway-station-incident-825742.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi to start plasma therapy trials to treat COVID-19 patients||Delhi on Wednesday will use convalescent plasma therapy, which uses antibodies from the blood of cured people, to treat critically ill Covid-19 patients on a trial basis. This was conveyed during a review meeting on Covid-19 Patient Management in the national capital chaired by Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and attended by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and top officials of the government and health teams of designated Covid-19 hospitals. "Delhi to use plasma technique for treatment on a trial basis to save the life of critical Covid-19 patients," Baijal tweeted after the meeting. Dr S K Sarin, Director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) who heads a team appointed by Kejriwal, informed the meeting that the Delhi government has got the approval from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to use convalescent plasma technique. Baijal said that he has advised all concerned to strictly adhere to Standing Operating Procedures, guidelines and protocols issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare while dealing with Covid-19 patients. Last week, Kerala had become the first state in the country to get a nod from ICMR to start the treatment in the prestigious Sree Chithira Thirunal Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology. Last Saturday, the ICMR has said, “convalescent Plasma is an experimental procedure for Covid-19 patients. Hospitals and Institutions planning to provide this modality of treatment should do so in a clinical trial with protocols which are cleared by the Institutional Ethics Committee."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-to-start-plasma-therapy-trials-to-treat-covid-19-patients-825781.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Two more COVID-19 cases surface in Punjab; total count 186  ||The number of coronavirus cases rose to 186 in Punjab on Wednesday with two more people testing positive for the infection. So far, the infection has claimed 13 lives in the state. The fresh cases were reported from Patiala and Sangrur, a medical bulletin said.  Mohali is the worst-hit district in the state with 56 cases followed by Jalandhar from where 25 cases have been reported till date. The state government had started rapid testing, a kind of blood test that gives quick results, in both districts on Tuesday. According to the bulletin, 22 cases has been reported from Pathankot; 19 in Nawanshahr, 11 each in Ludhiana, Mansa and Amritsar; seven in Hoshiarpur; four in Moga; three each in Rupnagar, Patiala, Sangrur and Faridkot; two each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Kapurthala and Barnala; and one each in Muktsar and Gurdaspur. One patient is critical and is on ventilator support while 27 people have been discharged after treatment. A total of 5,193 samples have been taken so far in the state, of which 4,404 tested negative for the infection while reports of 603 are still awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-more-covid-19-cases-surface-in-punjab-total-count-186-825795.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Two fresh deaths, 17 new cases in Delhi||Two fresh deaths and 17 new cases related to Covid-19 were reported from the national capital on Wednesday even as 1,505 positive patients continued to remain in hospitals. Not a single case was reported from hotspots like south Delhi's Nizamuddin where a mid-march Tablighi Jamaat religious gathering was linked to a large number of cases across the country. The total toll has now risen to 32 while the number of cases has touched 1,578. On Wednesday, ten people were discharged, taking the total to 41, including one who migrated out during treatment. Seven persons who tested positive for Covid-19 have contact history while the reasons for contracting the virus infection was not known for the remaining ten. At present, authorities are yet to ascertain how a total of 89 patients have got the infection. Since Tuesday, there has been a dip in the number of positive Covid-19 cases. While on Tuesday, 51 new cases of Covid-19 were reported, the city has witnessed 183 new cases on April 10 followed by 166 on April 11. On Monday, there were 356 new cases were observed. While there was no official word on the decrease in number, one of the reasons could be that the testing of people who were evacuated from Tablighi Jamaat is finished.  During a meeting to review patient management in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals, authorities also presented Patient Management App, which is used for daily feeding of patient data, before medical directors. The Delhi government has also issued an order to all registered nursing homes and private hospitals that they should not refuse treatment to the injured or serious patients brought to them for any reason.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-fresh-deaths-17-new-cases-in-delhi-825859.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||One more person tests positive for COVID-19 in Jharkhand, total climbs to 28||One more person tested positive for COVID-19 in the state capital, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in Jharkhand to 28, a health official said. RIIMS Superintendent V Kashyap said the person who tested positive hails from Ranchi's Hindpiri locality. Till date, the total positive cases in Ranchi has gone up to 14 (all from Hindpiri), nine cases have been recorded in Bokaro, two in Hazaribag and one each in Simdega, Koderma, and Giridih districts.  The tally includes two deaths - one in Ranchi and another in Bokaro district. The first case of COVID-19 positive in Jharkhand was detected at Hindpiri locality when a 22-year-old Malaysian woman tested positive for coronavirus on March 31. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Hemant Soren told reporters that he had spoken to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and urged him for more kits and labs to speed up COVID-19 testing. Soren also lauded various organisations across the state for providing food to the needy people during the lockdown as he inspected a place where such people were being served food on Wednesday. The chief minister said the government is keeping a vigil on mischief-makers and they would be dealt with strictly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-more-person-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-jharkhand-total-climbs-to-28-825861.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Lockdown exemption to self-employed technicians||Getting your electrical appliances, vehicles and computers repaired will be easy during the second leg of Covid-19 lockdown with the government on Tuesday allowing self-employed technicians to start operations from April 20 in their localities. Fresh guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has exempted services provided by self-employed persons, including electricians, plumbers, motor mechanics, carpenters and IT mechanics from the lockdown. This comes following the difficulties faced by people during the past 21 days of lockdown when they could not get their appliances repaired. With summer setting in, there were also demands for servicing air-conditioners with officials saying such services will be allowed under the new guidelines from April 20. While the economic hardship of this section of self-employed people is likely to ease, the trouble for drivers of taxis, cab aggregators and autorickshaws are likely to continue as the new guidelines have continued with the restrictions on such modes of transport. Cycle rickshaws are also not allowed to ply. Public transport has already been restricted to ensure that people do not get out of their homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-exemption-to-self-employed-technicians-825868.html
15-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Without jobs and money, angry villagers in Bihar attack cops and BDO||This was evident in Bihar’s East Champaran district on Wednesday when villagers attacked a Block Development Officer (BDO) and other policemen who had gone there to convince the locals to provide nutritious food to their children so that they are not affected with AES (acute encephalitis syndrome) in the coming days. “We have no jobs. Our savings have dried up. We are not able to manage two square meals. And you are lecturing us about giving nutritious food, including milk, fruits and eggs to our children,” lamented the villagers, mostly Mahadalits, while arguing with the officials and the cops. The argument soon turned violent when the villagers attacked the cops’ vehicles. In the melee, which included stone-pelting, the BDO was injured while two other policemen also sustained injuries. All the injured have been admitted to the Government hospital at Areraj, near Motihari. Medical team attacked In a similar incident, a medical team was attacked in western Bihar’s Aurangabad district on Wednesday when the doctors went there to identify and test a coronavirus suspect who had travelled from Delhi to Aurangabad. As villagers attacked the medical team’s vehicle, the officials, including Ayush doctor Arjun Kumar and ANM (auxiliary nurse midwife) Nilu Kumari, had to beat a hasty retreat. The administration sent in another reinforcement with additional forces. This time, the team was led by Dawoodnagar SDO, Anupam Singh and SDPO, Raj Kumar Tiwary. However, the villagers attacked again in which the SDPO, his bodyguard and another cop sustained grievous injuries. “We are trying to identify the culprits. Strict action will be taken against those who attacked cops and doctors,” said the SP, Deepak Barnwal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-without-jobs-and-money-angry-villagers-in-bihar-attack-cops-and-bdo-825876.html
15-04-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus: One contagion is more than enough for India||Andy MukherjeeIndia has chosen an odd combination of strategies in its fight against the coronavirus: a harsh lockdown on economic activity and a meagre fiscal response to the loss of jobs and incomes.  What’s making this more painful is a denial of the role of finance in both containing the fallout of the outbreak and in supporting the recovery later.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi has extended an expiring 21-day national shutdown to May 3, promising to relax some curbs after Monday in areas that aren’t likely to become disease hotspots. This approach needs to change. Let Team Modi figure out a fiscal strategy, and then let the Reserve Bank of India step in to support it. This will mean copying the US playbook, where programs like Paycheck Protection, targeted at small firms and their employees, and Main Street Lending, aimed at bigger firms, are government-backed with the Fed providing funding to banks making the loans.  The template will need to be tweaked to fit the Indian economy’s highly informal setup, marked by a near-complete absence of social safety nets — barring a rural job guarantee that pays less than the minimum wage in agriculture. A quarter of the workforce consists of migrants who go back and forth between urban centres and their village homes. They suddenly have no work and no money to buy food or pay rent. Even with the government’s promise of distributing free food, the Rs 500 ($6.5) a month it has started crediting into no-frills bank accounts held by women is paltry. India’s 29 states, which are closer to the unfolding humanitarian disaster, are baulking at high costs the market is charging them for long-term money. For now, they might make do by tapping their recently enhanced temporary overdraft with the central bank. However, as their expected $100 billion share of federal taxes takes a big hit, they, too, would have no option except to hawk their bonds in a tight market. If the Fed can cross a political line by doing something it’s never done before — offering to lend $500 billion to U.S. municipalities and states — there’s no reason for the RBI to play coy.  Now that the lockdown has been extended, it’s prudent to pencil in a further two-week delay before the restrictions are relaxed meaningfully. In such a scenario, where supply chains resume only gradually, the number of people who might lose their ability to subsist would quadruple, and the nonperforming loan ratio could swell by 7 percentage points, according to McKinsey & Co. The cost of helping households, companies and lenders, could exceed $130 billion, or more than 5% of gross domestic product.  Knowing this, why isn’t India committing 1% of GDP now? Say, the Finance Ministry puts down $25 billion equity into a special purpose vehicle. (That’s a third of the support the U.S. Treasury is similarly providing the Main Street Lending Program.) Let this financing vehicle purchase 95% of lenders’ interest in loans they make to vulnerable firms, shadow banks, individuals and even states, with the RBI lending seven rupees to it for every rupee contributed by the ministry. This eightfold amplification of the original firepower will make $200 billion of loans available. The first loss will be absorbed by the government, as it should be. A Double Whammy The RBI’s present strategy is not working. The three-month freeze it has recommended on loan repayments has boomeranged on shadow lenders, who have become increasingly important in recent years for meeting the credit needs of individuals and small firms. The financiers aren’t getting a moratorium on what they owe the banks, while being forced to offer it to retail customers, many of whom can’t pay now, anyway. Debt mutual funds, which also lend to these nonbank financiers, are exercising put options on their bonds, making it even harder for the industry to survive this crisis. The collapse and botched rescue of Yes Bank Ltd has bred anxiety among depositors about leaving their money in second-tier, private-sector banks. The cheap funds the RBI has promised lenders if they invest in corporate bonds are getting parked in the debt of higher-rated firms. When the moratorium is over, many of the loans held in abeyance will turn bad. The interest that lenders are booking (but not receiving) will need to be written off. India will have to resort to a sweeping nationalization of its finance industry to restart the economy. That will cost multiples of $25 billion. Why not lower that future obligation by giving a chance at survival to those who were solvent before the coronavirus and can be made whole once again?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-one-contagion-is-more-than-enough-for-india-825556.html
15-04-2020||Panorama||How did COVID-19 get to a tiger? Therein hangs a tale||The news from the Bronx Zoo in New York that Nadia, a four-year-old female Malayan tiger, tested positive for novel coronavirus is shocking. It needs a thorough evaluation in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Nadia contracting the virus seems to be closely connected with the burning issues of global climatic change and unprecedented human activities for trade and commerce. Nadia, a captive-bred big cat, lacks natural instincts found in tigers in jungles. As against wildlife, the immune system in captive-bred animals is comparatively low. A considerable number of people in the US have fallen prey to Covid-19. The source of the virus in Nadia seems to be the zookeepers. Unlike in India, the zookeepers in the US hug and kiss the captive-bred animals. This practice strengthens the suspicion that the zookeepers may have transmitted the virus to Nadia. The theory that viruses like the novel coronavirus normally infect wild animals as they stay away from human environs can’t be ruled out easily. Still, this virus infecting wild animals is actually hard to digest. Such diseases are transmitted from one living organism to another while their impact may be different in different organisms. Like Ebola and SARS, the novel coronavirus has been transmitted from animals such as bats and snakes. It has been established that trees and insects cannot transmit this virus. Unlike in the human world, the novel coronavirus doesn’t wreak havoc in wildlife due to high immunity in wild animals. Micro-organisms have always played a major role in natural selection and have shaped species and speciation in evolution. These micro-organisms, including viruses, are all part of the ecosystem of the earth. Some are favourable to humans while some are not. The effectiveness of pathogens is limited by ecological factors as well as geographical boundaries. When the early explorers travelled across the globe, they not only decimated indigenous peoples by the pathogens they carried with them but they also brought back to their homes many new pathogens, which had a devastating effect on both sides of the globe. Normally, humans and wildlife evolve with their respective immunological defences. When these pathogens are transmitted from one cluster or community to another, breaking natural barriers, every life form becomes susceptible. Viruses causing rabies and filariasis are, sometimes, detrimental to African wild dogs, lions and hyenas. Several wild animals died in India as this virus infected wolves and buffaloes in forests. Many diseases are transmitted from domesticated animals to humans, on the one hand, and to animals in forests, on the other. Transmission can effectively happen when wild animals consume domesticated animals. Buffaloes, deer or animals that prefer to live in groups are vulnerable to transmission. Since animals like tigers and leopards stay alone and maintain distance, transmission is hard to occur. These, actually, are zoonotic diseases that are caused by germs. They are transmitted between animals and people. A critical analysis of the entire process makes it clear that unprecedented human activities play a crucial role in spreading these diseases. Zoonotic diseases spread primarily due to human activities. Deforestation, environmental pollution and global trade and commerce play dominant roles in spreading zoonotic diseases. The novel coronavirus and its cascading effects have unfolded global changes, hopes and challenges. The contribution of poisonous gases by the global population is tremendous. Heavy winds and rains fuelled by these gases result in certain changes. Uncontrolled human greed and activities are over-exploiting almost all the ecosystems of the world. Timber and non-timber forest produce, wildlife for pet markets, bush meat trade for food and traditional medicine, etc., can pick up the baggage from anywhere and transform alien pathogens across the globe to any corner of the world. Wild animals are primary hosts for pathogens like Ebola and AIDS. These pathogens successfully found human hosts as the bush meat trade became global. Environmental challenges When trade and commerce are preferred over other processes, environmental challenges take a back seat, triggering global warming. These activities gift pandemics like Covid-19 to human society. With our high population density, transmission of diseases is always probable, indeed inevitable. Almost all these are linked to global climatic change. We cannot just look at solving a small unit of the crisis that we are facing today. The unit as a node is linked to multiple entities which have to be looked at holistically. The lockdown and subsequent standstill of human activities is quickly containing contamination in the ecosystem. Though it is interesting to ascertain the impact of this purification on forests, it is mostly impossible to assess upheavals or changes in nature due to the purification process in a short span of time The present crisis draws attention to the two most significant factors. First, there is an urgent need to contemplate upon the causes for the contemporary crisis. Second, if we really want to tread the righteous path, then it is inevitable to seriously consider global climatic changes. The novel coronavirus has taught the human world the biggest lesson ever: There will be devastating effects if the blind development path is preferred over the ecosystem. The global leaders should finally learn a lesson that humans are just one part in the entire ecosystem and that every living being has an equal right to live on the earth. Leaders with a sense of responsibility and conscious of these truths will create a ray of hope. (Krupakar-Senani are wildlife experts, conservationists and filmmakers)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-did-covid-19-get-to-a-tiger-therein-hangs-a-tale-825537.html
15-04-2020||Panorama||Speak up celebs!||As Covid-19 grips the world with uncertainty, individuals look towards their governments for direction and support, in the hope that they roll out policies to alleviate their suffering. The Indian government has dealt with the pandemic by imposing a nationwide lockdown with limited foresight over its implications on the poor and the homeless. Over the course of the last few weeks, the Indian Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, through his nationwide addresses asked Indians to show their appreciation to the medical fraternity by banging utensils and to dispel the darkness of Covid-19 by lighting lamps. Though these activities may have positive implications on the solidarity of the nation, we have not heard from him over decisive healthcare, economic and humanitarian policies during these addresses. Few celebrities have questioned Modi’s approach to tackling the epidemic and critiqued his deafening silence when it came to addressing, or at the very least acknowledging, the issues of migrants, police brutality, deaths due to starvation, and increase in domestic violence as a result of the lockdown.  During the course of the last week, Modi organized a video conference with popular sporting figures in India to request them to sensitize citizens about the measures taken by the government to tackle Covid-19, while acknowledging their ability to influence choices and thought-processes of Indian citizens. This initiative of the government has been a continuation of its celebrity-appeasing policy. The government is aware of how the public reveres Indian celebrities, especially those in sports and movies and how they have the power to influence policy narratives due to this status. Various governments in the past have also tried to tap into this celebrity capital to influence political agenda. During Indira Gandhi’s tenure, celebrated singer Kishore Kumar was asked to sing in praise of the government’s 20 point programme. When he refused the offer, his songs were blacklisted from official channels by the government.  During Modi’s second term as PM, most Indian celebrities have toed the line of dissent by remaining mute, or by voicing pro-establishment opinions. In 2019, India witnessed a range of issues systematically targeted against the minorities in the country- the enactment of the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Amendment Act, 2019, the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution, and the lockdown of Kashmir, to name a few. Indian celebrities have repeatedly proven their affinity towards being apolitical by claiming obliviousness to on-ground realities as a defence. The sheer privilege of the silence of Indian celebrities on critical issues has been piercingly loud and clear.  The few celebrities who have dissented against the government have been given death threats by right-wing organisations, and the government which openly discriminates against those who do not support it has done very little to address such threats. In fact, when 49 celebrities wrote a letter to Modi expressing concerns over the increasing statistics of hate crimes and lynching in India, not only were they charged with sedition, but in response 61 other obsequious celebrities immediately jumped to Modi’s defence by attacking them with claims of tarnishing Modi’s effort to lay the foundation of ‘positive nationalism and humanism’. In contrast, big Hollywood celebrities have been able to register their dissent loud and clear by condemning divisive policies of those in power. Meryl Streep, publicly denounced Trump for mocking a differently-abled journalist in her acceptance speech at the Golden Globes in 2017. She went on to later state that celebrities must ‘Stand Up, Speak Up, Act Up’ against opaque policies of governments. Several other Hollywood celebrities, including Seth Meyers, Debra Messing, Alec Baldwin, Chris Evans, have similarly launched attacks on the Trump administration’s oppression fearlessly. While dissent in Hollywood may not be rewarded, it certainly is safer because of how ubiquitous it has become.  It is during times like these that Indian celebrities must  Speak up and restore the power imbalance in society. Kamal Hassan has sounded the clarion call with his open letter to Modi. It is time for other celebrities to follow suit. In the absence of strong opposition, a credible justice dispensation process, and a non-partisan media, celebrities must take on the task of questioning, critiquing and holding the government accountable. (The writers are practicing advocates in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/speak-up-celebs-825538.html
15-04-2020||Right in the Middle||The art of ‘smart’ parenting||Parenting is a complex art. Ironically the complexities are understood only after several years of bungling at it. And after so many years you are left with not much scope to make amends, even if you want to. Unless you are blessed with at least two children which for many parents is a luxury these days, considering the costs involved in raising them. One particular dilemma that most parents have to grapple with is whether they should raise their kids smart or responsible. Are they really mutually exclusive? Can’t one be smart as well as responsible? Perhaps that’s the wish every parent has but in practice most parents prefer to sacrifice responsibility for smartness. And many a time what overrides responsibility is the idea of instant and quick success to fame, to money and to life itself. Sadly, today, no one wants to let things happen naturally. There is no time or patience. A warped sense of smartness has conquered our ethical sense as well as our other finer sensibilities. For instance, a two-year-old child talking and behaving like an adult is both admired and applauded! A five-year-old kid dancing sensually to the tune of an erotic Bollywood number is branded a superstar! The list of such child prodigies doing adult-like stuff and getting quick recognition and providing instant gratification to their parents is getting bigger by the day. In our haste to make our children overnight heroes, we fail to understand that we are actually stunting our children’s natural evolution. Recently I was amused to see my friend teaching his 12-year-old son to drive an SUV. The puny little boy couldn’t even sit straight in the seat and my heart was beating faster every time he struggled to touch the gas pedal. The boy’s anxiety worsened and reached its nadir as he attempted to shift gear and release the clutch to move that huge monster forward. My question to the boy’s father questioning his hurry seemed stupid. He simply shrugged and said, “You never know when it’ll come handy . . . and kids are smart these days, you know.” I wasn’t sure if I should even oppose his skewed sense of smartness. However, I was sure about this. These ‘smart’ kids, once they get the hang of it will be waiting to do things on the sly even before they are legally permitted to sit at the wheel. When that opportunity comes their way they are sure to grab it. And that day, it will be a litmus test not just for the ‘smart’ kids but for those innocent people on the road, too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-art-of-smart-parenting-825529.html
15-04-2020||Second Edit||The digital divide could worsen||The nationwide lockdown, which has constrained the physical mobility of people, has pushed a large number of activities and services on to the digital platform. The government now communicates, transacts and deals with the people more than ever through digital devices and apps. The functioning of banking and many other public utilities and services, including delivery of commodities, is increasingly digital. That is also the case with education, with schools and colleges closed indefinitely. Data consumption has registered a big increase since March due to the lockdown. Increasing digitalisation is welcome because it increases the speed and efficiency of communication and delivery of services, and in many cases eliminates malpractices. It is usually in difficult situations that people prompt themselves to look for simpler and easier ways of doing things. When large numbers of individuals do so, the social and community styles and standards of functioning and levels of awareness are raised. But there are imbalances and inequities in the digital world and these need to be recognised and addressed. Digital activities and services are heavily tilted in favour of cities. Digital density in rural areas is only 25%, but in urban areas it is about 97%. The imbalance becomes stark when it is realised that 66% of the country’s population lives in villages. Speed variations and power supply problems aggravate the situation. The digital infrastructure and services should be expanded and upgraded in villages and small towns and much larger numbers of people should be able to make use of them. Better access to digital services will help farmers, those who run small businesses, students and many other sections who are disadvantaged because of their locational and personal backgrounds. An iniquitous digital system will work against them further and worsen the rural-urban gap. There is also a growing digital divide based on class and gender. The higher and middle classes have greater access to the digital world, and use it for a variety of needs, including entertainment, while the poorer sections are largely deprived of it. As the lockdown continues, technological tools of public instruction are becoming popular and many institutions have adopted online platforms to reach out to and teach children. But this is likely to benefit only children in the urban areas, and even there only privileged students of private institutions. The CBSE has asked schools to consider this as an opportunity to engage with students at home for a variety of activities that go beyond curriculum education. But it must be ensured that the digital policies and practices are more inclusive and will not have widened the existing gaps by the time the lockdown is lifted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/the-digital-divide-could-worsen-825527.html
15-04-2020||South||Doctor "attacked" by suspected COVID-19 patient's kin in Hyderabad||In another case of healthcare personnel being attacked while on COVID-19 duty, a doctor was allegedly assaulted by the son of a man under quarantine at a hospital here following a quarrel after two others in the ward tested positive for the infection, hospital officials said. Amid the drama, the man managed to give the slip, but was traced from a nearby area, Medical Superintendent of the Osmania General Hospital said. Police, however, said they have registered a case on a complaint that a doctor was allegedly threatened by the attendants of the suspected COVID-19 patient following arguments. According to the Superintendent, relatives and the 55- year old man, admitted to the isolation ward on Monday, demanded that he be discharged after two other people in the same ward tested positive for coronavirus. During a wordy duel, the patient's son allegedly attacked a junior doctor on duty, he said. "The suspected COVID-19 patient and his son wanted to go away from the hospital despite being counselled that he will not be discharged as his medical report was awaited," the official said adding the patient later "absconded" from the ward, but was traced near the hospital.  The junior doctors demanded enhanced security at the hospital, a representative of theTelangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) said. In the wake of the incident, it was also decided by the health authorities to shift all the suspected COVID-19 cases, including the 55-year old man, to the Gandhi Hospital, the designated facility for the coronavirus cases. On April 1, a duty doctor and staff at Gandhi Hospital were allegedly assaulted by the kin of a 49-year-old coronavirus patient, who died while undergoing treatment there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/doctor-attacked-by-suspected-covid-19-patients-kin-in-hyderabad-825502.html
15-04-2020||South||One COVID-19 death reported in Telangana, 52 new cases take tally in state to 644||A coronavirus patient died and 52 people tested positive in Telangana taking the number of cases in the state to 644, according to an official bulletin issued on Tuesday. The virus has so far claimed 18 ives in the state. Of the total 644 cases in the state, 110 have been cured, while 516 are undergoing treatment. According to a bulletin on COVID-19, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has the highest number of active cases in the state at 249 followed by Nizamabad with 36. Hyderabad district is on high focus as majority of cases are being reported in GHMC, it said, adding that robust containment is being initiated in the virus-affected area. The administration has set up as many as 221 containment clusters across the state to check the coronavirus spread, the bulletin said. Meanwhile, a group of migrant labourers from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, who wanted to go to their native Srikakulam district, were found on a road in Hyderabad today. Police and other officials, who stopped them, sent them back to their homes in Hyderabad in a vehicle. State Animal Husbandry Minister T Srinivas Yadav, who hails from Hyderabad, said the group of men and women would be provided 12 kgs of rice per person (as promised by the state government) and also financial support. Telangana Municipal Administration Minister K T Rama Rao and Health Minister E Rajender appealed to citizens to strictly follow the lockdown rules and asked officials to act tough on those who bypass norms in 'containment zones'.  Rama Rao and Rajender held a meeting with officials and discussed the plan of action and the precautionary measures to be taken to control the spread of COVID-19 in Hyderabad in view of a large number of cases being reported from the city. The Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) has been chosen as one of the five validation centres for coronavirus testing kits in the country by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). CCMB is the only non-ICMR lab to be a part of these Centres of Excellence that will validate the non-US FDA (Food and Drug Administration) and non-EUA (Emergency Use Authorisation) approved kits for COVID-19 testing, a press release said. Also, a COVID-19 Sample Collection Kiosk which gets automatically disinfected without the need for human involvement has been developed by the Defence Research & Development Laboratory (DRDL) in the city. The kiosk is for use by health care workers to take samples from suspected infected patients, an official release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-covid-19-death-reported-in-telangana-52-new-cases-take-tally-in-state-to-644-825535.html
15-04-2020||South||Coronavirus cases cross 500 mark in Andhra Pradesh, 19 new cases reported||Coronavirus cases shot past the 500 marks in Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday, reaching 502, as 19 new cases were reported overnight even as two more deaths were added to the tally on account of the pandemic, taking the overall toll to 11. Of the new cases, eight were recorded in West Godavari district, six in Kurnool, four in Guntur and one in Krishna since Tuesday 5 pm, the latest bulletin from the government said. The number of patients recovered and discharged remained at 16 and the active cases 475. In all, 11,613 blood samples were tested across the state till date and 11,111 of them turned negative. The two deaths, of men aged 63 and 52 years, were reported from Guntur city on April 13, the bulletin said. The 63-year-old man, who was said to be a cardiac and diabetes patient, tested positive for COVID-19 during community screening on April 8 and was admitted to the government hospital. The other person was also a diabetic and tested positive in community screening for Corona on April 6. The four new cases detected in Guntur district were linked to a Corona victim in Dachepalli who succumbed last week. One of the four who contracted the disease was a registered medical practitioner (local doctor) in the village who initially treated the Corona-afflicted person. The RMP's family members too contracted the virus and were now sent for treatment, official sources said. Guntur district has now become the major hotbed of COVID-19 in AP with 118 cases, the majority of which are directly linked to the Tablighi Jamaat attendees and their contacts. Kurnool district with 97 cases is the second hotspot in the state, also mainly because of the Jamaatis. SPS Nellore has 56, Krishna 45, Prakasam 42 and Kadapa 33 while West Godavari district is also climbing high with 31 COVID cases, eight of which were registered in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-cases-cross-500-mark-in-andhra-pradesh-19-new-cases-reported-825611.html
15-04-2020||South||Christian priest, 6 others held for holding mass at Church in Kerala amid coronavirus pandemic||A Christian priest was arrested on Wednesday for conducting Holy Mass at a Church in Willingdon Island, in alleged defiance of government orders banning religious gatherings during the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. Fr Augustine along with six others were arrested for celebrating Mass at Stella Maris Church this morning, police said. They have been charged under IPC section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and relevant sections of the Kerala Epidemic Disease Ordinance, they said. Later, the priest and others were released on station bail, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/christian-priest-6-others-held-for-holding-mass-at-church-in-kerala-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-825682.html
15-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu collects Rs 134 crore as donations to combat coronavirus||Tamil Nadu has received Rs 134 crore from various individuals and firms so far as contribution towards the state's fight against the spread of coronavirus, the government said on Wednesday. The contributions include over 40,000 PCR kits from Tata Group valued at Rs eight crore, the government said. Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) kits are used in coronavirus testing. An official release said government employees, firms, banks, trusts, organisations and celebrities among others have so far contributed Rs 134.63 crore towards the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund. Further, Tata Group has donated 40,032 PCR kits.  Chief Minister K Palaniswami thanked all those who had contributed towards the CMPRF and especially lauded the Tata Group for donating PCR kits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-collects-rs-134-crore-as-donations-to-combat-coronavirus-825690.html
15-04-2020||South||17 foreign tourists booked for 'bathing in sea' during coronavirus lockdown in Kerala||Seventeen foreign tourists have been booked for allegedly bathing in the sea off the famous Kovalam Beach here in violation of COVID-19 lockdown regulations, police said on Wednesday. Cases have also been registered against the owners and managers of five hotels where the tourists are staying since March 22 due to the lockdown, they said.  The tourists who hailed from various countries, including UK, Canada and France, had taken bath in the sea on Tuesday despite orders banning such activities. Cases have been registered against them under the Kerala Epidemic Act and Indian Penal Code IPC section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and sect 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease). The Foreigner Regional Registration Office (FRRO) here said it was seized of the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/17-foreign-tourists-booked-for-bathing-in-sea-during-coronavirus-lockdown-in-kerala-825766.html
15-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Tamil Nadu steps up screening in containment zones||As of Tuesday evening, the state’s total tally stood at 1,204 including 81 discharges and 12 deaths. Though the state has ramped up testing in the past few days by changing its protocol from symptomatic testing to aggressive testing, experts feel the extended lockdown should be used to contain further spread of COVID-19. The state has earmarked containment zones identified based on the last-lived location of positive patients where health workers visit every house within a 5-8 km radius and screen every occupant for fever and other symptoms of coronavirus.    While testing of SARI patients randomly began in February, according to the Health Department, it has now been expanded to all those with respiratory illness admitted in hospitals across the state. “Testing all SARI patients allows us to check the spread of the disease. Some of these patients have tested positive but all of them have had contact history. Testing these patients are necessary and we are doing that every day,” Dr. K Kolandaswamy, Director of Public Health, told DH. In the containment zones, the focus is on finding those who have ILI so that they can be sent for Covid-19 testing after doctors take a call. Officials said dedicated medical teams visit houses and look for people with ILI. “If they need Covid-19 testing, they are immediately taken to a testing center,” a senior official said. Several districts have taken mobile kiosks to the containment zones to collect samples from Covid-19 patients to save time and energy. The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has set up such kiosks Also, Kolandaswamy said the Health Department has taken over necessary equipment from several other departments to supplement its efforts to contain the spread of Covid-19. “People from other departments are also helping us. The entire state machinery is involved in Covid-19 containment efforts. We are being helped by everyone,” he said.    The state, which is yet to receive rapid test kits that can deliver results in just half-hour, is testing more samples using the RT-PCR kits, which doctors and experts say are of the “gold standard.” The state’s efforts to ramp up testing also received a shot in the arm on Wednesday with Tata Group donating 40,032 PCR test kits worth Rs 8 crore. Officials said the state would continue to use RT-PCR kits for confirmatory tests as they are much more reliable than the rapid test kits. “While the blood tests check for antibodies, the PCR tests check for the virus itself. We have enough test kits and we will continue to test using this method though the results take a few hours,” the official said. Once the rapid test kits arrive, they will be used to screen people in containment zones and other vulnerable areas, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-tamil-nadu-steps-up-screening-in-containment-zones-825854.html
15-04-2020||South||COVID-19 data piracy row: Kerala govt. makes deal documents public||To come clean against allegations of compromising privacy of health data of nearly 2 lakh people in Kerala, the government on Wednesday made public all documents, including a non-disclosure agreement, with the US firm Sprinklr. However, the opposition, Congress alleged that a letter of affirmation and a revised version on the same were sent by the US firm to Kerala government on April 11 and 12 after the suspicions were raised over the deal. The controversy came up as the government directed local bodies to upload data collected from persons on COVID-19 surveillance in Kerala to the US firm's server. The government's justification was that the US firm headed by a Malayali has offered their application for effective interventions against COVID-19 free of cost and since Kerala government agencies did not have sufficient server space or tools to handle the big data, the US firm's service was used on a termporary basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-data-piracy-row-kerala-govt-makes-deal-documents-public-825862.html
15-04-2020||State||Wily coronavirus leaves docs clueless on recovery rates||As COVID-19 continues its romp across the state, an analysis of recovery patterns of affected cases reveals that the disease affects different people in different ways and that this often has nothing to do with how old or physically fit one may be. An analysis of all patient data made available by the state health department during Karnataka's official, 35-day outbreak so far has revealed a surprisingly fluctuating picture of recovery rates. Nothing seems to be relevant to predict a patient's recovery — not age, not immunity, not even co-morbidity factors. The only factor that seems to matter is how high a patient's viral load is, a senior medical official said, adding that the cause of high viral load is itself a mystery.  In some instances, elderly or middle-aged patients have made spectacularly quick recoveries, even as young adults in the prime of life have taken upwards of 20 days to recover. "This shows that a great extent of the knowledge about this disease is still absent,” state medical officials said. In some cases, patients appear to make progress for the first four days, before they crash in a "cytokine" storm where massive virus replication in the body causes the immune system itself to attack the body, according to molecular biologist Dr Deepak Saini, a member of the state's COVID-19 Coordination Committee. "This can prove fatal," Dr Saini said.  The unpredictable nature of recovery from COVID-19 is best highlighted by the case of Patient 75, a healthy, 26-year-old man who made the fastest recovery in the state so far, requiring just nine days before the virus passed from his system. On the other hand, an equally healthy 31-year-old man (Patient 19) made one of the slowest recoveries to date — taking 25 days. Patient 19 was discharged from the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD) on Tuesday.   Although the death toll in the state is largely skewed to those over the age of 55, a 67-year-old woman and a 70-year-old man also survived the disease and were discharged within the normal, 14-day period of isolation. According to Dr C Nagaraja, Director of RGICD, the hospital’s own experience showed that three out of the nine discharged patients (including Patient 19) had an unusually delayed recovery. “Patient 19’s case is important. Although his mother, Patient 22 (64 years), was discharged after 21 days in isolation, he himself was taking a lot of time to discharge the virus even though his immune system was normal and healthy,” Dr Nagaraja said. “We are not exactly sure why. It is also unknown why Patient 3 (a 13-year-old) was not able to get cured quickly, even though her mother, Patient 2, who is 47 years, cleared the virus from her body in 14 days,” he added. “There appears to be no clear methodology to determine the recovery rate of patients. The only thing that we can think of at the moment is a high viral load, but what causes high viral loads in people is still unknown,” Dr Nagaraja said.  More studies needed According to Dr Saini, people primarily die of COVID-19 if they are not able to reduce the viral load in their bodies, which results in secondary infections like Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). Dr Saini said he suspects weakened immunity and co-morbidity play a factor, but said further studies were required. “If you have an immune system that is partly compromised, you will presumably take a longer time to clear away the infection,” he said. Men more vulnerable Although the data analysis is limited to recovery and fatality statistics, the figures appear to indicate that men are at more risk of COVID-19 than women. Of the 65 people discharged after being cured so far in the state, 46 are men, plus one male baby, and 18 are women. Out of those still under prolonged isolation (over 15 days), the numbers even out somewhat with 14 men and nine women. Among fatalities disclosed so far, seven are men and two are women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/wily-coronavirus-leaves-docs-clueless-on-recovery-rates-825496.html
15-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka to intensify checking; ADGPs deputed to dists||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said the extended lockdown would be more stringent, with more checks and barricades throughout the state to restrict unnecessary movement. “In Bengaluru and other districts, the lockdown will be more stringent. After April 20, we will review the situation at taluk and district levels and take a call on easing restrictions,” Bommai said. Though there were strict guidelines at hotspots, some “unnecessary” movement has continued and that will be curbed, Bommai said, clarifying that districts were not being sealed off. The Home Minister said ADGP-rank police officers will be deputed in districts with high COVID-19 cases. The Centre is also planning to micromanage hotspots to contain the pandemic, Bommai said. ADGP-rank officers have been deputed to enforce the lockdown in Bidar, Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Belagavi, Mysuru and Dakshina Kannada districts, where there are high number of COVID-19 cases. Bommai noted that four ADGPs have already been deputed and the rest will be sent soon to supervise the lockdown. Meanwhile, Yediyurappa — who has lamented over people not following rules — said the extended lockdown will be closely monitored till April 20. “Easing restrictions will be based on the guidelines issued by the Centre,” he said.  So far, a total of 57,633 vehicles have been impounded, 4,169 people arrested and 2,181 FIRs registered for violating lockdown regulations. The police have collected Rs 95 lakh fine from violators, Yediyurappa said.  On COVID-19 hotspots in Karnataka, Yediyurappa said that all measures will be taken to ensure that the disease does not spread. “We will have to prioritise such hotspots. The government will try and contain the disease in such regions by April 20,” the CM said. Yediyurappa said responsibility lay with people to ensure that all activities run smoothly after the lockdown ends on May 3 by strictly following the regulations. He added that there was no scarcity of medicines, essential services and goods. “We will make all efforts to carry out agriculture activities without any hurdle,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-to-intensify-checking-adgps-deputed-to-dists-825498.html
15-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||1 more coronavirus death in Karnataka; toll reaches to 11||A 69-year-old man from Chikkaballapura became the eleventh COVID-19 related fatality in Karnataka taking the toll in the state to 11, state Health Minister B Sriramulu said on Wednesday. "A 69-year-old person from Chikkaballapura has died due to COVID-19 infection. His body is in Bengaluru's Victoria Hospital, and the department was preparing for last rites according to central government rules," Sriramulu tweeted. The Minister also appealed to citizens to stay safe in their houses. Two COVID-19 patients, a 76-year-old man from Bengaluru and a 69-year-old man from Vijayapura had died on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/1-more-coronavirus-death-in-karnataka-toll-reaches-to-11-825601.html
15-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka's antibody kits stuck in Hong Kong airport||Singapore-based Sensing Self Ltd and China’s Wondfo are the only companies that have cleared Pune's National Institute of Virology (NIV)’s validation for rapid antibody test kit. Dr CN Manjunath, Director, Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, and nodal officer for COVID-19 lab testing, Karnataka, said, "Inventory is ready in Hong Kong Airport. Karnataka's consignment is stuck with five other states' consignments: Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, and Meghalaya. On April 1 or 3, China's policy changed saying any exports going out of China has to be certified by the Chinese government. Initially, the factories were independently exporting. We are working with the External Affairs Ministry, Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers and the Prime Minister's Office to expedite the process." Karnataka has agreed to pay Rs. 694 per antibody test strip. "This is inclusive of customs, import duty, export charges and transportation charges," he said.   Around four lakh antibody test kits that were supposed to be supplied to Tamil Nadu were diverted to the United States. "But ours is not part of that consignment. China is very unpredictable at the moment. We were in talks with Beijing-based Sino Biocan but the government said we have to go through a National Institute of Virology Pune-approved company. The CEO of Sensing Self company we are buying from, Sripal Gandhi, is based out of Delhi. We thought it's better to go with an Indian at the helm since we'll have more say in the matter," Manjunath clarified.     "Our Chief Secretary is in touch with Vikram Mistry, Indian Ambassador to China, but it is getting delayed. We hope that in two or three days, we will have the consignment. We were supposed to get the consignment on Sunday night. The Singapore-based company Sensing Self Private Ltd has in fact sent us videos of the quality checks, and the material," he said.    As soon as the kits arrive, testing will be ramped up, and random and rapid testing will be done, he assured. Currently the state has 15 COVID-19 testing facilities. "We are doing the usual COVID-19 testing with our regular PCR machines," he said.  As of Monday, Karnataka had tested 10,017 samples through conventional PCR method.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnatakas-antibody-kits-stuck-in-hong-kong-airport-825663.html
15-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's offer for epidemiologists is too low, especially in the time of coronavirus||The industry standard for epidemiologists is Rs 80,000 to Rs 1 lakh. According to the Karnataka health department's eligibility criteria for the post, one has to have three years experience in public health , have a post graduate degree in epidemiology or have an MSc in Life Sciences. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, told DH that out of the six vacant epidemiologists' posts in the state, four were advertised for. Asked about the paltry remuneration, especially in the time of COVID-19 when three epidemiologists are a part of the COVID-19 committee to analyse Karnataka's data, he said: "I have asked the department to offer the maximum that can be offered. The recruitment is happening under the National Health Mission."  R Ramachandran, Director, National Health Mission, Karnataka, said: "The basic salary offered is Rs. 33,600. There will be a 5 per cent hike in the coming year and thereafter a 10 per cent hike. We cannot hike the salary of only epidemiologists. The rest of our staff will also demand a hike then. Right now, all four have been filled."  A public health researcher with two decades experience in the subject told DH under the condition of anonymity that a junior epidemiologist in an academic set up earns Rs. 80,000 to Rs. 1 lakh per month. "If you compare it with those in the hospitals or management, the public health community gets underpaid. But the skillset is same or even more complex. The number of hours they spend is more and they do not have many holidays. Their work conditions are tough. At the National level, one can work with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the WHO and there are a lot more avenues," he said. "At the state and district levels, one wouldn't get anything comparable. Whenever there is a crisis like H1N1 or dengue they need epidemiologists to look at the data and tell them what to do. There is no public health cadre in Karnataka. Whatever they want is a short term and stop gap arrangement. Once COVID-19 goes, nobody will care about epidemiologists until another crisis hits," he rued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-offer-for-epidemiologists-is-too-low-especially-in-the-time-of-coronavirus-825668.html
15-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka ensures TB patients get meds during lockdown||There are 90,000 Tuberculosis (TB) patients in Karnataka. Ever wondered how they get their medicines in this prolonged period of lockdown? In the run-up to the lockdown, the state dispensed medicines worth two months to all its TB patients ahead of time.  They're also people who are taking treatment from private healthcare providers, but 10% among them are taking medicines from the government. The Karnataka Health Promotion Trust armed with a list of 1,000 TB patients' contacts from Bengaluru keeps calling them every day to remind them to take medicines, for their viral load may increase without the medication. Currently, if a patient has two weeks of cough, a spike in fever in the evening, and some degree of loss of appetite, a test for TB is done. Most of these symptoms are similar to those of COVID-19. Any COVID-19 suspect being tested for Coronavirus is also being tested for TB. Additional cartridges for GeneXpert machines that are used for testing phlegm samples of TB patients have also been dispatched.  35,000 cartridges of GeneXpert were there in 65 testing facilities in Karnataka. A top-up of 17,000 was done. The district drug stores in Karnataka have a surplus of TB drugs now with three and four Fixed Drug Combination (FDC) drugs for the first line of treatment having been dispatched in troves from March 1st till now.   A health department official who did not want to be named said, "Apart from the existing medicines, we sent a buffer stock to the stores. As far as 3 FDC drugs are concerned, the districts had 80,000 strips. We sent a buffer stock of 82,000 strips. These will go from the district drug stores to respective TB units. From there it will be sent to all PHIs including a primary health centre. If any patient walks in for want of TB drugs, they will be given the same." As far as 4 FDC drugs are concerned, existing stock included 70,000 strips and additional stock of 50,000 strips was sent. Each strip has 28 tablets of four medicines. Depending on the weight of the patient, medicines are consumed. For example, a patient weighing 45 kg to 60 kg, will take three tablets every day and each strip will last for 28 days.   34,000 strips of Ethanbutol, one of the drugs used for multi drug-resistant TB patients that district stores already had has been topped with 30,000 additional strips. 61,000 strips of Levofloxacin have been buffered with 95,000 more strips. As far as medicines for pediatric TB go, 1,561 strips have been added with 1,560 strips more. As far as prophylaxis for TB goes, 35 lakh tablets have been added with 30 lakh tablets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-ensures-tb-patients-get-meds-during-lockdown-825671.html
15-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Second patient tests COVID-19 positive after 14-day quarantine period in Karnataka||In a second such case in the state, a patient has tested positive after his 14-day quarantine period in the state, thereby proving that patients can test positive after the incubation period too. Patient 218, a 58-year-old man was asymptomatic when he landed from Indonesia on March 21st. On 4th April, his 14-day quarantine period came to an end. On 8th April, his sample was collected. He had no co-morbidities. But, he was shifted from Manipal Hospital (where he was first admitted to) to Victoria Hospital on 11th April when his test results came back positive.  This is the second such case in the state. The first was a case of a 64-year-old man, P54, a resident of Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh, who had travelled to France and arrived on March 1st in India. After his arrival, he had travelled to Himachal Pradesh and then to Puttaparthi in Andhra Pradesh. He arrived in Bengaluru only on March 21 but tested positive on March 26th, 26 days after his return to India.  While doctors say each patient's immune system is different and that plays a pivotal role in the disease manifesting itself sooner or later, officials say, one can have mild symptoms that can go unnoticed. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Karnataka, said, "Some infected people can develop very feeble symptoms and may be considered asymptomatic as nobody notices it. The disease will manifest only after 14 days. It doesn't mean that the incubation period is not calculated scientifically. That is why we have a reporting period of 14 days after 14 days of quarantine. That is why you will not find any case where symptoms have shown after 28 days."   The 14-day incubation period is used by the United States Centre for Disease Control and Prevention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/second-patient-tests-covid-19-positive-after-14-day-quarantine-period-in-karnataka-825678.html
15-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sets up critical care support unit by linking COVID-19 hospitals across state||Karnataka is the first state in the country to establish a dedicated unit for critical care support, by linking ICUs of COVID hospitals onto a single platform, Medical Education Minister Sudhakar K, who inaugurated it, was quoted as saying in a statement. Its objective is to monitor COVID-19 patients in ICUs across Karnataka state so that the hospitals are prepared for the potential onslaught of the virus and thereby to achieve zero COVID mortality in Karnataka, he said, adding, it would enable capturing details of ICU COVID-19 patients in real time.  Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department said the unit is monitored by a centralised team of doctors from the department, Medical colleges and Interns from KIMS, M S Ramaiah Hospital and Dr BR Ambedkar Medical College. This team will work around the clock in three shifts to monitor patients admitted to ICUs. At the end of each day, the unit will review the progress and implementation of the action plan and share it with higher authorities for further action. It also serves as a handholding facility for doctors in interior parts of the state who may not have access to new technologies and will be of immense value in saving a life at this critical moment, the statement said. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Commissioner, Health and Family Welfare Department, said as and when the ICU preparedness of a designated hospital is uploaded in the e-health platform, a medical officer will certify the same.  Details of ICU patients are then uploaded, including their treatment methodology. Data is then monitored and analysed by experts and the nodal officer is intimated on deviation so that the data can be compiled and reported to the Taskforce on a daily basis. This data is of immense help as it allows us to take precautionary measures to avoid escalations , Pandey said. The government is mulling the formation of a team of experts, from corporate hospitals in Bengaluru, consisting of Cardiologists, Pulmonologists, Nephrologists and Physicians, the statement said. The idea is to connect this team of experts with a set of patients in one or more districts so that they can monitor and advise a suitable line of treatment for these patients, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sets-up-critical-care-support-unit-by-linking-covid-19-hospitals-across-state-825694.html
15-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka forms three Groups of Ministers to tackle crisis||Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan will head a GoM that will oversee the supply of essential goods, including agriculture and horticulture commodities.  Primary & Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, who is Karnataka’s COVID-19 spokesperson, will head a GoM that will focus on the lives of migrant workers.  Revenue Minister R Ashoka has been asked to head a GoM to monitor the public distribution system (PDS), or ration, in Bengaluru.     Narayan’s GoM is the biggest in terms of size and scale. “My GoM will also have Cooperation Minister ST Somashekhar, Horticulture Minister K Narayana Gowda, Food & Civil Supplies Minister K Gopalaiah and Agriculture Minister BC Patil,” Narayan told DH. “The GoM will look at the entire supply chain, including the uninterrupted functioning of essential factories.”  Suresh Kumar will be assisted by Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar to take care of migrant labourers. To date, Karnataka has opened 1,192 relief camps that house 1.30 lakh migrants.     Ashoka’s GoM will have Gopalaiah to ensure there is no pilgerate in the supply of ration, especially after the government decided that even those without ration cards will be covered. About 2.5 lakh people without the cards will get free ration. The GoMs add to a long list of administrative measures the government has in place to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. There are at least 17 other committees in charge of various aspects of the outbreak and the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-forms-three-groups-of-ministers-to-tackle-crisis-825710.html
15-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka launches Critical Care Support Unit to improve care of COVID-19 patients in ICUs||Karnataka, on Wednesday, launched a new Critical Care Support Unit to monitor the progress of COVID-19 patients in Intensive Care Units (ICUs). Commissioner of the Health and Family Welfare Department, Pankaj Pandey, said that the unit would help monitor data on COVID-19 patients in ICUs and which would help address shortfalls in treatment. “As and when the ICU preparedness of a designated hospital is uploaded on the e-health platform, it will be certified by a medical officer. Details of ICU patients, including their treatment methodology, are then uploaded. Data is then monitored and analysed by experts and the nodal officer is intimated on deviation so that the data can be compiled and reported to a taskforce of experts on a daily basis. This data is of immense help as it allows us to take precautionary measures to avoid escalations,” Pandey said. Dr K Sudhakar, Minister for Medical Education, described the system as the first in the country, and said it would link the ICUs of various hospitals treating COVID-19 patients into a single platform. “The unit will allow health officials to capture the details of ICU COVID-19 patients in real time,” he said. The unit will be monitored by a centralised team of doctors from the Department of Health and Family Welfare, staff of medical colleges and interns from KIMS, MS Ramaiah Hospital and Dr BR Ambedkar Medical College. Teams are to work around the clock in three shifts. According to an official, at the end of each day, the Critical Care Support Unit will review the progress and implementation of the action plan and share it with higher authorities for further action. “This unit will also hand-hold doctors from other districts who may not have access to new technologies and will be of immense value in saving a life at this critical moment,” the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-launches-critical-care-support-unit-to-improve-care-of-covid-19-patients-in-icus-825720.html
15-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Man who recovered from COVID-19 gets admitted again||A man from Ketumotte in Virajpet, who was cured of Covid-19 and returned to his home, has again been admitted to the hospital, following a complaint of fever, on Wednesday noon. The man, who voluntarily got admitted to the hospital, is being treated in the isolation ward of the Covid-19 hospital. His throat swab and blood samples have been sent for testing. The report is likely to be out by Thursday morning. After getting discharged from the hospital on April 7, he was home quarantined. After a week, he developed a fever again. The person has not moved out of his house and the people need not fear, said Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-man-who-recovered-from-covid-19-gets-admitted-again-825730.html
15-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: 2.75 lakh needy people fed on single day in Tumakuru||Over 2.75 lakh people were fed on April 14 (Tuesday) in Tumakuru city and district by Veerashaiva Samaja and other organisations supporting them. This effort has come in for praise from the district administration and others.  So far, volunteers were coming to the Samaja and taking food to be distributed among the poor and needy in various parts of the district every day. On Wednesday, the Samaja identified places where the distribution needs to be done.  The practice began when T B Chandrashekar of the Samaja, industrialists Ramesh Babu and Chandramouli; and cooking contractor Prasanna started feeding nomads and migrant labourers in March.    With the entry of MLA G B Jyotiganesh, the effort was extended to feeding 25,000 people each day. The Jain community and merchant community also joined the humanitarian effort.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-275-lakh-needy-people-fed-on-single-day-in-tumakuru-825759.html
15-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19 measures: Parameshwara takes officials to task||Koratagere MLA G Parameshwara took taluk and Health Department officials to task by calling them 'useless fellows' when they could not provide him the details of people who had come to the taluk from other places since the Covid-19 lockdown.  The former deputy chief minister was on a visit to all the hoblis in his constituency to review the measures taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19 on Wednesday. He pointed out that he had asked officials to furnish details such as names and addresses of nearly 9,000 people who had come back to the taluk since the lockdown was announced, during his last visit nine days ago. He asked for the Covid-19 related figures of the taluk too.   He took the tahsildar to task for preventing people who were feeding the poor, labourers and nomads and said that humanitarian efforts should not be prevented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-measures-parameshwara-takes-officials-to-task-825760.html
15-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Panel to decide amendments to Karnataka Universities Act||An expert committee has been set up to look into the amendments proposed to the Karnataka State Universities Act (KSU) to bring in a uniform act for all state-run varsities in the state. Senior academician Dr Vasudev Atre is the head of the committee. The move follows a clarification sought by the Union government on the amendments forwarded to the president by Governor Vajubhai Vala, who also is the chancellor of the universities. The Union government, which analysed the Act, had sought clarification on nine points. Now to address these queries, the higher education department has constituted the committee. Its other members are Prof B Thimme Gowda former vice-chancellor, Bangalore University, IIITB director Prof Sadagopan, academician Prof M K Sridhar and Geetha Narayan Srishti from Shrishti Institute of Arts and Design Technology. Some universities in the state, though run by the government, do not come under the existing Act. Hence, the government decided to bring a uniform Act by amending the KSU Act. These amendments have been passed by the legislature and were sent to the government for approval. The government has forwarded the same to the president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/panel-to-decide-amendments-to-karnataka-universities-act-825836.html
15-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Placements in engineering colleges hit lockdown hurdle||The Covid-19 crisis is likely to hit the campus placements at engineering colleges scheduled to begin from June 2020 for 2020-21 academic year. According to industry experts and engineering colleges, Tier-2 and Tier-3 colleges will be the most affected. Further, though the companies will continue to hire top talents, the mass recruiting companies will delay their visits. Students in 6th semester need to attend placements that are scheduled to be held in June. “We feel the placement process will be delayed by two to three months for the coming academic year,” says a senior official of Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU). Some exceptions Prof M N Guruvenkatesh, vice president of placements and skill development centre at Dayananda Sagar Institutions in Bengaluru, said, “The hiring will go down at least by 20% for the next year. Though production-based companies continue to hire, the mass recruiters, the service-based companies, may cut down recruitments.” As per the details available from the engineering colleges in the state, service-based companies used to hire 200 to 300 students at one go at basic level. Due to the Covid-19 crisis and nationwide lockdown, mass recruiting companies may restrict the numbers. Prof K N Subramanya, principal of R V College of Engineering, said, “Even colleges are not ready, if companies come forward to hire in June, as we have to complete the examinations. This crisis has resulted in economic downtrend, we have to wait for the economy to pick up.” As estimated by the placement officers, the campus recruitments may be delayed by two or three months and instead of June, they may take it up in August.  “Placement trend in last season was excellent and this won’t be the same this time. We are hoping to get a good response from companies after the crisis is over,” said the placement officer from one of the top engineering colleges in Bengaluru. The arts and design institutes too are facing the heat. The placements scheduled in February and March. Dr Vijaya Kumar, Principal, Vogue Institute of Art and Design, Bengaluru said, “Early start to campus placements in the month of February has helped our institute this year. But the ones scheduled for March have come to a standstill. Students should know that the impact on the industry is short term. The Chinese textile and apparel sector has started working. In two months, other countries will also start trade. Fashion and apparel design professionals will have betterfuture.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/placements-in-engineering-colleges-hit-lockdown-hurdle-825837.html
15-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Government launches new support unit to monitor patients in ICUs||The state government on Wednesday launched a new Critical Care Support Unit to monitor the progress of Covid-19 patients in Intensive Care Units (ICUs). Commissioner of the Health and Family Welfare Department Pankaj Pandey said that the unit would help monitor data on Covid-19 patients ICUs, which would help address shortfalls in treatment. “As and when the ICU preparedness of a designated hospital is uploaded in the e-health platform, it will be certified by a medical officer. Details of ICU patients, including their treatment methodology, are then uploaded. Data is monitored and analysed by experts. The nodal officer is intimated on deviations, so that the data can be compiled and reported to a task force of experts on a daily basis. This data is of immense help as it allows us to take precautionary measures to avoid escalations,” Pandey said.  Dr K Sudhakar, Minister for Medical Education, described the system as the first in the country, and said it would link the ICUs of various hospitals treating Covid-19 patients to a single platform. “The unit will allow health officials to capture the details of ICU Covid-19 patients in real time,” he said. It will be monitored by a centralized team of doctors from the Department of Health and Family Welfare, staff of medical colleges and interns from KIMS, M S Ramaiah Hospital and Dr B R Ambedkar Medical College. Teams are to work round the clock in three shifts.   Action plan According to an official, at the end of each day, the Critical Care Support Unit will review the progress and implementation of the action plan and share it with higher authorities for further action. “This unit will also hand-hold doctors from other districts who may not have access to new technologies and will be of immense value in saving lives,” the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/government-launches-new-support-unit-to-monitor-patients-in-icus-825850.html
15-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bagalkot cop tests positive of coronavirus||A head constable (HC) in Bagalkot district tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, while 24 Karnataka State Reserve Police constables (KSRP) were quarantined in Haveri as a precautionary measure after one of them developed fever, cold and cough. The 37-year-old cop from Mudhol in Bagalkot district, who was the part of a team that inspected the Madrasa where a group of 25 people from Gujarat and New Delhi had stayed for religious purposes, is the first policemen to be infected with the novel coronavirus. One of the group members tested positive last week. In Haveri, 24 constables attached to KSRP were quarantined after a constable developed symptoms of Covid-19. The throat swabs and blood samples of the constable have been sent to laboratory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bagalkot-cop-tests-positive-of-coronavirus-825857.html
15-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Watch these nature-wildlife gems on YouTube for a coronavirus lockdown well spent ||Binge-watching, net-streamed movies and series have seen a lockdown surge. Giving this widespread trend a desi, nature-wildlife twist, the State Forest Department has recommended a list of documentaries to watch, all well-made gems available free on YouTube.  High on the list is ‘River terns of Bhadra,” a 2013 documentary that digs deep into the Bhadra tiger reserve, one of India’s most treasured. Rich in flora and fauna, the reserve is flanked by the Bhadra dam’s backwaters, which gets magically transformed by an exclusive summer phenomenon. River terns in their thousands throng the backwaters in search of a nesting place. Employing a mix of hidden camera traps, underwater and hi-speed cam visuals, the film captures this rare phenomenon up close. Five months in the making, the film had documented the terns in arresting detail. Watch it unfold at (https://youtu.be/JO4qHg2xwe4) .  ‘The Western Ghats of India’ is another highly recommended documentary. First uploaded in February 2018, the film focuses on Sahyadri, a name in frequent discussion for its antiquity and biodiversity. The visuals also zoom into Shivaji’s unvanquished hill forts, mountains, valleys, and waterfalls.  The documentary ‘Namaami Aranyaka’ (https://youtu.be/ersBvr57oVI)  is a visually moving capture of the essence of Honnavar through the eyes of a forester. Located in the heart of Western Ghats, the region’s mesmerizing landscapes and biodiversity comes through strongly in the film.   Premiered in January 2019, ‘Aganashini’ (https://youtu.be/N85N3JspPOE) is not just another film about the Western Ghats. Winning awards and accolades in festivals worldwide, this documentary by Ashwini Kumar Bhat traces the course of a unique, undammed river, untamed and unpolluted by man. At the 2018 ‘Docs without Borders’ festival in the US, the film was adjudged the ‘Best of Show’ in cinematography.  Also in the recommended list is ‘A day at Mysore zoo,’ (https://youtu.be/MuB7HHeuNbc) produced, directed and filmed by Shekar Dattatri. Commissioned by the Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens, Mysuru to commemorate its 125th year, the film is a tribute to the zoo’s old world charm, spacious enclosures and animal diversity. A film on the Daroji bear sanctuary (https://youtu.be/HiTJiWXYlpo) is another must-watch. The children’s film traces an Indian sloth bear, her family and neighbours through an engaging narrative. Our Planet, Dancing with the birds, Night on earth and Beak and brain are other recommendations on the department’s list.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/watch-these-nature-wildlife-gems-on-youtube-for-a-coronavirus-lockdown-well-spent-825860.html
15-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||19 new coronavirus cases in Karnataka, most in a day; death toll at 12||Karnataka reported its biggest spike in Covid-19 positive cases in a day with 19 fresh cases on Wednesday. It also reported two deaths, one in Bengaluru and another in Hirebagewadi of Belagavi, taking the toll to 12. The tally was 279 as on Wednesday with 80 people discharged. One patient was shifted out of the ICU.  P279, an 80-year-old woman of Hirebagewadi had a heart problem, asthma, and high BP. She was a contact of P224. P224 was a contact of patient P128, who in turn, was a 20-year-old man who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi between March 13 and 18.  In another fatality, a 69-year-old man from Chikkaballapur died in Bengaluru on Wednesday. Patient P250 had co-morbidities and was also overweight, measuring 120 kg. The deceased was referred from a private hospital in Bengaluru Urban to Victoria Hospital on Monday evening. He had tested positive for H1N1, had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with obstructive sleep apnea and a history of uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, and hypertension. He passed away early on Wednesday morning. "The body has been kept at Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru and the health department is preparing for the funeral in keeping with the protocol," tweeted Karnataka Health Minister B Sriramulu on Wednesday afternoon. After a 10-month-old baby from Dakshina Kannada district recently tested positive for Covid-19, (who was discharged recently), a one-year-old baby boy from Kalaburagi with influenza-like illness tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. "Apart from SARI, now even patients with an influenza-like illness will be tested for Covid-19," said Minister S Suresh Kumar, spokesperson, Covid-19, Karnataka. For the first time in Karnataka, a police personnel, hailing from Jamkhandi in Bagalkot, has tested positive. He was on duty at a madrasa in Mudhol, Bagalkot.  Cases at Karnataka's Nanjangud cluster skyrocketed with nine employees of the pharmaceutical company testing positive for the virus on Wednesday. Now, the district has 58 cases out of which 12 have been discharged. "So far, 780 tests have been done in Nanjangud's pharmaceutical company which has more than 1,000 employees. From February 4 to 18, the company had visitors from US, Germany, Japan, China and France. The first Covid-19 positive case showed symptoms on March 13 and tested positive on March 24," Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/19-new-coronavirus-cases-in-karnataka-most-in-a-day-death-toll-at-12-825880.html
15-04-2020||West||Priest kills self in Mumbai after learning about coronavirus lockdown extension||A 35-year-old man, who worked as a priest in suburban Kandivali, allegedly committed suicide on Tuesday afternoon, hours after learning that lockdown to contain coronavirus has been extended. The deceased was identified as Krishna Pujari, native of Udupi in Karnataka, who was attached to Durga Mata temple in Iraniwadi area of Sanjay Nagar. Pujari, who lived with three other priests, was waiting for the lockdown to end as he wanted to go back to his hometown, a police official said. When he learnt that the lockdown has been extended till May 3, he was terribly depressed and allegedly hanged himself in kitchen, the official added. No suicide note has been found, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/priest-kills-self-in-mumbai-after-learning-about-coronavirus-lockdown-extension-825514.html
15-04-2020||West||Committees to suggest how to tackle financial crisis: Uddhav||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said the state government has set up an experts paneland a cabinet sub-committee to suggest steps to tackle the financial crisis arising out of the coronavirus pandemic. In a webcast, the chief minister said the ministers' group has been set up under the chairmanship of Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. The experts panel includes scientist Raghunath Mashelkar, economists Ajit Ranade and Vijay Kelkar and banker Deepak Parekh, he said. The two committees will look at how to avoid or mitigate the financial impact of the pandemic in coming days, the chief minister said. A decision on which industries can be started will be taken after April 20, he said. Thackeray also said that he had spoken to religious leaders, and the disease does not discriminate between religions and castes.  "Do not be in danger and do not let others be in danger," he said. The state government has made adequate arrangements for 5.44 lakh migrant workers, for whom 4,346 shelters have been set up, he said. "They are being given two meals and breakfast. Doctors have been appointed for them," Thackeray said, adding that authorities were also trying to ensure that these stranded workers don't get depressed or demoralised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/committees-to-suggest-how-to-tackle-financial-crisis-uddhav-825516.html
15-04-2020||West||Locals move Bombay HC against permission to bury COVID-19 victims||Residents of suburban Bandra have approached the Bombay High Court opposing the civic body's decision to allow burial of coronavirus victims in the local cemetery. The petitioner expressed fear that burial of COVID-19 patients at Bandra Kabristan can lead to community spread of the virus. The petition, filed by Pradeep Gandhy and others through advocate D P Singh, is likely to be taken up on Wednesday. The petition said that on April 13 a body was brought to the burial ground but after the locals protested, it was taken elsewhere. On March 30, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation had issued a circular saying that those who die of coronavirus must be cremated and not buried, irrespective of the religion. Following an uproar, the BMC withdrew the circular. Revised norms said that burial will be allowed but the burial ground should be large enough so as to avoid community spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/locals-move-bombay-hc-against-permission-to-bury-covid-19-victims-825522.html
15-04-2020||West||Migrants: Deshmukh announced probe into rumour source||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh announced on Tuesday night that a probe has been ordered to find out who spread the rumour that trains will be run to take migrant workers back to their states. "I have ordered an investigation into the rumour that claimed trains to take migrants back home. Those found guilty of sparking such rumours will be dealt severely invoking the fullest force of law. #ZeroToleranceForRumours, Deshmukh tweeted. More than 1,000 migrant workers, who are stuck in Mumbai for the last three weeks, gathered in Bandra around 3 PM on Tuesday, demanding transport arrangements to go back to their native places, hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the coronavirus lockdown till May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/migrants-deshmukh-announced-probe-into-rumour-source-825532.html
15-04-2020||West||Curfew imposed in some more areas of Pune to check spread of coronavirus pandemic||Curfew was imposed on Tuesday in some more areas in Pune city after the civic body on Monday issued an order to seal them following a spurt in the cases of COVID-19. Pune police on Tuesday night issued orders under section 144 of CRPC and restricted movement of people in various slums as well as non-slum pockets under Khadak, Bandgarden, Sinhgad Road, Dattawadi, Warje, Kothrud, Vishrantwadi, Khadaki, Chandannagar, Vimantal, Yerwada and Hadapsar police stations. "As per the orders, restrictions on the movements of people have been imposed from 6 am on April 15 to May 3 in these areas," said joint commissioner of police, Ravindra Shisave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/curfew-imposed-in-some-more-areas-of-pune-to-check-spread-of-coronavirus-pandemic-825545.html
15-04-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Man detained over social media messages linked to Bandra protest||A man was detained by police in neighbouring Navi Mumbai over messages on his social media accounts which may have contributed to the gathering of a large number of migrant workers in suburban Bandra on Tuesday afternoon, an official said. The man, identified as Vinay Dubey, was apprehended from Airoli in Navi Mumbai on Tuesday night, an official said. After handing him over to the Mumbai police, he will be in custody of the Azad Maidan police, where the process of registering an offence against him was going on, he said. Dubey had uploaded a video of his on social media account in which he had demanded the Maharashtra government make travel arrangements for migrants, who are stranded due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown and want to go back to their native places, he said. He had also tweeted about the issue and called for a national-level protest if trains are not arranged till April 18 to ferry migrants workers to their native places, he said. The police suspect his social media messages contributed to the protest by more than 1,000 migrant workers, most of them from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, near suburban Bandra railway station. They were demanding that the state government make transport arrangements so that they can go back to their native towns and villages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-man-detained-over-social-media-messages-linked-to-bandra-protest-825552.html
15-04-2020||West||Two more COVID-19 deaths in Gujarat; state toll reaches 30||Two more persons died of coronavirus in Gujarat, taking the death toll in the state to 30, the state health department said on Wednesday. The victims included a 14-year-old girl from Vadodara and a 45-year-old woman from Surat, it said. The girl also had a mental ailment, while the woman suffered from hypertension, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-more-covid-19-deaths-in-gujarat-state-toll-reaches-30-825581.html
15-04-2020||West||Govt hospital in Ahmedabad allegedly separates Hindu, Muslim coronavirus patients; govt denies||In a controversial move, the authorities of Ahmedabad Civil Hospital in Asarva allegedly separated Hindu and Muslim coronavirus patients in the specially made 1200-bed COVID-19 facility. Officials said that the alleged segregation was done three days back following instruction from senior government officers. However, the state government termed the allegations 'baseless'. Medical Superintendent G H Rathod told DH that “Whatever has been done is based on the decision taken by the state government. I have nothing to add and I don’t want to comment.” Meanwhile, Ahmedabad district collector K K Nirala said that he had no idea about the move. “I have no idea about this. I haven’t come across any directive from the state government to do something like this.” Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel, who is also health minister, did not respond to calls despite repeated attempts. When contacted a COVID-19 patient admitted at the hospital told DH, “Two days back at around 11 pm we were asked to change our place. We were not informed about the reason. Later, we realised that only Muslim men and women were moved from the usual place."    "The decision was taken after several doctors and nursing staffs complained that COVID-19 patients, mostly from the minority community, loiter around in other wards and they also receive lots of relatives. After observing these movements, we apprised senior authorities who decided to restrict these movements. We also have over three to four dozen suspected cases and due to such unnecessary movement, the risk of spread of virus increases. This decision has nothing to do with their faiths," claimed an officer at the civil hospital requesting not to be quoted. The state government Wednesday denied the reports of separate wards for patients. The health department tweeted from the official handle that "Some reports have appeared in the media that there are separate wards for patients of different religions in Civil Hospital Ahmedabad COVID hospital. These reports are absolutely baseless." It further added that "Patients are kept in different wards based on their medical condition, severity of the symptoms and age, purely based on the advice of treating Doctors. Therefore, reports that appeared in certain media are totally baseless and misleading." Hospital authorities said that there are 150 COVID-19 patients admitted in the 1,200 bed super-speciality block at the civil hospital, that started functioning for coronavirus patients since March 22. As of today, there are 150 patients out of which 40 to 45 are Muslims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/govt-hospital-in-ahmedabad-allegedly-separates-hindu-muslim-coronavirus-patients-govt-denies-825586.html
15-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Youth arrested, journalist booked over Bandra migrants gathering||Acting swiftly in the wake of huge gathering of migrant workers in Bandra, the Mumbai police on Wednesday arrested a youth for posts on social media platforms and booked a TV journalist. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray ordered a thorough probe into the incident. An Osmanabad-based journalist with a Marathi news channel has also been booked.  The Bandra police station has filed three FIRs in connection with the incident.  Dubey was booked under Section 143 (Whoever is a member of an unlawful assembly), 147 (punishment for rioting), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Besides, Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act has also been invoked against them. The journalist has been booked for airing a report that suggested trains would run to carry stranded migrant workers home. Meanwhile,  state BJP Vice President Kirit Somaiya demanded a probe into the viral video that suggested a conspiracy - and wrote to Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh.    "I have sent a video, which seems genuine, I received from a reliable source, to Mumbai police Commissioner and Home Secretary. According to the video, yesterday's Bandra Incident was a planned event. I wrote letter requesting investigation," he said. Meanwhile, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said he has ordered an investigation into the rumour that claimed trains  to take migrants back home. "Those found guilty of sparking such rumours will be dealt severely invoking the fullest force of law," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-youth-arrested-journalist-booked-over-bandra-migrants-gathering-825591.html
15-04-2020||West||116 new COVID-19 cases in Gujarat; state tally jumps to 766; toll at 33||In the past 24 hours, Gujarat reported a record 116 coronavirus positive cases that spiked the total cases to 766, while it recorded five deaths in the same time period, taking the death toll to 33.  What is alarming for the government is that fact that the virus has been detected in remote Narmada district, the seat of world's tallest "Statue of Unity," where a 26-year-old factory worker, who returned from Surat, and a 60 years old destitute woman were found positive.  Narmada became the 23rd district, out of 33, in the state where the virus has been found. The district collector Manoj Kothari told DH, "The 26-year-old is from Gurudeshwar who returned from Surat around two weeks back where he worked as a factory worker. The other patient is a 60-year-old woman from Dediapada who is from a very poor family. She earns by collecting woods in the jungle. We are tracing her contact history." Besides Narmada, Kheda and Botad district also reported their first cases in the past 24 hours.  Meanwhile, health officers said that an 11 days old infant was also found positive in Rajkot last night who is said to be the youngest COVID-19 patient in the state. Earlier, a 14-month-old baby boy had been found infected in Jamnagar who succumbed to the virus. The source of infection is yet to be established. Previously, the infection was found in a slum dweller in Ahmedabad, a tea-seller in Panchmahal districts whose sources of infection couldn't be traced.  Of 766 cases recorded till Wednesday evening, only 33 cases were found to have travel history of abroad while in 34 had made the intrastate journey. The rest of the 693 cases have been categorised as "local transmission" by the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/116-new-covid-19-cases-in-gujarat-state-tally-jumps-to-766-toll-at-33-825592.html
15-04-2020||West||Migrants' protest in Mumbai's Bandra: FIR against TV journalist over his report amid coronavirus lockdown||An FIR has been registered against a television journalist over his report that trains would restart, which may have prompted gathering of migrants in suburban Bandra on Tuesday, a police official said. The accused, Rahul Kulkarni, based in Osmanabad district of Maharashtra, has been detained and police are in the process of bringing him to Mumbai, he said. In a recent news report, Kulkarni said Jan Sadharan special trains would resume for people stranded due to the lockdown, he said. He has been booked under IPC Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant and 269, 270 (negligent, malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 117 (abetting commission of offence by public), the official said.  More than 1,000 migrant workers, most of them from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, gathered near Bandra railway station here on Tuesday afternoon. They were demanding that the state government make transport arrangements so that they can go back to their native towns and villages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/migrants-protest-in-mumbais-bandra-fir-against-tv-journalist-over-his-report-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-825627.html
15-04-2020||West||Gujarat Chief Minister to work from home, won't meet visitors for a week||A day after he met a Congress MLA who was later tested coronavirus positive, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani's on Wednesday shut his residence for visitors for a week. However, a statement released from the state government does not say that Rupani is under home quarantine, but stated that the chief minister's residence will not have visitors for a week and he would be overseeing the government work through video conferences."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-chief-minister-to-work-from-home-wont-meet-visitors-for-a-week-825628.html
15-04-2020||West||Man held for selling beer at pharmacy in Nagpur amid coronavirus lockdown||With liquor stores and bars downing their shutters amid the COVID-19 lockdown, a man in Maharashtra's Nagpur city resorted to selling beer at a pharmacy, police said on Wednesday. The police on Tuesday arrested Nishant alias Bunty Pramod Gupta (36) for allegedly selling beer at a pharmacy in the Ganeshpeth area, an official said. Acting on a tip-off, the police raided the pharmacy at around 8 pm on Tuesday and found beer bottles stored in boxes of mineral water, he said. The police seized 80 bottles of beer and arrested Gupta, a resident of Dosar Bhavan Chowk, he said, adding that another accused managed to flee during the raid. A case has been registered against the accused under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code and Maharashtra Prohibition Act, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-held-for-selling-beer-at-pharmacy-in-nagpur-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-825638.html
15-04-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Man held for offensive social media posts on migrants' protest||A Navi Mumbai resident was arrested early Wednesday for posting messages on his social media accounts which allegedly led to hundreds of migrant workers, stuck in Mumbai due to the lockdown, gathering near suburban Bandra station on Tuesday, police said. The accused, Vinay Dubey, was produced in a court which remanded him in police custody April 21, a police official said. Dubey had uploaded a video on social media in which he demanded that the Maharashtra government make travel arrangements for migrants, who are stranded due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown and want to go back to their native places, he said.  He had also tweeted about the issue and called for a national-level protest if trains are not arranged till April 18 to ferry migrants workers to their native places, he said. Dubey was initially detained by Navi Mumbai police and later handed over to the police in suburban Bandra. He has been booked under IPC Sections 153 A (promoting disharmony, enmity or feelings of hatred between different groups), 117 (abetting commission of offence), 188 (disobedience of order by public servant), 269, 270 (negligent and malignant act likely to spread infection of disease danger to life) and provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, he said. His interrogation was underway at the Bandra police station, the official said.  The police suspect his social media messages contributed to the protest by more than 1,000 migrant workers, most of them from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, near Bandra railway station on Tuesday afternoon. They were demanding that the state government make transport arrangements so that they can go back to their native towns and villages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-man-held-for-offensive-social-media-posts-on-migrants-protest-825642.html
15-04-2020||West||41 new COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan, state count reaches 1,046||Rajasthan recorded 41 fresh cases of novel coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the state's tally to 1,046, an official said. The virus has so far claimed 11 lives in the state.  "As many as 41 new cases have come up today -- 23 in Jaipur and seven each in Jodhpur and Kota. A case each of COVID-19 was recorded in Dausa, Nagaur, Tonk and Jhunjhunu districts," Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said. He said the total number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the state has risen to 1,046. Among the coronavirus cases in Rajasthan are two Italian citizens and 54 people who were brought back from Iran and admitted to Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer.  Jaipur has reported the highest number of 476 cases in the state, followed by 102 in Jodhpur, 64 in Kota and 59 in Banswara. Rajasthan is under a strict lockdown from March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to trace the contagion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/41-new-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-state-count-reaches-1046-825655.html
15-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Curfew comes into force in two Ahmedabad areas||The seven-day-long curfew to check the spread of coronavirus infection in the walled city and Danilimda areas of Ahmedabad in Gujarat kicked in at 6 am on Wednesday, officials said. The curfew will continue till 6 am on April 21. Out of over 400 COVID-19 cases reported from Ahmedabad so far, the Fort area (Old City) accounts for about 60-70% of cases. "The curfew has been imposed in areas which are under the jurisdiction of Shahpur, Karanj, Kalupur, Khadia, Gaekwad-Haveli, Dariyapur police stations of walled city and the Danilimda police station," Ahmedabad Police Commissioner Ashish Bhatia tweeted. Strict implementation of curfew in walled city and Danilimada area of Ahmedabad,for a week will aid in arresting the spread of corona virus.all residents of the area r requested to assist in this endeavour. "Strict implementation of curfew in walled city and Danilimada area of Ahmedabad, for a week will aid in arresting the spread of coronavirus. All residents of the area are requested to assist in this endeavour," the police commissioner said. A three-hour relaxation between 1 pm and 4 pm will be given, but only women are allowed to come out, he tweeted. "For an effective implementation of the curfew, over 2,100 uniformed men from local police and paramilitary forces are deployed in both the areas," he added.  Ahmedabad Police have set up 374 check-points and deployed 159 vans to keep a check on people's movement in these areas, Bhatia addded. A total of 2158 uniformed men from police and para-military are deployed in walled city and Danilimda areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-curfew-comes-into-force-in-two-ahmedabad-areas-825666.html
15-04-2020||West||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani isolates self after MLA he met tests coronavirus positive||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has decided to run the state administration without meeting anyone for next one week after a Congress MLA whom he met on Tuesday tested positive for coronavirus. Rupani's health is fine and he will run the state administration through technological facilities like video conference, video-calling and tele-calling, Chief Minister's Office (CMO) secretary Ashwani Kumar said on Wednesday. "No visitor will be allowed at the chief minister's residence for the next one week," he said.   Congress MLA Imran Khedawala, who met Rupani along with other party legislators on Tuesday morning, tested positive for coronavirus in the evening. Kumar said Khedawala committed a big mistake by not staying at home and coming out to meet Rupani when he had given his samples for coronavirus testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-isolates-self-after-mla-he-met-tests-coronavirus-positive-825670.html
15-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Maharashtra ministers blame Railways for migrant gathering in Mumbai||Two ministers in the Maharashtra government, on Wednesday, accused the Railways of causing confusion about resumption of train services that led to a stampede-like situation in Mumbai. Thousands of migrant workers had gathered outside the Bandra Railway Station area on Tuesday afternoon amid reports of resumption of train services to ferry stranded migrant workers to their hometowns. “What was the need for the Railways to issue such a letter when the Prime Minister was scheduled to address the nation on the lockdown,” Ashok Chavan, Public Works Minister in the Maharashtra government, told reporters at a press conference through video link. He flashed a letter of the South-Central Railway referring to ‘Janasadharan Special’ trains to clear migrant workers stranded at different locations due to the lockdown. Chavan and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat insisted that they do not want to indulge in politics but called for an investigation into the origin of the letter and the social media buzz about resumption of train services.    “Somebody wants to disrupt the efforts taken by the Maharashtra government to contain the spread of coronavirus,” Chavan, a senior Congress leader and former Maharashtra chief minister, said. He said social media was also abuzz about plans to topple the Maharashtra government and imposition of President’s Rule.    “I do not want to indulge in politics. Whatever happened in Mumbai was purely on account of Railways. Who did this? Which officers are responsible? What is happening on social media? We will take action. There are lapses for sure,” Thorat, who is also the President of the Maharashtra Congress, said. Shiv Sena leads the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi coalition government along with NCP and Congress. Thorat also reminded the Centre that it owes Rs 16,500 crore to Maharashtra on account of GST dues and demanded speedy release of the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-ministers-blame-railways-for-migrant-gathering-in-mumbai-825674.html
15-04-2020||West||Mumbai: 25 migrant workers held for travelling during lockdown||A total of 25 migrant workers were arrested early Wednesday from Santacruz in Mumbai while they were trying to move out of the city to Uttar Pradesh by hiding in a mini truck, a day after the national coronavirus lockdown was extended till May 3, police said. On Tuesday, hundreds of migrant workers, who have been stuck in Mumbai since the first phase of the lockdown kicked in on March 24, gathered outside Bandra railway station hoping for special trains to take them to their native states. A police official said a patrolling team intercepted the vehicle in Meera Baugh area of Santacruz on suspicion in the early morning. "Police found 25 men, all migrant workers, crammed inside the mini truck and brought them to the police station," he said. The migrants, all residents of 'Bhaiyya Wadi' in Santacruz, were upset over the extension of the lockdown by another 19 days. These people are daily wage workers who earn their living in Mumbai by doing odd jobs, the official said, adding that they are desperate to go to their homes in other states. "We have arrested 25 labourers and the tempo driver Pralhad Yadav. All of them hail from Uttar Pradesh. We are looking for the tempo owner," said Santacruz police station senior inspector Shriram Koregaonkar. He said each of the labourer had paid Rs 1500 for the journey. "We have booked them under various sections including 188 (Disobeying the order promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act," he said, adding that all the 25 people are released on bail. The inspector said the migrants were getting food, but are anxious to go their homes. In his address on Tuesday evening, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray tried to reach out to migrant workers stuck in Maharashtra and appealed them to stay put.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-25-migrant-workers-held-for-travelling-during-lockdown-825677.html
15-04-2020||West||Four missing after boat capsizes ||Three persons are reported missing while four others were rescued when a boat capsized off the Madh jetty at the far western suburbs of Malad in Mumbai on Wednesday. A total of four persons were on board the boat. The incident took place past midnight and the search operation was called off in the morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-missing-after-boat-capsizes-825749.html
15-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani to work from home, no visitors for a week||A day after he met a Congress MLA who was later tested coronavirus positive, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Wednesday shut his residence for visitors for a week. Although a communication released from the state government doesn't say that Rupani is under home quarantine, it said that the chief minister's residence will not have visitors for a week and he would be overseeing the government work through video conferences." Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi said on Wednesday evevning that although CM Rupani had maintained safe social distance he decided to stop meeting face-to-face as a precautionary measure. "Similarly, Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel and Pradipsinh Jadeja have also isolated themselves for five to six days. She said that in the past 24 hours, Gujarat recorded 116 cases, taking the total to 766 positive cases while three patients died, taking the toll to 33 in the state. "He wouldn't be meeting visitors but he is not under quarantine or in isolation," secretary to chief minister Ashwani Kumar told DH. The official statement released by him states that "Rupani was examined by two doctors-R K Patel and Atul Patel. The chief minister is healthy and he is normal on all parameters." The statement adds: "Chief minister is conducting government-related work and giving guidance from his residence by using video conference, video calling and telephone conversation. The chief minister's residence will not allow any visitors for a week."  Rupani along with his deputy Nitin Patel, minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja and several top IAS and IPS officers had held a meeting on Tuesday afternoon with Congress MLA Imran Khedawala, Gayasuddin Sheikh and Shailesh Parmar. They had discussed modalities to impose curfew in the walled city of Ahmedabad which is a coronavirus hotspot. Khedawala and Sheikh represent Jamalpur-Khadia and Dariapur which are the worst-affected localities in the walled city while Parmar is an MLA from Danilimbada seat, another hotspot of the virus in Ahmedabad.  Late in the evening, Khedawala's medical report confirmed that he was infected with the virus. He admitted to SVP hospital. The news created panic since Khedawala met most of the senior leaders who are running the government and managing the coronavirus outbreak. The government condemned Khedawala for not staying home despite the fact that he had developed symptoms and his medical report was awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-to-work-from-home-no-visitors-for-a-week-825750.html
15-04-2020||West||In worst-hit Maharashtra, 70% of COVID-19 patients below age of 50 yrs||An analysis of 2330 of the total 2801 COVID-19 cases detected so far in worst-hit Maharashtra suggests that the age of 70 per cent or 1646 patients ranged between 21 years and 50 years while 684 others are in their 50s, Health officials said on Wednesday. Underlining that people in the 50 plus age group are most vulnerable to the viral disease, the data puts the number of the fatalities in this age group at 77 per cent of the 171 deaths (out of the total 178 up to Tuesday) or 132 in absolute numbers. The number of coronavirus cases in Maharashtra rose to 2801 on Wednesday with 117 new patients being detected. The death toll till Tuesday was 178. Out of the 171 deaths analysed, the age of 104 among 132 COVID-19 victims ranged between 51 years and 70 years, while 39 other victims aged less than 50 years, as per the data. "A total of 478 patients in the age group of 21-30 years have tested positive for coronavirus (in Maharashtra) while 446 others are in the age group of 31 to 40 years. The number of patients who are in the age group of 41 years to 50 years is 432," a state Health official said. The senior IAS official said the only reason behind 1646 people below 50 years contracting the coronavirus infection is they fall under the active working class group. "These are people who are either studying or travelling for some business reasons. Hence they were the ones who contracted the infection abroad," he said. There were some deaths initially among the people who had some travel history, but most of the cases in the last one week (April 5 to 12) are of the people who are above 50 years and had no travel history in the recent past, the official explained.  He further said that the average COVID-19 mortality rate of Maharashtra was 7.34 per cent which is the fourth highest in the country after Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab. "However, despite that the state is way ahead of others both in terms of the number of positive cases and fatalities due to the COVID-19 disease," he said. Pointing out that 23 per cent of the total coronavirus positive cases in India are reported from Maharashtra alone, the official said it is mainly due to the very high movement of international flights from the Mumbai International airport. "No airport in the country is as busy as Mumbai, hence it was natural to find more people contracting coronavirus infection in Maharashtra than anywhere else in the country," said another official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-worst-hit-maharashtra-70-of-covid-19-patients-below-age-of-50-yrs-825755.html
15-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Priest from Udupi commits suicide in Mumbai||A 35-year-old priest from Udupi committed suicide on learning that the lockdown was extended up to May 3, in Mumbai on Tuesday.  The priest was identified as Krishna Shanthi, a native of Neere Bailoor in Karkala taluk of Udupi district. Krishna had left for Mumbai in order to serve as a priest on a temporary basis in Mahakali Temple in Kandivali.  Krishna kept pinning hopes on returning to his native village after the first phase of lockdown ended on April 14. But the second extension turned out be a huge disappointment for him.  Krishna was found hanging from the ceiling on the premises of the temple in Kandivali.   He was staying with three other priests and no suicide note was found, sources said.  The jurisdictional police in Mumbai are investigating the case, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-priest-from-udupi-commits-suicide-in-mumbai-825803.html
15-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Misinformation on trains spread through 11 methods, says Maharashtra HM Anil Deshmukh||The misinformation regarding commencement of train services, a factor behind a protest by migrant workers here, was spread using 11 different methods, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Wednesday. FIRs are being filed in these incidents and appropriate legal action will follow, he said.  "Misinformation regarding commencement of trains from April 14, 2020 was spread using 11 different methods. The (social media) accounts have been tracked, FIRs are being filed & due legal consequences will follow, Deshmukh tweeted. He asserted that the state government has zero tolerance for rumours. Defying the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, more than 1,000 migrant workers had gathered outside the suburban Bandra railway station on Tuesday afternoon. They were demanding that the state government make transport arrangements so that they can go back to their native towns and villages. Rumours and false information on social media regarding train services are being cited as one of the reasons for the protest which took authorities by surprise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-misinformation-on-trains-spread-through-11-methods-says-maharashtra-hm-anil-deshmukh-825812.html
15-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: 3,700 stranded in India flew out from Mumbai||Over 3,700 stranded passengers flew out of India onboard 20 repatriation flights in the past 21 days from Mumbai airport during the ongoing nationwide lockdown in India. The flights took off from the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA). The GVK-MIAL managing CSMIA evacuated over 3,700 passengers with 20 repatriation flights between 25 March to 14 April. "Working side-by-side with the aviation community and the respective embassies, CSMIA has facilitated the operation of flights carrying the stranded passengers from Mumbai to London, Atlanta, Frankfurt, Singapore, Paris and Tokyo amongst other international destinations," a Mumbai airport spokesperson said.  In the wake of the recent outbreak, CSMIA has taken all the precautionary measures to ensure passenger safety while boarding and arriving at the airport. The airport has put up a stringent screening process right from the time passengers enter the airport to the time they board their flight, and the same process has been implemented for the arriving passengers as well.  Post the government announcing the lockdown in India following the coronavirus outbreak and suspension of commercial passenger flight, the airport has been operating with a curtailed staff and working endlessly to handle cargo flights, charter flights, military aircraft and freighter services.   In this unprecedented time, CSMIA has maintained seamless cargo operations and has managed close to 240 cargo flights movements over the lockdown period that commenced on 25 March. Furthermore, the cargo operations at CSMIA have recorded the highest number of exports and import delivery of cargo in a single day in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-3700-stranded-in-india-flew-out-from-mumbai-825813.html
15-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Over 3,700 stranded foreign nationals sent back through Mumbai airport, says MIAL||AAI-GVK group-run Mumbai airport on Wednesday said it has helped transport more than 3,700 foreign nationals back to their respective countries, who were stranded due to the suspension of all commercial air passenger services amid the lockdown, with 20 repatriation flights in the last three weeks. Besides, during the same time the airport has also maintained seamless cargo operations and conducted close to 240 cargo services as well, Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) said in a statement.  Working in tandem with the stakeholders in the aviation industry and the respective embassies, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has facilitated the operation of flights carrying the stranded passengers from Mumbai to London, Atlanta, Frankfurt, Singapore, Paris and Tokyo among others, it said. Following the directive issued by the Central Government to combat the coronavirus outbreak, all commercial passenger flights suspended in a bid to stop the spread of the global pandemic, the private airport operator said. Furthermore, the Mumbai airport has recorded the highest number of exports and import delivery of cargo in a single day in India, MIAL said without sharing any specific numbers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-over-3700-stranded-foreign-nationals-sent-back-through-mumbai-airport-says-mial-825848.html
