16-04-2020||Comment||Muslims in the Age of Coronavirus||The recent chain of events starting with the annual conference of Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) at the Nizamuddin Markaz (headquarters) on March 13 has led to an outpouring of scorn and hatred against a community that was already a victim of hate campaign by leading members of the ruling party. But some facts first. There were roughly over 3,000 delegates from India and about 250 from abroad, though no definite numbers have been put forward either by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) or the Markaz. One expects the MHA to provide facts on this event, since the Intelligence Bureau monitors activities of all such organisations in Delhi and reports on a regular basis to its controlling Ministry -- the MHA -- and also to local police stations in case it expects any trouble. It is impossible to believe that the TJ went ahead with such a major event without obtaining prior permissions from the authorities. And it’s also possible that the MHA had received a list of foreign delegates well in advance so as to give clearances to our missions abroad and the immigration authorities at Delhi international airport. Of course, the officials concerned may have taken it all in their stride knowing that it’s an annual affair and nothing much needs to be read into it. Also, none of them would have expected this bolt from the blue of a ‘janata curfew’ and then the ‘country-wide lockdown’ being declared during the course of this conference.  There are reports that the conference had ended and hundreds of delegates had left Nizamuddin before PM Modi announced the ‘janata curfew’ on March 22, but there were still over a thousand members inside the Markaz and their exit became impossible after the country-wide lockdown on March 24. The fact that many of them contracted the coronavirus and further spread it in all the districts they returned to compounded an already worsening national health crisis. Though some saner elements within the government have appealed to people not to make this into a ‘communal issue’, some TV channels and the informal channels of communication such as WhatsApp groups went into overdrive demonising these Muslims as ‘Corona Jihadis’, an epithet that found ready acceptance in a milieu that was already fertile in its hostility to the minorities. Though the governments at the Centre and the states have issued advisories to their party men, incendiary posts have been forwarded by two Karnataka MPs -- Shobha Karandlaje and Anantkumar Hegde, both of the BJP, indulging in ‘wanton vilification or attacks upon the religion…of a particular group…’, an offence under section 153A of the IPC.     While the country will certainly get more polarised on the basis of religion, what is worrying is the response of some ‘liberal Muslims’, such as Najmul Hoda, an IPS officer who has served the nation with distinction. The write-up by Hoda ‘Secularism in the Age of Corona’ (DH, April 10), seemed to be a rather despairing appeal to liberal Muslim leaders to stand up and be counted in an age of ruthless majoritarianism, or be swamped into a ghetto of medieval backwardness to which the Mullahs would lead them. Hoda seems to be in no doubt about the intent of this regime to declare India a Hindu Rashtra sooner or later, and says that this is precisely what the Mullahs, too, want as that would enable them to “become even more insular, ghettoised and obsessed with religion and identity.”  Of course, Hoda’s outpouring of angst is triggered by the activities of Tablighi Jamaat, which he regards as ‘suicidal recalcitrance,’ but he stops short of squarely blaming them for the ills of the community. The power of this Jamaat is so widespread that it’s almost impossible for reasonable Muslims without either being sucked into its medieval ways or become ostracised. No Muslim politician will dare take on the Tablighis.  The powerful influence of Wahabism on the millions of Indians working in the Gulf, the construction of hundreds of huge mosques in India funded by Saudi money and the preaching of their clerics in India has, over the last three decades, enormously strengthened their vice-like grip on the Muslim mind. So much so that the women’s wing of TJ has been singularly responsible in persuading almost every Muslim woman and girl to wear burkha in public, a practice unknown in most parts of India a few decades ago. As they set apart their identity guided by their Mullahs, the Hindus began to distance them, too.  Gradually, the politics of vote banks forced the Congress government, right from Rajiv Gandhi’s government, to appease the clerics rather than focus on the developmental and participatory needs of the Muslim community and make them a part of India’s growth story and its vibrant democracy. Neither Mulayam Singh Yadav nor Lalu Yadav, well-known socialists who were seen as benefactors of the Muslim community, escaped the Mullah’s hold. Hoda makes two very important points: one that the Hindu Rashtra is just a matter of semantics and already exists in practice and, secondly, that it suits the Mullahs as they will be “the slum lords of the Muslim ghetto”.  This need not be so, and it shall not come to pass. The innate liberalism, tolerance and ‘secular’ psyche of the people that helped India survive as a nation for over a thousand years, and the immutable dialectics of caste will defeat the aggressive aggregation of Hindutva forces. Secondly, the Muslim voter is shrewd enough to know that it is finally the politicians who deliver goods and services, not the Mullahs. Of course, the educated Muslims have to play a critical role in drawing their illiterate kin away from the Mullahs and take them towards secular education and jobs of a modern economy.     (The writer, a former Cabinet Secretariat official, is Visiting Fellow, Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/muslims-in-the-age-of-coronavirus-826012.html
16-04-2020||Comment||Coronavirus: Enable rural India to ‘WFH’  ||The large-scale spread of coronavirus is affecting every aspect of life, posing humungous challenges for countries. With the nation-wide lockdown, the government is trying to contain the virus spread. This has meant significant restrictions on movement of people. Many businesses and institutions are shut for unknown periods, significantly affecting all economic and social activities.  The difficult situation inflicted by the outbreak has resulted in a chaotic situation. There has been a huge reverse migration of labour. Students from rural areas studying in cities, and many IT company employees have returned to their villages. Good telecom connectivity can be a big boost to the rural areas now more than ever. Good connectivity can enable access to the latest developments with respect to coronavirus, health information, markets, businesses and education. Many new online services such as healthcare and education have emerged to overcome difficulties arising out of lockdown. However, there is also the requirement of consistent power along with good data connectivity. The users in rural areas may have the option of UPS (Uninterrupted Power Supply) or solar installations at home. However, the bigger problem is data connectivity. For data connectivity, in general, the available options comprise of the wired and wireless (mobile wireless) broadband. The wired broadband in turn has the options of Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) and Fiber Gigabit Passive Optical Network (GPON) network. The wireless broadband options available are the 2G/3G/4G wireless connectivity offered by telecom service providers (TSP) like Jio, Vodafone and Airtel. DSL is offered only by BSNL in the rural areas, but many locations are declared as not feasible for connection. Fiber connectivity is offered as part of Bharatnet (previously called the National Optical Fiber Network). Many Gram Panchayats (GP) are connected to Bharatnet and, through it, to the taluka (or block) head-quarters. At present, the ‘Work From Home’ (WFH) employees prefer the more reliable wireless broadband from TSPs , as the DSL is not feasible at many locations besides reliability concerns. The fiber connectivity is not provisioned at all GPs for retail customers and the plan is to encourage third parties like TSPs, cable operators, VLEs (Village Level Entrepreneurs) and Common Service Centre (CSC) operators to provide the connections to retail customers in villages. It appears that rural citizens will be best served with good bandwidth if the TSPs are able to rent out the fibre from BBNL wherever available. Those working from home are using collaboration tools like Webex, Zoom for video conferencing, team meetings and trainings. The VPN (Virtual Private Network) is enabling secure access to the networks in the offices. Perhaps in future, when normalcy returns, this gives the option for corporates to engage remote workforces. Therefore, the lockdown will act as an observation period for many to extend business to rural areas. Moreover, with good broadband facility, e-commerce will help farmers and artisans to market their products better. Hence, there is an urgent need for BSNL, BBNL and the government to focus and ensure reliable high-speed broadband in rural areas. Public institutions such as schools, health centres, farmer organisations and self-help groups are also bogged down by lack of access to expertise in rural areas. The rural students can have access to online educational content just like it is available for their urban counterparts. Telemedicine facility will help provide expert advice from qualified doctors in cities. Farmers can have access to market information and get advisories on crops from experts. When normalcy returns, online commerce through digital wallets and UPI-based payments will spur the rural economy. Various G2C and B2C (Business to Citizens) services will make it convenient for rural citizens to avail the benefits of schemes. However, efforts on Bharatnet roll-out need to improve. The deadlines to connect all of the 250,000 GPs have not been met. Even in those connected, the services are not provisioned in many. As of January 2020, as per the BBNL website, there were only 125,886 GPs where the fibre was laid, equipment installed, and services were rolled out. Timely supply of network equipment by various vendors and maintenance is said to be an issue that affect services. Cable cuts, power outages and insufficient diesel supplies for generators in towers, results in service being unavailable for indefinite periods. Availability of required tools for cutting and splicing of fibre cables, and shortage of skilled manpower are challenges in many places. The complexity of the overall arrangements involving multiple parties gives rise to coordination challenges. Retail customers in rural areas are unaware of the basket of services that can be made available. Further, the GP as a telecom network termination point requires proper manpower to make the service basket available to people.  The coronavirus lockdown has compelled all concerned to introspect on infrastructure and technology readiness in rural areas in order to address disaster management and business continuity requirements. It is an opportune time to overcome the hurdles and achieve the key objective of the Bharatnet to provide reliable high-speed data connectivity, which is likely to have a transformational effect on the quality of life in rural areas. (Naik is Professor at IIM-Bangalore; Rao is Project Consultant at IIM-B)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/coronavirus-enable-rural-india-to-wfh-826222.html
16-04-2020||First Edit||Bandra: A govt-made crisis is brewing||The Narendra Modi government’s lack of concern for millions of suffering migrant workers continues to be on display. On Tuesday, soon after the Prime Minister announced extension of the lockdown, thousands of migrant workers gathered outside Mumbai’s Bandra railway station to demand resumption of train services. It is distressing that the police responded to their frantic appeals by beating them with lathis. Similar incidents have been reported from other cities like Pune and Surat. More such protests can be expected in the coming weeks if the government’s uncaring attitude towards migrants persists. Three weeks ago, when Modi announced the nation-wide lockdown with just four hours’ notice, millions of migrants working in our cities, rendered jobless and without food and shelter overnight, set out on foot and in overcrowded vehicles to return home to their villages. Then, as now, the police response was heavy-handed; migrants were thrashed at state borders. We are now watching a horrifying replay of those scenes of desperation. The Modi government had not thought through the impact of the lockdown on daily wage earners then, and it has not cared to do so three weeks down the line. Is beating up the poor and migrant workers the government’s standard response to their anxieties? The migrant workers in Mumbai expected to be able to go home after April 14. After all, the Indian Railways had been accepting bookings. Fuelling their hopes were reports by a television news channel that outstation train services were being resumed. When train services were not resumed, their hopes were dashed. Realising that they would continue to be stuck without jobs, food or an exit from their precarious situation, they violated social distancing rules to crowd at the station. Surely this could have been avoided. Over the past fortnight, some state governments have taken steps to provide food for migrants. However, the demand has far outstripped supply of basic necessities. Understandably, those migrant workers prefer to go back to their villages where they would at least have a roof over their head. Many of them have walked back or have been provided bus transport by state governments to reach home. Those from distant villages do not have that option. It is they who are out on the streets now appealing for resumption of train services. This is not impossible to provide. After screening them for coronavirus infections, they should be allowed to travel back in well-sanitised trains or buses. Their orderly exit could have been implemented over the past fortnight. It was not, but it is still not too late. They must be enabled to go home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/bandra-a-govt-made-crisis-is-brewing-825973.html
16-04-2020||First Edit||Korea rewards Moon for coronavirus handling||The recent general elections in South Korea have several positive, even inspiring, messages for the rest of the world. Unlike several governments that are using the coronavirus pandemic to strengthen their grip over power, South Korea has reinforced support to democratic processes by holding the elections. It is the first country to hold elections amidst a pandemic. The country has never postponed an election and it lived up to that tradition again when it held its 21st general election on Wednesday. Many expected polling day to be chaotic. It was not. It was different, of course, as voters armed with sanitisers and wearing masks and gloves maintained a metre’s distance from each other as they waited to cast their votes. The election commission put in place elaborate arrangements to ensure that over 60,000 voters who are in quarantine would be able to exercise their franchise. South Korea has shown the world that it is possible to conduct elections and be a functioning democracy amidst all the panic, confusion and uncertainties generated by the Covid-19 crisis. Despite fear of infections, voter turnout was 66%, the highest in 28 years. The ruling Democratic Party (DP) has won a decisive victory. It secured 163 seats and together with its ally, the Platform Party, it will control 180 seats in the 300-seat National Assembly. Its victory is historic; this is the first time that the left-leaning DP will enjoy a majority in parliament. Only a few months ago, its electoral chances seemed bleak. Voters were unhappy with corruption and the sluggish performance of the economy under its rule. However, President Moon Jae-in managed to turn around the ruling party’s electoral fortunes with his robust handling of the Covid-19 outbreak. Leaders of other countries who are eyeing elections and referendums in the coming months should follow Moon’s example. South Korea was among the first countries outside China to be hit by Covid-19. At one point, it had the world’s second-largest outbreak of the disease. However, its government quickly swung into action. It adopted a policy of mass testing – South Korea’s per capita testing for Covid-19 is higher than any other country’s – and systematic contact-tracing. Its strategy paid off. It has been able to bring down infections from a peak of 900 per day in late February to fewer than 30 now. This is a substantial achievement. President Moon provided South Korea with the strong and sensible leadership needed in times of crisis. The DP government sought the advice of experts and backed health authorities with resources. Voters have rewarded its handling of the pandemic by giving it another term. South Korea’s ruling party can take a bow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/korea-rewards-moon-for-coronavirus-handling-826220.html
16-04-2020||First Edit||Surveillance in health app clothing?||Prime Minister Narendra Modi specifically recommended the use of the contact-tracing app Aarogya Setu in his address to the nation on Tuesday as an item in his to-do list for citizens in the fight against the COVID-19 virus. The government has aggressively campaigned for the adoption of the app by all mobile phone users. The app helps its users with information about whether there is any COVID-19-positive person nearby, and is intended to “notify, trace, and suitably support” a user about infections. Users have to submit their geo-data. It also uses bluetooth to connect to other registered users and from the network thus formed finds out whether the user has come in contact with anyone who has been infected. The app was developed on the lines of similar tools made in some other countries.  While the government is pushing it, concerns abound over its intrusive nature and possible violation of privacy standards. These concerns relate to collection of information, storage of data, limitation of purpose and transparency. One important issue raised by privacy advocates is that the app may be used for purposes other than claimed and may become a permanent feature, even after the COVID-19 threat passes. It is claimed from the government’s side that the data stays on the mobile phone till the user is affected, and information like the phone number, name and age is masked. Some of the data may even be otherwise available.  It is pointed out that there is no legal framework for Aarogya Setu other than its terms of use, which may be inadequate. Critics have maintained that the collection of a lot of personal data using the app is a violation of the Supreme Court judgement on the right to privacy. The collection of such data is problematic when the country does not have a strong personal data protection law. The data collected by the app can also be shared with other departments of the government and used for other purposes. This is a major issue of contention. There is a lack of clarity about some definitions, and the government says it is not liable in the event of any unauthorised access to the information or modification. The government may also be able to expand the scope of the app in future. These are serious issues and they call for convincing answers. Many fear that the data collected through the app may be used for surveillance and to keep track of people. What adds to the concern is the government’s poor record on privacy issues. There is need for greater transparency on the part of the government on the use of the app.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/surveillance-in-health-app-clothing-826221.html
16-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Scuffle breaks out between excise officials in Kodagu||Excise officials who were on duty to check sale of illicit liquor entered into a scuffle among themselves on the middle of Alooru-Siddapura road in Kodagu district on Wednesday.  The video of the scuffle has gone viral on social media. Wearing the uniform and holding lathi, the officials were seen abusing each other in filthy language.  Somwarpet excise department inspector Nataraj and Sub Inspector Shivappa had entered into a scuffle. Car driver of Nataraj too was assaulted.  The reason for scuffle between two officers is not known. Speaking to DH, Excise department Deputy Commissioner Bindusri said that she has received information on the incident and a detailed report will be sought on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/scuffle-breaks-out-between-excise-officials-in-kodagu-825926.html
16-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19 survivor tests negative in Madikeri||A COVID-19 survivor from Virajpet who was again admitted to the hospital after he complained of fever, has tested negative for the disease, Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said. The person had recovered from COVID-19 earlier and had returned to his native place. But, on Wednesday, was readmitted. Even though the person has no threat of coronavirus, he has been kept under observation. The people need not panic and should not pay heed to rumours, Annies added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-survivor-tests-negative-in-madikeri-826232.html
16-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Gulf expats from state urge government for repatriation flights||After several countries started flights from Gulf countries to repatriate their citizens, some of the 8.5 lakh expat population in that region who hail from Karnataka are pressing for the same. In a memorandum, non-resident Indian Kannada organisations based in the United Arab Emirates have asked the Yediyurappa government to petition the Centre and ensure flights for several expats, who have been left jobless after the lockdown, to fly back to India. Due to the current situation, Indian expatriates are anxious about their lives. Their families too are worried. "In this regard, we urge the Indian government to take a lead in this issue and repatriate stranded Indians, especially those are in badly need of medical assistance," the memorandum read. It noted that several other countries had made arrangements for their citizens to fly back to their countries for free. However, the Indian government has not paid any heed to the concerns of expats in UAE and other Gulf countries, according to the memorandum. Naseer Karaje, a social worker based in Dubai dealing with expat issues, said that several organisations of Karnataka expats have submitted memorandums in this regard. "It has become a challenge for many expats to make ends meet due to job loss and unpaid leaves," he said, adding that special flights should be arranged for the benefit of senior citizens and pregnant women. There are also rumours that the Centre will operate flights to Mumbai, Delhi and Kochi. In that case, an airport from Karnataka must also be added to the list, he said. Airline operators started repatriation flights from April 12 to Indonesia, South Korea, Australia, Iraq, Iran and other countries, said Badruddin Azman, a human resources professional in Dubai. "A large group of the expats are blue-collared workers. While white-collared employees had the option to work from home, others were forced to remain in densely-populated areas where Covid-19 cases are reported. Thus, they face an uncertain future," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gulf-expats-from-state-urge-government-for-repatriation-flights-826236.html
16-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Fever clinics to screen Covid-19 suspects'||In order to reduce the spread of Covid-19, the district administration and Health and Family Welfare department have set up fever clinics in the city and Nanjangud, where several Covid-19 cases were reported. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said, “In Mysuru city, 10 urban primary health centres have been converted into fever clinics and a clinic is opened at the government hospital in Nanjagud.” The DC said the clinics are meant to screen people with symptoms of Covid-19. He urged the people to visit the facility only if they come across symptoms like cough, fever, tiredness. Medical professionals will screen the people and route suspected cases to Covid-19 hospital, he said. The DC said, as of now, no decision is taken to seal down, but, Nanjangud and 3 km surroundings have been declared as ‘Containment zone’. Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde urged the people to lend hands to support the people who are in need during lockdown. The MCC has made several arrangements to feed deprived people. As many as 10,000 people are being fed every day. Hegde said, “Several donors have been providing items such as groceries. MCC is running out of ration. We need ration more than funds.” He urged the people to contribute.    The MCC is supplying food at 18 centres and has provided accommodation for needy persons, particularly migrants. The authorities have identified a total of 728 migrant labourers in the city and all of them are taken care of. MCC is distributing ration to all cardholders and will distribute to people who have no cards. A survey will be conducted to identify the people without cards, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fever-clinics-to-screen-covid-19-suspects-826244.html
16-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||ADGP visits N'gud; inspects testing facility||Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) Parashivamurthy and MLA B Harshavardhan visited the Morarji Desai Residential School near Sindhuvalli and inspected the tests conducted on employees of Jubilant Generics, who are under home quarantine. A team, led by Taluk Health Officer Dr Kalavathy is collecting throat swabs at the centre established here. Speaking to reporters, Dr Kalavathy said, around 264 samples were collected last Sunday, out of which nine tested positive. The samples of 403 workers were collected on Wednesday. While 100 samples have been sent to Mysuru for testing, 303 samples have been sent to Bengaluru. Results are awaited, she said. The remaining 557 samples were collected on Thursday. The employees were brought in a sanitised bus and would be sent back to home quarantine after tests, said Nodal officer Srinivas Gowda. All precautionary measures are taken to prevent any spread of the pandemic, he said. Harshavardhan told the ADGP that there is a high-level pressure to reopen Jubilant Generics company. The government should not give permission until a comprehensive probe is conducted and the source of infection is cleared. Parashivamurthy assured a transparent probe and the department will not succumb to any kind of pressure. SP C B Ryshyanth, Tahsildar K M Mahesh Kumar and Microbiologist Jyothi were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/adgp-visits-ngud-inspects-testing-facility-826248.html
16-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rise in Covid-19 cases; police to act tough||As more number of Covid-19 positive cases are being reported over the past couple of weeks, the city police have decided to ensure effective lockdown to combat the spread of Covid-19 in the city. Out of 61 positive cases, 12 cases are reported from the city. City Police Commissioner Chandragupta, in a press conference at his office here on Thursday said, “The lockdown will be more effective and stringent from now. The residents should not move around unnecessarily.” The commissioner directed the citizens to abide by the lockdown rules and said the residents must be inside houses. Chandragupta warned of seizing the vehicles if they are brought out after 12 pm. The people are allowed to purchase essential items between 6 am and 12 noon, he said. As per the rules, only rider is allowed to move on a two-wheeler and only two persons, including driver, are allowed to travel in a four-wheeler. The commissioner asked the people not to travel for more than two km from their respective house. The people should avoid coming out after 12 noon. However, one can walk to purchase essential items after 12 pm, said the commissioner. He also urged the people to compulsorily wear masks, while going out. According to the commissioner, the police are monitoring nearly 15 areas, where Covid-19 cases are reported. The lockdown will be more effective in these areas, he pointed out.   Chandragupta ordered closure of grocery shops after 6 pm. No shops, except emergency services are allowed after 6 pm, he said, adding that goods carrier, vehicles supplying essentials, medical emergency vehicles are exempt from the order. There will be no permission for any kind of business between 6 pm and 6 am. Except medical services like medical shops, hospitals and clinics, milk booths, no other shops are allowed to open, he said. The commissioner said that one has to carry prescription by a doctor while going to medical shops or clinics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rise-in-covid-19-cases-police-to-act-tough-826250.html
16-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sait advised complete rest: MLA’s office||The office of MLA Tanveer Sait has clarified that the MLA is advised complete rest in the wake of an attack by one Farhaan Pasha, during a wedding reception, on November 17, 2019. The MLA’s personal assistant Sheikh Yunus, on Thursday, has issued a clarification in view of the news report ‘Covid-19: MLA Tanveer Sait missing at this hour of crisis’ (Deccan Herald, dated April 16, 2020). “Despite the advise of doctors, the MLA is responding to the grievances of the people, by being in touch with the state government, District In-charge Minister S T Somasekhar, district administration, corporators and local leaders and giving them suggestions and instructions,” the press note states. “The MLA is recuperating after treatment, since the attack. Doctors have advised complete rest until he resumes complete stability. Even though the MLA is not present in person, he is actively responding to the problems of the people of his constituency indirectly,” the press note reads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sait-advised-complete-rest-mla-s-office-826251.html
16-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||10 fair price shops licences cancelled||Irregularities in the Public Distribution System (PDS) has come to the fore in the district, after the government announced supply of two-month ration for the benefit of cardholders, who are facing trouble due to the lockdown across the state. Upon receiving complaints about irregularities, the Food and Civil Supplies department swung into action and cancelled licenses of 10 fair price shops in Mandya district. But, this has not put an end to it. Instead, the shop owners are exerting political pressure on the officials, asking them to revoke the licenses. The Food and Civil Supplies department has already cancelled the licences of three fair price shops in Nagamangala taluk, four in Malavalli taluk, two in Maddur and one shop in KR Pet taluk. As these shop owners are influential persons, they are exerting pressure on the department via elected representatives to revoke the licenses. This has become a headache for the department. The contact numbers of Food Inspector, assistant director and deputy director are displayed at all ration shops, asking the people to call them, if they come across any problem in distribution of the supplies. The department has been receiving constant calls along with video clips of the irregularities. While the department has taken action against a few, it is unable to take action against some others, due to political pressure. At a meeting held recently, a few MLAs brought this to the notice of Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh, blaming the department officials for failing to stop the irregularities. Taking this seriously, the DC directed the department to cancel the licenses of the fair price shops, which were demanding money from the public. Thus, Deputy Director Kumudha cancelled the licenses of the shops involved in irregularities. An official said, “The MLAs question the department against irregularities at the meeting. At the same time, they try to protect the shop owners, by threatening the officials. The dual attitude of the political leaders has become a headache.” There are 725 ration shops in the district and ration is distributed to 5.13 lakh families. The biometric system and mobile OTP system are cancelled in view of coronavirus scare. The department has already distributed supplies to 85% of the beneficiaries and is in the second place in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/10-fair-price-shops-licences-cancelled-826254.html
16-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Revanna demands White Paper on state finances||Member of Legislative Assembly, H D Revanna has demanded the government to come out with a White Paper on the state's finances. "If the government is compelled to sell BDA sites to raise funds, it should also stop settling bills of contractors at least for six months. A White Paper on the state's finances will enable people know the tax collected and utilisation of the money in Chief Minister's Relief Fund," Revanna said. He was speaking to reporters here on Thursday. Revanna also demanded the government to allot Rs 5 crore for each district for addressing the misery of labourers and farmers across the state on account of lockdown. He added that withholding local area develop funds had made it difficult for elected representatives to respond to people's woes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/revanna-demands-white-paper-on-state-finances-826241.html
16-04-2020||Main Article||Coronavirus: A wildly exaggerated threat||India has adopted one of the world's most draconian responses to fight the spread of COVID-19. The University of Oxford’s ‘Coronavirus Government Response Tracker’ gave India the worst possible ‘Stringency Index’ of 100. The lockdown in India is having far reaching consequences, particularly bringing economic ruin to the poor and the downtrodden. Acuite Ratings estimated that the 21-day lockdown uptil April 14 would cost the Indian economy $4.64 billion per day, in other words, a loss of over Rs 35,000 crore every day, or $98 billion in three weeks. The recent extension of the lockdown to May 3 will only make these numbers worse. The weekly unemployment rate reported by CMIE was 6.74% on March 15, and it dramatically spiked to 24% on April 12. So, is the coronavirus pandemic as deadly as we were all led to believe? Is the harsh clampdown imposed by the government justified? A good case study to gauge the severity of this pandemic is the Diamond Princess cruise ship. On January 20, an 80-year-old passenger embarked this cruise ship in Yokohama, Japan. He later tested positive for COVID-19. The ship was quarantined by Japan on Feb 4 in the port of Yokohama. The ship had 3,711 people on board -- 1,045 crew and 2,666 passengers. While the average age of the crew was 36, the average age of the passengers was 69. The ship was like a mini-city whose borders were sealed. Everyone on the ship were living in close quarters. A vast majority of passengers on the ship were elderly. Also, the contagion on the ship was totally mismanaged. So, what was the final outcome of this nightmare scenario? Out of the 3,711 souls on board, a total of 696 were infected. Of those infected, 12 passengers died. There was not a single fatality among the 1,045 crew. Why has the entire crew survived? They were all young, with an average age of 36. The epic failure called Diamond Princess, with practically all elderly passengers, resulted in a mere 0.3% deaths. COVID-19, no doubt, is highly contagious, but it is not as deadly as people were originally led to believe. The total number of COVID-19 deaths in India as of April 16 were about 414. As per the WHO Global Tuberculosis Report 2019, TB alone takes the lives of 440,000 Indians annually. TB, like COVID-19, spreads when people who are sick with it expel bacteria into the air. Has India ever locked the country down to stop the spread of TB? The New York Times on March 16, 2020, citing a British scientific report, wrote: "Without action by the government and individuals to slow the spread of coronavirus and suppress new cases, 2.2 million people in the United States could die." This kind of media sensationalism generated unprecedented panic among people and the politicians. Now, let us take a look at COVID-19 fatalities across the globe. Since China's COVID-19 data is not deemed trustworthy, let us look at Italy. Italy has reported 21,645 COVID-19 deaths so far. In a comprehensive study done by Italy's national health authority, it was found that 99% of the coronavirus patients who died had pre-existing medical conditions. Has anybody noticed that 24,981 people died of flu in Italy during the 2016-17 season as per the International Journal of Infectious Diseases? Given these numbers, was Italy's stringent response to the pandemic justified? In the US, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, reported 24,582 COVID-19 deaths as of April 14. Out of the 6,589 who lost their lives to coronavirus in New York City as of April 14, only 133 were identified as having no pre-existing conditions. This, in a city of over eight million people. The Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME), an organisation on which the White House relies for projections, is estimating 68,841 COVID-19 deaths in the US by August 4, 2020. Now, compare that with a total of 2.8 million deaths in the US in 2017 reported by the CDC; especially relevant is the Influenza virus, which killed 55,672. Now, given these numbers, is the US government's response to COVID-19 justified? The UK is another country that is hit hard by coronavirus, taking the lives of 12,868 so far. Despite all the hue and cry about coronavirus, the UK government, while quietly downgrading the pandemic status of COVID-19, wrote: “As of 19th March 2020, COVID-19 is no longer considered to be a high consequence infectious disease (HCID)...public health bodies…have determined that…more information is available about mortality rates (low overall)”. Looks like even the UK Prime Minister is going to make a full recovery. As per worldometers.info, which is compiling comprehensive coronavirus data, 99.8% of the infected people under 40 years of age will recover fully. Similarly, 99.6% under 50 will recover fully. Even among those over 80 years old, 85% are recovering from the infection. These numbers will be much lower once the pace of testing picks up. A total economic lockdown, like the one the Modi government has imposed, will destroy the livelihoods of millions of poor and under-privileged. It will cripple the economy. Instead, there is a more prudent approach to tackle this pandemic. All those who are over 70 must quarantine themselves. Similarly, those with pre-existing conditions should also quarantine themselves. Certainly, all infected by COVID-19 should be quarantined. Then, to the best abilities of the state governments, those who came in close contact with a known COVID-19 patient must be identified and asked to quarantine. Once this is done, the rest of the population may resume their normal daily activities. The general population should be educated to take precautions like wearing masks and gloves, regular handwashing and practicing social distancing to the extent practical. Sweden, Belarus, Taiwan, South Korea and Hong Kong are able to tackle COVID-19 without destroying their economies. India must end this economic self-destruction and learn from these countries. (The writer is Founder-Director, Centre for Individual Liberty, Hyderabad)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/coronavirus-a-wildly-exaggerated-threat-826223.html
16-04-2020||Mysuru||Three more persons test positive for COVID-19 in Mysuru||Three more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Mysuru on Thursday. With fresh cases, active cases increased to 49. Of three, two are employees of Nanjangud based Jubilant Pharma Company and a female is a primary contact of a COVID-19 patient.  It has to be noted that as many as 10 cases were reported on Wednesday alone.  In all, including fresh cases, a total of 61 positive cases were reported and 12 of them recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/three-more-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mysuru-825996.html
16-04-2020||National||India dismisses US panel's critical remarks on segregation of Hindu, Muslim COVID-19 patients||After United States Commission for International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) expressed concern over reports on segregation of Hindu and Muslim Covid-19 patients in two separate wards in a hospital in Gujarat, New Delhi has strongly reacted, accusing the panel of adding religious colour to the fight against the virus in India. “As if its peremptory commentary on religious freedom in India is not enough, the USCIRF is now spreading misguided reports on the professional medical protocols followed to deal with the spread of Covid-19 in India,” Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said in New Delhi. The USCIRF – an “independent, bipartisan federal government entity” established by the American Congress – earlier tweeted expressing concern over reports of Hindu and Muslim Covid-19 patients being segregated in two separate wards at the Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad. “(The) USCIRF is concerned with reports of Hindu & (and) Muslim patients separated into separate hospital wards in #Gujarat,” the panel posted on Twitter. “Such actions only help to further increase ongoing stigmatization of Muslims in #India and exacerbate false rumors of Muslims spreading #Covid19,” it added. The commission is mandated by the American Congress to monitor, analyze and report on threats to religious freedom abroad. It makes foreign policy recommendations to the US President, the US Secretary of State and US Congress intended to deter religious persecution and promote freedom of religion and belief.  It has been publicly criticizing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi on the issue of religious freedom. It also recommended to the US President Donald Trump in December 2019 to impose sanctions on Indian Home Minister, Amit Shah, who piloted the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill through the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. The Government of Gujarat denied the media reports about the segregation of Covid-19 patients on the basis of religion at the Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad. “It (USCIRF) must stop adding religious colour to our national goal of fighting the pandemic and distract from larger efforts. No segregation is being done in civil hospitals on the basis of religion, as clarified by the Gujarat Government,” Srivastava, the MEA spokesperson, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-dismisses-us-panels-critical-remarks-on-segregation-of-hindu-muslim-covid-19-patients-825901.html
16-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 16, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-16-2020-edition-825916.html
16-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 16||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 13,268 as of April 16.  States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 440 Meghalaya: 1 Andhra Pradesh: 14 Assam: 1 Bihar: 1 Delhi: 32 Gujarat: 36 Haryana: 3 Himachal Pradesh: 2 Jammu and Kashmir: 4 Jharkhand: 2 Karnataka: 13 Kerala: 3 Madhya Pradesh: 53 Maharashtra: 194 Odisha: 1 Punjab: 13 Rajasthan: 11 Tamil Nadu: 15 Telangana: 18 Uttar Pradesh: 13 West Bengal: 10 Coronavirus in India: States/UTs with confirmed positive cases (Details are updated as we receive information) Maharashtra: 3,202 Tamil Nadu: 1,267 Delhi: 1,640 Rajasthan: 1,131 Madhya Pradesh: 1,115 Uttar Pradesh: 805 Gujarat: 929 Telangana: 647 Andhra Pradesh: 525 Kerala: 388 Jammu and Kashmir: 300 Karnataka: 315 West Bengal: 231 Haryana: 214 Punjab: 186 Bihar: 80 Odisha: 60 Uttarakhand: 37 Chhattisgarh: 33 Himachal Pradesh: 35 Assam: 32 Jharkhand: 29 Chandigarh: 21 Ladakh: 17 Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 11 Puducherry: 7 Goa: 7 Manipur: 2 Tripura: 2 Mizoram: 1 Arunachal Pradesh: 1 Nagaland: 1 Meghalaya: 7 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 1515 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-16-825917.html
16-04-2020||National||Hindu, Muslims separated based on religion in coronavirus ward in Gujarat's govt hospital||In a controversial move, the authorities of Ahmedabad Civil Hospital in Asarva allegedly separated Hindu and Muslim coronavirus patients in the specially made 1200-bed COVID-19 facility. Officials said that the alleged segregation was done three days back following instruction from senior government officers. However, the state government termed the allegations 'baseless'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hindu-muslims-separated-based-on-religion-in-coronavirus-ward-in-gujarats-govt-hospital-825918.html
16-04-2020||National||Google dedicates doodle to grocery store workers amidst coronavirus lockdown||The search engine giant illustrated its ‘e’ of ‘Google’ as a chef and the doodle page has a message, ‘To all food service workers, thank you.’ Google has started a new series of doodle on coronavirus. Earlier its doodles have acknowledged the delivery workers and frontline doctors who are battling against the deadly virus. One of its doodles from the series also instructed essential practices like washing hands, cover while coughing and social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/google-dedicates-doodle-to-grocery-store-workers-amidst-coronavirus-lockdown-825925.html
16-04-2020||National||Death toll due to COVID-19 touches 414; cases climb to 12,380||The death toll due to coronavirus rose to 414 and the number of cases to 12,380 in the country on Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry. While the number of active COVID-19 cases is 10,477, as many as 1,488 people have been cured and discharged and one had migrated, it said. The total number of cases include 76 foreign nationals. Twenty-two deaths were reported since Wednesday evening, the ministry said in its updated data. Nine fatalities were reported from Maharashtra, five from Andhra Pradesh, three from Gujarat, two each from Delhi and Tamil Nadu and one from Karnataka, it added. Of the total 414 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 187 fatalities, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 53, Gujarat at 33, Delhi at 32 and Telengana at 18. Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh have reported 14 fatalities each. Punjab has reported 13 deaths while Karnataka have reported 12 deaths and Uttar Pradesh has 11 deaths. West Bengal has registered seven deaths. Four persons have lost their lives in Jammu and Kashmir while Kerala, Haryana and Rajasthan have recorded three deaths each. Jharkhand has reported two deaths.  Meghalaya, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Assam reported one fatality each, according to the health ministry data. However, a PTI tally of figures reported by various states as on Wednesday evening showed at least 12,220 COVID-19 cases and 417 deaths. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of deaths announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states. According to the ministry's data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country is from Maharashtra at 2,916, followed by Delhi at 1,578 and Tamil Nadu at 1,242. COVID-19 cases have gone up to 1,023 in Rajasthan, followed by 987 in Madhya Pradesh, 766 in Gujarat and 735 in Uttar Pradesh. Telengana has 647 cases, Andhra Pradesh 525 and Kerala 388. The number of novel coronavirus cases has risen to 300 in Jammu and Kashmir, 279 in Karnataka, 231 in West Bengal and 205 in Haryana. Punjab has reported 186 infections so far. Bihar has reported 70 cases, while Odisha has 60 coronavirus cases. Thirty-seven people were infected with the virus in Uttarakhand, while Himachal Pradesh has 35 cases. Assam and Chhattisgarh have registered 33 cases each. Jharkhand has 28 cases, Chandigarh 21 cases and Ladakh 17. Eleven cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Meghalaya, Goa and Puducherry have reported seven COVID-19 infections each. Manipur and Tripura have two cases each, while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported a case each. "State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation," the ministry said on its website. The website also said a COVID-19 patient from Nagaland has been shifted to Assam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-due-to-covid-19-touches-414-cases-climb-to-12380-825953.html
16-04-2020||National||India needs to step up coronavirus testing: Experts||India needs to "significantly ramp up" the number of tests done across the country to trace COVID-19 infection if the virus is to be contained in time, experts said. The death toll due to coronavirus rose to 414 and the number of cases to 12,380 in the country on Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry. While the number of active COVID-19 cases is 10,477, as many as 1,488 people have been cured and discharged and one had migrated, it said. Data obtained from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said, till April 14, the number of samples tested stood at 2,44,893, an increase of 27,339 from the corresponding figure till the previous day (2,17,554). Experts feel the figures are modest for a count of the size of 1.3 billion and "much more number of tests" are needed to combat COVID-19 outbreak in the country.  According to worldometers.info which maintains a global database on coronavirus cases and tests conducted, the US, where over 26,000 COVID-19 deaths have occurred, has done 31,00,387 tests averaging about 9,367 per million of population. The figures for India is 2,44,893 tests averaging 177 per million of population. Spain and Italy, two countries which have also seen several thousands of fatalities, have done 6,00,000 and 10,73,689 tests respectively. Dr Ravi Shekhar Jha, Senior Consultant and Head of the Department of Pulmonology at Fortis Escorts, Faridabad, said India is going in the right direction but it is not enough. "Given the massive size of our population, the number of tests needs to be ramped up and should be conducted more rigorously. We need to do effective contact tracing and test them so that those people in turn do not infect others," he told PTI. The number of samples tested till March 28 stood at 27,688, a rise of 7,038 from the corresponding figure till March 27, according to ICMR data. "The rise in number of cases happening is also because in the last few weeks during the lockdown, people who came in contact with affected people were traced and tested. This has to be increased manifold if we have to contain coronavirus in time, otherwise it will be a difficult affair," Jha said. Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, Group Medical Director at Max Healthcare, said it has been decided to conduct coronavirus tests on "all our workforce and patients across the country". "Priority will be to test our admitted patients and new patients being brought in. And, the front-line healthcare workers," he said. India is doing lot of tests, but it is not enough compared to what the US and Singapore and other countries are doing, he said, adding, "much more testing needs to be done". Another expert from a leading private hospital here, who did not wish to be named, said, "The volume of tests conducted need to be ramped up significantly to capitalise on the gains from the lockdown". Two kinds of diagnostic tests are being currently used in India -- RT-PCR test and rapid antibodies test, according to global health norms. A reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test is a laboratory technique combining reverse transcription of RNA into DNA that detects the virus while the antibody tests, which use blood, detect the body's response to the virus. Dr Arvind Kumar, noted lung surgeon at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said the key to fighting the COVID-19 battle is "testing, testing and testing" and then "quarantining and treating". "The more number of people we screen, the greater our chance of winning this fight against COVID-19. The number of tests have to be significantly increased," he said. In Delhi, which has seen 1561 cases and 30 deaths till April 14, over 16,000 samples been tested till that period. "Number of cases were rising and they will increase even more now, as more testing is done. We are still on the rising limb of the epidemic curve. Also, people are learning social distancing, sneezing etiquette, which are important elements in this fight," said Dr Rajesh Chawla, a pulmonologist at Apollo Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-needs-to-step-up-coronavirus-testing-experts-825969.html
16-04-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Mystery behind Karnataka’s novel coronavirus recovery rates||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast gives you a bird’s-eye view of the COVID-19 situation in India while focusing on one chosen issue in every episode. In today’s episode, DH’s senior correspondent Akhil Kadidal tells us about the unpredictability behind recovery rates in Karnataka. We have DH Business giving updates on business and economy. We also talk to a doctor to find out what it is like to treat non-COVID-19 patients in the times of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-mystery-behind-karnataka-s-novel-coronavirus-recovery-rates-825970.html
16-04-2020||National||PSUs must ensure coronavirus lockdown guidelines, social distancing at plants, townships, says Dharmendra Pradhan||To contain the spread of COVID-19, Steel Minister Dharmendra Pradhan has instructed state-run steel companies to ensure lockdown guidelines and social distancing are followed at their plants and townships. Pradhan, through a video conference with the chiefs of steel public sector undertakings (PSUs) also took stock of the situation at the plants and their mines, and reviewed the arrangements to deal with COVID-19 spread. "The minister in a review meeting with CMDs of all PSUs has instructed to ensure lockdown guidelines are followed, social distancing is maintained in steel plants and colonies. He also reviewed the ongoing activities of the steel sector towards the fight against the pandemic," an official said. There are seven PSUs under control of Ministry of Steel. While Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) and Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd (RINL) are into steel making, NMDC and MOIL are mining companies of the ministry. KIOCL is pellet maker, MECON is a consultancy firm and MSTC is an e-commerce company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/psus-must-ensure-coronavirus-lockdown-guidelines-social-distancing-at-plants-townships-says-dharmendra-pradhan-825975.html
16-04-2020||National||Change law that mandates 120 days' stay in India to qualify as NRIs amid coronavirus crisis: GOPIO||A law requiring 120 days' stay in India to claim Non-Resident Indian (NRI) status needs to be changed, an association representing NRIs has demanded, citing economic disruptions due to the coronavirus pandemic. Citing economic disruptions due to COVID-19, the US-based Global Organisation of People of Indian Origin (GOPIO) has asked Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to change the provision, implemented through the Finance Act, 2020, saying it is a "hard blow" to many NRIs. In a letter to Sitharaman, GOPIO president Sunny Kulathakal has said NRIs and the People of Indian Origin (PIO) have been substantially contributing to the Indian economy. According to a World Bank report, India is the top recipient of remittances in the world. In 2018, the Indian diaspora sent a whopping USD 79 billion back home, a rise of 14 per cent from the previous year, Kulathakal said. "In view of the world-wide lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic and the unprecedented disruption of economic activities, GOPIO appeals to the government of India for immediate repeal of the revised NRI status duration rule of 120 days and make it 182 days, which has existed for long," he said. The new rule is akin to penalising all NRIs, Kulathakal said. "Entire nation is suffering due to the closure of borders, shutdown of airlines and other means of transportation. Many NRIs are forced to stay longer in India due to quarantine and travel restrictions imposed on them to combat the pandemic, resulting in losing their NRI status," he said. In view of these disruptive developments that are beyond our control, we plead before you to revoke the provision on NRI status introduced through the Union Budget 2020, Kulathakal said. The GOPIO is the largest network of the Indian diaspora, which was founded in 1989 in New York, the letter said. Though the initial focus of the organisation was on human rights violations against the people of Indian origin, over the past three decades, it has been actively involved in the social, economic, cultural and educational issues of the PIO community and NRIs around the globe. The GOPIO has been striving to promote Prime Minister Narendra Modi's initiatives such as Make in India, Skill India and Digital India among the NRI-PIO community, the letter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/change-law-that-mandates-120-days-stay-in-india-to-qualify-as-nris-amid-coronavirus-crisis-gopio-825984.html
16-04-2020||National||5 cr roadside vendors, families to face financial epidemic amid coronavirus lockdown: National hawkers' body||The 40-day country-wide lockdown may prevent the spread of coronavirus, but the measure would bring a "financial epidemic" on five crore families of hawkers and those who supply them with products, an official of the national hawkers' body said. The lockdown was imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 25 to break the chain of coronavirus transmission and it was scheduled to be lifted on April 15. The 21-day measure was on Tuesday extended for 19 more days - till May 3. "There are four crore hawkers across the country and at least one crore families run tiny and small industrial units that feed these vendors. They dont know how to make both ends meet as their businesses have come to a complete halt," National Hawker Federation general secretary Shaktiman Ghosh told PTI on Thursday. The economy revolving around street vending is estimated at Rs 8,000 crore a day. "Financial epidemic is knocking at the door. Business capital is like a child to hawkers and they protect it at any cost. But they are now surviving on this capital, they live hand to mouth," he said. "Unless they are supported, the situation could lead them to anti-social activities to feed their families or suicide," Ghosh said. More people will die due to financial constraints than the coronavirus infection unless state governments and the Centre take some steps quickly to keep them afloat for the next few months, the National Hawker Federation official said. A total of 1,188 unions and 11 central trade unions in 28 states are affiliated to the National Hawker Federation.  The Federation has demanded that the government recognise street vending as an essential service. The Centre must ensure Rs 50,000 under Mudra loan scheme to each hawker and Rs 5 lakh to the manufacturers, Ghosh said. Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana (PMMY) is a scheme launched in 2015 for providing loans up to Rs 10 lakh to non- corporate, non-farm small/micro enterprises. "Even after the lockdown is lifted, I would not have any money left to restart the business. We are nothing more than daily wage earners. If the situation prevails, we will face starvation. Now, we are totally dependent on the state governments ration and aids given by hawkers' unions," a hawker in Kolkata said. Ghosh claimed that the West Bengal government is yet to provide its 16 lakh hawker community with any direct financial support, whereas Odisha has offered Rs 3,000, while Rajasthan, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu have given to these people Rs 1,000 each. Identifying hawkers would not pose a challenge if the government decides to offer financial support to them, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-cr-roadside-vendors-families-to-face-financial-epidemic-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-national-hawkers-body-825999.html
16-04-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi pitches for aggressive testing to defeat coronavirus||Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the national lockdown against the coronavirus pandemic was only a “pause button” and asked the Modi government to ramp up health infrastructure across the country to meet the challenge. Voicing concern over the migrant labour stranded in relief camps across the country, the former Congress President wanted the government to open the godowns of food grains to ensure that no one sleeps hungry. Gandhi also asked the government to put money in the hands of the poorest of the poor, draw up a protection plan for MSMEs, which have been shut down due to lockdown, and also help big companies. Addressing press conference through video link, the former Congress President called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to adopt a “bottom-up and not a top-down” approach and asked him to empower states for the fight against COVID-19. “Lockdown is in no way a solution to the COVID-19 virus. It is as if you have hit a pause button and stopped the virus in its tracks. When we come out of the lockdown, the virus is going to start its work again,” Gandhi said.     He said the lockdown has given an opportunity to ramp up testing capacity, put in place medical resources, prepare your hospitals, get ventilators and create the type of architecture that is required to fight the coronavirus, when it peaks up again. Gandhi termed testing as the “biggest weapon” in the fight against the virus and pitched for scaling it up dramatically as the current level of testing was “too low”. Asked where he felt the Prime Minister had erred in responding to the Covid-19 outbreak, he said: “I will give the answer the day we have beaten the coronavirus.” “There should be no declaration of victory, it is a long fight. I disagree with PM Modi on a lot of issues but we have to unite and not fight. We have to defeat the virus together,” Gandhi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-pitches-for-aggressive-testing-to-defeat-coronavirus-826003.html
16-04-2020||National||India is world's most digitally dexterous country: Survey||Sixty-seven per cent of digital workers in India said emerging technologies such as machine learning (ML), artificial intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT) are increasing their effectiveness at work, according to a survey by Gartner, Inc. The Gartner 2019 Digital Workplace Survey found that India is the most digitally dexterous country in the world - followed by the UK and the US, due to having the largest Gen Z workforce along with the desire to learn new skills using digital technologies in the workplace. Twenty-seven per cent of the digital workers in India are skilled experts in digital technology for work purposes, the research and advisory firm said in a statement. "Seven out of ten employees in India said that adoption of new digital technologies will create career opportunities and higher paying jobs," said Rashmi Choudhary, principal research analyst at Gartner. "Technical professionals are firm believers of adopting new digital technologies in comparison to manual, skilled and semi-skilled manual workers." In terms of tools that employees use for real-time collaboration, digital workers in Singapore and India use real-time messaging and social media network tools more frequently than their counterparts in China, France, Germany, the US and the UK. "Digital tools improve employee collaboration through crowdsourcing and cross-pollination, thereby improving the digital dexterity of workers," Choudhary said. Forty-five per cent of digital workers in India do not mind having their work habits tracked and monitored by digital technologies. This figure is the highest amongst the surveyed respondents. "Digital workers in India believe that an intelligent workplace contributes to increased focus on more meaningful, business-critical work. At the same time, they expect that their organisation is mitigating the risk it entails by being monitored," she said. The survey also showed that digital workers not only want formal training which consists of classroom modules and workshops but are also willing to undertake on-the-job (OTJ) and just-in-time (JIT) training to enhance their digital skills at work. In India, 39 per cent of digital workers want to be trained OTJ to keep their knowledge on AI, ML, IoT up to date, which is the highest amongst the survey respondents, Gartner said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-is-worlds-most-digitally-dexterous-country-survey-826005.html
16-04-2020||National||Govt will nail the Bandra protest conspiracy culprit: Shiv Sena||Two days after the Bandra migrants protest, the Shiv Sena on Thursday chose to broke its silence saying that the Uddhav Thackeray-led government in Maharashtra will nail the conspiracy. The Shiv Sena also accused its former ally BJP of trying to destabilise the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government. Besides,  it also came down heavily on the migrants who demanded return journey and compounded problems in the state during a state of complete lockdown. "Those who remain with us in difficult times are the real ‘sons of the soil’… with this kind of experience, the government must ensure that those who want to create trouble by leaving the state should not return (when the situation is normal)," the Shiv Sena said in a strongly-worded editorial in Saamana,  the party mouthpiece. The editorial said that the government must find out the credentials of those who crowded in Bandra by violating the lockdown rules and attempting to harm the state. The editorial said that outstation trains depart not just from Bandra but also from Lokmanya Tilak Terminus, Mumbai Central, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus. "But the crowds gathered only at Bandra. What do you call this," the editorial questioned. The editorial admitted the present crisis had affected cross-section of the society but the daily wagers are the worst impacted. The government needs to take a different stand for poor people. "The country is in a financial crisis,  and running a state is also not easy. Till yesterday, the state looked after these people and now they want to run away. This is improper," it said. On the issue of rumours of restarting of trains,  it said: "It was in the news… How did the railways accept reservations after April 15? Even before it became clear that the Prime Minister will extend the lockdown, it was a crime to make 40 lakh ticket bookings and create confusion among the people." Blaming the Railway ministry for the  Bandra episode,  the Sena pointedly demanded: “Will Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis demand resignation of Railway Minister Piyush Goyal?” "This is a huge conspiracy and we will unmask it… We shall nail those who attempted to use the Corona crisis as an excuse to create disturbances for the Maharashtra Government,” the Sena vowed. Indirectly hitting out at  Home Minister Anil Deshmukh of NCP,  the Sena wondered what the police were doing when so many thousands gathered, while they (police) keep ‘caning’ anyone else who moves out during lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-will-nail-the-bandra-protest-conspiracy-culprit-shiv-sena-826006.html
16-04-2020||National||Coronavirus effect: Ramzan congregational prayers, food streets banned till May 3||With Ramzan commencing on April 24 or 25, Minority Welfare, Waqf and Hajj Department have issued an order suspending congregational prayers including Jumma - on Friday, and Taraweeh - performed every day during the holy month for Muslims, till May 3. The guidelines issued for the month have also banned eateries near mosques, which are usually open during the month of Ramzan throughout the night. Central Waqf Council, Ministry of Minority Affairs, Government of India, has issued directions to suspend gatherings for congregational prayers, iftaars in masjid and dargahs during the month of Ramzan to prevent the spread of COVID-19 virus. "The Imarat-e-Sharia, Karnataka has issued directions to all the Muslims of Karnataka, regarding Ramadan Sahri (meal before sunrise)/ fasting/ iftar (breaking fast)/ offering Taraweeh prayers during the lockdown, which has to be duly followed by all the Muslims across the State," the order reads. Among the directions issued in the order include, ban on performing congregational prayers five times a day, including Jumma and Taraweeh, prohibiting the use of public address system for offering Nazam, Azan shall be given at low decibel through public address system, no mass Sahari or ifthaars and no eatery shops near Masjid and Dargahs. Waqf officers, districts waqf advisory committees in the state shall adhere to the order and direct to circulate the same to all managements of masjid and dargahs, to ensure that the order is followed scrupulously. "Any dereliction in this regard will be viewed seriously," the order reads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-effect-ramzan-congregational-prayers-food-streets-banned-till-may-3-826023.html
16-04-2020||National||Plea in SC seeks free unlimited calls, data usage facilities during COVID-19 lockdown||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court for a direction to mobile and DTH service providers to give facilities of completely free and unlimited calling and data usage and viewing of channels respectively during the period of lockdown clamped to fight COVID-19 pandemic. In his petition, advocate Manohar Pratap also asked the court to direct Amazon and Netflix to provide all contents on their video streaming to the viewers, completely free during the period of lockdown as steps to deal with "psychological pressure mounting on individuals due to lockdown or kept in isolation or quarantine". The petitioner contended lakhs of people who are either stranded at various places with or without families or are in the quarantine facility, do not have any means or resources to get their phone recharged. "In the present emergent situation, where the physical movement of individuals has been restricted for the larger good, the only means of communication left is digital  means by way of audio/video calling," he pointed out.  The petitioner also said that the free and unlimited access to the channels on satellite TVs (DTH) would give a new means of entertainment to the viewers. It will also help to combat the psychological pressure which is being mounted on the individuals being confined in indoors or who are kept in isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-seeks-free-unlimited-calls-data-usage-facilities-during-covid-19-lockdown-826028.html
16-04-2020||National||Kashmir sees sharp decline in blood donations amid COVID-19 lockdown||Amid COVID-19 lockdown, the blood banks in Kashmir have not only witnessed a sharp decline in donations but the demand for the blood has also decreased. While the donors seem hesitant to visit blood banks due to the virus scare and norms of social distancing, experts say, halt on the road accidents due to lockdown has decreased the demand for blood. However, the patients of blood disorder, cancer, and women needing transfusion after the childbirth emerges as the “main concern” during the pandemic. “As of now, there is no shortage of blood as a requirement too, has come down. Road traffic accidents have decreased and that was the major thrust where we required blood on a regular basis. Hospitals these days are also conducting fewer surgeries related to other ailments,” a doctor at Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar, told DH.  However, he said, if the situation continues for a few more weeks, there would be a dearth of blood. “And increasingly arranging negative group blood would become difficult day-by-day,” the doctor said and added that the gap between the shortage and the requirement was being monitored continuously. District Magistrate Srinagar, Shahid Iqbal said the blood donation is taking place. “However for the safety of the people, blood donation camps are not being advised,” he said. The National Blood Transfusion Council (NBTC) has issued interim recommendations to the states emphasising that voluntary blood donations and blood collection should continue judiciously even during the health crisis to ensure its availability to hospitals.  According to World Health Organization standards, a country requires blood units equal to one percent of its population. Experts believe that as per these standards Kashmir is already far behind, but the lockdown has made it even worse. Experts believe that critical COVID-19 patients may also require blood, and decreasing stocks may add to the risk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kashmir-sees-sharp-decline-in-blood-donations-amid-covid-19-lockdown-826043.html
16-04-2020||National||Amid COVID-19 lockdown, seasonal migration of tribal nomads begins in J&K||The COVID-19 lockdown may have delayed the seasonal migration of Gujjars and Bakerwals in Jammu and Kashmir, but finally, the administration has started a process to allow the nomadic tribes to move along with their livestock to upper reaches. J&K Director Tribal Affairs, Saleem Khan said the process has been started on the instructions of Chief Secretary BVR Subrahmanyam to allow seasonal migration of tribal people to the upper reaches of Kashmir. “Deputy Commissioners have already issued orders in this regard.  The migration got delayed for only a week or ten days,” Khan said. However, Javed Rahi, tribal activist and founder of Tribal Research and Cultural Foundation said the number of horses which were the primary source of transpiration, has reduced to 62,000. “The administration should allow load carriers and trucks so that the tribal population can transport their household goods to the upper reaches,” he demanded. The nomads carry tents, utensils, foodstuffs, and medicines for the livestock and the family on horseback while men and women travel on foot during the journey. Infants are carried by mothers, in special cradles tied to their backs. By late March, thousands of nomads begin their annual tryst with thousands of sheep and goats across the Pir Panjal mountain range to reach the valley. The herder families, every year, begin their journey to the alpine pastures for grazing during the summer, before returning to warmer Poonch and Rajouri districts of Jammu in October as the weather worsens. The tradition is much like the Durbar Move, in which Jammu and Kashmir government functions for six months each in the two capitals of the Union Territory, Srinagar and Jammu, to escape extreme weather conditions in these places. Negotiating hilly terrains and bad weather with huge flocks without a frown is something the Bakarwals have learned through the generations. The difficult journey usually takes more than three weeks, but in recent years, it has become much tougher.   The traditional routes, which the tribesmen used for generations have become crisscrossed with many busy roads that disturb the animals and the journey is made even more treacherous by the risk of landslides from the practice of blasting of mountains by mining companies to extract minerals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-covid-19-lockdown-seasonal-migration-of-tribal-nomads-begins-in-jk-826052.html
16-04-2020||National||Coronavirus pandemic: Army to strictly observe 'no movement' till April 19||India went under a total shutdown of 21 days from March 25 to April 14 to fight the coronavirus pandemic. On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced extending the lockdown till May 3 but added that certain restrictions could be lifted from April 20. In the Army headquarters, the wings handling military operations, military intelligence, operational logistics and strategic movement will carry out their functions with bare minimum staff strength till April 19, according to the order. Within the command headquarters, wings handling manpower, logistics and operations will only function with skeletal staff. In Northern and Eastern commands, the intelligence branch will also function as usual. "In view of the extension of lockdown, all military establishments, cantonments, formation headquarters and units will observe strict 'No Movement' till April 19," the order said. It also mentioned that offices in Army headquarters, command headquarters and formation headquarters would start functioning with 50 per cent manpower from April 19 to May 3. It said all training activities and temporary duties will remain suspended till May 3, adding directions on actions to be taken post the lockdown period will be issued on receipt of fresh orders from the government. In its directive, the Army said personnel connected with providing essential services will be allowed to move and that the restrictions will not hinder any operational tasks of any formation or units. All social, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious gatherings as well as religious congregations and regimental events will have to be suspended till May 3, according to the order. "Offices falling in 'hotspots or containment zones' will observe strict 'no movement' till they are denotified. Exceptions to be given will depend on the local military authority," the order said. It said Directorate General Medical Services (Army) will continue functioning at full strength to provide a robust response to COVID-19. All medical establishments and hospitals will continue functioning at full strength. Last month, Army Chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane issued instructions to insulate the 13 lakh strong Army from the coronavirus pandemic. Gen Naravane also conveyed to the families of the soldiers guarding India's borders with Pakistan and China that the Army is taking care of its personnel serving the country in this difficult time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-pandemic-army-to-strictly-observe-no-movement-till-april-19-826055.html
16-04-2020||National||Hyundai hands over coronavirus diagnostic kits to ICMR||Hyundai Motor India on Thursday said it has handed over COVID-19 advanced diagnostic testing kits to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The globally proven diagnostic kits worth Rs 4 crore have been imported from South Korea and offer high levels of accuracy, catering to the testing requirements of over 25, 000 individuals, Hyundai Motor India Ltd (HMIL) said in a statement. "These highly accurate diagnostic kits can help the government scale up testing efforts in affected regions and arrest the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in India," HMIL Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer SS Kim said. The South Korean automaker has already donated Rs 5 crore to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Relief Fund. It has also augmented the supply of ventilators and other respiratory aids such as the in-house developed Ambu Bag Actuator. Besides, the company said it is distributing masks and other safety kits to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. HMIL has also announced various initiatives for customers including extension of warranty, service timelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hyundai-hands-over-coronavirus-diagnostic-kits-to-icmr-826056.html
16-04-2020||National||Smart Cities control room becomes war room for COVID-19||The Integrated Command and Control Centres (ICCCs) set up in smart cities under the centrally sponsored National Smart Cities Mission came as handy for various states for real-time surveillance and monitoring of COVID-19 hit areas.  The states have converted the ICCCs as war room to fight against the disease for various task including to provide telemedicine counselling to the public, monitor quarantine people, co-ordinate among various agencies involved in containment measures of disease, disseminate information among field workers.  "Leveraging the smart infrastructure, cities are developing predictive analytics using heat maps and taking action in monitoring the movements (using geofencing) as well as the periodic health status of suspected cases," said an official in the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Development.  Smart Cities are collaborating with medical practitioners both from government and private sector in the city to provide online medical consultation facilities to citizens.  Several states including Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra deployed doctors, para-medical staff, police and experts in a different field in ICCCs to take the public call and answer their queries.  For instance, Mangaluru Smart City has dedicated call centre with helpline No: 1077 for monitoring and advising the citizens under self-quarantine and telemedicine.  In Jabalpur, dedicated Rapid Response Team (RRT) and Mobile Action Unit (MAU) are present on ground ward-wise who coordinates with officials present at ICCC regarding screening, ambulance, quarantine etc.  Ujjain ICCC, two doctors are stationed at the centre for 24 hours duration to take video conferencing/ telephone calls from the citizens and give appropriate advice based on the symptoms. 40 Medical Mobile Units (MMU) are operationalized to distribute medicines to people based on prescriptions by doctors. "If command centres closed-circuit television (CCTV) became handy to keep a watch on public, it also helps to real-time tracking of ambulances and disinfection services," said the official. Since the Centre is coordinating with the states through Smart Cities Mission's central command centre at Nirman Bhawan in New Delhi, it will help the different government officials in the national capital to collaborate with district administration, police and civic authorities to monitor containment measure.  The National Smart Cities Mission is an urban renewal and retrofitting program launched by the Government of India in 2015 with the aim to develop smart cities across the country, making them citizen-friendly and sustainable. The Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Development is responsible for implementing the mission in collaboration with the state governments of the respective cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/smart-cities-control-room-becomes-war-room-for-covid-19-826064.html
16-04-2020||National||Migrant workers in India may shun cities after coronavirus lockdown||By Archana Chaudhary and Anurag KotokyMigrant workers fled India’s cities en masse last month after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s lockdown left them suddenly unemployed. Now the employers that let them go may need to offer big incentives to lure them back. Sontosh Das, 24, lost his job driving for a family of doctors in India’s capital of New Delhi and fled to his village in West Bengal some 1,400 kilometres (870 miles) away, just before the lockdown took effect on March 24. Now home in eastern India, he said he’d rather try his luck with the government’s rural job-guarantee program than risk being left with nothing once again. “After Modiji’s lockdown, we’re scared of returning,” Das said over a crackling phone line. “During tough times, only family comes to help.” Tens of thousands of workers who returned to villages are now similarly weighing whether to return at the end of the lockdown, which Modi this week extended to May 3. Companies are already reporting labour shortages at ports and factories, potentially exacerbating an economic slowdown. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. this month slashed its annual growth forecast for India to the slowest pace since 1992, around when a balance of payments crisis brought down the sitting government. Automobile makers, which include the local units of Nissan Motor Co., Ford Motor Co. and Suzuki Motor Corp., are discussing potential labor shortages after India lifts its lockdown, according to people familiar with discussions. Jewellers, India’s second-largest export sector, see production suffering for at least two months, said N. Anantha Padmanaban, chairman of the All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council. Real estate developers, an industry that includes investors Blackstone Group Inc. and Brookfield Asset Management Inc., predicted more incomplete apartments and office buildings that could ripple through the financial sector in the coming year as a surge in defaults. Companies such as Jindal Steel Ltd. are facing a shortage of crane operators at ports. ‘Unprecedented Hardship’ The labour shortages could persist for as long as six months before broader unemployment becomes a bigger concern, said Sujan Hajra, Mumbai-based chief economist at Anand Rathi Financial Services Ltd. About 20% of India’s workforce comprises migrants journeying from another state, while a larger share is made up of people who travel from different parts of the state where their workplace is located, he added. “The unprecedented hardship faced by migrant workers since the outbreak of COVID-19 might result in fear psychosis,” Hajra said, predicting a worsening of India’s “already precarious employment situation.” Modi has apologized for the hardship caused by the sudden lockdown -- announced at dinnertime March 24 and brought into force at midnight -- which denied as many as 100 million workers the chance to collect their pay and triggered the biggest forced migration since the partition of India in 1947. Yet, for the hundreds of thousands of labourers who began trudging back to their villages after being rendered unemployed and homeless, anger against Modi will depend on how long the pain lingers. “Modi’s government has been clever about putting the onus of safety and health on the citizens and not on the state,” said Yamini Aiyar, president at the Centre for Policy Research in New Delhi who formerly worked with the World Bank on rural development. If fatalities stay low, “the Modi government could spin this as a victory -- say ‘yes, you faced hardships but at least people stayed alive,’” she said. “But if the numbers grow, their handling will be questioned along with the bungling in the economic sphere, which is significant and severe.”  The government is aware the country will need to address labour shortages to restart the economy, Nitin Gadkari, minister of roads and small and medium scale enterprises, said in an interview. India will allow makers of information technology hardware, farmers and industries in rural areas to resume operations after April 20, the Ministry of Home Affairs said in a statement on Wednesday. It will also lift restrictions to allow e-commerce companies, goods movement by roads, as well as restart port and air cargo operations. Seasonal Labor India’s internal migration flow changes with the seasons, with millions of workers heading to cities for most months of the year to build cars, load ships, or clean houses, before going home in time for the village harvest. Bihar, a state due to hold elections this year and home to India’s second-highest migrant labour population, will be worst hit due to the reverse migration, economist and workers’ rights activist Jean Dreze wrote in the Outlook magazine. Goldman forecasts India’s gross domestic product will grow 1.6% in the year that started April 1, the slowest pace since 1992, around the time when a balance of payments crisis brought down the sitting government and led to the creation of a new administration focused on economic reform rather than political in-fighting. While India’s economic fundamentals are far stronger today than two decades ago, the nation’s poorest citizens have been directly hit for the second time since 2016, when Modi abruptly invalidated almost all banknotes in a similar late-night edict aimed at combating corruption. Yet, unlike during demonetization when workers felt the rich man suffered more, the virus lockdown hurts mostly the poor, said Chinmay Tumbe, an Ahmedabad-based economist with the Indian Institute of Management and author of ‘India Moving: A History of Migration.’ He sees closer parallels with the Bombay bubonic plague of 1896, when migrants fled the city (since renamed Mumbai) and locals perceived the colonial government’s handling of the outbreak as excessive, leading to the slaying of a British bureaucrat that foretold the start of militant nationalism in India. Tumbe predicts the coronavirus crisis will force businesses to offer incentives to retain workers for coming months, just like the 1896 exodus shifted bargaining power to labour from capital at the turn of the century. “We will see tremendous labour shortages,” he said. “There will be a psychological impact.” ‘Prolonged Recession’ Any meaningful stimulus would need a minimum 6 trillion rupees ($79 billion) compared with the 600 billion rupees cash Modi’s government pledges to transfer to the poor, estimates Palaniappan Chidambaram, a leader of the opposition Congress party and India’s former finance minister who presided over the country’s response to the global financial crisis of 2008/09. A “deep and prolonged recession” awaits sectors such as agriculture that are dependent on migration, Chidambaram said by email. While Indian policymakers are treating the issue purely as an economic problem, they must adopt an anthropological approach and understand the workers’ desire to be with their families in a crisis, according to Sugandha Nagpal, an assistant professor at Jindal School of International Affairs. To encourage the workers to return once the crisis abates, authorities paradoxically need to escort them home now after speedy tests to ensure they aren’t carriers of the virus, she recommends. Migrant workers on Tuesday swarmed out of a camp created for them in Mumbai, demanding to go home after a rumour went around that India is resuming railway services. More than 600,000 are currently housed in the city, according to local leaders, who blame Modi’s federal government for not allowing them a passage back to their states.  Before Das was allowed into his village in Uttar Dinajpur, West Bengal, the headman and a doctor checked on him. Then neighbours cloistered his family within their house until convinced they were healthy. The ancestral rice farm is too small to sustain Das, his parents and two brothers, so Das’s father runs a stall selling paan -- a chewy combination of betel leaf, areca nut and tobacco -- to supplement income. In New Delhi, Das would earn $240 a month, a decent wage in a nation where more than 80% of workers earn less than half. “My mother insists we should stay back home, she says we don’t need so much money to live on,” Das said. “No one knows how long this madness will last but we know that nothing will remain the same after this.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-workers-in-india-may-shun-cities-after-coronavirus-lockdown-826070.html
16-04-2020||National||Mask-wearing, social distancing should be enforced strictly: MHA on coronavirus lockdown||In her daily briefing to the press, Joint Secretary in the ministry Punya Salila Srivastava said it should be ensured that five or more persons do not assemble at a public place. Also, no spitting should be practised at public places and workplaces, she said. Elderly people, those who are not keeping well and those with young children should be encouraged to work from home and temperature screening as well as use of hand sanitisers should be made mandatory at workplaces, Srivastava said. She added that the sale of liquor, gutkha and tobacco should be banned to ensure that the lockdown is implemented effectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mask-wearing-social-distancing-should-be-enforced-strictly-mha-on-coronavirus-lockdown-826071.html
16-04-2020||National||2 more die of COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh, total cases climbs to 773||"The number of coronavirus positive cases in the state are 773 in 48 districts. Thirteen deaths have been reported due to the virus while 69 patients have been treated and discharged," Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters here. Among the 13 deaths, maximum five are from Agra, two from Moradabad and one each from Lucknow, Kanpur, Basti, Meerut, Bulanshahr and Varanasi, sources said. Prasad said the government has decided to conduct "death audit" of all the ccoronavirus patients, who could not survive, to have a better understanding in dealing with such cases in the future. Prasad said those who had died mostly include elderly persons or those who had some prior medical conditions. The government has started pool testing, which is being done for the first tiime in the country in Uttar Pradesh, he said. "We conducted 30 tests from people outside containment zone of Agra and all of them were negative. The number of testing will be increased in future," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-more-die-of-covid-19-in-uttar-pradesh-total-cases-climbs-to-773-826074.html
16-04-2020||National||Aviation ministry likely to come up with guidelines on refunds for cancelled flight due to coronavirus pandemic||The Civil Aviation Ministry on Thursday said it is deliberating upon forming a set of guidelines on refunds for flight ticket cancellations due to coronavirus lockdown. Several people have been complaining on social media as domestic airlines have decided not to give refunds in cash for cancelled flights due to the lockdown and instead issue credit for future travel. "A video meeting was held (with the airline CEOs). The ministry is deliberating (on guidelines)," said the ministry spokesperson. Senior officials of Ministry of Civil Aviation and CEOs of Indian airlines companies met on Wednesday afternoon on the issue of cancellation refunds during the coronavirus lockdown period. The US had earlier this month directed its airlines to issue refunds to passengers for ticket cancellations done amid the coronavirus pandemic. India is under a nationwide lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of coronavirus. Consequently, all domestic and international commercial passenger flights were suspended for this time period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aviation-ministry-likely-to-come-up-with-guidelines-on-refunds-for-cancelled-flight-due-to-coronavirus-pandemic-826075.html
16-04-2020||National||New pit viper from Arunchal named after Salazar Slytherin from 'Harry Potter'||A team of researchers has discovered a new species of venomous snake in Arunachal Pradesh and named it Trimeresurus Salazar. It was discovered in the thick evergreen forests of the Pakke Tiger Reserve in Arunachal Pradesh during a field expedition by researchers in July 2019. The new species is named after J.K. Rowling’s fictional Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry’s co-founder, Salazar Slytherin. “Two specimens of the new species were found in the field that helped diagnose the new species,” states the paper published by the researchers — Zeeshan A. Mirza, Harshal Bhonsle, Pushkar Phansalkar, Mandar Sawant, Gaurang Gowande and Harshil Patel — in the international science journal Zoosystematics and Evolution. While Zeeshan Mirza is associated with the National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bengaluru,  Harshal and Mandar with the Bombay Natural History Society, Mumbai,  Gowande is associated with Pune’s Fergusson College and Pushkar is associated with the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun. Shripad Halbe of the Brihad Bharatiya Samaj and the Singinawa Conservation Foundation funded the study. The new species belongs to the group of green pit vipers from which it differs from its closely related species in bearing a rusty red or orange lateral stripe along the head and the entire body. The comparison of DNA sequences and skull morphology of closely related species highlights the distinctness of the new species. The authors are happy about discovering a new species of pit viper but worried at the same time, as the proposed 49-km Seijosa-Balukpong road will cut through the habitat of the new species. Roads take a heavy toll on life and data from various studies have highlighted high mortality of snakes due to vehicular movement.   Researchers behind the discovery, who covered large tracts of forested land in northeast India, said that they have documented more species from the forests of Arunachal Pradesh, which is likely to yield new species. Work is underway to describe them. Underlining that forests across northeast India have not been well-explored for their biodiversity, especially reptiles, amphibians and most invertebrate groups, the authors have said that “anthropogenic pressures like road widening, construction of dams and hydropower plants threaten the forest and biodiversity across Arunachal Pradesh”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-pit-viper-from-arunchal-named-after-salazar-slytherin-from-harry-potter-826076.html
16-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Wife stuck up in lockdown, angry man weds his ex-flame||After extended lockdown, bizarre stories are pouring in from the rural hinterland of Bihar. In one such case, a man was so angry with his wife after she got stuck up in the lockdown at her parents’ place, that he decided to marry his ex-flame. The incident took place at Bihar’s Paliganj where a local Dheeraj Kumar stayed with his wife. Shortly before the lockdown was announced last month, Dheeraj’s wife went to her parents’ place at Dulhin Bazar. But she got stuck up there as the movement of vehicles was not allowed. Dheeraj called her up to return somehow. Still, the helpless woman could not do so. The extended lockdown added to her woes and further strained the couple’s relationship.       Dheeraj, in the meantime, got so angry that he decided to marry his ex-flame. As soon as his wife came to know about his second marriage, she, instead of suffering in silence, rushed to the nearby police station and lodged an FIR against her husband charging him with infidelity. On Thursday, the Dulhin Bazar police asked Dheeraj to come to the police station. After verifying the facts, the husband was thrown behind the bars.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-wife-stuck-up-in-lockdown-angry-man-weds-his-ex-flame-826079.html
16-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Wedding plans put on the back-burner||The extended lockdown is likely to have its cascading effect on thousands of weddings planned this April and May. In Bihar alone, altogether 52,674 marriage events have gone for a toss as all the hotels, banquets/marriage halls within the 38 districts in the State have cancelled their bookings. With only a few days of the auspicious period left in May, after the lockdown possibly ends on 3rd of next month, no one is willing to take a chance as hotels, shopping malls, banquet halls and other marriage venues are unlikely to be opened soon. “In April, there were four auspicious dates for marriage: 20, 25, 26, 27. Now that the lockdown has been extended to May 3, the auspicious period in May (1,2,4,6,17,18,19) has also been badly hit,” said Pandit Santosh Tiwary, a prominent priest of one of the most revered temple here. “In Patna alone, around 8000 marriages at 1540 different venues have been cancelled in April-May,” a senior official in the hospitality sector told Deccan Herald. “For one particular hall in our hotel, we charge around Rs 1500 to Rs 2000 per plate, excluding taxes. Other marriage venues could charge somewhere around Rs 1200 to Rs 1500 per person depending on the number of guests. According to a rough estimate, the cancellation of marriage functions will lead to a loss of more than Rs 2000 crore in the State Capital itself,” said the official, wishing not to be identified.  According to another figure, around one crore wedding takes place in the country of 130 crore people every year. And the expenses on these weddings combined together comes to around Rs 4 lakh crore per annum. “Not only Bihar, but the entire country has also been badly hit due to extended lockdown. Marriage events have been put on back-burner as there is no auspicious period between July 1 and November 24. And till June, no one is sure whether the hotels or marriage halls will be allowed to run their usual business. We all are heading for a very difficult time and an uncertain future,” another senior employee of a posh hotel told DH.  AUSPICIOUS PERIOD: April: 20, 25, 26, 27 May: 1, 2, 4, 6, 17, 18,19 June: 13, 15, 30 July 1 to Nov 24: No auspicious day for wedding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-wedding-plans-put-on-the-back-burner-826081.html
16-04-2020||National||West Bengal’s grand festival Durga Puja feels coronavirus heat||Durga Puja, one of the largest annual festival in West Bengal is starting to feel the financial pinch of the novel coronavirus outbreak and consequent nationwide lockdown. Expecting a sharp reduction in sponsorship of several big-ticket pujas in the state has decided to cut down their budget for this year. Durga Puja is likely to be held in October. According to sources in the state administration about 28000 Durga Pujas take place in Bengal out of which nearly 3000 are located in Kolkata. Speaking to DH Sajal Ghosh, the secretary of the Santosh Mitra Square Puja Committee, a big budget puja in central Kolkata said that they are not even sure whether their sponsors will survive the financial impact of the ongoing lockdown. “ The question here should be whether our sponsors will survive the impact of the lockdown. Then only comes the question of them sponsoring us. When events like IPL are being indefinitely deferred where is the scope of thinking about our puja,” said Ghosh.  Another major Durga Puja committee the BJ Block Durga Puja in Salt Lake on the eastern fringes of the city has put all their plans for this year on hold. The puja committee secretary Subhankar Basu said that  the only thing they are sure about is the sharp reduction in this year’s budget. Apart from the budget cut they are totally clueless as to how the situation will be when the lockdown is finally lifted. “We have put all our plans on hold. It is impossible to decide anything before we get a clear picture of the situation. Until then everything is uncertain for us,” said Basu. One of the oldest Durga Pujas in the city, the Mudiali Club has decided to slash its budget allotted for the making. The Durga Puja which will complete its 86th anniversary this year has decided to construct the pandal themselves instead of hiring a theme artist. “We are making our plans keeping in mind that there will be less sponsorship this year,” said Manoj Sahu, secretary of the Puja Committee. Several other puja committees have decided to cut down on their budget to provide financial help to the needy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-s-grand-festival-durga-puja-feels-coronavirus-heat-826088.html
16-04-2020||National||UP govt slaps NSA on people attacking health workers, Police to accompany doctors||UP has taken a serious note of the attack on a team of health workers and doctors, when they tried to take the family members of a man. The latter had died from COVID-19, and the family was to be put under quarantine, in Uttar Pradesh's Moradabad town, about 350 kilometres from here.  In that order, the state government has decided to slap the National Security Act (NSA) on the attackers. Seventeen persons, including women, were arrested in connection with the attack in which around half a dozen health workers and a doctor were injured. According to the eye witness accounts, the team of health workers and doctors were attacked with stones and bricks by the residents of Nawabpura locality in the town on Wednesday evening.  The attackers damaged several vehicles and chased the health workers, police sources here said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said that the offenders would also have to pay for the damage to the public properties. He also directed that henceforth a police team would also accompany the health workers when they visited the homes.  Police were trying to identify the attackers with the help of CCTV footage, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-govt-slaps-nsa-on-people-attacking-health-workers-police-to-accompany-doctors-826097.html
16-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Maharashtra govt orders action against 2 scribes for 'false' news report||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has said action has been ordered against a reporter and an anchor of a news channel for allegedly running a "false" story that state minister Jitendra Awhad's daughter tested coronavirus positive at the time of return from Spain. Deshmukh did not name the news channel concerned. In a series of tweets, Deshmukh said the code of conduct of not revealing the name of any coronavirus-infected patient was violated in the process. There are rules in the law regarding not revealing the names of girls, he said, adding that what the channel did "deliberately and irresponsibly was quite serious". It is wrong to broadcast "false and terrorising" news at a time when an atmosphere of fear is prevailing in the country due to the spread of coronavirus, Deshmukh said. "Hence, order has been issued to take action against the reporter and anchor of the news as per rules," Deshmukh tweeted late Wednesday night. A police official with whom Housing Minister Awhad interacted recently tested positive for coronavirus. Hence, as a precaution, the minister has quarantined himself. On Wednesday, Awhad said his test report has come out negative and he is fit and fine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-maharashtra-govt-orders-action-against-2-scribes-for-false-news-report-826100.html
16-04-2020||National||COVID-19 positive cases rises to 314 in Jammu and Kashmir||With 14 new cases, the number of people testing positive for novel coronavirus in Jammu and Kashmir reached 314 on Thursday, a leap of 214 cases in 11 days. While the first case was reported in J&K on March 18, there was a very slow accumulation over the next few weeks. J&K had 100 cases on 5 April. The next 100 were reached rapidly, in five days, on April 10. “Today's Update 14 new cases- all from Kashmir Division. Total cases now 314. Jammu Division-54 and Kashmir Division-260. Further details in daily bulletin (sic),” J&K government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal, tweeted.  J&K has also seen a slight drop in the positive percentage of tests being carried out for COVID-19. Official data reveals that out of the 1342 tests conducted and reported in J&K till 4 April, 92 had tested positive, 6.8% of the total. On 11 April, 214 out of 3206 had tested positive, a percentage of 6.6. On 15 April, out of the total 5171 tests, 300 had tested positive, a percentage of 5.8.  In neighboring Ladakh, one more positive case of coronavirus was reported on Thursday taking the total number of cases in the Union Territory to 18. However, only five cases are still active as the rest of the 13 patients have been discharged after being cured of the infection, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-positive-cases-rises-to-314-in-jammu-and-kashmir-826109.html
16-04-2020||National||Earthquake of magnitude 5.9 strikes Myanmar-India border region – EMSC||An earthquake with a magnitude of 5.9 struck Myanmar-India border region on Thursday, the European Mediterranean Seismological Centre (EMSC) said. The quake's epicentre was 35 km south east of Myanmar and 168 km south east of Aizawl in India, and was 10 km below the earth's surface, EMSC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/earthquake-of-magnitude-59-strikes-myanmar-india-border-region-emsc-826111.html
16-04-2020||National||HC to hear plea for protecting victims of domestic violence, child abuse during lockdown||The petition moved by an NGO -- All India Council of Human Rights, Liberties and Social Justice (AICHLS) -- highlighted the increase in domestic violence incidents since the lockdown last month, now extended till May 3, and sought the court's urgent intervention in the interest of women and children. Advocates Mithu Jain, Arjun Syal and Vidisha Kumar, representing the NGO, said the matter was mentioned before the high court on Wednesday and they were informed that the plea for urgent hearing has been allowed. The petition, which is likely to come up for hearing on Friday, has sought certain immediate and effective measures to be adopted to help victims of domestic violence and child abuse during the lockdown. It said incidents of domestic violence and child abuse have gripped not only India but countries such as Australia, the UK and USA and the reports suggest that there is a horrific surge in such cases since the COVID-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown. The plea claimed that the helpline numbers across the country received about 92,000 calls based on domestic abuse and violence in the first 11 days of the lockdown alone and sought that nodal officers be appointed to attend to such distress calls. ` It further prayed for giving wide publicity to the helpline and WhatsApp numbers as well as the contact details of the concerned NGOs and government representatives who would be able to assist the victims immediately and round the clock. The NGO sought intervention of the court saying in view of this peculiar situation, access to other ordinary channels such as courts, police, protection officers, friends and relatives is remote. “The lockdown also is a breeding ground for child abuse as well since they are deprived of the networks that help them cope up with, like their friends, teachers, coaches, relatives who usually provide an escape from their abusive environment,” it said. The plea has arrayed Centre, Delhi government and national Commission for Women as parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-to-hear-plea-for-protecting-victims-of-domestic-violence-child-abuse-during-lockdown-826121.html
16-04-2020||National||COVID-19 is a rich man’s disease: Tamil Nadu CM||“This (COVID-19) is a rich man’s disease. Where did the poor get it? They (rich) brought this disease from foreign countries. It is they (rich) who imported this from foreign countries. Poor isn’t affected.” This was Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday as he briefed reporters about the situation in Tamil Nadu arising out of Coronavirus spread. He was responding to a question on the government’s relief to those affected by COVID-19.  “This is a disease that came to the rich. Where did it come to the poor? It was imported from other countries and other states. You can talk to the poor. There is no issue in that. One is scared of the rich because they have gone to foreign countries and have imported the disease. One should understand that this disease didn’t emerge from Tamil Nadu,” Palaniswami said. The CM’s comments did not go well with the people as several took to social media to criticise his “rich man’s disease” remarks. During the briefing, he also claimed the state’s efforts to prevent the spread of the disease was working well and that Tamil Nadu hopes to have “zero positive cases” in the next four to five days.  While 31 cases were reported on April 14, it went up to 38 on Wednesday but came down to 25 on Thursday. Palaniswami said the numbers were coming down due to the efforts of the state government which set up containment zones and prevented further spread of COVID-19. “Tamil Nadu is still in the second stage. Today, the number of cases is 25 whereas yesterday it was 38. The numbers are gradually coming down and we expect zero cases in the next four to five days,” he claimed. He also said the state was expecting recovery of all patients in the next 10 to 15 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-is-a-rich-man-s-disease-tamil-nadu-cm-826123.html
16-04-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh: Muslims cremate Hindu neighbour during coronavirus lockdown||The coronavirus curfew broke down religious barriers in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal city, after Muslims helped perform the last rites of their Hindu neighbour, whose relatives were unable to make it to the funeral. In a display of harmony during this unprecedented crisis, Muslim residents of Teela Jamalpura locality in the old city, carried the body of their 50-year-old neighbour, who succumbed to a liver ailment on Wednesday. "The woman died while undergoing treatment for a liver ailment in the early hours of Wednesday. And since none of her close relatives were around because of the lockdown, we took her body to the cremation ground at Chhola Vishraghat," Shahid Khan, who made all the funeral arrangements, told PTI. The deceased woman's husband Mohan Namdeo is a small-time vendor and the couple has two sons, he said. "The family is poor and the woman was ailing for a long time and died at government-run Hamidia Hospital," he said.  People were mindful that only 20 persons could participate in the funeral as per lockdown norms, or else the entire community would have shown up for the last rites, he said. Videos of Muslim men, wearing masks and skull caps, carrying the woman's body on their shoulders to the cremation ground, were shared on social media. A similar initiative was taken by Muslim men in Indore earlier this month. Former Chief Minister Kamal Nath praised members of the Muslim community, saying such acts of humanity strengthen communal harmony, love and brotherhood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-muslims-cremate-hindu-neighbour-during-coronavirus-lockdown-826126.html
16-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Clinical trial of plasma enrichment technique to begin in 3-4 days, says Kejriwal||Doctors will conduct the clinical trial of plasma enrichment technique to treat severely-ill coronavirus patients in the next three to four days, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday. Addressing an online briefing, the chief minister said, "If the trial is successful, we will be able to save the lives of serious COVID-19 patients." Under the plasma enrichment technique, antibodies from the blood of patients who have recovered from COVID-19 are used to treat severely infected patients. It is aimed at assessing the efficacy of convalescent plasma to limit complications in COVID-patients Kejriwal further said the condition of several COVID-19 patients, who were admitted to hospitals in last week of March and first week of April, is improving now and many of them will be discharged in the next three-four days. "With collective efforts, we will be able to contain coronavirus in Delhi," Kejriwal said. He said 15 lakh people in the national capital have applied for ration cards and the Delhi government has been providing food to 10 lakh people everyday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-clinical-trial-of-plasma-enrichment-technique-to-begin-in-3-4-days-says-kejriwal-826129.html
16-04-2020||National||Comfortable stock of fertilisers available: Centre||With the Indian Meteorological  Department (IMD) expecting normal monsoon this year, the Centre on Thursday said it is taking all steps to ensure comfortable supply of fertilisers to farmers across the country Despite the lockdown, the Centre has ensured there is sufficient availability of fertilisers across the country, Union Fertilisers  D V Sadananda Gowda, said here. "As of now availability position is comfortable," Gowda tweeted. The government is constantly monitoring the production of fertilisers and its transportation to various depots without much hassle. There is complete coordination with various agencies at the Centre and the state and union territories administration to ensure the adequate availability of major farm input. South-West Monsoon season (June-September) rainfall over the country as a whole is likely to be normal (96% -100%) said IMD officials. The normal monsoon will always raise hope for higher agriculture output. The Department of Fertiliser has advised all the fertilisers producing companies and related firms to ensure sufficient production and smooth movement of fertilisers from plants and ports.  The unloading of held up rakes has been done through a concerted effort with the Ministry of Railways and respective state agriculture departments. The intensive monitoring is going on an hourly and daily basis said an official from the Ministry of Fertilisers. Instructions have been issued to explore the possibility of additional storage of fertilisers in nearby plants. The Department of Fertilisers is coordinating with the Ministry of Shipping for priority berthing of fertilisers and also allow unloading and movement of fertilizers at ports. The government also constituted a  team of officials has been constituted to prepare clear road map regarding key reforms and other initiatives in order to restore growth in the medium to long term in the fertilizer sector and oversee implementation of the road map,  said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/comfortable-stock-of-fertilisers-available-centre-826133.html
16-04-2020||National||India received 5 lakh rapid COVID-19 testing kits from China: Health Ministry||India received the much-awaited five lakh rapid COVID-19 testing kits from China on Thursday, the government said. The Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at ICMR, Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, however, said these testing kits will be used for surveillance and to monitor whether coronavirus hotspots in the country are increasing or decreasing. Regarding concern over the efficacy of the rapid antibody testing kits, he said if an antibody test of a person turns out to be positive, one cannot necessarily be sure the person would not get infected ever again. "This means, even if antibody is present, that doesn't mean it will necessarily be effectively able to fight the virus."  "Rapid antibody tests are for monitoring surveillance, not for diagnosis. Hence there is no concern with respect to the testing kits being faulty, that concern was with respect to immune response alone," Dr Gangakhedkare explained. Addressing a daily briefing to give updates on COVID-19 situation in the country, he said a total of 2,90,401 samples have been tested so far, of which 30,043 were tested on Wednesday itself. Out of the tests carried out on Wednesday, 26,331 were done in laboratories under Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) network and 3,712 in private labs, he added. Commenting on the testing capacity of ICMR network, the official said "Working in one shift, more than 42,400 samples can be tested each day. If we work in two shifts, we will be able to test more than 78,200 samples daily." The total number of COVID-19 cases in India stand at 12,380 and the death toll at 414. As many as 941 fresh cases and 37 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said, adding 183 people have recovered and discharged during the same time period.  "If our case fatality rate is 3.3 per cent then the percentage of people who have recovered so far is around 12.02 per cent," he said. Agarwal also said that 325 districts in India have not reported any coronavirus case so far because of actions initiated at field level. Also, the implementation of containment strategies in some districts which earlier had reported COVID-19 cases, have yielded positive results. One of such place is Puducherry's Mahe district where no case of the infection has been reported in the last 28 days. There are 27 other districts also where no positive case has been reported in a fortnight, he said. About Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's allegation that India was not conducting enough coronavirus tests, the ICMR said, "India tests 24 people for one positive case, while Japan tests 11.7, Italy 6.7 and US tests 5.3. So, one cannot say that India is testing less."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-received-5-lakh-rapid-covid-19-testing-kits-from-china-health-ministry-826136.html
16-04-2020||National||BJP workers providing food to 5 cr needy people daily: Nadda||Speaking to functionaries of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, the youth wing of the party through a video conference, Nadda asked them to pay special attention to the needs of migrant labourers and ensure that they face no hardship, according to a BJP statement.  "Our goal should be that not a single person goes to sleep hungry. Serving humanity is our dharma," he said, exhorting party leaders to further speed up their welfare work.  As part of the Union government's welfare measures, Rs 31,072 crore has been transferred to over 33.25 crore people, he noted.  India under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership is not only combating the coronavirus skilfully but is also helping the world, Nadda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-workers-providing-food-to-5-cr-needy-people-daily-nadda-826147.html
16-04-2020||National||62 COVID-19 patients discharged in one day in Tamil Nadu||As many as 62 COVID-19 patients were discharged from various hospitals in Tamil Nadu on Thursday, cheering news for the state that has been witnessing an exponential increase in the number of Coronavirus-infected people since March 31. 62 patients – 32 from the Tiruchirappalli Government Hospital alone – left home on Thursday, the single largest number of patients discharged in a single day. At the hospital in Tiruchirappalli, patients were given a warm send-off with doctors presenting them with fruit baskets and asking them to follow home quarantine guidelines. With this, the number of COVID-19 patients discharged in Tamil Nadu has gone up to 180, which makes it 14-percent of the total number of patients which currently stands at 1,267 including 15 deaths.  “29 patients belonging to Tiruchirappalli district were discharged from the hospital here on Thursday while three belonged to other districts. All of them have recovered completely and that is why they are being sent to their homes. The doctors have briefed them about the guidelines to be followed during home quarantine,” Tiruchirappalli District Collector S Sivarasu said.  Though 25 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the state on Thursday, the decrease in the number of cases reported every day – the state has been reporting less than 40 cases since April 14 – is some good news.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/62-covid-19-patients-discharged-in-one-day-in-tamil-nadu-826151.html
16-04-2020||National||EPFO settles 3.31 lakh withdrawal claims worth Rs 950 cr in 15 days||Retirement fund body EPFO settled 3.31 lakh PF withdrawal claims worth around Rs 950 crore in last 15 days to give relief to the members during the lockdown. The provision was notiﬁed on March 28, 2020, for special withdrawal from the EPF Scheme to tide over the COVID-19 pandemic, as part of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) package, has provided timely relief to the working class of the nation, a labour ministry statement said.  Since the introduction of this program, in just 15 days, Employees' Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) has processed 3.31 lakh claims disbursing an amount of Rs 946.49 crores, the ministry said. In addition, Rs 284 crore have been distributed by the exempted PF Trusts under this scheme, notable among them being TCS, it added. Under this provision, non-refundable withdrawal to the extent of the basic wages and dearness allowances for three months or up to 75 per cent  of the amount standing to member's credit in the EPF account, whichever is less, is admissible. The member can apply for lesser amount also. This being an advance, does not attract income tax deductions, it stated.  EPFO is committed to serve its members during this crisis, and its offices are functional to maintain the continuity of essential services even in difficult situations. The availability of these facilities through online services has brought much relief to the needy subscribers during the lockdown period, coming to their rescue during these testing times, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/epfo-settles-331-lakh-withdrawal-claims-worth-rs-950-cr-in-15-days-826157.html
16-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Special trains will ferry Indian Army troops from Bengaluru to north and eastern borders||Even as the train services have come to a grinding halt due to COVID-19, two special trains will depart from Bengaluru in the next two days to ferry the Indian Army troops to the northern and eastern borders. The first train will depart on Friday and reach Jammu via Ambala. The second train, bound for Guwahati, will start on Saturday, sources told DH. Only the military personnel, who underwent a 14-day quarantine and due to rejoin their units deployed in northern and eastern borders will travel. The move would also help decongest some of the training establishments at Bengaluru, Belgaum, Secundrabad, and Gopalpur.  The decision was taken keeping the Army’s operational preparedness in mind as there is no let-off from the terrorist activities and infiltration attempts along the Line of Control. Army sources said the force was coordinating with the Indian Railways to explore the possibility of more such trains in the coming weeks. The Army headquarters also issued “no movement” instructions to all establishments, cantonments, formation headquarters and units till April 19. Subsequently, the headquarter offices may start functioning at 50% strength.  Meanwhile, the Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reviewed the efforts of 62 cantonment boards in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and asked the boards to ensure the highest standards of sanitation, hygiene, and fumigation specifically in the populated Civil Areas. He stressed that special care should be taken to provide food and shelter for the vulnerable sections of migrants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-special-trains-will-ferry-indian-army-troops-from-bengaluru-to-north-and-eastern-borders-826159.html
16-04-2020||National||Steel PSUs taking necessary steps to contain coronavirus spread: Pradhan||Steel PSUs are taking all possible measures to create awareness about combating the spread of COVID-19 in the country, Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Thursday. His remarks came in response to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appreciation for SAIL's effort in encouraging use of Aarogya Setu App among citizens. The App educates citizens on steps to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. “I thank PM @narendramodi for appreciating SAIL for its efforts to popularise Aarogya Setu App. Our PSUs are taking all efforts to contribute to India's fight against COVID-19 by maintaining essential supplies, providing food to the needy, enhancing awareness and many such initiatives," steel minister Pradhan said in a tweet. Appreciating SAIL's steps, Modi had said in a tweet that organisations could play a vital role in popularising Aarogya Setu and ensuring more people download it. Echoing similar views, Pradhan said the PSUs as part of efforts to contain COVID spread are creating awareness and maintaining supply of essential items. In a video conference with the CMDs of steel PSUs held recently, Pradhan directed them to adopt Annadaan Scheme to provide food to migrants and promote usage of the Aarogya App to contain COVID-19 spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/steel-psus-taking-necessary-steps-to-contain-coronavirus-spread-pradhan-826160.html
16-04-2020||National||CRPF begins unique 'work from home' to help those affected by coronavirus lockdown||The country's largest paramilitary force Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has begun a new 'work from home' regime as many of its troops on extended leave are undertaking community help work, some even using their limited savings and resources at their home towns, officials said on Thursday. The chief of the force, Director General (DG) A P Maheshwari, also lauded the effort in a message sent to the 3.25 lakh personnel-strong paramilitary. A number of its troops had to extend their home stay after the force extended their leave and suspended all movement till the May 3 deadline of the nationwide lockdown clamped to stop the spread of coronavirus. "We are at present negotiating difficult times. Yet, disregarding your own difficulties, you have been proactively addressing the hardships of the people around you. That is the very essence of service and loyalty. That is the quintessence of CRPF," Maheshwari said in his message. "Many of you are forced to stay away from your workplace yet while in your respective home towns, you are ensuring that the hapless do not go hungry and the needy are not left in the lurch. Kudos to you. "Indeed, you have added a new layer of meaning to the concept of work from home, stressed upon by the government to break the chain of COVID-19," the DG said. He said the men and women of his force have a "humane heart to connect to the weal and woes of the fellow human beings, struggling confinement". "I put on record my appreciation for all those who have broken the time-space barriers of duty in the service of mankind and motherland. Wish you and your family members the best of health so that you can further add to the health of the society during this profound public health crisis," he said. Instances like constable Manav Kalita imparting yoga classes to children and distributing food packets to the needy in his village in Assam's Barpeta district are some of the examples of 'work from home' in the force, a senior official said. Kalita, of the 49th battalion of the force, is posted in Kashmir and had gone home for his wedding. Another official, CRPF Assistant Sub Inspector Padmeswar Das, has spent about Rs 10,000 from his savings to distribute food packets with items like rice, pulses and vegetables to the poor in his village in Assam's Morigaon district.  Many more such instances are being brought to the force's notice either by reports in the local media or by the unit commanders, a senior officer said. "The DG has praised the initiative of our troops who have dedicated themselves to the public cause despite not being on duty. Such steps and zeal to work for the public is encouraged by the force," CRPF spokesprson Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Moses Dhinakaran told PTI. The CRPF is the country's lead internal security force with its three main combat theatres being anti-Naxal operations, counter-terrorist offensive in the Kashmir valley and taking on armed insurgency in the north eastern states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-begins-unique-work-from-home-to-help-those-affected-by-coronavirus-lockdown-826161.html
16-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Rajnath reviews preventive measures taken by 62 cantonment boards across country||Director General Defence Estates (DGDE) Deepa Bajwa, who is in-charge of managing the cantonment boards, gave an overview of the ongoing steps like maintenance of essential services like sanitation and water supply in cantonment areas, the statement by the Defence Ministry said. "She also apprised him about the steps taken for the identification of hospitals, schools and community halls for quarantine facilities and continuous measures for public awareness among residents; enforcement of social distancing," it said. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to combat the spread of COVID-19, which has infected more than 12,700 people and killed over 400 people in the country so far. Bajwa informed Singh that provision of food and dry ration has also been made for the vulnerable sections in association with NGOs and social organisations, the ministry stated. She told him that chief executive officers of the cantonment boards are maintaining regular liaison with district administrations and local military authorities. "While acknowledging the efforts, Rajnath Singh stressed that the cantonment boards should ensure highest standards of sanitation and hygiene, and fumigation specifically in the populated civil areas," the statement said. "He (Singh) stressed that special care should be taken to provide food and shelter for the vulnerable sections of migrants or daily wagers," it said. The first phase of the lockdown was from March 25 to April 14. The second phase of the nationwide lockdown started from April 15 and would end on May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-rajnath-reviews-preventive-measures-taken-by-62-cantonment-boards-across-country-826165.html
16-04-2020||National||COVID-19 : Assam Congress seeks stimulus package for media industry||Congress in Assam on Thursday sought a stimulus package from the Centre for the media industry, with a focus on print media in order to help them tide over the crisis resulted from COVID-19 and the lockdown. The party unit also demanded that journalists should also be covered under the insurance scheme announced for frontline workers fighting the COVID-19 in Assam. "Media personnel are frontline warriors, not only during this period of the global pandemic but also during any time of crisis. They and their families should not be made to suffer on account of temporary losses faced by media houses. In Assam too, the media, and especially, the print media, have played a vital role in nation-building since the pre-Independence era. As such, the Assam government should also take steps to help the local and regional media houses of the state. Some sort of subsidy or stimulus to local and regional media houses will come handy to revive the sector at this crucial moment," president of Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC), Ripun Bora said in a statement.  He said that journalists, like health workers, police and security personnel, and other emergency services staff, are working round the clock in Assam at this time of pandemic to bring news to the public and help the government in the fight to prevent the spread of COVID-19. "So, journalists and media personnel of Assam should be immediately brought under the coverage of the health insurance scheme announced recently by the state government for staffs of other frontline and emergency services," Bora said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-assam-congress-seeks-stimulus-package-for-media-industry-826166.html
16-04-2020||National||NGO moves SC against use of Hydroxychloroquine and Azithromycin in treatment of COVID-19||An NGO has filed a plea in the Supreme Court, questioning the recommendation for use of an old anti-malarial drug, Hydroxychloroquine and a well-known broad-spectrum antibiotic, Azithromycin in treatment of the most critically-ill COVID-19 patients in view of their lethal side effects on the cardiovascular system. In a PIL, 'People for Better Treatment' through its president Kunal Saha, a medical practitioner, contended that the updated treatment guidelines issued on March 31, 2020, for doctors and hospitals across India, has made a categorical recommendation to use a combination of both the drugs without any direct scientific evidence. "The off-label use of HCQ and AZM in COVID-19 patients on anecdotal evidence has already created a great deal of controversy among healthcare professionals because of their previously known potentially life-threatening side effects, particularly on the cardiovascular system," it said. It sought a direction to the Centre and the ICMR for reconsideration of any use of both the drugs. The plea sought immediate implementation of six-point specific recommendations made jointly by the American Heart Association (AHA), American College of Cardiology (ACC) and Heart Rhythm Society (HRS) in the USA on April 8 against such use without informed consent in order to save the potential loss of innocent patients due to cardiac complications and heart failure. Soon after a joint bulletin by the USA bodies was released on April 8, 2020, the petitioner claimed it intimated the Health Ministry about "serious and potentially life-threatening dangers for using HCQ and AZM" in COVID-19 patients and asked it to immediately adopt the precautionary measures.  "Unfortunately", even after several reminders on the extremely urgent situation, the Centre has remained absolutely silent and did not respond or shown any interest to adopt any precautionary measures to mitigate the obvious risks including heart failure and death involved with the acutely sick ICU patients, it said. "It is truly alarming that while off-label treatment with HCQ and AZM mostly on anecdotal evidence for serious COVID-19 patients has been advised, they have failed to provide the important and specific precautionary measures that doctors should take before and during the use of these drugs apart from vaguely stating that “these drugs should be administered under close medical supervision"," it added. An extraordinary joint bulletin by the American Associations asked the doctors to give stark warnings to the patients for before and during the use of HCQ and AZM in COVID-19, especially for patients with existing cardiac conditions since these drugs have potential to trigger arrythmia (abnormal heartbeat), heart failure and even death. The petition contended the doctors and healthcare workers across India always looked toward the central health ministry for proper guidance and management of COVID-19 patients as there is very little medical research on a novel coronavirus first isolated in China only four-five months ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngo-moves-sc-against-use-of-hydroxychloroquine-and-azithromycin-in-treatment-of-covid-19-826170.html
16-04-2020||National||Mumbai police use old DD show titles to spread awareness about Coronavirus||The Mumbai Police on Thursday used a bit of '90s nostalgia to drive home the point of social distancing amid the coronavirus lockdown. In a creative arrangement of titles of the popular Doordarshan shows, Mumbai Police shared two images with show titles arranged in a manner which read as an advice for people to follow on their official handle.   "A simple message that’s been just around the ‘Nukkad’ for decades. #NotJustNostalgia #TakingOnCorona" they captioned the pictures. "'Dekh Bhai Dekh', there's a 'Mahabharat' happening outside. 'Humlog' won't go to 'Nukkad'. We won't let 'Mungeri Lal Ke Haseen Sapne' turn into 'Flop Show,'" the first picture read. In another image, the Mumbai Police used titles of shows, including Shah Rukh Khan's "Circus" and "Fauji", writing, "'Shrimaan, Shrimati', please don't become 'Karamchand' or 'Byomkesh.' Coronavirus is being fought by 'Fauji', don't step out to do 'Circus.'" DCP Pranay Ashok, spokesperson of Mumbai Police, said it's their endeavour to reach out to people with different themes to give messages and using DD shows was one of the ways. "During the period of lockdown, there is a trend of nostalgic serials like 'Mahabharata', 'Ramayan' and other Doordarshan era serials. By using names of these serials we have appealed Mumbaikars not to come of of their homes and stay safe. “We always use current trends to spread our message to Mumbaikars, which are entertaining and also educating them," Ashok told PTI. Recently, the Twitter handle of Mumbai Police also used the popular dialogue of Rajkummar Rao-Shraddha Kapoor starrer "Stree": "Oh Stree Kal Aana." Giving a twist to the line, originally used in the film to ward off an evil spirit, they wrote, "Oh Corona, Kabhi Mat Aana."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-police-use-old-dd-show-titles-to-spread-awareness-about-coronavirus-826173.html
16-04-2020||National||Record 20.3 cr people watched PM Narendra Modi's address on coronavirus lockdown-2: BARC||Even though a record number of people have downloaded the contact tracing Aarogya Setu app, only a tenth of those are using the app, market research agency AC Nielsen said. Modi has had four telecasts to the nation since the pandemic began in India and the addresses have given calls including the one-day 'Janta' curfew, declaration of the lockdown, cheering the medical fraternity by banging plates and lighting lamps. The previous record on viewership was 193 million for the second address when he declared the 21-day lockdown. The fourth address on Tuesday, where Modi extended the lockdown by 19-days in a 25-minute speech, was telecast by 199 broadcasters and generated nearly 4 billion viewing minutes, which is also a record, Broadcast Audience Research Council’s chief executive Sunil Lulla told reporters. The council reported that the overall TV consumption in the week to April 12 has gone up 38 per cent when compared to the pre-COVID period. Lulla hinted that it is primarily driven by national broadcaster Doordarshan, which has outsmarted the private sector channels by launching its classic shows like Ramayan and Mahabharat and added that the general entertainment channels as a category grew only because of DD. However, on the flip side, this growth in the number of eyeballs has been accompanied by a downfall in advertising and the data for the reporting week said the overall time had decreased by 26 per cent. Lulla attributed the fall to the lockdown, pointing out that with no consumption happening or deemed to happen till May 3, advertisers are not forthcoming. Meanwhile, on the same call, market researcher AC Nielsen, which studies trends on select universe of Android phones, said that despite breaching records on downloads, the state-pushed Aarogya Setu app is being used by only 10 per cent people. Nielsen’s Dolly Jha said that smartphone users continue to be very concerned about the COVID-19 pandemic, and added that over 40 per cent searches on Google were on topics related to the virus. Apart from that 8 per cent of people are frequently visiting websites dedicated for the pandemic, with an increased interest being shown by males, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-203-cr-people-watched-pm-narendra-modis-address-on-coronavirus-lockdown-2-barc-826174.html
16-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: More foreign nationals return from Kerala; Case against tourists for flouting lockdown norms||While a decision on bringing back Indian's stranded in various COVID-19 hit countries was still pending, 268 foreigners, mainly UK nationals, stranded in Kerala and Tamil Nadu were flown back to the UK in a special flight from Kerala on Wednesday. Seven UK nationals who were recovered from COVID in Kochi were also among those who flew back. They were offloaded from a Dubai bound flight on March 15 after one of them was found COVID-19 infected. Kerala government sources said that around 210 Russians and 60 Swiss were also expecting to fly back soon, while 112 French, 236 Germans and some other European Union nationals were already flown back from Kerala. Meanwhile, a police case was registered against 17 tourists at Kovalam tourist spot in Thiruvananthapuram for coming out of their hotel rooms and enjoying the beach. They were alleged to have violated the lockdown norms. They included tourists from UK, Canada Russia and France. Cases were also registered against the hotel authorities. Around 90 tourists were still staying at hotels in Kovalam now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-more-foreign-nationals-return-from-kerala-case-against-tourists-for-flouting-lockdown-norms-826178.html
16-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Govt announces rental relief to companies, start-ups operating in tech parks||The Centre on Thursday decided to waive off four months rental to the IT and ITES companies operating from Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) Centres in different parts of the country. In view of the challenges thrown by COVID-19 outbreak and consequent lockdown, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has decided to provide a rental waiver to units housed in STPI premises in the country from 01.03.2020 till 30.06.2020 i.e. for 4 months period as of now, said a statement from the government. Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) is an autonomous society under the Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, Government of India and it has 60 centres across the country. The initiative to provide rental waiver will benefit to nearly 200 IT/ ITeS MSMEs, operating from these 60 STPI centres. Most of the firms operating from STPI centres are tech MSMEs or startups.  The total cost of the rental waiver provided to these units during 4 months period from 01.03.2020 to 30.06.2020 is estimated to be around Rs. 5 Crore. This effort is also in the larger interest of around 3,000 IT/ ITeS employees who are directly supported by these firms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-govt-announces-rental-relief-to-companies-start-ups-operating-in-tech-parks-826183.html
16-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Scared locals halt doctor's last rites twice in Meghalaya||Efforts to perform the last rites of the Shillong-based doctor, who succumbed to COVID-19 on Wednesday were halted twice by 'scared locals' before a church helped the Meghalaya government to conduct the same on Thursday afternoon. The doctor's family members too could not take part in the funeral as six of them also tested positive.  The 69-year-old doctor, John L. Sailo Ryntathiang died at Bethany Hospital he owned in Shillong at around 2.45 am on Wednesday, less than 48-hours he tested COVID-19 positive. This was Meghalaya's first COVID-19 positive case. By afternoon the government authorities had started preparation to perform his last rites as per protocols of the Centre and World Health Organisation. They wanted to cremate the body in an electric crematorium at Jhalupara in Shillong and later put the ashes in his coffin for burial at his farmhouse at Nongpoh, about 50-km away towards Guwahati. But a committee of local residents there did not allow the cremation saying that the staffs in the crematorium were not equipped to cremate a COVID-19 positive person's body. They feared that the virus could spread to their areas while performing the last rites. The authorities later decided to bury his body at Nongpoh but a darbar (a traditional local council) opposed the move saying the doctor was not a local resident. The district administration officials held discussions with the influential committee but failed to break the ice. As the doctor's body remained stranded in his hospital compound for hours and the authorities in the hilly state struggled to finalise a place for last rites, many in Shillong took to social media and expressed angst over the development. "It's really heartening to see a doctor being denied a place for last rites. We all know how Dr. Sailo was respected in Shillong and elsewhere but now when he is no more, what are we doing to him?" asked one resident of Shillong in his Facebook post. The outcry invited the attention of some churches, who later came forward to help the state government. Finally, the doctor's body was buried on Thursday afternoon at Riatsamthiah Presbyterian Cemetry in Shillong. "Kindness is the need of the hour and our gratitude goes to the Riatsamthiah Presbyterian Church for their gesture. May his soul rest in peace," Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma tweeted after the last rites were performed.   The state health officials suspected that Sailo had contracted the virus from his son-in-law, who had a travel history to New York and Delhi. He visited in law's house in Shillong on March 22. Authorities have already sealed his two hospitals in Shillong and Nongpoh and put all his contacts into quarantine to contain the spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-scared-locals-halt-doctors-last-rites-twice-in-meghalaya-826186.html
16-04-2020||National||ED files money laundering case against Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a money laundering case against Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi, trusts liked to the Jamaat and others, officials said on Thursday. They said an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) has been filed by the agency based on a Delhi Police FIR. A criminal case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) has been filed against Kandhalvi, the trusts linked to him and the Jamaat and few others, a senior official said. The Delhi Police's crime branch had, on March 31, lodged an FIR against seven people, including the cleric, on a complaint by Station House Officer of Nizamuddin police station for holding a congregation of Tablighi Jamaat followers in alleged violation of the orders against large gatherings to contain the spread of coronavirus. Officials said the ED has worked on the finances and transactions of the Tablighi Jamaat and its office bearers over the last few days and has obtained various documents from banks and financial intelligence gathering agencies. It is soon expected to issue summons to Kandhalvi, reported to be in self quarantine, for questioning in the case. The agency, they said, is also looking at the opinion of medical experts about Kandhalvi's claim of self quarantine in the wake of COVID-19 exposure. Kandhalvi had organised the religious gathering at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi last month against the social distancing protocol imposed by the Centre to curb the spread of the deadly virus. The ED is also looking at the personal finances of Kandhalvi and some other office bearers and associates of the Tablighi Jamaat, they said. Certain donations received by the Islamic organisation from foreign and domestic sources are also under the scanner of the agency, officials said. In an audio message released sometime back, Kandhalvi had said he was exercising self-quarantine after several hundreds who visited the congregation at Nizamudddin Markaz tested positive for coronavirus. The police FIR registered against the Tablighi Jamaat event says that the Delhi Police contacted the authorities of Nizamuddin Markaz on March 21 and reminded them of the government order which prohibited any political or religious gathering of more than 50 people. It says that despite repeated efforts, the event organisers failed to inform the health department or any other government agency about the huge gathering inside the Markaz and deliberately disobeyed government orders. The sub-district magistrate of Defence Colony inspected the premises several times and found that around 1,300 people, including foreign nationals, were residing there without maintaining social distance. It was also found that there were no arrangements of hand sanitizers and face masks, the FIR said. The Nizamudddin centre, visited by thousands, turned out to be a hotspot of coronavirus not only in the national capital, but the entire country. More than 25,500 Tablighi members and their contacts have been quarantined in the country after the Centre and the state governments conducted a "mega operation" to identify them. At least 9,000 people participated in the religious congregation in Nizamuddin. Later, many of the attendees travelled to various parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-files-money-laundering-case-against-tablighi-jamaat-leader-maulana-saad-kandhalvi-826196.html
16-04-2020||National||India's coronavirus testing ratio not low: ICMR  ||Refuting allegations that India is not conducting enough COVID-19 tests, the Health Ministry said on Wednesday the testing ratio is not low and in a country with such a huge population "not all people belong to vulnerable groups". Responding to a question about Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleging that the scale of testing in India has been low so far at 199 per 10 lakh people, the chief of Epidemiology and Communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar said for each positive case the country tests 24 people. "In countries like Japan, one out of 11.7 tests turns out to be positive, which is among the highest in the world. Italy tests 6.7 persons for one positive test while the USA tests 5.3 persons and the United Kingdom 3.4," he said during a daily press briefing on the country's COVID-19 situation.  "Taking their population base into consideration, it is difficult to comment about our testing rate. In India, we are conducting 24 tests out of which one comes out to be positive. Also, we have huge population and not all people belong to vulnerable groups. Hence, can't say our testing ratio is low," Dr Gangakhedkar said. Adding to the remark, Lav Agarwal, the joint secretary in the health ministry, said data can be interpreted in many ways and the government's effort is aimed at ensuring not a single positive case is missed out. "There is a defined criteria. Compared to other countries... we are testing 24 people out of each positive case. We have been able to contain the spread of the virus to some extent through advanced action measures. It is not the absolute number of testing which will be our defining criteria. What is important is to see what output is yielded in our containment measures linked with testing. "We are also testing patients with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and influenza like illness (ILI) even in places which have not reported any (coronavirus) positive case," Agarwal said. Addressing a press conference via video link earlier in the day, Rahul Gandhi called for aggressive testing to defeat coronavirus and asserted that it should be used strategically. Gandhi said the scale of testing in India has been low so far at 199 per 10 lakh people -- around 350 tests per district -- which he said is not enough to tell which way the virus is moving.  "If you have to fight the virus, you have to increase testing dramatically and your testing has to go from chasing the virus to moving ahead of it. That means you have to move into random testing," he noted. Dr Gangakhedkar, however, said 2,90,401 samples have been tested so far, of which 30,043 were tested on Wednesday itself. Out of the tests carried out on Wednesday, 26,331 were done in laboratories under Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) network and 3,712 in private labs, he added. Commenting on the testing capacity of ICMR network, Dr Gangakhedkar said, "Working in one shift, more than 42,400 samples can be tested each day. If we work in two shifts, we will be able to test more than 78,200 samples daily."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-coronavirus-testing-ratio-not-low-icmr-826205.html
16-04-2020||National||Review migrant labourer situation, collect numbers: Cabinet secretary to states||Days after unrest among migrant labourers were witnessed in some cities, the Centre on Thursday asked states to immediately undertake a review of the situation and conduct an exercise to ascertain the number of those stranded in cities following the COVID-19 lockdown. Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba shot off letters to State Chief Secretaries and Union Territory Administrators asking them to immediately appoint nodal officers, if not already appointed, for coordinating and monitoring issues related to migrant labourers.  In metropolitan areas, Municipal Commissioners may be assigned the responsibility of implementation of welfare measures. He asked the state governments to instruct District Collectors to immediately undertake a review of the situation concerning migrant labourers, as there were reports of unrest among migrant labourers in Surat in Gujarat and Bandra in Maharashtra. There were also reports about migrant labourers stranded in Delhi's Yamuna Ghat. Gauba also asked the states to undertake a comprehensive enumeration of migrant labourers and stranded persons and make all necessary arrangements for providing food and shelter for them. In his letter, he also said every relief camp meant for migrant labourers should be under the charge of a senior officer. "They may also enlist the support of civil society organizations and the network of mid-day meal facilities to provide food for all the stranded persons and migrant labourers during the period of lockdown. Psycho-social counseling may also be provided to such persons, as per guidelines issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in this regard," it said. He also reminded the states to ensure effective implementation of detailed guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs for ensuring safety, shelter and food security of migrant labourers.  As the lockdown has been extended to May 3, stranded migrant labourers' hope to return to the villages have been delayed. With no work, many are staring at income loss as well as job loss and have been demanding that they should be let to go back home. Protests demanding they be sent back to their villages were recently witnessed in Bandra and Surat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/review-migrant-labourer-situation-collect-numbers-cabinet-secretary-to-states-826207.html
16-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Govt to transfer financial assistance only through DBT mechanism||The clarification came amid various rumours doing the rounds on financial assistance by the government. "India has JAM (Jan Dhan, Aadhaar, Mobile) based DBT mechanism for diff. schemes. Successfully deposited Rs. 28,256 Cr. to 31.77 Cr. beneficiaries bank a/cs under COVID relief. DBT is fulcrum for targeted delivery of such measures. Pls don't believe any outlandish rumours!," the Department of Financial Services said in a tweet. There have been various rumours since the government announced the Rs 1.70 lakh crore Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalayan Yojana to help the poor withstand the hardship caused by the coronavirus lockdown. Earlier this week, there was a rumour on social media that money transferred to women's Jan Dhan accounts will be taken back if the beneficiary does not withdraw immediately from the account. This led to serpentine queues outside bank branches as worried women scrambled to claim the amount, thus putting social distancing measures in jeopardy. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had last month announced that as many of 20.5 crore women Jan Dhan account holders will get Rs 500 per month for the next three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-govt-to-transfer-financial-assistance-only-through-dbt-mechanism-826210.html
16-04-2020||National||COVID-19: WHO is set to revive its polio surveillance network for coronavirus pandemic||The World Health Organization and the Union Health Ministry are set to revive their polio surveillance network in India to keep an eye on the COVID-19 pandemic, which is expected to be around at least for the next few months. More than 1,600 WHO trained personnel including WHO field staff who played a key role in creating a robust surveillance system for polio would be back in action to keep a tab on the virus that has infected more than 12,000 and killed 300 plus Indians so far. “An action plan has been prepared on strengthening our ongoing surveillance utilizing the services of the World Health Organization’s national polio surveillance network team, Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the Union Health Ministry said here on Thursday. The team involves 227 surveillance medical officers and 1,252 field monitors of the national polio surveillance programmes besides 106 field staffs working on TB, 27 field staffs working on neglected tropical diseases and 26 staffs working on hypertension.  While the State governments will feed data to the central ministry, the WHO officials will assist the ministry to set up and run a robust surveillance platform. However, unlike the polio campaign, there is no plan yet for a dedicated website on COVID-19 surveillance. The National Polio Surveillance Project played a key role in strengthening polio surveillance by generating useful, timely and accurate data to guide policies, strategies and interventions until transmission of the poliovirus was interrupted nearly a decade ago. “With our combined meticulous work, done with full sincerity and dedication, we were able to get rid of polio. All of you in the field – IDSP, state rapid response teams and WHO - are our ‘surveillance corona warriors’. With your joint efforts we can defeat the coronavirus and save lives,” Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-who-is-set-to-revive-its-polio-surveillance-network-for-coronavirus-pandemic-826211.html
16-04-2020||National||Notice against Kannada news channel for running fake news||The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on Thursday issued a notice to a Kannada news channel 'Public TV' for broadcasting a news item which claimed that the government is going to "drop money from helicopters in every town". The news item "Helicopter Money - Helicopter nalli surithara Modi" was broadcast on Wednesday at 8:30 PM. According to the notice, the channel aired the news item, which was "false, mischievous and deliberate" and "clearly violate" the Broadcasting Code and Rules. "When the whole country is fighting COVID-19, your channel, instead of creating awareness and educating the public, spreading false information, creating panic and social unrest," I&B Additional Director General M Nagendra Swamy said in the notice to Public TV Chairman and Managing Director H R Ranganath. "In view of the serious violation of Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 and rules framed there under, you are hereby directed to show cause why your channel should not be taken out of air immediately," the notice said. The channel has been given ten days to reply to the notice. The Press Information Bureau's Fact Check twitter handle also tweeted tagging a TV grab, "Claim: Government is going to drop money from helicopters in every town. PIB FactCheck: Government is going to do no such thing." During demonetisation, the channel had run a news report and discussion on the new Rs 2,000 having nano-chips, which was also dismissed as fake news.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/notice-against-kannada-news-channel-for-running-fake-news-826215.html
16-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: 270 stranded British nationals airlifted in special flight from Amritsar||As many as 270 British nationals, who were stranded in Punjab and some other states after the Centre imposed a nationwide lockdown to combat the coronavirus outbreak, were airlifted in a special flight from Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport here on Thursday, officials said. The special flight to Heathrow Airport was arranged by the British government, they said. The British nationals were stranded in Punjab, Rajasthan and Jammu and Kashmir, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-270-stranded-british-nationals-airlifted-in-special-flight-from-amritsar-826226.html
16-04-2020||National||Journo bodies move SC against termination, salary cut and closure||A group of journalists bodies on Thursday approached the Supreme Court to suspend termination, salary cut and forced leave of scribes and other staff effected by organisations of print and electronic media with impunity, following the lockdown clamped to check COVID-19 pandemic. "What media establishments or employers are prohibited from doing by law, they are trying to achieve by subterfuge taking the excuse of the lockdown," their plea contended. The writ petition filed jointly by National Alliance of Journalists, Delhi Union of Journalists, and Brihanmumbai Union of Journalists questioned the validity of "unilateral knee-jerk decisions to terminate services, reduce wages and also send employees on forced indefinite unpaid leave". They said the arbitrary actions on part of the private media houses placed journalists in a precarious situation. It will also have a pernicious effect on the media sector and will severely hamper the media’s ability to perform its functions in the democratic setup, they added. Their plea pointed out despite the Prime Minister's appeal, the Ministry of Labour and Employment's advisories and legal provisions that disallowed retrenchments, terminations or even suspension and closure of publications without due process, the media companies have gone ahead with these measures. This was also "unmindful of the fact that in a lockdown of such an incredible magnitude people can barely move out, leave alone go for job-hunting", it contended.     The petitioners, which named several newspapers, magazines, online media outlets, and other employers in the media sector for reportedly having taken such steps, have made the Union government, Indian Newspapers Society and News Broadcasters Association as parties to the petition.  "The nature of injury caused to the public is that this is an affront to the rights of journalists and also impedes their ability to perform their duties and provide independent journalism as a  pillar of democracy," they said. Their plea said the retrenchment was also in violation of Sections 25N and 25O of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and Section 16A of the Working Journalists and Other Newspaper Employees (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955. As per the Ministry of Home Affairs' order of March 24, 2020, the journalists and non-journalists employees working in the print, electronic and digital media sector were carrying out essential services and they continued to perform their duties even during the ongoing lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/journo-bodies-move-sc-against-termination-salary-cut-and-closure-826231.html
16-04-2020||National||Over 1.5 crore free LPG cylinders given to poor: Pradhan||Over 1.5 crore free cooking gas (LPG) cylinders have been distributed in the last two weeks as part of the government's stimulus aimed at helping poor tide over hardships of lockdown, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Thursday. Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), several relief measures have been announced by the central government for the welfare of poor, one of them being providing three LPG cylinders (14.2 kg) free to over 8 crore beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Ujjawala Yojana (PMUY) between April and June.  An official statement said that for the seamless implementation of the scheme, the Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs) have been transferring an advance equal to the retail selling price of cylinder to the accounts of beneficaries. The beneficaries use this money to buy LPG refill. "More than 1.51 crore free LPG cylinders have been distributed so far to the PMUY beneficiaries," it quoted Pradhan as saying at a review meeting called to discuss the implementation of the scheme here. The OMCs are distributing 50 to 60 lakh cylinders per day, which includes about 18 lakh free cylinders to PMUY beneficiaries. Pradhan took part in a webinar with over 800 LPG cylinder delivery boys. Describing the LPG delivery boys as the frontline soldiers and corona fighters in the time of unprecedented crisis due to the pandemic, he said the whole nation acknowledges their contributions.  Appreciating their sincerity, hard work and dedication to the duty, he called upon them to take due precautions while discharging their duties. "Many LPG delivery boys shared their experiences during these difficult times. They said that the companies have provided them with the protection kit which includes soap, sanitizer, mask and gloves," the statement said. "They also sanitize their cylinders before delivery, and also maintain social distancing while delivering the cylinder," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-15-crore-free-lpg-cylinders-given-to-poor-pradhan-826235.html
16-04-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh COVID-19 cases up by 226 to 1,164; death toll reaches 55||Two more persons succumbed to the deadly infection in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll in the state to 55, the officials said. According to the reports so far, the virus has now expanded its footprint to 26 out of the 52 districts in the state. Indore has reported the highest number of 707 COVID-19 patients in the state, with 163 cases being reported in the last 24 hours, the health department officials said. In Bhopal, 29 more cases were reported, which took the tally of such patients in the state capital to 196, they said. With 17 more persons testing coronavirus positive on Thursday, the number of cases in Khandwa rose to 33, the fourth highest in state after Indore, Bhopal and Khargone, said health officials. Of the 55 lives that the virus has so far claimed in the state, 9 were reported in Indore alone. So far, five persons have died in Bhopal, six in Ujjain, three in Khargone and one each in Chhindwara and Dewas. Apart from Indore and Bhopal, Morena district has recorded 14 coronavirus positive cases, Jabalpur 13 (one new), Ujjain 30, Hoshangabad 16, Khargone 39, Barwani 22, Raisen 08 (four new), Gwalior six, Khandwa 33 (17 new), Dewas 17 (two new), Sheopur three, Vidisha 13, Chhindwara four, Satna two, Dhar six (three new), Shivpuri two, Ratlam 12, Shajapur five (one new), Mandsaur seven (five new), Agar Malwa four (one new) and Betul, Tikamgarh, Alirajpur and Sagar one each, the health officials said. One patient hails from another state. So far, 65 patients have recovered and returned home, the officials said. The health officials said that 405 containment zones have been created across the affected cities in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-covid-19-cases-up-by-226-to-1164-death-toll-reaches-55-826259.html
16-04-2020||National||India gets 6.5 lakh COVID-19 testing kits from China||India on Thursday received five lakh rapid anti-body testing kits from China which would be deployed to beef up surveillance operations for COVID-19 across the country. Besides the five lakh rapid anti-body test kits, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) also received 1.5 lakh RNA extraction kits from another Chinese company even as India stepped up testing for COVID-19 significantly over the past one week. From conducting an average of 5,000 tests about a week ago, India tested 30,043 samples on Wednesday, including 3,712 samples at private laboratories roped in to strengthen testing capacity as the confirmed cases of COVID-19 rose to 12,759. However, top ICMR scientist Raman Gangakhedkar made it clear that the rapid antibody tests would be used for surveillance in hotspots and not for initial diagnosis of the infections. “These testing kits will be used in observing the trend and conducting surveillance in the COVID-19 hotspots. These are not to be used for initial diagnosis but for epidemiology purposes,” Gangakhedkar, Head, Department of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases, ICMR, told reporters here.     He said the antibody tests will help authorities make an assessment about the spread of the infection in identified hotspots. Asked about reports of faulty anti-body test kits procured from China, Gangakhedkar said the specificity and sensitivity of rapid anti-body tests was low and hence was deployed for surveillance purposes and not for making the initial diagnosis. He indicated that the reports about faulty kits could be from places where the rapid anti-body kits were used for making the initial diagnosis. “We have received three lakh rapid antibody testing kits from Wondfo and another two lakh from Livzon,” Gangakhedkar said. He said that till date over 2,90,401 samples have been tested across the ICMR network of laboratories and private partners. “We have conducted 30,043 tests on Thursday out of which 26,331 were done at ICMR labs, while 3,712 samples were tested at private labs,” Gangakhedkar said.  The veteran scientist also dismissed claims that India was testing less samples when compared with other European countries. ‘In Japan, to find one positive case, 11.7 persons are tested. In Italy that number is 6.7, in the US it's 5.3, in the UK it's 3.4. In India, we find one positive case after we conduct 24 tests,” Gangakhedkar said. He said India has the capacity to test 42,418 samples if its laboratories function in a single shift of nine hours every day. “This number increases to 78,227 samples if we have double shifts,” Gangakhedkar said adding that India had enough kits to last for eight weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-gets-65-lakh-covid-19-testing-kits-from-china-826265.html
16-04-2020||National||3,336 Indians infected by coronavirus in 53 countries: Govt sources||A total of 3,336 Indians tested positive for coronavirus in 53 countries while 25 others died of the infection, government sources said on Thursday. They said the Indians stranded abroad will have to be patient as the government is not evacuating them as part of a larger policy decision to check the spread of the coronavirus in the country. "They need to be patient and stay where they are. Our missions have been told to extend all possible help to the stranded Indians," said a source. According to the sources, evacuation of around 35,000 foreign nationals from 48 countries has been facilitated so far from India. The sources said the majority of Indians who tested positive for the coronavirus infection are living in the Gulf region. A sizeable number of Indians staying in France and the US have also tested positive.  They said that Indian missions in the Gulf region have been told to extend all possible assistance to the Indians in distress. Around eight million Indians are living in the Gulf countries and there has been growing anxiety among them over their livelihood in view of the pandemic as it has majorly impacted the oil-driven economy of the region. Almost all Gulf countries have taken a series of drastic measures including imposing total lockdown, travel restrictions and even closing borders to stem the spread of the coronavirus infection. The United Arab Emirates has already warned of possible action against countries refusing to allow their citizens to return. Around 3.3 million Indians are living in the UAE and they constitute roughly 30 per cent of the country's population. Among the Indian states, Kerala is the most represented followed by Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh.  A large number of Indians are working in the construction sector in Qatar which is hosting the FIFA World Cup in 2022. As a matter of policy, India has decided not to bring back the stranded Indians from abroad till the nationwide lockdown ends. The issue of Indians in Gulf region figured prominently during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's video conference with heads of Indian missions abroad on March 30. Welfare of Indians in the Gulf was the major focus area in the discussions Modi had with leaders of countries in the region over the last few weeks, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3336-indians-infected-by-coronavirus-in-53-countries-govt-sources-826268.html
16-04-2020||National||IGMC team which treated coronavirus patients kept in quarantine: Official||A 15-member medical team that treated three COVID-19 patients at Himachal Pradesh's premier Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) here has been kept in quarantine, the hospital's senior medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj said. The team -- including five doctors and four nurses as well as six safai karamcharis and security guards -- has been kept in 14-day quarantine as per protocol since April 13, he said. They are not allowed to meet anyone and their tests for COVID-19 will be conducted after completion of their quarantine period, he said, adding that they would be allowed to go home only after they are tested negative.  Three residents of Uttar Pradesh, who are members of the Tablighi Jamaat from Solan's Nalagarh and had tested positive on April 4, were admitted to IGMC on April 5. The trio had attended a large religious congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin last month where many people had contracted the virus apparently from foreign delegates. The medical team treated the three COVID-19 patients till they were discharged on April 12 after two subsequent tests conducted on them were negative.  Meanwhile, the outpatient department (OPD) resumed at IGMC on Thursday. It had been suspended a few days ago to handle COVID-19 patients, he said. A total of 351 patients were examined in the OPD and 89 were treated in the emergency department Thursday, he added. The official urged patients to visit the multi-specialty hospital only in case of requirement of intensive care or with referral from health centres or district hospitals to avoid undue crowd.  Every person who visited IGMC Thursday underwent thermal scanning at the gate and was provided a mask, he added. The security guards and the visitors were directed to maintain a distance of at least one metre from others to check the spread of COVID-19, he said. The hospital staff is being provided with masks, sanitizers and PPE kits for their safety, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/igmc-team-which-treated-coronavirus-patients-kept-in-quarantine-official-826271.html
16-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: India to send hydroxychloroquine to 55 other countries||India is sending Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) tablets not only to the United States but 54 other nations to help them deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. Sources in New Delhi said that many countries around the world had requested India to send HCQ tablets ever since the drug had been recommended for treatment of the patients infected with the COVID-19.   The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) on April 4 last banned the export of the HCQ tablets “without any exception” in order to ensure availability of the drug in adequate quantities for the treatment of the COVID-19 patients in the country. The Government, however, decided to allow export of the drug on a case-to-case basis, responding to the specific requests from the foreign countries after ensuring adequate stock for meeting domestic requirements. Sources said that New Delhi had supplied the HCQ in small quantities to 34 nations as a grant, while 21 nations had procured the tablets on commercial terms from India.  India is likely to allow export of the HCQ to several other nations in the coming weeks as it is still receiving new requests for the drug from foreign governments. India’s export to the HCQ to the US had triggered a controversy last week. Trump had on April 5 called Modi and requested him to relax the ban so that the US could procure the drug from India. He later subtly stepped up pressure on New Delhi and warned of “retaliation” if the US was not allowed to import the drug from India. Just hours after Trump talked tough on New Delhi’s ban on the export of the HCQ, the Modi Government announced that India would allow export of the drug to its neighbours in South Asia as well as some other worst COVID-19 affected countries. It hinted that the US would be among the countries, which would be allowed to procure the drug from India.  The Congress and other opposition parties criticized the Modi Government for its decision to allow export of the HCQ to the US instead of strongly responding to the American President’s warning about “retaliation”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-to-send-hydroxychloroquine-to-55-other-countries-826283.html
16-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: FCI transports 3.74 mn tonnes of foodgrains||The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has transported 3.74 million tonnes of foodgrains during the lockdown period across all states and Union Territories to provide grains under the Public Distribution System. "FCI has been able to move a record 3.74 Million Tonnes food grains stocks using 1335 train loads from the surplus states during the lockdown period at an average of 1.7 lakh tonnes per day. This is more than double its normal average movement of about 0.8 lakh tonnes per day," an official statement said. During the same period, 3.34 million tonnes were unloaded in the consuming states to cater to the needs of beneficiaries under the Public Distribution System (PDS).  Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY), which provides 5 kgs foodgrains free of cost to every beneficiary covered under the food security law for three months, a quantity of 2.56 million tonnes stocks have already been issued. Under regular allocation of foodgrains for the National Food Security Act (NFSA) schemes and other welfare schemes, 3.98 million tonnes of foodgrains have been issued during the lockdown period across the country. Put together, the total foodgrain stocks issued to cater to the needs of people covered under NFSA and other welfare schemes of the Government of India during 22 days of lockdown is 6.54 million tonnes at an average of 3.27 lakh tonnes per day. To cater to the requirements of persons not covered under NFSA, state governments have been given the choice to lift food grains at the rate of Rs 21/kg for wheat and Rs 22/kg for rice against cards already issued by them over and above NFSA cards.  In addition to this, states have been given the option to buy rice at Rs 22.50/kg directly from FCI without participating in the auction process to meet any additional requirements. With an eye to keep the open market prices under check and to ensure adequate availability of wheat flour, state governments have been authorised to requisition wheat for flour mills directly from FCI at open market sale rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-fci-transports-374-mn-tonnes-of-foodgrains-826289.html
16-04-2020||National Politics||Instead of asking people to do things, Centre should take nine steps to fight COVID-19: Sitaram Yechury||Yechury also said the government must distribute food grains to all needy for free while procuring harvested crops at minimum support price and paying wages to all those workers who have registered with the rural job guarantee scheme under MNREGA, irrespective of whether there is work or not.  He said the lockdown period should have been utilised for conducting large-scale testing to identify the clusters where the pandemic is spreading in order to isolate and contain it. Testing, however, remains at a very low level, one of the lowest in the world, he said adding countries like South Korea managed to tackle the virus infection through large-scale testing. "Three weeks into the lockdown, some of the biggest states in India are still not testing enough. We do not even have an accurate picture of the spread of the virus, without which no planning can be done. Is that why no one knows what data is the Centre basing its decisions on?...Instead of just asking people to do this and that, the Central government needs to undertake these nine steps immediately," he said.  Yechury also raised concern over the healthcare professionals not getting enough PPEs and said the government did not prepare itself to procure the kits, which is essential to ensure safety. Another demand was raising the financial stimulus from the current 0.8% of the GDP to at least 5% of GDP. He said the financial package of Rs 1.7 lakh crore announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in late March was "very meagre" and cited the examples of various other countries where they spend better proportions of GDP for the stimulus. He has also demanded liberal funding of states, which are facing financial crunch following the lockdown, financially assist employers to protect workers from job losses and wage cuts as well as arrange the return of migrant workers to their homes. "Today, in the Central government's godowns, there are 7.5 crore tonnes of food grains. The harvest season has started. Now, this huge stock should be released to the states and then distributed amongst the poor. That is the only way to stop starvation deaths," he said. Yechury's demands came against the backdrop of Modi asking people to follow seven steps while announcing the extension of lockdown to May 3, including following social distancing, increasing immunity, and downloading the Aarogya Setu Application.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/instead-of-asking-people-to-do-things-centre-should-take-nine-steps-to-fight-covid-19-sitaram-yechury-825979.html
16-04-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan BJP accuses state Congress govt of mishandling COVID-19 crisis||Poonia demanded that the state government consider deploying paramilitary forces in Ramganj to control the situation. "Chief minister is taking credit for containment in Bhilwara but no one is ready to take the responsibility for Jaipur's Ramganj where the situation is worst. Coronavirus is on the verge of community spread in Ramganj," he told reporters through video conferencing here. Poonia claimed that the pandemic situation in Jodhpur was also turning bad and that the Jodhpur collector has written to BSF and CRPF authorities seeking deployment of forces. The BJP leader alleged that the state government was quiet on this. He said the government was appeasing a particular community in Ramganj and was not serious about containment. "If the government is unable to handle the situation, the state government should consider deployment of BSF or CRPF in Ramganj and other such hotspots," he said. Poonia claimed that the state government had allowed members of the Tablighi Jamaat, who had attended a religious congregation in Delhi last month following which many cases were reported, to move within the state. He said the ruling party MLAs were branding and putting their pictures on ration and food packets being distributed to the needy. Poonia also alleged that the government officers discouraged people from donating to the PM CARES fund and insisted that they instead donate to the CM's relief fund. He said BJP has so far distributed 60.73 lakh food packets and 22.33 lakh dry ration packets to the needy in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-bjp-accuses-state-congress-govt-of-mishandling-covid-19-crisis-826229.html
16-04-2020||National Politics||Chouhan blames Cong govt for COVID-19 cases in health dept||Chouhan also said he has ordered an inquiry into the spread of the COVID-19 infection among health officials and action would be taken on the basis of its report. In a tweet on Thursday evening, he said, Previous government had not made any preparations to fight against COVID-19. It seems the health department team was not given any training. "So, the health workers got infected. I have ordered an inquiry. The action will be taken on the basis of report of this inquiry. The situation changed after the BJP government assumed office, he said. I have rapidly increased testing capabilities. We are finding each and every positive case and arranging for their treatment. "More patients can come out in Indore and Bhopal, but there is a good news that most people are recovering fast," Chouhan said in another tweet. About 90 health department personnel, including four IAS officers and a few doctors who were working as frontline warriors against the dreaded virus, have tested positive so far, an official said Thursday. Apart from them, around 40 policemen and their family members have also been found infected by the deadly virus, the official said. The Congress, however, rejected Chouhan's charge against its government. State Congress spokesman Narendra Saluja said the Nath government had taken several measures to contain the coronavirus spread. Saluja released a list of measures taken by the Nath government to curb the viral disease, including closure of shopping malls, cinema halls, schools and colleges, on March 13. He said the budget session of the assembly convened from March 16 was also cancelled apart from several meetings to focus on the fight against COVID-19. On the other hand, the BJP held a meeting of its legislature party on March 23, Saluja said. He accused the BJP of speaking "lies" to hide the "failure" of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government to control the COVID-19 spread in the state. Chouhan had taken oath on the night of March 23, a day ahead of the country-wide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. A fortnight-long political drama following the resignation of 22 Congress MLAs had led to the collapse of the Nath government in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chouhan-blames-cong-govt-for-covid-19-cases-in-health-dept-826255.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Delhi govt to setup paid-quarantine facilities in 3 hotels||The Delhi government will set up quarantine facilities at three private hotels in wake of the novel coronavirus outbreak, an official said on Wednesday. People using quarantine facilities at the Welcome Hotel, the Vivanta by Taj and the Piccadily Hotel will have to pay Rs 3,100, excluding the Goods and Services Tax, per day, according to the official. The official said these hotels are located in the Southwest District of Delhi. The district administration has issued orders for setting up the paid-quarantine facilities by reserving 767 rooms in these hotels. The move comes three days after the government directed all district magistrates to identify paid-quarantine facilities in their respective areas in wake of coronavirus outbreak in the national capital. "The payment at these hotels will be made by the actual beneficiary from the day the beneficiary occupies the room. However, request for payment of advance may be avoided," the official said. Laundry facility to be provided to such guests will be separated in such a way so that it does not mix up with the laundry facility of other guests. "Meals to such guest will be served in their rooms only in disposable plates," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-govt-to-setup-paid-quarantine-facilities-in-3-hotels-825908.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||2 relatives of Tablighi Jamaat chief test positive for COVID-19 in UP's Saharanpur||Two relatives of Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad Kandhalvi tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur district, an official said on Wednesday. After the two relatives of Kandhalvi tested positive for COVID-19, the district administration sealed Mufti locality in Mandi area here, Saharanpur DM Akhilesh Singh told PTI. He said eight other people from the area were placed under quarantine. The two persons who tested positive are Kandhalvi’s in-laws and they had stayed at the Tablighi Jamaat's Markaz in Delhi's Nizamuddin before the COVID-19 lockdown was imposed, the district magistrate said. They had recently returned from South Africa and quarantined along with two other persons, Singh said. The authorities are now trying to find those people who came in contact with the two relatives of the Tablighi Jamaat’s leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-relatives-of-tablighi-jamaat-chief-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-ups-saharanpur-825914.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||India to get 6.5 lakh COVID-19 testing kits from China today||New Delhi's envoy to Beijing, Vikram Misri, confirmed that the testing kits had been despatched from Guangzhou Airport in China early on Thursday and would reach India later on the day.  The consignment includes 5,50,000 Rapid Antibody Test kits - the first lot of 300,000 from Guangzhou Wondfo company of China and 250,000 from another company, Zhuhai Livzon. Besides, India has also procured 1,00,000 RNA Extraction Kits from Shenzhen.  The Embassy of India in Beijing and the Consulate General of India in Guangzhou in China played a key role in procuring the testing kits, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-to-get-65-lakh-covid-19-testing-kits-from-china-today-825960.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||42 new coronavirus cases in Indore; Madhya Pradesh tally rises to 980||The total number of coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh rose to 980 with 42 more people testing positive for the disease in Indore, health officials said on Thursday. Two more deaths were also reported from Indore late Wednesday night, taking the toll in the state to 55. The viral infection has now spread in 26 out of total 52 districts in the state. Agar Malwa and Alirajpur districts reported first coronavirus cases on Wednesday. Indore has reported the highest 586 cases in the state so far, a health official said. Of the total 55 deaths in the state, 39 have been reported from Indore. Besides, five persons have so far died in Bhopal, six in Ujjain, three in Khargone and one each in Chhindwara and Dewas. So far, 64 people in the state have recovered from the disease, the official said. There are total 290 containment zones formed across various cities of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/42-new-coronavirus-cases-in-indore-madhya-pradesh-tally-rises-to-980-825961.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||No mandatory deduction for donation to PM-CARES: AIIMS admin to RDA||The AIIMS administration has accepted the proposal by its Resident Doctors' Association to make donation to the PM-CARES fund voluntary, saying there will be no mandatory salary deduction for the contribution and those interested can "Opt-In". The AIIMS RDA had written to the hospital administration earlier, demanding that donations to PM-Citizen Assistance Relief in Emergency Situations (CARES) fund be made a voluntary exercise/opt-in and the money collected be used locally for procuring protective gear for them after the administration appealed to all resident doctors to contribute their one-day salary to the PM-CARES fund to aid the government's effort to fight COVID-19. "In continuation of the appeal dated April 7 and the Resident Doctors Association request letter dated April 8 wherein the RDA has declined to donate one day salary to the Prime Minister's citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) fund with an opt-out option. "The Resident Doctors Association is hereby informed that no deduction will be made from salaries of resident doctors. Those residents who wish to donate to the PM-CARES fund should inform the Academic Section, in writing, by April 20," the letter signed by the Registrar said on Wednesday. The letter further added that there is no shortage of funds at the institute for procurement of PPEs and therefore no donation shall be accepted from resident doctors for local use at AIIMS New Delhi The administration had earlier rejected the proposal, saying there is no mechanism in place for an opt-in donation and all such voluntary donations are to be made directly to the charity of choice. The letter also stated that there is no provision to collect donations from residents for internal use for provision of PPEs and other facilities to equip healthcare workers. The AIIMS RDA had twice written to the administration for reconsidering the decision and make the donation opt-in or reject it altogether stating majority of residents have donated on a personal level and want to exercise choice of further donation. "The RDA AIIMS reiterates that as a majority of residents have donated on a personal level and want to exercise the choice of further donation. We again request the administration to reconsider the decision and make the donation opt-in or reject it altogether. The AIIMS RDA had on April 4 said the notice for donation without consulting them violates an individual's right to support the country in the way they prefer. In its notice, the administration had said that any resident having objection to it (donation) may write through email, WhatsApp or SMS to their account officers latest by April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-mandatory-deduction-for-donation-to-pm-cares-aiims-admin-to-rda-825967.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||Think tank formed to articulate moderate Muslim views||A group of around 175 prominent Muslim leaders, former bureaucrats and academicians have together to form a think tank to highlight the voice of "progressive and modern" members of the community, who are "often unable to find a platform to express their constructive views to the nation". "The Muslim community in India has been at the centre of a lot of negative news as well. Due to poor education and limited exposure to the modern world and to India’s pluralistic social and cultural ethos, a large section of the community lacks in rationale thinking and scientific temperament to adjust to the new situations and challenges. IMIF plans to chalk out strategies to connect them to modern education and inculcate shared cultural values and thus contribute to the nation-building efforts," the think tank said in a statement. One of the rationales behind forming the think tank is to bring back the focus on the voice of moderate elements, who are in the majority, to the forefront, as they believe that the radical views of a minority are getting amplified putting the community in a bad light.  Acknowledging that media engagement of Muslim community has been poor, it said, “as a result, the community’s real voice and concerns could not be well articulated and consequently an erroneous narrative leading to negative perceptions has been built over a period of time." “We will strive to work with the intellectual and thought leaders of all communities and represent the voices of the educated and modern outlook of Muslims of the country in the public domain. We also strive to promote the cosmopolitan, pluralistic and secular fabric of India by culturally engaging with all communities. We hope that our sustained efforts at the grassroots level will bring about a constructive change for the community and the nation,” the statement said. The IMIF will also be coordinating with community NGOs, institutions and individuals to help the stranded people with food and other necessities and also liberally donate to PM-CARES and other charitable bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/think-tank-formed-to-articulate-moderate-muslim-views-825976.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||Cop killed by suspected Naxals in Chhattisgarh||A police personnel was killed by suspected Naxals in Chhattisgarh's insurgency-hit Bijapur district, police said on Thursday. The body of assistant constable Ramesh Kursam, bearing injuries marks, was found on the outskirts of Farsegarh village on Thursday morning, a senior police official said. Kursam, who was posted at Farsegarh police station, was missing since Tuesday evening, he said. Some locals spotted the body and alerted the police, who rushed to the spot and sent the body for postmortem. The police personnel was apparently stabbed with sharp-edged weapons, the official said. A handwritten note of Maoists was recovered from the spot wherein the national park area committee of ultras purportedly claimed responsibility for the killing, while accusing Kursam of harassing local villagers, he said. "Prima facie, it seems to be the handiwork of Maoists but we are also investigating any personal enmity as the reason behind the killing," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cop-killed-by-suspected-naxals-in-chhattisgarh-825982.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||1 lakh-tonne Kashmiri apples lying in cold storage may rot during coronavirus lockdown||According to traders in Kashmir, there was a satisfactory demand for apples but it all vanished overnight when the nation-wide lockdown began in late March. They pay for cold storages but are unsure about the future as the coronavirus lockdown has forced all markets and transport shut. One of the biggest worries for the traders and growers is that apples can be stored only for about seven months in cold storages. “That period has already ended,” said Ghulam Hassan Dar, a trader who has been in the business since a decade. Last year, a record 1.5 lakh metric tonnes of apples were stored in cold units in Kashmir, half a lakh tonnes up from previous years. The post-August circumstances in Kashmir forced most of the growers to store the apple rather than to sell it.  Recently the government had allowed the traders to export the fruit with a limited number of trucks being allowed on the roads, but they say there are no buyers in Azadpur Mandi in Delhi due to the lockdown. “Local demand, too, is almost nil. When no buyers come, the fruit is left in the Mandi and the intense hot temperature spoils it,” said Iqbal Ahmad, a trader from south Kashmir’s Shopian district.  Izhan Javid, a Lasipora-based cold chains owner, said that the apple sector is going through its worst phase ever. “Last year, closure of the highway ruined the apple trade and now the lockdown is doing it,” he said, adding that the fare charges at this time used to be Rs 15,000 per truck, but drivers now take Rs 35,000 per truck. The fruit industry in Kashmir already suffered heavy losses last year due to the prolonged security lockdown after the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 and subsequently due to unseasonal snowfall in November and frequent closure of Srinagar-Jammu national highway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1-lakh-tonne-kashmiri-apples-lying-in-cold-storage-may-rot-during-coronavirus-lockdown-825985.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||Pakistan army shells forward areas along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri, Poonch||Pakistan army on Thursday intensified firing and shelling targetting villages and forwards posts along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch and Rajouri districts of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. The Pakistani troops have been hitting the civilian areas along the LoC with mortars and small arms for the last 12 days. "At about 0945 hours today, Pakistan army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC in Qasba and Kirni sectors of Poonch by firing with small arms," defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand said. He said Pakistani troops also violated the ceasefire along the LoC in Nowshera sector in Rajouri district at around 11.45 am by firing small arms and mortars. The Indian Army was retaliating befittingly to the Pakistani aggression in all these sectors, Lt Col Anand added. Pakistan army's targetting of hamlets in Nowshera, Qasba and Kirni sectors has triggered fear among the people. The residents living in villages near the Indo-Pak border in Rajouri, Poonch, and Kupwara are reeling under palpable terror ever since the three civilians were killed in Pakistan shelling last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-shells-forward-areas-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-rajouri-poonch-826014.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Tablighi event attendee tests coronavirus positive||A 60-year-old man from Madhya Pradesh who attended the religious gathering of Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi last month has tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Thursday. He is admitted to a hospital in Khargone and booked for a negligent act, they said. His test report came out positive on Tuesday, district nodal medical officer Dr Anupam Atre said. The man left Khargone on March 5. He then attended the religious congregation in Delhi and returned on March 12, Kotwali police inspector Lalitsingh Dagur said. He concealed information about attending the religious event in the national capital, despite government instructions to report to the authorities concerned, the official said. The man also violated the lockdown order imposed since last month, the official said. A case was registered against him on Tuesday evening under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act, he added. The religious congregation organised by Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi last month emerged as one of the major coronavirus hotspots in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-tablighi-event-attendee-tests-coronavirus-positive-826019.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||Banks in Kashmir becoming hotspots of gatherings amid COVID-19 lockdown||Social media has been flooded with pictures of people sitting in long queues outside the bank branches across the valley without mandatory social distancing. At many places, the beneficiaries are seen standing shoulder-to-shoulder in queues outside the banks to withdraw the financial assistance credited to their accounts under different central schemes as part of a relief package in view of the lockdown due to coronavirus. The beneficiaries have received assistance under various social welfare schemes, which include Jan Dan Yojana, PM Kissan Yojana and under model welfare schemes for building and construction workers. The funds are being directly credited into the accounts of the beneficiaries.   “This is a matter of grave concern which is going unnoticed. The way people assemble outside bank branches can prove deadly for all of us. What is the point of putting permanent barricades on roads in some places when at other places, people are assembling like a herd of sheep,” asked Tariq Khan, a social activist.  He questioned the rationale of keeping banks entirely open when COVID-19 is spreading like wildfire.  “There is no doubt that poor people need money to buy essentials, but the manner in which banks are operating in Kashmir raises questions over the claims of authorities about imposing lockdown. On one hand, they beat people on roads mercilessly while on the other, banks are allowed to operate like on normal days,” Khan alleged. A senior official of J&K Bank said they have given strict instructions to its staff about maintaining social-distancing. “However, we fail at times as people don’t obey. The police need to be on duty to ensure people maintain distance with each other,” he said. The official defended the decision to keep all bank branches open. “If we close some, the rush at other branches will increase. It is a double-edged sword. If we close banks, people will suffer, if we keep them open, there is a chance of the spread of COVID. People have to behave and follow instructions properly,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/banks-in-kashmir-becoming-hotspots-of-gatherings-amid-covid-19-lockdown-826021.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||Depressed over wife's death, LIC agent kills son before committing suicide in Kanpur||A 40-year-old LIC agent allegedly killed his eight-year-old son and then committed suicide on Thursday in Harbansh Mohal area here, police said. The deceased, identified as Hemant Kanodia, first hanged his son, Anay Kanodia, and then hanged himself from the ceiling hook at his house located in 'Milan Building', said Circle Officer (Collectorganj) Shweta Yadav. Preliminary probe suggests that Hemnat was upset over his wife's sudden demise last month, the CO added. “The bodies have been sent for a post-mortem,” Yadav said. Police have started contacting the family members and neighbours to ascertain the exact reason that led Hemant to take the extreme step, the CO added. The victim's elder brother, Vinay Kanodia, a resident of Patkapur, who had been trying to reach his phone since Wednesday night, found the bodies after he went there along with other family members on Thursday morning," said Station House Officer (Harbansh Mohal) Satish Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/depressed-over-wifes-death-lic-agent-kills-son-before-committing-suicide-in-kanpur-826026.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||Delivery personnel in south Delhi likely to be screened after one of them tests COVID-19 positive||With 89 people quarantined after a pizza delivery agent tested positive for coronavirus in south Delhi, the authorities are considering clinical screening of all food delivery personnel in the area. The 19-year-old tested positive for the virus on April 14. A total of 72 people whom he delivered pizza to have been put under home quarantine, said B M Mishra, district magistrate of South Delhi.  "In view of this incident, we are considering that all those involved in home delivery of food are put through clinical screening so that those showing symptoms are stopped from visiting homes," Mishra told PTI. The pizza delivery agent was feeling unwell for some time alongwith a persistent cough since the third week of March. Later he approached a hospital where he was tested positive, said another official. The 17 first line contact of the infected man, including his colleagues, have been quarantined at an institutional facility at Chhatarpur, Mishra said. The 72 people in areas of south Delhi including pockets of Malviya Nagar and Hauz Rani have not shown any symptoms of the infection but will be tested if they do, he said.  The officials refused to share details of the people who came under contact with the infected man saying it was yet to be ascertained as to how he contracted the virus despite not having any travel history or coming in contact with any known corona positive patient. They said the booth level teams were deputed to trace other contacts of the delivery agent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delivery-personnel-in-south-delhi-likely-to-be-screened-after-one-of-them-tests-covid-19-positive-826027.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||Food delivery boy tests positive for coronavirus, 72 families in South Delhi put in quarantine||A 19-year-old food delivery boy has tested positive for COVID-19 in the national capital, prompted authorities to put people in 72 houses in South Delhi where he delivered pizza in the past fortnight in quarantine in their homes, and 17 of his colleagues in a government facility. The delivery boy, who resides in Savitri Nagar area of the capital, had delivered pizza in Malavya Nagar and Hauz Khaz areas in these houses in the past 15 days and authorities have asked all families to be in-home quarantine for the next 14 days. Seventeen delivery boys who were in close contact with the patient have been moved to a government quarantine centre in Chhattarpur. Officials said that they were investigating how the delivery boy got infected by the coronavirus. He has been having cough for the past few days and as he did not show signs of recovery, he was taken to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital for testing, they said. The restaurant where the delivery boy worked has suspended all operations. In a statement, food delivery platform Zomato said some of the orders delivered by the restaurant were placed on Zomato and it was not sure whether the rider was infected at the time of delivery. "This restaurant had instructed their riders to wear masks and follow strict hygiene to keep customers safe from any unintended mishap. All co-workers of the said rider have been tested negative," it said.  "We also believe that none of our riders should and would knowingly keep working if they know they are infected with COVID-19. We check body temperatures of tens of thousands of our riders every day to make sure that this essential service runs as safely as possible," the statement said. The government has allowed home delivery of cooked food while it has not allowed having food at the restaurants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/food-delivery-boy-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-72-families-in-south-delhi-put-in-quarantine-826031.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||Indore police to deliver FIRs at home of coronavirus curfew violators||Indore police in Madhya Pradesh are planning 'home delivery' of copies of FIRs to those violating curfew in the city, an official said on Thursday. "We are identifying such people with the help of drone cameras. The copy of the First Information Report (FIR) will be delivered at the homes of these accused and appropriate legal steps will be taken subsequently," he said. Such persons will be booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), he said. Following some recent bad experiences, the police are taking all precautions and wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) while arresting the accused in different cases, he said. "We recently arrested some people. Later, some of them were found to be infected with the coronavirus. As a result, we had to send almost the entire staff of a police station to an isolation centre," Gehlot informed. Indore district is one of the worst hit by coronavirus in the state. Till Thursday morning, Indore reported 696 COVID-19 cases. The patients include an additional superintendent of police and in-charges of two police stations. So far, 39 coronavirus patients have died in Indore. The local administration has imposed curfew in the urban limits of Indore since March 25 after first coronavirus cases were found.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indore-police-to-deliver-firs-at-home-of-coronavirus-curfew-violators-826038.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||CRPF man with rare blood group saves elderly's life in Jammu||In 2003 when Ashok Kumar was going through the recruitment process for the CRPF, he got to know that he had the rarest blood group -- AB negative. Almost 17 years later, he received a distress call from his commandant, asking him to save a life by donating blood for a 69-year-old resident of Poonch, a town near the Indo-Pak border in Jammu and Kashmir. The family of Nazir Hussain had sent an SOS message to the Kashmir-based CRPF 'madadgaar' helpline over social media, stating that they were in urgent need of 'AB negative' blood for the patient suffering from the chronic kidney problem. The CRPF helpline got into action and quickly went through its database to find if any of its Jammu-based units had a person with the rare blood group. The search led to 39-year-old head constable and radio operator Ashok Kumar, who is the only personnel in the 72nd battalion of the paramilitary force based in Sunderbani, Jammu, to have the AB negative blood group. "When my commandant asked me to volunteer, I felt happy and was ready to help," Kumar told PTI over phone. Hussain's grandson Adalat Khan, who along with family members were eagerly waiting for some help to arrive, said Kumar's donating blood came as a blessing. "I salute and shall be indebted to the 72 battalion of the CRPF forever and especially to brother Ashok Kumar who came as an angel and saved a life by donating his precious and invaluable blood timely in this hard time and proved that humanity never dies," Khan wrote in his note of thanks to the force. As AB negative is a very rare blood group, it was almost impossible to get it for donation, he said. Khan said no units of the blood group were available in the blood bank and no one in their family had it too. That was when we decided to seek the help of CRPF's 'madadgaar', he said. Kumar said he only got to know that he had such a rare blood group when it was told to him during his recruitment in the force in 2003. "I had then also donated blood to a colleague when I just entered the force. Why should one hesitate to help when the god has bestowed him with such a rare blessing?,” the trooper from Bihar's Arwal district said. "It is the motto of my force to help and serve the people and that was all I did," Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-man-with-rare-blood-group-saves-elderlys-life-in-jammu-826039.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Ex UP DGP moves SC for quashing FIRs lodged for breaking lockdown||The former police chief of Uttar Pradesh, Vikram Singh, on Thursday approached the Supreme Court for a direction to quash all the FIRs registered incessantly for disobeying orders on lockdown and other petty offences during the coronavirus crisis. These cases are the result of circumstances against the poor and downtrodden who are not having 'mens rea' (criminal intent), he maintained. "Coronavirus has caused a global pandemic, in which every person is suffering. The situation needs to be handled humanely, and it will be best to avoid adding aspects of criminality, wherever possible," he added. Chairman of a think tank 'Centre for Accountability and Systemic Change' (CASC), Singh submitted that registering of FIRs incessantly under Section 188 (disobeying order by public servant) of the IPC was "antithesis to Rule of Law, and violated Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution". He cited Section of 195 of the Criminal Procedure Code, saying it mandated that only a Magistrate can take cognizance of an offence under Section 188 IPC and that too on a complaint submitted by a public servant. "In these extraordinary times, the courts have taken many steps which have relaxed the normal processes with respect to paper filing, affidavits, personal presence and hearings etc. In the same breath, it is very important to put a check on the burgeoning number of FIRs being filed in petty cases," his plea stated. Singh asked the court to issue directions under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to the various state governments to refrain from filing complaints or registering FIRs under Section 188 or other petty offences.  The petition settled by senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayana submitted that FIRs under Section 188 of the IPC were being incessantly filed for trivial offences, which would have to go through their own process, eventually burdening the police, jails and whole criminal justice system. "Shockingly", 848 such FIRs have been registered in Delhi alone.  "If this is the situation in the national capital, the situation in other parts of the country can very well be imagined," he contended, adding in as per the Uttar Pradesh government’s own admission, 15,378 FIRs under Section 188 have been registered in Uttar Pradesh against 48,503 persons.     "When the whole economy is going through India’s biggest emergency, burdening up the criminal justice system with more cases is not going to help anyone," his plea stated. He contended apprehending poor people during the lockdown would add to the burden of the police. People who are without a job or livelihood and are forced to be out,  should not be treated as criminals, Singh said in his petition. "At a time when the Supreme Court has put a special emphasis on decongesting the prisons, filing of FIRs for trivial offence, does not make any sense. It is a well-known fact that jails are the places where first time petty offenders may become hardened criminals," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-ex-up-dgp-moves-sc-for-quashing-firs-lodged-for-breaking-lockdown-826044.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||IAF helicopter makes emergency landing after technical snag||A Cheetah helicopter of the Indian Air Force that was on its way to Chandigarh from the Hindon airbase in Ghaziabad made an emergency landing on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway here due to a technical fault on Thursday, officials said. However, there was no loss of life or property, they said. The two-seater helicopter with a pilot and his associate took off from the Hindon airbase at around 8 am for Chandigarh. But it developed some technical snag and the pilot after informing his seniors made an emergency landing near Mavikalan village on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, Superintendent of Police, Baghpat, Pratap Gopendra Yadav said. Another helicopter with a technical team arrived at the spot and the snag was rectified in about 25 minutes, he said, adding both the helicopters flew after that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iaf-helicopter-makes-emergency-landing-after-technical-snag-826048.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||Punjab cops don’t buy excuses, 8,000 curfew violators arrested so far||Stepped out to buy medicines. This is among the commonest excuses people give when caught violating lockdown orders, according to Punjab police. But Punjab police don’t always buy these common explanations. Result: 8,269 arrests so far for violating the curfew imposed to enforce the lockdown. In addition, Punjab police have detained 13,000 curfew violators, for a few hours each time, in “open jails” like stadiums. About 3,600 vehicles were impounded, an official said. Altogether, 5,672 FIRs have been registered, police said. Over 45,000 Punjab police personnel are on lockdown duty, which also includes distribution of food packets and keeping vigil at grain markets since the beginning of procurement season this week. Officials said most people go by the book, complying with the curfew imposed in the state – two days before the nationwide lockdown came into force on March 25. But some make excuses. “People try to step out of homes under the garb of some medical emergency,” an official said. He gave the example of a man who said he was out to buy medicines for his pregnant wife, but carried no prescription with him. In Rupnagar district, an official said, people have begun producing medical prescriptions when stopped. But at times these are up to a year old. Buying milk and groceries is another common or excuse, police said. Drones are also being used to detect curfew violations, and have helped in the registration of 20 FIRs. From a height of 200 metres, a drone can keep an eye on localities spread over two kilometers across, an official said. In one case, a drone caught some people out playing cricket amid the curfew. Hard-pressed cops also complain about people who dial the helpline number when they should not. “Despite having sufficient rations, many people make calls for food and other essentials,” an official said. In Bathinda, police got a call from a man who said he was part of a group of 15 people who had run out of food and wanted to return to their homes in Bihar. Police claim they found no such emergency when they reached the place, and the caller apologized. The largest number of arrests for violating curfew orders has been made in Amritsar district (891), followed by (581), Mohali (559), Tarn Taran (534), Fazilka (488) and Hoshiarpur (460), according to Punjab police data. Cases were registered under section 188 (disobedience to an order promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act. Punjab had reported 186 total coronavirus cases till Thursday morning. Thirteen people have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cops-don-t-buy-excuses-8000-curfew-violators-arrested-so-far-826072.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||Vodafone Idea adds network capacity to support rising data demand in Delhi-NCR||Telecom operator Vodafone Idea on Thursday said it has added network capacity to cater to the rising demand for data in Delhi-NCR, amid the ongoing lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. "Vodafone Idea has further enhanced network capacity in the circle by deploying the most efficient 900 MHz spectrum band on 2300 4G sites," the company said in a statement. The sites upgraded will facilitate better indoor network experience and enhance network speed in Delhi-NCR. "These recent network augmentation efforts are being undertaken to support the growing data demand during the national lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic," the company said.  With this, Vodafone Idea is geared to handle the increase in demand from customers who are confined within their homes, heavily dependent on network connectivity to work, study, access essential services online, stay informed and entertained, it added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday had announced that the current lockdown will be extended till May 3. Fresh guidelines were issued by the government on Wednesday for enforcing the second phase of the lockdown, which is aimed to contain the spread of the pandemic that has so far killed over 414 people and infected over 12,380 in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vodafone-idea-adds-network-capacity-to-support-rising-data-demand-in-delhi-ncr-826083.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||Farmer commits suicide in Uttar Pradesh||A 32-year-old farmer allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tubewell pipe in Shamli district, police said on Thursday. The farmer was found hanging in his agricultural field in Bhura village on Wednesday evening, they said. The reason behind his taking the extreme step was not immediately known, police said. The body was sent for post-mortem, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmer-commits-suicide-in-uttar-pradesh-826106.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||3 held after Delhi doctor dies in hit-and-run case||Three people were arrested in connection with a hit-and-run case in which a doctor returning from work was killed in south Delhi’s Saket area three days ago, police said on Thursday. The accused -- Sandeep, Ajay and Vijay -- were on their way to Vasant Kunj to donate blood to an acquaintance when their car allegedly crashed into DR JP Yadav's bicycle, they said. Yadav was posted at the MCD dispensary in Mehrauli and was returning home after work when the accident took place on April 13, police said. According to police, the doctor's car had developed a snag and he was unable to get it repaired due to the ongoing lockdown. So, he decided to go to work on his bicycle. "On the basis of analysis of CCTV footage and local enquiries, the offending vehicle was identified to be a white colour car. Four vehicles of similar make and colour were identified, which were verified. The mark in one of these vehicles helped to identify the offending car," Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. The offending vehicle was registered in the name of Sonu, a resident of Rohtak in Haryana. A team was sent to his house on Wednesday. Sonu told police that he had given his car to his friend Vicky, he said. On enquiry, Vicky disclosed that the car was being used by his friend Sandeep Pal Singh, a resident of east Delhi''s Mandawali, Thakur said. During interrogation, Sandeep told police that he and his two friends -- Ajay and Vijay -- were in the car at the time of the accident. Vijay was behind the wheel of the car, the DCP said. The vehicle was seized and the three accused were arrested on Wednesday, he said. PTI AMP SNE SNE||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-held-after-delhi-doctor-dies-in-hit-and-run-case-826134.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Eight escape from coronavirus isolation centre; three traced||Eight people, including six coronavirus patients and two suspects, escaped from an isolation facility set up at a hotel in Madhya Pradesh Indore city, police said on Thursday. Three of the COVID-19 patients were later traced and hospitalised. "Eight people, in the age group of 40 to 60 years, escaped from the isolation centre set up in a hotel in Rajendra Nagar area on Wednesday by scaling its rear end boundary wall. Police were on guard in front of the hotel," City Superintendent of Police Puneet Gehlot told PTI. Three of these coronavirus patients were later traced by police and admitted to a private hospital. Two of them hail from Samastipur district of Bihar, while one belongs to Kota in Rajasthan, he said. The search was on for the five others, all natives of Rampur district in Uttar Pradesh, the official said. The Rampur district administration has been informed about them. "The three patients who were traced said they were disturbed after staying in the isolation facility for last 17 days. Their coronavirus test report came out on Wednesday. When they came to know they were going to be hospitalised, they fled out of fear," the official said. Central Kotwali police station in-charge B D Tripathi said six of these eight people were earlier staying at a lodge near Ranipura area of Indore, while two were residing at a 'musafirkhana' (kind of a lodge). "Since the local administration declared Ranipura as the epicentre of coronavirus in Indore, we had sent several people, including these eight, from the area and adjoining localities to the isolation facility," he said. Rejecting reports that these eight people belonged to the Jamaat (an Islamic group), Tripathi said they had come to Indore in connection with trade. Indore has reported the highest 586 cases in the state so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-eight-escape-from-coronavirus-isolation-centre-three-traced-826141.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: UP cops lodge nearly 20k FIRs, net in Rs 7.7 cr fine||The Uttar Pradesh police has registered 19,448 FIRs and booked 60,258 people for allegedly violating prohibitory regulations under the current lockdown, a official said on Thursday. Acting sternly against those violating the lockdown, it also collected a total fine of Rs 7.7 crore from people violating the restrictions, he said.  "To implement the lockdown strictly in districts, police registered 19,448 FIRs against 60,258 violaters of lockdown orders," Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi told reporters. The FIRs were lodged under IPC section 188, which deals with disobedience to any order promulgated by a public servant. He said the police also recovered Rs 7.7 crore as fine from those breaching the lockdown. "The CM has made it clear that black-marketing will not be allowed and strict action will be initiated against such persons," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-up-cops-lodge-nearly-20k-firs-net-in-rs-77-cr-fine-826143.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||UP man lodges complaint after wife violates coronavirus lockdown||Fed up with his wife repeatedly violating the nationwide coronavirus lockdown, a man in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut town, about 500 kilometres from here, lodged a complaint with the police. According to the police sources here, the man, identified as Amjad Malik, a resident of Khushal Nagar locality in the town, in his complaint accused his wife of not wearing mask nor using sanitiser and frequently going out of home without any purpose. ''My wife's parents live close by....she often goes there...she would also leave home on the pretext of buying groceries though everything is there in the house,'' Amjad said in his complaint. ''I try to stop her from going out and also told her about the consequences but she does not heed my advice....she poses a huge risk to herself, our family and also the community,'' he said.  Police said that they would investigate the matter. ''We will try to persuade the women...we will take action if she continues to violate the lockdown,'' said a senior police official in Meerut. According to the police, Amjad was among those 'Corona Warriors', who lent a helping hand in creating awareness about coronavirus in the society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-man-lodges-complaint-after-wife-violates-coronavirus-lockdown-826167.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||FIRs against 14 shopkeepers, industrial unit for defying prohibitory orders in J-K's Samba||Police have registered cases against 14 shopkeepers and management of an industrial unit for allegedly violating prohibitory orders in Jammu and Kashmir's Samba district amid the lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, officials said on Thursday. To ensure a complete lockdown in the district, 14 shopkeepers were booked in 10 First Information Reports (FIRs) registered at different police stations. The police also registered a case against the management of an industrial unit at SIDCO Phase -1 for violation of prohibitory orders issued in view of COVID-19, they added.  Eight FIRs were registered against 10 shopkeepers who kept running their provision stores during the day in violation of the permitted hours in Jhang, Keranwali, Raika Labana, Gurwal, Chak Baglan, Barota Camp and Pakhri villages under the Ramgarh Police Station limits, police said. Another FIR was registered against two provision shop owners for violating prohibitory orders whereas 2 shopkeepers were booked in an FIR registered at the Vijaypur Police Station, they said. An FIR was also registered at the Samba Police Station against the management of the industrial unit, Kashmir Chemical, at SIDCO Phase 1, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/firs-against-14-shopkeepers-industrial-unit-for-defying-prohibitory-orders-in-j-ks-samba-826169.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||Noida: 12 new COVID-19 cases; total climbs to 92||The latest batch of positive cases includes a three-year-old child who got infected from his parents, who are already under treatment for COVID-19, and a 26-year-old nurse working at a quarantine facility, the officials said. "One hundred and fifty test reports have been received here in the last 24 hours. Of them, 138 have tested negative while others were found COVID-19 positive," District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said. Of the 12 positive cases, 11 were tested in a government lab, while one in a private lab, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-12-new-covid-19-cases-total-climbs-to-92-826191.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||8 FIRs filed in Valley for fake news on social media||The cyber wing of Jammu and Kashmir Police has registered eight cases against social media users for allegedly posting fake news and promoting militant activities in the valley, police said on Thursday. "During the recent monitoring and patrolling of social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, WhatsApp and Linkedin, some of the users were found posting fake news, fake documents, incriminating / hateful posts and posts to glorify terrorists or promote terrorists' ideologies by using fake identity," a police official said. He said these kinds of posts not only destabilise the social fabric and disturb order in the society, but also escalate terrorist activities. "On the identification of such posts, action under relevant sections of law was initiated and FIRs were registered. So far, eight FIRs have been registered against such users," he said. The official said there have been a lot of reports of misusing social media sites particularly Facebook, Twitter and Instagram by the miscreants. "The cyber police is monitoring all the profiles and the content being uploaded by the users," the official added. He said the cyber police is also exploring the possibilities of invoking all the relevant provisions of law against such users. "The anonymity of the profiles of users is of no defense and we can track them and bring them to face the law. Awareness programmes for the general public regarding use of social media have also been started by the cyber police," he said. The official said whenever any information with regard to the misuse of social media is received, a prompt action is being taken by the cyber police. "One of the examples is that on April 14, a fake news was uploaded on Facebook wherein a morphed picture of the clock tower at Lalchowk Srinagar was shown with a flag of Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir. Immediately, an FIR was registered, the accused were identified and arrested under the provisions of law," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/8-firs-filed-in-valley-for-fake-news-on-social-media-826258.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||Amid COVID-19 pandemic, Army chief reviews security in Kashmir||Army Chief General MM Naravane Thursday reviewed the prevailing security situation in the Valley. Accompanied by the Northern Army Commander, Lieutenant General YK Joshi and Chinar Corps Commander, Lt Gen BS Raju, the Army Chief visited the formations and units in the hinterland on the first day of his two-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, a defence spokesperson said in a statement. While interacting with soldiers, the General highlighted that it was the dawn of a new era of development, peace, and prosperity in Kashmir and applauded them for their high level of morale and motivation. The Army Chief further reiterated the need to be prepared to meet emerging security challenges effectively at all times. General Naravane extolled the close coordination among all government agencies towards maintaining vigil and peace in the valley and reaching out to the people wholeheartedly to combat the spread of the COVID-19 Pandemic together. Later in the day, he visited 92 Base Hospital, where he appreciated the excellent work and vital critical care being provided by the doctors and support staff of 92 Base Hospital.  He was then briefed by the Chinar Corps Commander at Badami Bagh Cantonment on the overall situation pertaining to the Line of Control and the hinterland.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-covid-19-pandemic-army-chief-reviews-security-in-kashmir-826261.html
16-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: With 62 new cases, Delhi's tally rises to 1,640; Death toll reaches 38||With this, the death toll in the capital has risen to 38 while the number of cases has risen to 1,640. Eleven people were discharged while 1,550 are still in hospital under treatment. A total of 51 people have been discharged while one person migrated out of the country during treatment.     A total of 60 locations in the capital are now declared containment zones due to the higher number of cases. However, the positive news was that two containment zones Vasundhara Enclave and Khichripur joined Dilshad Garden in not reporting a single case of COVID-19 in the past around two weeks. Delhi is also heading to conduct a clinical trial of plasma enrichment technique in the next three to four days to treat severe COVID-19 patients: "We have also been granted the permit for the trial from the central government, and the doctors will start the trial in 3-4 days. If it turns out to be successful, we will be able to focus on trying to save the lives of serious patients. The results of the trial will be received in the next 4-5 days," Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-with-62-new-cases-delhis-tally-rises-to-1640-death-toll-reaches-38-826288.html
16-04-2020||Opinion||Understanding delayed effects on health of COVID-19 & lockdown||The year is 2045 and Balu, who is 25-years-old, has begun to talk and behave strangely. It is apparent, fairly soon, that he has a major mental illness. He is taken to a psychiatrist, a diagnosis of schizophrenia is made, and an antipsychotic drug is prescribed. Balu will need to continue antipsychotic treatment for months to years, and possibly for life. This is bad news for the family because, just a year earlier, his mother, aged 50 years, was found to have diabetes and high blood pressure, and his father, aged 60 years, suffered a stroke. Almost everybody knows that COVID-19 is a serious respiratory disease that is characterised by fever, cough, difficulty in breathing, and other symptoms. Almost everybody knows that, during the lockdown, people are anxious, restless, irritable, and uneasy, and that some may worry themselves into depression. However, few people realise that COVID-19 and the lockdown can result in delayed harms to health, some of which may arise even decades later. Delayed medical consequences Starting with something that's rather obvious, lockdown means no going out, no exercise, a lot of watching TV and snacking, eating some more, and gaining weight. Weight gained is notoriously hard to lose; we only have to look around us, or consider personal experience, to realise how true this is. In persons who gain, say, 4-5 kg or more, the weight gain would be associated with an increased risk of a large number of health problems, including diabetes, high blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, osteoarthritis of the knee joints, Alzheimer's disease, and different types of cancer.  Because the adverse health outcomes occur years to decades later, and because these health disorders are also a result of several other contributory causes, few would realize how weight gain during COVID-19 lockdown might have added to the risk. Delayed mental health consequences There is more than half a century of hard research that demonstrates that stress of any nature increases the risk of major and minor mental illness; the risk of mental illness is greater when people find it hard to adjust to the stress. The risk of mental illness is increased not just in the immediate future but even years after the stress has passed. In a way, this is like imprinting a vulnerability into neuronal circuits. This means that the adaptative demands necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown may result in a surge in new cases of major and minor mental illness in the coming months and also in the coming years. It goes without saying that there is a risk of worsening or relapse in persons with existing mental illness. The stress can also tip vulnerable persons into alcohol and illicit substance abuse. As a side note, many patients with existing mental illness may be unable to get their medicines during the lockdown; this is especially true among those, in poorer segments of society, who depend on the free medicines dispensed by hospitals that are now closed. Patients who are unable to continue their medicines are at high risk of relapse. Persons who develop COVID-19 and require intensive (ICU) care, and especially those who require ventilatory support and later recover, would have been in fear of death. These patients are at high risk of developing a condition called posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), a condition that was first described in military veterans who had survived combat.  Last but not the least Last but not least, viral infections during pregnancy have long been known to increase adverse pregnancy outcomes. An infection during early pregnancy may cause anything from spontaneous abortion to a malformed baby. An infection late in pregnancy can increase the risk of neurodevelopmental disorders such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, autism, or intellectual disability. An infection late in pregnancy can even increase the risk of schizophrenia in the child, decades later, such as during early adult life. It is too early to say whether the COVID-19 virus can cause all of these, but it would be optimistic to believe that the virus would have no harmful effects, either. As of now, a small body of evidence suggests that the virus is indeed transmitted from mother to child, possibly across the placenta, which implies that all of the risks listed above are possible. Parting note: How large are the risks? Readers may reasonably ask how large these risks are. The risk of PTSD may be as high as 10 to 50 per cent in the months after discharge from the ICU; the more stressful the events in the ICU, the higher the risk. At the other extreme, there is only a few percentage points increase in the risk of medical complications, years to decades ahead, or of neurodevelopmental or other complications related to pregnancy exposure to the disease, again years to decades ahead. This is like saying that there is a 95 per cent or greater chance that, for example, the baby will be born normal and will remain normal all through adult life. So, at an individual level, these risks are low. However, at a population level the risk is substantial. What does this mean? COVID-19 is associated with death in only two to five per cent of cases. So there is a 95 per cent chance, or greater, of surviving the disease; this is very good. However, for the population, a two to five per cent death rate is unacceptably high, which is why the government panicked the country into a lockdown. In like manner, a few percentage points increase in delayed-onset of medical or psychiatric illness is of serious concern for public health, and the healthcare system will need to be prepared for it. (Dr Chittaranjan Andrade is Dean, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bengaluru) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/understanding-delayed-effects-on-health-of-covid-19-lockdown-825968.html
16-04-2020||Opinion||The miseries of the migrant class||As we find ourselves amidst a total lockdown for over 35  days and come face to face with the reality of its harsh economic implications and healthcare challenges, we are forced to ask some compelling questions. One among these important questions is regarding the growing economic disparities in the country and the extremely adverse implications that any kind of policy mismanagement or health epidemic such as the coronavirus has on the vulnerable section of the population. Secondly, we have to consider the fact that in the absence of a welfarist State apparatus, the condition of the already vulnerable section of the population becomes only worse but this is often neglected in the mainstream discourse of the media.  What I am trying to highlight here is the fact that drastic economic policies in recent years, such as the decision to demonetise the Indian economy by the Modi government or the decision to suddenly announce a lockdown without prior arrangements for transporting migrant workers from cities to their villages in the context of the outbreak of the coronavirus, have impacted this section of the population far more intensely than any other. But, how sensitive has the government or the media been to their plight and, above all, to the tragic implications of a policy that is only urban and elite-oriented?  The invisible class  It is the visuals of hundreds of desperate migrant workers walking without any food or water for hundreds of miles during the lockdown in a bid to return to their villages that has captured the national imagination. In the absence of transportation networks and financial support for the lockdown phase, these migrant workers, who constitute some 37% of India, suffer in silence the marginalisation and State neglect. How would they stay back in the costly city when their already meagre source of income has been snatched away? Who would look after their families, of which they are often the only earning members? How would they access healthcare in the absence of financial security, while people in the cities quarantine themselves comfortably? As many states closed their borders and migrant workers walking on the highways were forcibly sprayed with chemicals in a bid to sanitise them, some political leaders suggested that ‘unlawful’ citizens who didn’t abide by the lockdown protocol must be shot at site! As the urban middle class saw these visuals on flashy news channels, they too wondered why such a class of people should create more problems for the State and spread the virus. The quarantine privilege After the success of the janata curfew, PM Modi  announced the 21-day lockdown, and on April 14, its extension until May 3, to control the spread of the coronavirus. In his speeches, he talked about everything that citizens were supposed to do in this period, from washing hands frequently to isolating themselves and avoiding stepping outdoors. But he said nothing about what initiative the government had taken for the millions of people living on daily wages, such as the labouring class and the migrant workers. How will their food and shelter be arranged? How will they live through these hard times? The next day, from television celebrities to politicians and cricketers and people in residential colonies -- everyone came out on their balconies to bang plates and utensils to honour those who couldn’t “afford” to stay indoors, such as medical professionals and policemen. Then, they comfortably returned to their well-stocked fridges, overflowing groceries and the steady Netflix subscription that brought the world of entertainment to their fingertips. But outside, the world wasn’t so rosy and comfortable. Jobs were lost, savings were exhausted, children were starving and there was no roof over the head. Social distancing had ended up turning these migrant workers into unwanted and worthless creatures who could create problems for the State or spread “virus” just by walking on the streets! No thought was spared on how they were going to survive the lockdown and how their families would not end up starving to death. I am reminded of the great poet Pete Seger at this juncture and his pertinent poetic inquiry, “Where have all the young men gone? Gone to graveyards, everyone?” Yes, hundreds of young men have left our urban centres in the last couple of weeks, trying to return to their villages in these hard times. Poverty and helplessness seem to have become bigger enemies than the coronavirus itself. Several migrant workers have died of exhaustion and starvation, trying to reach their village, their home. No one came to help them or even pick up their dead bodies.  The pain and endless miseries of these ordinary citizens fades away in the noise of mainstream politics and city-centric media. These people are everywhere – at construction sites, as sanitation employees, domestic helps, factory workers, security guards, vegetable vendors, garbage collectors, etc., but they are invisible as far as representation in mainstream politics is concerned. They work on meagre wages for long durations, making life in the city smooth for the privileged, but ironically their lives hardly matter for the establishment or for us. In these difficult times, we have left this vulnerable section to suffer and perish on its own. As I watch the news and the visuals of desperate migrant workers crying and pleading for help, I know that we have failed them as a nation and that we have left our brothers and sisters to suffer when they needed our support the most. Has our insistence on ‘social distancing’ made us distant to our own conscience and morality? (The writer is Founding Editor, The New Leam)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-miseries-of-the-migrant-class-826049.html
16-04-2020||Opinion||The coronavirus tracking app won’t work||Public debate has focused on how to balance the right to privacy with the potential to save lives. There’s ample reason for scepticism -- for example, “anonymous” Bluetooth tracking can be deanonymized. But that’s not what I care about. What concerns me is that the whole concept of a tradeoff is false from the start, because no app can fix the thoroughly inequitable US health care system. Now consider the app in the US context. To be effective, it must help the most vulnerable -- people who, due to characteristics such as race, income, age and occupation are disproportionately exposed and dying. Yet many of them simply don’t have smartphones. They’re homeless, in nursing homes, in prisons. It’s the same old access story, similar to how Verily, a division of Google’s parent company Alphabet, can help people find and arrange coronavirus testing -- but only if they have a Google account. The people who need the service most are locked out. That’s not all. Assume for a moment that all these people had phones, downloaded the app and would thus find out if they were exposed. What would they do? Many aren’t insured, so testing and treatment would be prohibitively expensive, even if it were available. Or suppose they have gig economy jobs, such as Instacart delivery. What good would it do them to be told they were exposed? They know they’re at high risk. They need the work, otherwise, they would have quit already. And if they really were sick, why would they risk their livelihood by volunteering the information to an app? President Trump has said hospitals will be compensated for treating uninsured coronavirus patients, but it's unclear how that limited money will be distributed, and people might be wary of risking it. Even before the current crisis, nearly a quarter of Americans avoided medical care because of cost considerations. For that matter, millions of undocumented workers are likely not eligible for help. Even insured people are reasonably worried about getting hit with multi-thousand-dollar surprise out-of-network charges, even when their hospital is in-network. It’s starting to look like the app will be helpful only to people who have money and good health insurance, not the people we should be worrying about. So what would work? In addition to detective work, Singapore covered the cost of all treatments and tests -– which were widespread and accessible -- and provided sick pay for people who had to stay home. The US has a long way to go to match that. Even the best smartphone app won’t solve systemic problems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-coronavirus-tracking-app-won-t-work-826062.html
16-04-2020||Panorama||90 days in 1918: When Spanish flu killed half-a-million in Karnataka||We seem to have no sense of history, and learn little from it. We dread in these grim circumstances to quote what philosopher George Santayana famously said about those who forget their history lessons. Therefore, it is only appropriate here to recall the unprecedented devastation suffered by our forefathers just over a hundred years ago, in 1918, when the Influenza pandemic -- better known as the Spanish Flu -- broke out. Not many are familiar with the unprecedented tragedy people suffered when the pandemic struck virulently in a matter of weeks in the last quarter of 1918. Back in 1918, the areas which today constitute Karnataka existed as six separate political-administrative entities - the princely state of Mysore, Chief Commissioner’s Province of Coorg, princely state of Sandur, and as parts in three larger entities of the Nizam’s Hyderabad, Bombay and Madras presidencies. In each of the six states/provinces, the respective governments and people were either complacent or plain ignorant. They had failed to respond to early signals of an impending health crisis, even though there were reports since mid-July about people getting infected, and of even deaths in the western parts of India. Medical infrastructure was still very rudimentary then, with fewer than 100 hospital beds per million people. The governments in each of the states were just establishing a full-fledged health and sanitation department. There was no health alarm in the provincial/state governments about the influenza until late September. Because the governments had failed to swing into action, people too were going about their routines unrestricted. By the time the governments woke up, the influenza virus had already travelled deep into the rural areas, besides besieging urban centres like Bangalore and Mysore. Even at this stage -- late September 1918 -- many thought it was just the common flu or existing diseases like Typhoid and Malaria. But the virus was hitting people everywhere violently. The first detailed medical emergency instruction by any government to district administration came in the princely state of Mysore. And this was on October 13, when the chief secretary of Mysore government wrote to district deputy commissioners, when mass deaths were already happening in the vast rural areas of the state. Indeed, the deputy commissioners could not even communicate the instructions effectively to people as the administrative machinery had already got paralysed because of the influenza – heads of taluks, hoblis and villages had either abandoned their responsibilities, or were themselves sick, or had already fallen victim to the deadly influenza. While there was no known medicine to cure Influenza, people became aware of the effectiveness of non-medical precautions like segregation, isolation, quarantine, etc., very late. People were at the mercy of providence. The governments in different provinces were unaware of the magnitude of devastation that was happening on the ground during October, November and December. It was only after influenza made an unexpected retreat after a third wave of attack in early 1919 that estimates were made in areas of present-day Karnataka. The official estimate for today’s Karnataka is indeed chilling. Out of a combined total population of 14 million across different provinces, at least four million (1911 Census) were infected by the influenza virus. But the death toll was even more shocking. As per conservative estimates, at least 570,000 people, a majority of whom were women, had died in the districts that form Karnataka today. And a disproportionately large number of the dead of both sexes fell in the 10-40 years age group. The toll must actually be significantly higher, as the Nizam’s Hyderabad had underreported the death toll in Bidar, Gulbarga and Raichur districts, where conservatively 85,000 people had perished. As per the count provided in the 1921 Census, in the princely state of Mysore, the death toll was put at 248,040. And going by a preliminary count made by the government just before the pandemic ended, the worst hit was Tumkur district, which must have lost close to 50,000 people in a matter of just three months, followed by Mysore city and district with a toll of over 35,000, Shimoga over 30,000, Bangalore city and district over 25,000, Hassan over 30,000, and Chitradurga, close to 30,000. But the big picture of the scale of the tragedy was available elsewhere. The most tragic case was of Bijapur district, which lost almost 65,000 of its people to the disease, followed closely by Bellary district with at least 45,000 deaths, as also Dharwar and Belgaum districts with similar numbers. Fortunately, Coorg and South Kanara got away lightly from the influenza fury, with a death toll of less than 2% each of their populations. In hindsight, if the administrations and people had woken up early to fight the virus by way of social distancing and quarantine, the magnitude of the tragedy may have perhaps been softened. At that time, today’s Karnataka lost as many of its people as the entire United States lost to the deadly influenza. Ironically, today, the US is again counting its dead in thousands each day for the past week or so. (The writer is a former Associate Editor of Deccan Herald)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/90-days-in-1918-when-spanish-flu-killed-half-a-million-in-karnataka-826150.html
16-04-2020||Panorama||Healthcare during a pandemic: Private versus public||The human cost of the coronavirus outbreak continues to mount, with more than two million cases confirmed globally, and over 135,000 people reported to have died from the contagion. It is worth examining how healthcare systems the world over are coping with the virus. No one predicted the outbreak of a pandemic so rapidly, to the extent that it would upend global healthcare services. However, what has emerged clearly is that, in times of emergencies, the delivery of healthcare, either by the private sector or State-run systems, is a national priority and all such resources are "public goods" to be shared equitably for the common weal. As COVID-19 infections push healthcare systems to the brink, the role of private hospitals in meeting challenges posed by a pandemic is under scrutiny. A germane  question is whether private hospitals have the wherewithal and intent to handle such contingencies, or are they more impelled to achieve corporate objectives. Toll on health systems Most countries in the world have a dual system of private and public healthcare, yet the public system is the one that is most affordable to those having lower income levels. It is not surprising that in times of crises, public hospitals get overwhelmed trying to cater to the larger cross-section of society. On the other hand, private healthcare institutions are regarded as both more specialised and expensive, and not sufficiently inclined to intervene during times like what we are experiencing now. Responding to public health emergencies is resource-intensive and not commercially attractive. This could be a reason why the cause does not resonate well  with the private sector, who have to be conscious of their financial bottom-line. The US, China, Italy, and Spain have been the worst affected so far by the pandemic. While Italy and Spain have excellent public healthcare systems in place, they weren't equipped to handle an epidemic of this proportion. The Chinese authorities, on the other hand, operating under a centralised system, took quick decisions to stem the tide by building new purpose COVID-19 hospitals overnight, strictly monitoring people and their movements, and ramping up manufacture of personal protective equipment (PPE) and ensuring their supply to frontline health workers. This leaves the US, the new epicentre of COVID-19, which depends largely on a private healthcare system, finding itself poorly equipped to deal with a medical situation of this magnitude. Deterred by the expensive healthcare system and no adequate insurance cover, many people in the US chose not to go to the hospitals. This has compounded the infection rates and stretched the public health system beyond its limits. In India, the response to the pandemic has so far remained confined largely to the public healthcare system. Yet, government hospitals, already struggling with the number of patients, are burdened with shortages of ventilators, ICUs, and rooms. Private hospitals have been directed to treat symptomatic patients, but due to limited testing facilities and higher cost, the number of such patients has so far been low. In semi-rural areas, private sector hospitals are not comparable to those in the cities. They only have basic infrastructures and limited medical staff. It is also worrisome that many smaller private hospitals and nursing homes in cities have closed down their out and inpatient facilities. The efficiency of the public healthcare and public distribution systems during such crises is a litmus test for the performance of any state government. The counterpoint The very rationale of super-speciality hospitals is to offer services in a restricted domain. Though 'team practice' (several different specialists working together in addressing the overall health and recovery of a patient) is picking up, they are still confined to the speciality they operate in. A hospital offering cardiac services may not have the resources to offer regular secondary care services or have only limited support to other disciplines like respiratory medicine or neurology. Public health response usually demands a multi- and inter-disciplinary approach to management and often, it goes even beyond a medical approach to the problem. Addressing the social determinants of health will need more convening power and bandwidth, and these have traditionally been vested in public agencies. That being said, it is not as though private hospitals and clinics have no role to play during epidemics. They need to continue to address the regular health issues the citizenry will be facing. Currently, the closure of several private centres is adding to the pressure on public hospitals and further straining existing resources. While the public healthcare system is undeniably beneficial in cases of pandemics, in the overall scheme of healthcare, private hospitals do have an important role to play. The range and depth of specialists available in the private sector are traditionally not available in the public health system, except in a few super-speciality hospitals run by the government. During times of crisis, the public health system can co-opt doctors who are either willing to volunteer or agree to be contracted temporarily. Some private hospitals have also volunteered to be reclassified as COVID-19 hospitals and have expressed their desire to function as public hospitals until the crisis is over. Finally, while governments are best placed to respond to epidemics of this magnitude, they need to build complementary partnerships with people from the private and civil society space. Governments have to be vigilant of the magnitude of the crisis that a country would face once the pandemic spirals out of control. All healthcare facilities -- public/private/armed forces/paramilitary -- will have to function under a unified command, with state governments taking the final responsibility of managing the crisis. A flexible, well-coordinated and forward-looking plan has to emerge, with matching logistics in terms of land and air mobility (to be provided by the armed forces) and PPE in sufficient quantities to every frontline health worker. Such a command centre should be of a temporary nature and should automatically be dissolved once the crisis ends. (Tobby Simon is Founder-President of Synergia Foundation; Dr Balasubramanian is Founder, Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement and GRAAM)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/healthcare-during-a-pandemic-private-versus-public-826224.html
16-04-2020||Panorama||Preparing food systems for disasters||Any interventions dealing with the food supply chain (production, processing, and distribution) while being time-sensitive, also have to contend with two major constraints, which must form the organising principles for logistics management: Overcoming limits on movement of people who are the key actors in the food supply chain in a lockdown situation; and ensuring compliance with conditions of interaction, with the pandemic requiring physical distancing and hygiene measures.  It is suggested that responses to challenges in the food supply chain be organised with three possible phases in mind, namely during the lockdown, transition from the lockdown and the post-pandemic period. Regardless of the phase, the objective will need to be food security with public safety. That must be the new normal. Phase I: During lockdown, the priority is to address the sudden disruption in food supply. This initial crisis response is based on the assumption that there is adequate stock, while the problem is essentially of supply at a time of high demand (due to panic-buying and hoarding in urban areas, unmet demand in rural areas, and the additional need for emergency food assistance). To keep the supplies going safely, the supply of protective personal equipment (PPE) for those engaged in the food supply chain operations has to be ensured. Mass distribution of masks, soaps and sanitisers to all involved -- mandi handlers, transport drivers, street vendors, is  absolutely necessary. Civil supplies need to reach people, but they also need to be delivered with careful handling for disease control. Operational instructions for all food suppliers and food retailers will need to be issued. It is critical to continue government food and nutrition programmes, including delivery of food baskets (uncooked food items) to be collected by parents or guardians, rather than having crowds in the schools/anganwadis. Many of the raw materials for preparation of school meals, in particular perishables, are usually procured locally. This is an important market for small producers of milk and poultry, as well as growers of vegetables and fruits, etc. in villages. Such and more local consumption from local production must be supported. For instance, the need for supply of food to relief camps for migrant workers, if met from direct farm procurement, will also help farmers who are unable to transport and sell perishables outside of their areas because of the lockdown. In urban and peri-urban areas, safe systems of home delivery by wage-dependent informal distributors, such as street-vendors, minimising physical contact while safeguarding livelihoods must be quickly put in place. The Food Corporation of India (FCI) and other procuring agencies of the central and state governments need to be sensitised about safety measures and supplied safety gear. From the point of view of sales in mandis that are open, the staggering of transactions by announcing a village-wise time schedule and issue of coupons to individual farmers, as to when the produce should be brought to the mandis, could be thought of. Phase II: Transition out of lockdown requires preparation for the phased removal of restrictions on movement. This is the time when more actors in the food supply chain will attempt to resume operations, so the public safety aspect has to be paramount. The day after the lockdown ends (and beyond) is critical and cannot be a full return to ‘normal life.’ A roadmap for the period after the lockdown will be needed in advance so that people are prepared to follow safety protocols in food handling. A Standard Operating Procedure/Code of Practice for anyone with public food dealings will be useful to announce. Phase III: Post-pandemic is when governments can gradually step back from the firefighting to pave way for return to near normalcy. It will entail restoration and reconstruction work to deal with long term impacts of the shock. Post-pandemic evaluation and assessment of all aspects of the food supply chain to gauge the impacts will need to be initiated. It cannot be a return to ‘Business As Usual’ scenario but must be used as an opportunity to put in place a new normal. Disaster Risk Management has to be mainstreamed in agriculture and allied sectors so that the breakdown of the food supply chain never happens again. (Tomio Shichiri is the India Representative of the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation; Shalini Bhutani is a legal researcher and policy analyst)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/preparing-food-systems-for-disasters-826225.html
16-04-2020||Right in the Middle||The sound of music ||Who does not remember, the legendary ‘The  Sound of Music’, shot in the picturesque Salzburg in Austria? My work had taken me to Austria a few times, and I had seen the wineries and Swarovski in  Innsbruck, Schonbrunn and also the heartbreaking walking tour of Hitler’s Holocaust days in Vienna. But I would always remember Salzberg for more reasons than one. ‘You have taken away my money’, the teenage girl said, 100 schillings to be exact. The year was 2000, and I spent a beautiful sunny morning in front of Von Trapp Castle, the meadows where Do-Re-Me was shot, the church where Maria marries Capt Von Trapp and the spot where ‘Sixteen going on seventeen’ was shot. After checking in at the airport, I went to the store. As I opened my wallet searching for the schillings amongst a few American dollars, the shop keeper pointed a few Schilling notes amongst the bottles down below and said, “sir, you have dropped your money there”. I was a little perplexed and thought I must have dropped it while opening the wallet. Travelling through Europe in those days, you would carry different currencies in different countries. Well, I took the money he gave me and thanked him profusely with a puzzled look. perhaps. After passing through security, I went to the little duty-free and searched for something to buy with the extra schilling I had. The shirt with Mozart’s picture was an ideal souvenir as he was born there. As I was waiting for the flight announcement, a girl came rushing through the security gates, looked around, spotted me, the only non-white in the rather small waiting hall and came straight to me. She was breathless and said, “You have taken away my money,”.  I tried to apologize, explain my mistake and even offered to pay her in American dollars, which she flatly refused and wanted her currency note back. I was devastated and a few onlookers looked on curiously. Then an idea struck me. I took her to the duty-free, found a shop keeper, explained the whole thing, paid him in dollars in exchange for the shilling note. In all, I felt like a heel for her passing words. I still retain the Mozart shirt as a reminder of what she said, “do not take what does not belong to you”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-sound-of-music-826047.html
16-04-2020||Second Edit||Pettiness does not behove US leadership||US President Donald Trump’s announcement that he is cutting off funding to the World Health Organisation (WHO) underscores yet again his poor leadership, crippled sense of judgement and lack of a moral compass. According to Trump, the WHO “failed in its basic duty” as it did not do enough to prevent the coronavirus’ spread in the initial stages. If the global health body has indeed been negligent, it should be held accountable but only after a proper review of its work is done by the international community, not now but after the current crisis is over. Now, in the midst of a pandemic, is not the time for the US or any other country to suspend funding to the WHO, when its leadership and stable functioning is imperative for the world. Trump’s own performance in dealing with the pandemic in the US has been abysmal. To deflect public attention away from his own failures, he has been blaming others. First, he targeted China, calling the coronavirus a ‘Chinese virus’ and accusing Beijing of hiding information on the threat. There may be some justification to it, and that too must be probed and China held to account. Now, Trump is directing his ire at WHO, accusing it of being “China-centric,” and of criticising him when he imposed a ban on travel from China. Suspending funding to the WHO for criticising him is petty. Besides, his allegations have little validity. There is no record of WHO officials naming the US in any of their statements on the travel ban. The global health body is always careful to avoid naming countries or leaders and their domestic policies in its statements. In mid-March, WHO chief Tedros Adhanom reprimanded governments for “alarming levels of inaction” but he did not name any country. It was not hard to guess, however, who the laggards were. Perhaps that riled Trump. Trump’s retaliation is petty but its impact on the WHO’s global work will be enormous. In 2018-19, the US contributed nearly $900 million of the WHO’s total budget of $4.4 billion for that year. US suspension of funding will leave the WHO woefully short of funding at a critical time. Trump has said that a decision on the US’ future funding to WHO will be made after an ongoing review of its work is completed. Hopefully, some sense will prevail. Trump’s ‘America First’ policy has seen him downsize the US’ participation in multilateral groupings and organisations. After pulling the US out of the UNHRC and UNESCO, he is cutting its commitments to the WHO. In effect, he is cutting US influence in global bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/pettiness-does-not-behove-us-leadership-826042.html
16-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Kerala pressures centre to bring back expats||The Kerala Government and the opposition, Congress, in the state are pressuring the centre to take steps in bringing back expatriates stranded in various countries under the grip of COVID-19. Kerala has one of the highest expat population of over 20 lakh, with majority in the Gulf region. The state government was receiving distress calls from many expats who wish to return to Kerala owing to unavailability of proper medical care and financial crunch. Many are stranded with their visas expiring. While Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan already wrote to the centre couple of times seeking steps for bringing back Indians stranded abroad, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress said that he would also press the centre to take steps in bringing back stranded Indians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-kerala-pressures-centre-to-bring-back-expats-825891.html
16-04-2020||South||Nine new coronavirus positive cases reported in Andhra Pradesh, tally rises to 534||Nine new coronavirus positive cases were added overnight, taking the total in Andhra Pradesh to 534 on Thursday morning. The number of active cases now stood at exactly 500 after 20 patients were discharged and another 14 have died, according to the latest government bulletin. Three cases each were added in Kurnool, West Godavari and Krishna districts since 7 pm on Wednesday. With 122, Guntur district tops the state chart while Kurnool is close behind with 113 cases. With the most number of Tablighi Jamaat attendees and their contacts, these two districts are the major hotbeds of COVID-19 in the state. Nine other districts have also been classified as hotspots while the remaining two-Srikakulam and Vizianagaram- are the only coronavirus-free districts in AP so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nine-new-coronavirus-positive-cases-reported-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-rises-to-534-825989.html
16-04-2020||South||Medical staff cook food for COVID-19 patients in Kerala hospital to ensure homely food||The Pathanamthitta General Hospital took this initiative as only vegetarian food was being served from the community kitchens and some patients in the COVID care wards were not satisfied with regularly having vegetarian food. Hence to keep the patients as well as the medical team feel at home, the in-house kitchen was initiated.  The General Hospital Superintendent Dr Sajan Mathew said that the hospital medical staff prepare the food under the directions of the hospital dietician. The food from the community kitchen is also being availed while local delicacies, including non-vegetarian dishes, are prepared at the in-house kitchen. Breakfast, evening snacks and dinner are also being prepared. The staff council of the hospital is managing the in-house kitchen with assistance from the hospital management committee and contributions from doctors and staff.  The in-house kitchen was also initiated as a precautionary measure to ensure food to the patients and staff in case of any community spread which would affect the food supply to the hospital. At present, there are seven patients at the COVID-19 ward, of which five are positive, said Dr Sajan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/medical-staff-cook-food-for-covid-19-patients-in-kerala-hospital-to-ensure-homely-food-825990.html
16-04-2020||South||Amidst coronavirus lockdown, prawns come flying to home in Kerala||Shameer Thoppil, a native of Changanassery in Kottayam district, who is a professional drone operator and vlogger, made use of the drone to buy 500 grams of prawns.  Shameer ordered the item over the phone and made an online payment and the shop kept it ready.  He operated the drone from the terrace of his house. As the drone reached near the shop by flying at a height of over 400 feet, he informed the shopkeeper and kept the drone in standby mode so that the shopkeeper could tie the packet to a hanging strap attached to the drone.  Shameer, who was monitoring it through the video camera attached to the drone, started the return journey of the drone and soon, it landed on his terrace with the packet. The whole process took around ten minutes. Shameer, who had DGCA permission for drone operation, said that he did it to create awareness about the use of drones as well as to send the message of following the lockdown norms. He also cautions people against the misuse of drones without mandatory permissions and proper skills as it would invite legal actions and risks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amidst-coronavirus-lockdown-prawns-come-flying-to-home-in-kerala-826009.html
16-04-2020||South||Telangana Cabinet to meet on April 19 to discuss coronavirus containment measures and lockdown||The Telangana Cabinet, which would meet on April 19, is expected to discuss COVID-19 containment measures and whether to continue lockdown in the state strictly, as it is being implemented now, till May 3, or to give some concessions in line with the Centre's thinking. The meeting, to be presided by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, would be held in the afternoon on April 19 at Pragati Bhavan, the CM's official residence-cum-camp office, an official release said on Thursday.  The Cabinet would discuss coronavirus containment measures in the state and the implementation of lockdown, it said. "The Cabinet is also expected to discuss whether the lockdown being implemented strictly in the state should be continued till May 3 or in tune with the thinking of the Centre, whether to give some concessions after April 20 or not and accordingly it will take a decision," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cabinet-to-meet-on-april-19-to-discuss-coronavirus-containment-measures-and-lockdown-826120.html
16-04-2020||South||Telangana Cabinet to meet on April 19 to discuss coronavirus containment measures and lockdown||The Telangana Cabinet, which would meet on April 19, is expected to discuss COVID-19 containment measures and whether to continue lockdown in the state strictly, as it is being implemented now, till May 3, or to give some concessions in line with the Centre's thinking. The meeting, to be presided by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, would be held in the afternoon on April 19 at Pragati Bhavan, the CM's official residence-cum-camp office, an official release said on Thursday. The Cabinet would discuss coronavirus containment measures in the state and the implementation of lockdown, it said. "The Cabinet is also expected to discuss whether the lockdown being implemented strictly in the state should be continued till May 3 or in tune with the thinking of the Centre, whether to give some concessions after April 20 or not and accordingly it will take a decision," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cabinet-to-meet-on-april-19-to-discuss-coronavirus-containment-measures-and-lockdown-826132.html
16-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: 24 more in Kasargod recover from COVID-19||While seven fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Thursday, 27 more persons got cured, of which 24 were from Kasargod district. The total infected persons in the state came down to 147 of which 61 were in Kasargod. Kannur district neighbouring Kasargod was also having a high number of 45 COVID-19 infected now. Among the seven fresh cases, five were persons who came from abroad and two got an infection from local sources. One of the fresh cases was in Kasargod. Meanwhile, fresh positive cases on those who came from abroad even three weeks after they came down was a cause for concern to Kerala as the normal quarantine period was 14 days. So far 394 persons were tested positive in Kerala, of which 245 already recovered while two died. As many as 88,332 persons are now under home observation and 532 in-hospital observation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-24-more-in-kasargod-recover-from-covid-19-826146.html
16-04-2020||South||Bedi has no authority to differ from govt's resolve on free rice scheme: Puducherry CM||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Thursday flayed Lt Governor Kiran Bedi for "constantly scuttling" the implementation of free rice scheme by taking a stand different from that of his government's resolve on the modus of execution during the lockdown. Talking to reporters here, the Chief Minister said the territorial government resolved that BPL families holding red colour ration cards should be supplied 5 kg rice during the current lockdown as per the announcement of the Prime Minister. However, the Lt Governor insisted that only cash which is equivalent to quantum of rice should be paid to the BPL families. "How can a Lt Governor differ from the Prime Miniter's directive applicable for the country as a whole?" he asked. Narayanasamy said, subsequently, Bedi made a u-turn and approved the supply of rice to red colour ration cardholders.  But, she directed the officers to transport the rice in buses owned by the State Road Transport Corporation. "If this system of moving rice is accepted, there would be delay in its supply to the card holders as larger consignment could be possible if bigger trucks were used," he said. Narayanasamy said in the meantime there was a demand from all the leaders and legislators that all APL families holding yellow colour ration cards should also be supplied rice without any discrimination. When a file in this connection was sent to Lt Governor by Welfare Minister M Kandasamy, she took a stand that only cash should be distributed instead of rice to the APL families. The CM said he had apprised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah of the "negative stand" the Lt Governor was constantly taking interrupting the implementation of the scheme. Referring to Bedi's allegation that he was lying and indulged in misinformation on the rice scheme issue, he said, "This is quite amusing and we do not budge from our stand that only rice should be distributed to all categories and that there should be no payment of cash." "We have sent the file again to the Lt Governor making out our case that only rice should be distributed to the APL families. We are waiting for her reply. Let us see what would emerge," he said. Earlier, Narayanasamy held talks with Welfare Minister Kandasamy and Congress MLAs Anandaraman and T Jayamoorthy, who staged a sit-in protest at Raj Nivas insisting that Bedi concede the decision of the government to supply rice to the card holders of APL category.  Besides, three legislators belonging to AIADMK along with those from the AINRC and BJP staged a dharna on the precincts of the territorial assembly seeking undelayed implementation of the rice scheme to benefit the APL families. The protesters called off their agitation after the Chief Minister assured to take steps to ensure that the rice was distributed to APL category families. Chief Minister V Narayanasamy had on Sunday said that he brought to the notice of the PM "unnecessary intervention" by Bedi in the implementation of his government's rice scheme for the APL families during the lockdown here. Reacting to the allegations, Bedi termed as "lie and misrepresentation" Narayanasamy's briefing to Narendra Modi that she had been hindering the implementation of the scheme for APL (above poverty line) families in the Union territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bedi-has-no-authority-to-differ-from-govts-resolve-on-free-rice-scheme-puducherry-cm-826179.html
16-04-2020||South||PIL in Madras HC against giving 'communal flavour' to coronavirus news||A PIL has been filed in the Madras High Court against alleged communal flavour to the coronavirus news in sections of media and seeking directions to strictly comply with the Supreme Court's recent order to publish official version on the pandemic.  A special bench comprising Justices R Subbiah and R Pongiappan, before which the petition came up for hearing on Thursday, adjourned the hearing by two weeks for filing of counter by the centre and the Tamil Nadu government. Petitioner Umar Farooq, who claimed to be a member of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), alleged that sections of media reported about the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi, which became a big hotspot for coronavirus spread, with a "communal flavour". This has "triggered communal antagonism" and has also perpetrated hatred affecting communal harmony, he claimed and pleaded the media should be directed to tread with caution and warned against the giving any communal angle to the Tablighi event.  He said 15 lakh people in the national capital have applied for ration cards and the Delhi government has been providing food to 10 lakh people everyday. The chief minister requested the people and media to inform the government if any needy doesn't get food. "The government has arrangements to provide food to 20 lakh people everyday. There is no shortage of food," he said. Thee total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital on Wednesday increased to nearly 1580, with 17 fresh cases and two deaths being reported in a day. Of the total cases, 1080 are of those who have been brought to facilities through special operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pil-in-madras-hc-against-giving-communal-flavour-to-coronavirus-news-826189.html
16-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu to hold end-semester exams in next academic year||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday said that the end-semester examinations in all colleges and universities in the state will be held at the beginning of the next academic year. The announcement effectively means the end-semester examinations will be held once institutions reopen, mostly probably in June. The Higher Education Department said in a circular that the date of reopening of institutions will be announced at a later date. The circular sent by Higher Education Secretary Apurva says the institutions will have to hold the semester examinations at the beginning of the next academic year without “giving any breaks” and if necessary, conduct examinations in two sessions on the same day. “Necessary arrangements have to be made to publish the final results at the earliest…the educational institutions are directed to instruct their students to prepare for the examinations during this period,” the circular said. Educational institutions in Tamil Nadu remain closed since March 17 as part of efforts to contain COVID-19 spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-hold-end-semester-exams-in-next-academic-year-826193.html
16-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Kerala relaxing lockdown norms in phased manner, Pregnant women to be allowed to enter state||In the wake of a large number of requests from Malayalis in others states to enter Kerala, the Kerala government has decided to allow Malayalis from others states to Kerala for reasons like pregnancy, treatment and death of relative or imminent death. The state cabinet on Thursday also decided to seek changes in the districts identified as hotspots by the centre. Instead, districts may be categorised as different zones based on a number of infected persons and give relaxations. The total lockdown will continue in four northern districts, including Kasargod, till May 3, while relaxations will be given to other districts from April 20 based on the number of COVID cases. Vehicles will be also allowed on an odd-even number basis, while all general restrictions like gatherings will continue, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. According to a government order, pregnant women with medical certificate will be allowed to enter after obtaining prior permission of the collector of the destination district. They will be examined at the state border and in case of any symptoms of COVID they would be quarantined or else will have to remain in-home quarantine. District collectors were authorised to allow persons from other states to enter the state for treatment. Entering state in case of death of a relative or an imminent death would be allowed on the basis of self-declaration. They will have to follow the quarantine norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-kerala-relaxing-lockdown-norms-in-phased-manner-pregnant-women-to-be-allowed-to-enter-state-826278.html
16-04-2020||State||Burglars strike at MSIL liquor outlet||Miscreants burgled Rs 4.73 lakh worth liquor from a Mysore Sales International Limited (MSIL) outlet in Bedathur village, Midigeshi hobli, Madhugiri taluk in the wee hours of Thursday. Police said that the burglars decamped with 115 bottles of IML and seven cases of beer. They threatened the security guards Narasimha Reddy and Gangadhar with knives, tied them up, and carried out the burglary. They came on four two-wheelers. They gained entry by prying open the shutter with a crowbar, police added. Midigeshi police have taken up the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/burglars-strike-at-msil-liquor-outlet-826114.html
16-04-2020||State||Covid-19 positive boy, 31 others discharged from quaratine||As many as 32 people in quarantine, including the boy who tested positive for Covid-19, were discharged from hospital on Thursday.  It may be recalled that two cases had tested positive for Coronavirus in the town and the boy was one of them. The other died. The people who had been in primary contact with the deceased were admitted and being treated at two places-- the maternity hospital and the Morarji student hostel for 21 days.   The 31 people were tested twice to confirm that they were negative and then discharged. The boy and his mother were also treated at the Rajiv Gandhi Institute for Chest Diseases in Bengaluru. They were subjected to tests thrice and they turned out negative thrice. So, they were discharged on the directions given by Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Kumar. However, they will continue to be in home quarantine. The people who came out of quarantine were greeted with flowers by the district administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-positive-boy-31-others-discharged-from-quaratine-826115.html
16-04-2020||State||If lockdown not solution, then why states with Congress in power extended it first: BJP||Taking a swipe at Rahul Gandhi over his statement that lockdown is not a solution to containing coronavirus, the BJP on Thursday asked the Congress as to why states, where his party is in power extended it before the central government did so.    "Lockdown is not the solution acc to @RahulGandhi ... Then why did the CMs of @INCIndia Cong partnered govts extend the lock down first ...? (sic)," BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh tweeted.  Maharashtra, where the Congress is part of government, has backed lockdown, with the state dispensation extending it to April 30 before Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement on April 14 to stretch it nation-wide till May 3. Punjab, where the Congress is in power, had also extended the lockdown before Modi's announcement.  Modi had said that most chief ministers favoured lockdown to combat the pandemic.  Congress leader Rahul Gandhi earlier strongly pitched for aggressively expanding coronavirus testing across the country and adopting it as a "strategic" instrument to "defeat" the pandemic.  He said the lockdown is not a solution to the pandemic, and the time must be utilised to significantly bolster the existing medical infrastructure as well as take steps to deal with the worrying economic fallout. From its Twitter handle, the BJP also put out data to assert that India has managed to "significantly contain" COVID-19 as compared to other severely hit countries, at just nine cases per one million of population and 0.3 deaths per one million population. At the benchmark of 12,000 positive corona cases the pace of spread in India has been consistently much slower than other countries which have been severely hit, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/if-lockdown-not-solution-then-why-states-with-congress-in-power-extended-it-first-bjp-826117.html
16-04-2020||State||Starving monkeys find saviour in Ramanagara BJP president||A BJP functionary has taken up the task of feeding starving monkeys at a few prominent temples in Ramanagara district of Karnataka ever since the lockdown was clamped across the country to check the spread of coronavirus. With loads of edibles such as buns, bananas, groundnuts and other stuff and packaged drinking water, M Rudresh, party ditrict president, marches out with a team of his party volunteers to feed these monkeys. Videos of his feeding the simians have gone viral. He has befriended them and they too accept food from him without hesitation and without hurting him. According to Rudresh, he hit upon the idea when he went to one of the temples four days after the lockdown was clamped on March 24 and noticed that the monkeys were sitting right in the middle of the road. " I stopped my car and came out.Soon, the monkeys stormed inside the car and took away whatever edible they could find. They even took away the packaged water bottles," Rudresh told PTI. The BJP leader realised that due to the lockdown, devotees have stopped visiting the temples and as a result monkeys surviving on the food offered by them were starving. Moved by the plight of the primates, Rudresh decided to visit the religious places where the monkeys are in plenty and depend solely on the food offered by the devotees. "Every alternative day I visit Savandurga, Kengal Anjaneya Swami Temple, Revan Siddheshwara Hill, Muthathi, Sangam and Shivagange and give them whatever I could," Rudresh said. While the BJP leader has earmarked Rs 25,000 for this purpose, the other party cadres too joined his campaign and contribute whatever they can. "These days I take huge quantity of buns, bananas provided by our party workers, four cases of half-litre water bottles. I remove the caps of the water bottle and they pick up from me," Rudresh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/starving-monkeys-find-saviour-in-ramanagara-bjp-president-826118.html
16-04-2020||State||MLA buys farmers' produce worth lakhs||MLA Masala Jayaram bought lakhs of rupees worth agricultural produce directly from farmers to be distributed to people's homes in Turuvekere on Thursday. The produce was procured because farmers are not able to go to the market to sell it.  The MLA bought 25 tons of watermelon, one-ton capsicum, five tons tomato and 2,500 kg of fruits from farmers. Jayaram said that he would continue the practice of buying produce directly from farmers until the lockdown is in force. He added that party workers would deliver the vegetables and fruits to the doorsteps of government officials and people in general.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mla-buys-farmers-produce-worth-lakhs-826128.html
16-04-2020||State||Lockdown: Scientists urge farmers not to destroy flower crops||Horticulture scientists and tech experts have appealed to flower growers not to destroy the crops and assured technical help to monetise the produce post-lockdown. Unable to transport the flowers in time, the floriculture sector is staring at a heavy loss of Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 crore. But scientists say that farmers can extract perfume, colours and use flowers to make handmade paper. “Instead of destroying it, farmers can harvest the flowers and store them after drying them well under the sun. We will later link them up with the industries,” said Anjaneya Reddy, a farmer leader from Chikkaballapur. Dr Aswath C, principal scientist (Floriculture) at the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR) said he has been guiding farmers about the alternatives. “An IIT-Kanpur incubated start-up — Help Us Green, which makes flower-based incense sticks from flowers collected at temples and mosques — has come forward to take the flowers (from the farmers),” Dr Aswath said.  “Two or three companies in Bengaluru extract colour and essence from flowers. We have also been telling farmers with polyhouses to remove the buds so that they can defer the yield by a month,” he added. Moreover, handmade paper manufacturers across the state are increasingly buying flowers like crossandra and chrysanthemum. “Marigolds are the best source to extract lutein pigment used in food and pharma industries,” said Dr Balaji S Kulkarni, professor and head of floriculture department, Horticulture University, Bagalkot. “Some of the companies directly buy flowers (from the farmers).” Mamatha Rai from Udupi’s Kadike Trust that works to extract colour from flowers and fruits said varieties like marigold are vital to extract natural and organic colours for the textile industries. Farmers can remove rose and marigold petals, sun dry and stock them for now, said Karan Rashtogi from Help Us Green. “Post-lockdown, we will give them the technology to convert it into essence to make incense sticks,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lockdown-scientists-urge-farmers-not-to-destroy-flower-crops-826158.html
16-04-2020||State||Covid-19: Rising AP cases make Pavagada people anxious||The number of Covid-19 positive cases rising in Ananthpur district, in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh (AP), is making people anxious in Pavagada taluk. The number of positive cases in Ananthpur stands at 17 so far.  People of Pavagada go to Ananthpur and the people there come to Pavagada for many reasons like agriculture, jobs and to visit relatives. For this reason, bordering Pavagada villages are on high-alert. Cases have been reported positive in Rolla, Hindupur, Ananthpur, Kalyanadurga, Kothacheru and Lepakshi of AP. Despite best efforts by the police, the Revenue and Health Department, movement of people across the border has not stopped. The checkpoints work only between 9 am and 6 pm. People are sneaking in and out after dark, it is reported. They come through Kothur, Kote, Tumakunte, Madde, Kalarajanahalli villages.  Recently, two women who had come into contact with a Covid-19 positive physiotherapist were tested and found to be negative. Another man who was on his way from Perur to Tirumani was admitted to the isolation ward.     .||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-rising-ap-cases-make-pavagada-people-anxious-826175.html
16-04-2020||State||Whitefly menace hits coconut trees||Coconut growers are worried over whitefly menace affecting the plantation in the taluk. The whitefly eats away the sap from coconut fronds. Each frond will have at least 20 to 30 such flies. The fronds have turned black. Even the yield has reduced, the farmers said. Coconut is a commercial crop in Kadur taluk. Due to the continuous drought for the last few years, the majority of the trees were lost. The bountiful rainfall last year had regained the trees. Now, the whitefly menace has once again hit the coconut groves. The whiteflies have hit the coconut plantations at Malleshwara and Maccheri in the taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/whitefly-menace-hits-coconut-trees-826176.html
16-04-2020||State||Ravi for action against fair price shop owners for seeking OTP'||District In-charge Minister C T Ravi has directed the deputy director of Food and Civil Supplies Department to initiate strict action against those fair price shop owners who insist on the one-time password (OTP) for distributing rice under Public Distribution System. Chairing a meeting with the leaders of all parties convened to discuss measures taken to contain the spread of Covid-19 at Zilla Panchayat hall, he said the government has already ordered on not to insist on OTP. By collecting the ration card number and signature, foodgrains should be distributed. The ration should be distributed for BPL cardholders from outside the district as well, he added. The minister said that there are complaints about the illegal sale of liquor. There is a need to verify the stock of liquor in liquor outlets, he told the officials. The official from the agriculture department said that the district has a stock of 1,74,449 quintal fertilisers. The minister said that the district hospital has four ventilators. A total of 20 ventilators are available in private hospitals. There are 40,272 construction labourers in the district. Financial assistance of Rs 1,000 has been credited to the account of 9167 labourers, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ravi-for-action-against-fair-price-shop-owners-for-seeking-otp-826177.html
16-04-2020||State||District surgeon Dr H S Anil Kumar passes away||District surgeon Dr H S Anil Kumar (51) passed away on Thursday in Bengaluru. He was being treated at a private hospital in Bengaluru after he suffered cardiac arrest recently.  Cremation took place at Harohalli on Thursday night. He is survived by wife and two daughter. He hailed from Harohalli in Ramanagara district. He was serving in the district for the last six months. He had completely involved himself and in the fight against Covid-19 in the district. Dr Kumar had suffered heart attack a week ago. He underwent a surgery at the hospital. He failed to respond to the treatment and breathed his last by noon. He had also served in Ramanagar and Bengaluru rural districts. District health officer Dr B M Yogesh Gowda and senior officers of the health department took part in the cremation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/district-surgeon-dr-h-s-anil-kumar-passes-away-826203.html
16-04-2020||State||SCDCC Bank offers doorstep service  ||South Canara District Central Cooperative (SCDCC) Bank has decided to provide banking service on the doorstep of people, SCDCC Bank Chairman M N Rajendra Kumar said.  The bank had launched mobile banking(bank on wheels) in 2007. Due to lockdown, SCDCC Bank had decided to provide banking service not only in Mangaluru but also in rural areas.  Already, mobile banking system (Bus) is providing service to people at Akshabhavana, Kunjathbail, Faisalnagara, Jalligudde, Shakthinagara, Veeranagara on designated days in a week. The service will be extended to other areas, the chairman said. Besides transactions, customers also can withdraw money using ATM facility in the bus. The services of gold loan, personal loan, NEFT and RTGS facilities had been provided in the service. The public should wear mask and practice social distancing norm while availing the banking services in the vehicle, appealed Kumar. The mobile banking services will be available at Kadri Maidan (April 17), near Mangaladevi Temple (April 18), Bondel Katte (April 20), Urwa Market (April 21), Akashabhavana (April 22), near KMC, Attavar (April 23), and Bejai Kapikad (April 24). The banking services will be available from 10 am to 1 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/scdcc-bank-offers-doorstep-service-826212.html
16-04-2020||State||Belagavi district sees record 17 cases in single day||Belagavi district reported a record 17 cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike by a district in the state. New cases spurred the district tally to 36. According to the Health and Family Welfare department, Hirebagewadi in Belagavi taluk reported 8 confirmed cases of Covid-19, including five women and a girl. Kuduchi in Raibag taluk saw seven people, including one each from Vijayapura, Goa and Miraj, contract the virus while Sankeshwar and Yellur in Belagavi taluk reported one case each. As many as six of the eight persons from Hirebagewadi, who tested positive, are contacts of Patient 224, a Nizamuddin returnee. Four persons from Raibag taluk are in touch with Patient 245 while another two persons are in contact with Patient 225. The district authorities have begun the onerous task of tracing the primary and secondary contacts of the infected and placing them under quarantine. Throat swab sample of several contacts have been drawn and sent to the designated labs for examination, Health department source said. All the infected are admitted to BIMS. Six of family test +ve A total of seven people from two families in Chapparband Galli of Vijayapura tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the district count to 17. A family of six, including a 12-year-old boy, contracted the virus. Apart from the boy, two women, aged 55 and 70, a 37-year-old man and two elderly men also tested positive for the virus. All six infected are primary contacts of Patient 221, a woman. A one-and-a-half-years-old girl, a primary contact of Patients 228 and 232, is also infected with Covid-19. Both the families have contracted coronavirus during their visit to Maharashtra, recently, said Deputy Commissioner Y S Patil. Second case in Gadag Gadag saw its second confirmed case on Thursday. Throat swab sample of a 59-year-old woman, a resident of Ranganwadi in the town, returned positive for novel coronavirus. The woman was a contact of Patient 166, a 80-year-old woman with no travel history, who died of heart attack on April 8. Throat swab samples of primary and secondary contacts of the deceased woman have been sent for examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/belagavi-district-sees-record-17-cases-in-single-day-826234.html
16-04-2020||State||TN youth subjected to medical tests||Villagers of Valnuru Tyagattur accused a youth, who had recently visited Tamil Nadu, of concealing the information and staying in the village. It is said that Muttuveeran, a resident of Jyotinagara, is a native of Kodambakkam village in Tamil Nadu. He had been to his native place a few days ago. As high alert is maintained in Tamil Nadu following the spread of Covid-19, Muttuveeran allegedly lied to the police that his mother had passed away and obtained a pass. He then entered Kodagu through Koppa check post. As he was spotted in his house on Thursday, the local residents alerted the police and urged to him subject to medical examination. Chettalli Sub Police Station staff and Corona prevention team workers conducted a spot inspection and shifted Muttuveeran to the district hospital in Madikeri for medical tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tn-youth-subjected-to-medical-tests-826280.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: One more death in Karnataka, toll rises to 13||A 66-year old man from Bengaluru, became the thirteenth COVID-19 related fatality in Karnataka, Health Department officials said on Thursday. The elderly patient from Bengaluru, who was coronavirus positive died on April 15 at Victoria Hospital in the city, officials said. "He was referred from a private hospital and was admitted in Victoria Hospital and was on ventilator support since April 10," they added. An 80-year old woman in Belagavi and a 65-year old man from Chikkaballapur had also died on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-one-more-death-in-karnataka-toll-rises-to-13-825951.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||With 34 new COVID-19 cases, Karnataka's tally reaches 313||The numbers include seven people from Belagavi, five from Bengaluru Urban, three from the Mysore-Nanjangud Pharma cluster, seven from Vijayapura, and one each from Gadag and Kalaburagi. Nineteen males (including three children), and 15 women make up the gender split.  One 13-year-old boy from Bengaluru is a contact of Patient 252, a 65-year-old man who died of complications brought on by the disease on April 14.  Another individual (Patient 281) is a 65-year-old female who was identified after she was discovered to be suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI).   Four people were contacts of Patient 221, a 60-year-old woman in Vijayapura who does not have a history of travel, but was diagnosed with COVID-19 after she was found to be suffering from SARI. Another three were contacts of Patient 225, a 55-year-old man from Raibagh, Belagavi, who himself got the disease from Patient 150, a 41-year-old woman who returned from the Tablighi Jamaat congregation on March 20. Three more are contacts of Patient 245, a 45-year-old man who is a contact of Patient 149, another Tablighi Jamaat congregation attendee.  Meantime, Patient 302, a 23-year-old woman in Kalaburagi was disclosed as having been a contact of a one-year-old baby boy who was hospitalized yesterday with influenza-like symptoms. Another is the contact of Patient 166 who passed away from the disease last week. New death reported Meantime, health officials disclosed a new death which had transpired yesterday. A medical official at Victoria said that the 66-year-old man (Patient 195) had passed away on Wednesday morning.  He had apparently been on ventilator support since April 10. His travel history was purely internal - having come from Manipur to Bengaluru on March 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/with-34-new-covid-19-cases-karnatakas-tally-reaches-313-826000.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Karnataka Education Dept launches Makkala Vaani YouTube channel||'Makkala Vaani', a dedicated YouTube channel for children in the state, was launched by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education in Bengaluru on Thursday. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa launched the channel created by the department to cater to the needs of children during theCovid19 crisis. It seeks to reach out to children easily and engage them in various activities until schools are reopened.  The department has invited video-audio contents from the public to telecast in the channel and the contents should be child-centric, educative and entertaining.  Through the channel, the department will telecast programmes every morning from 10.30 am and requested parents to provide them mobile phones during that time and help them to watch the channel.  The YouTube channel will be active from Thursday. Even children can send 5-6 minutes of videos to telecast in the channel.   This channel will have: - Storytelling- Story reading- Book reading- Singing- Quiz- Drawing and painting- Acting- Magic show||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-education-dept-launches-makkala-vaani-youtube-channel-826010.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka govt plans to do away with practical exams for UG, PG||The Karnataka Higher Education Department is planning to do away with practical examinations for both undergraduate and postgraduate courses for the current semesters for which examinations were supposed to be held during April and May months. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan discussed the matter with Vice Chancellors of all universities, including private ones, in a video conference held on Thursday.  Briefing the media Ashwath Narayan said, "It is our opinion to do away with practical examinations. We sought suggestions from all Vice Chancellors. They have to submit their suggestions by Friday." He said the department will take a decision on the matter after considering the suggestions from the varsities, said.  As explained by the minister, the department is planning to conduct examinations in mid-June and has requested Vice Chancellors for suggestions. "Our plan is to conduct examinations directly for UG and PG courses soon after the lockdown is lifted. But the VCs have to take a call on whether to conduct classes for a few days and conduct exams later," said Ashwath Narayan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-govt-plans-to-do-away-with-practical-exams-for-ug-pg-826025.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka COVID-19 war room releases new hotspot data||To address glaring errors in its initial COVID-19 'hotspot' data released on Tuesday as part of its daily COVID-19 Bulletin, the COVID-19 War Room has released new data, which it said is accurate. The information, which is up to date as of April 15, not only includes cases within the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) municipal boundaries but also statewide information on the reach of the disease. The numbers, which showcase current and positive COVID-19 cases, bring a sense of perspective to the outbreak. The recent outbreak at Mysuru’s Nanjangud Pharma Cluster has elevated Mysore City as the number two COVID-19 hotspot in the state.  The royal city’s tally is now 32 plus another 14 from the Nanjangud cluster. In contrast, Bengaluru South’s tally is 28, while Bengaluru North’s is 26. Meanwhile, Kalburgi follows with 12, Bidar with 11. BBMP Data However, it is the data on cases within BBMP limits that surprises the most. The largest collection of cases as of April 15, according to the data is at Ward 18 (Radhakrishna Temple), showing five cases over the last 28 days. Wards 129 ( Jnana Bharath), 135 (Padrayanapura), 152 (Suddagunte Palya) and 179 (Shakambari Nagar) each show three cases each. Wards 57 (C V Raman Nagar), 112 (Domlur), 134 (Bapuji Nagar), 196 (Anjanapura) and 198 (Hemmigepura) each show two cases each.  The 'hotspot' designation, which applies to any ward which has had one positive case of COVID-19 in the last 28 days, as per an April 11 order by the Government of Karnataka, was initially applied to 38 wards in the city. However, the new data indicates 34 wards. Twenty-four of these wards show one case each. The total tally is 51 cases within BBMP limits over the last 28 days. According to data from the Department of Health and Family Welfare, there were currently a total of 34 active COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru Urban. This discrepancy is because some of the cases indicated in the lists have been discharged from hospitals after being cured, a senior BBMP official explained. “Some 35 people have been discharged as cured. But we continue to tag these wards as ‘hotspots’ to ensure that a monitoring mechanism exists for that ward,” the official added. In addition, the Department of Health and Family Welfare mandates that all people discharged from hospital isolation, whether cured or suspected on a further period of home quarantine for 14 days. “This is because worldwide case studies have shown that the virus sometimes resurfaces in an affected individual within a period of 28 days from the point of incubation,” explained Dr. V Ravi of the COVID-19 Coordination Committee. The BBMP Commissioner B H Anil Kumar had told DH that the 'Hotspot' designations are dynamic and would change as the information changed. Thursday marks the 38th official day of the viral outbreak in Karnataka, when Patient 1 was first admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Institute for Chest Disease in Bengaluru on March 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-covid-19-war-room-releases-new-hotspot-data-826036.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||1,112 prisoners released on bail, parole from Karnataka prisons due to COVID-19||Karnataka jail authorities till date have released 1,112 prisoners on interim bail and parole for decongesting prisons in view of COVID-19 outbreak. "Till today we have released 1,112, out of which convicts are 405-who have got parole, and under trials are 707- who have got bail," Karnataka Director General of Police (prisons and correctional services) Alok Mohan told PTI. He said, based on the Supreme Court's directive, a high powered committee was constituted in Karnataka under the Chairmanship of a High Court Judge, who is also the Executive Chairman of Karnataka State Legal Services Authority, comprising DGP Prisons and Principle Home Secretary, who is in-charge of Prisons.  "The committee formulated certain yardsticks on which to provide interim bail and parole to the prisoners," he said, adding that under trails with offences entailing up to 7-year jail term get the bail and convicts get parole as per the eligibility under the Karnataka government rules. The Supreme Court on March 23 had directed all states and Union Territories to constitute high-level committees to consider releasing on parole or interim bail prisoners and under trials for offences entailing up to 7-year jail term to decongest prisons in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. The DGP said, also 305 prisoners have been shifted from the over crowded prisons to the prisons where there was space available. Responding to a query if more prisoners will be getting bail or parole, he said, the process is going on, and it also depends on the people who are willing.  About 200 prisoners were not willing to go on parole, because they don't want to go out in this difficult times. "They feel it is safe in prison than to be outside, as prison is a more secure environment...." During the lockdown, there is no way that the family members can come to jail, Mohan said, we have also stopped interviews to ensure that there is no passing of infection from outside people to prisoners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/1112-prisoners-released-on-bail-parole-from-karnataka-prisons-due-to-covid-19-826098.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka ties up with Art of Living to rejuvenate water sources||Karnataka on Thursday inked an agreement with the Sri Sri Ravi Shankar-led Art of Living to rejuvenate water sources and improve groundwater recharge in nine districts.  Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Minister KS Eshwarappa held talks with Ravi Shankar on the project. The partnership seeks to take up works through funds available under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA).  The project proposes to take up works in Shivamogga, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Chitradurga, Ballari, Kolar, Yadgir, Kodagu and Tumakuru districts. Under NREGA, works such as construction of check dams, construction of contours, bunds and so on will be commissioned.  The government hopes to recreate what the Art of Living’s water experts managed to do in the drought-hit Maharashtra, where 40 river sources were developed, which is said to have improved groundwater. Eshwarappa also discussed with experts the possibility of using satellite imagery to identify water sources that can be rejuvenated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-ties-up-with-art-of-living-to-rejuvenate-water-sources-826206.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Boy returns gold ring found in food kit||A 12-year-old boy who returned a gold ring which he found in the food kit supplied during the lockdown recently was felicitated by Puttur MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor on Thursday, for his honesty. Puttur Bunts Association had supplied food kits through the MLA's war room to the house of Haneef, a resident of Karmala in Bannur on the outskirts of Puttur taluk last week. Hukas, son of Haneef, who saw a gold finger ring inside the kit brought the matter to the notice of CMC member Premalatha Nandila. Later, the ring was handed over to its owner Ramachandra Ghate. The ring had accidentally fallen inside the kit while packing the food. Matandoor visited the house of Haneef and felicitated Hukas with a shawl and garland. An additional food kit was also handed over to him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/boy-returns-gold-ring-found-in-food-kit-826238.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||PWD to focus on classrooms, flood relief post April 20||Construction of 6,174 classrooms in government schools worth Rs 718.65 crore will be taken up by the Public Works Department, soon after the lockdown regulations are relaxed on April 20. While such classrooms were built by other agencies previously, this National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD)-funded project has been entrusted to the PWD. As many as 274 works such as bridges and retaining walls in the flood-affected districts affected by the lockdown, will also be taken up on priority, with plans for completion ahead of the monsoon season. The decision was following the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, which permitted select activities to be allowed after April 20, such as construction of roads, irrigation projects, buildings and all industrial projects in the rural areas - outside municipal corporations and municipalities. Of the classrooms, 5,760 high school classrooms will be built at a cost of Rs 656.53 crore and 383 primary school classrooms at Rs 62.12 crore. "Detailed Project Reports for 80% of the rooms are ready. Works of some rooms can be started as soon as lockdown is relaxed," Public Works secretary B Guruprasad said. The project is being taken up as priority since a large number of these classrooms are located in the 20 flood-hit districts. Completion of works in the flood-hit districts is another priority, he said. Due to the lockdown, projects which were supposed to be completed during the month and other ongoing projects will get an extension. The Department has also fears that the cost of all major works will escalate following the lockdown. Despite interest by contractors and departments to pursue works, it will take at least a week after the lockdown is lifted to mobilise labourers and the required machinery, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pwd-to-focus-on-classrooms-flood-relief-post-april-20-826239.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, pvt schools demand fee for online classes||Days after the Department of Public Instruction told private schools not to demand fee for the next academic year, till further orders, several school managements in Bengaluru are now asking for fee in the name of online classes. The Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka brought this issue to the notice of Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar. The association alleged that several schools are demanding fee from parents for conducting online classes. Even a few parents have complained to the minister. In the complaint, they stated, "Schools are demanding the annual fee and fee for e-books for conducting the online classes. Some institutions are running coaching classes and asking the parents to pay up. This has been brought to the notice of the department. The department had earlier asked the institutions not to pressure the parents for paying fee until May-end." A school's communication to parents, which is available with DH, reads, "We are resorting to online classes as there is no time to cover the syllabus considering the severity of the Covid-19 outbreak. There is no clear roadmap as to when the examinations will resume, when the schools will reopen for the new academic year. In view of this, we are starting online classes for Class 8, 9, and 10, and parents have to pay the fee for the same." Some schools are even asking parents to pay for books available in Ebook format. "All the books for Volume 1 for next academic year will be available in eBooks format on parent App or portal. Students can start accessing and going through the books for the classes from April 22 onwards. These eBooks will be visible in your parent App portal post the fee is paid in eBooks section," reads the communication. D Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said, “We are following the government guidelines with great difficulties as even most of the budget schools are struggling to pay salaries to staff. But some schools are forcing parents to pay the fees and we demand government to initiate action against such schools. We have even submitted names of the schools along with complaint to minister."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-pvt-schools-demand-fee-for-online-classes-826242.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Education dept launches 'Makkala Vaani' YouTube channel||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday launched 'Makkala Vaani', a dedicated YouTube channel for children in the state, created by the Primary and Secondary Education department. The department seeks to reach out to children through the popular medium and engage them in various activities until the reopening of schools. The department has invited video-audio contents from the public to be telecast in the channel and the contents should be child-centric, educative and entertaining. The programmes will be telecast every morning from 10.30 am. The department has urged the parents to help their wards to watch the channel. Channel will be active from Thursday. Even children can send 5-6 minutes videos to the channel. This channel will have: Story-telling, story reading, book reading, singing, quiz, drawing and painting, acting and Magic show||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/education-dept-launches-makkala-vaani-youtube-channel-826245.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt mulls doing away with practical exams for UG, PG courses||The Higher Education Department is planning to do away with practical examinations for both undergraduate and postgraduate courses for the current semesters. The exams were scheduled for April/May. Due to the Covid-19 crisis, the department is thinking of considering Internal Assessment performance as practical examinations marks and allowing students to attend examinations directly. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan discussed the issue with the vice chancellors of all universities, including the private ones, during a video conference on Thursday. Briefing the media, Ashwath Narayan said, "It's our opinion to do away with practical examinations. We have sought suggestions from all the vice chancellors by Friday." He said the department would take a decision after looking into the suggestions. The department is planning to conduct examinations in mid June and also requested vice chancellors for suggestions, the minister said. "Our plan is to conduct examinations directly for UG and PG courses soon after the lockdown is lifted. But VCs have to take a call on it and decide whether to hold classes for a few days and conduct exams later," said Ashwath Narayan. In the meeting, Ashwath Narayan instructed all universities across state to take care of migrant students staying at hostels. It is the responsibility of varsities to provide food and other basic needs to the students who are staying at the hostels due to the lockdown, he said. Syllabus revamp panels During the meeting, the department also discussed the possibility of revamping the syllabus for UG and PG courses for the 2020-21 academic year.The department has constituted faculty committees to look into it.A committee headed by Vice Chancellor of Tumkur University Prof Siddegowda will suggest changes in arts faculty. Another committee led by Prof Hemanth Kumar, Vice Chancellor of University of Mysore, will look into the science faculty. Similar committees have been constituted for commerce, engineering and distance education faculties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-mulls-doing-away-with-practical-exams-for-ug-pg-courses-826249.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Doctor tests positive for coronavirus in Kalaburagi||Three people, including a Bengaluru-based doctor tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. The overall count of coronavirus positive cases in the district gone up to 20, this includes three fatalities. According to a source, the doctor has contracted the virus while treating the 14 month-old-baby of Saradagi (B) village, which tested positive days later. After the child tested positive for the Covid-19, she remained in self-quarantine. Her throat swab tests returned positive, the source revealed. A 32-year-old-man also tested positive for novel coronavirus. He had returned to Kalaburagi from Bengaluru on March 24. After his return, he was admitted to the GIMS due to fever. He second throat swab returned positive on April 14. A five-year-old boy also tested positive for the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/doctor-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-in-kalaburagi-826252.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown not over, yet time is ripe for mangoes||It’s the season of the King of Fruits and amid the lockdown, the state government wants to ensure that consumers do not miss out on tasting the mango. Starting Friday, the government will sell mangoes online through the karsirimangoes.karnataka. gov.in portal. To begin with, orders will be taken in Bengaluru. If there is adequate demand, the government will consider extending it to other districts in the state, officials said. Agriculture & Horticulture secretary Rajender Kataria, also the chairman of the Karnataka State Mango Development and Marketing Corporation Limited, said they had already received encouraging response with about 800 requests in a span of two days. “On Friday, we will be delivering 750 boxes. Each box has three kg of mango, priced at Rs 179 per kg, in addition to Rs 81 for shipment,” he told DH. The mango development corporation will secure the produce from farmers and transport it to customers through India Post. All the packages will be sanitised before being delivered to customers, the official said. The produce is secured from farms in Ramanagar district and a few others in Kolar and Chikkaballapur districts. “For the time being, we are starting in Bengaluru city. If there is encouraging response, we can supply to other regions also, ensuring marketing of the local varieties in that particular region,” Kataria added.   Karnataka is the third largest producer of mangoes in India, after UP and Maharashtra. The state has a cultivation area of around 1.8 lakh hectares. The government expects about 9 lakh to 10 lakh metric tonnes of produce this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-not-over-yet-time-is-ripe-for-mangoes-826257.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt partners with Art of Living to rejuvenate water sources||The Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) department on Thursday inked an agreement with Sri Sri Ravi Shankar-led Art of Living to rejuvenate water sources and improve groundwater recharge in nine districts.  RDPR Minister K S Eshwarappa held talks with Ravi Shankar on the project. The partnership seeks to take up works through funds available under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA).  The project proposes to take up works in Shivamogga, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Chitradurga, Ballari, Kolar, Yadgir, Kodagu and Tumakuru districts. Under MGNREGA, works such as construction of check dams, construction of contours, bunds, and so on, will be commissioned.  The government hopes to recreate what the Art of Living’s water experts managed to do in the drought-hit Maharashtra, where 40 river sources were developed, which is said to have improved groundwater. Eshwarappa also discussed with experts the possibility of using satellite imagery to identify water sources that can be rejuvenated. KFD Shivamogga District In-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa on Thursday directed officials to start molecular-level research into the Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD), or monkey fever, within the next six months after getting the nod from the Indian Council for Medical Research. This was decided at a meeting Eshwarappa chaired. Already, the Health department and the IISc are jointly working on this, the minister noted. The National Institute of Virology in Pune is already working on a cure for KFD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-partners-with-art-of-living-to-rejuvenate-water-sources-826262.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Overworked, but underpaid, state's epidemiologists seek better deal||Union health secretary Preethi Sudan has directed all states to fill posts of epidemiologists immediately. But Karnataka’s advertisement for epidemiologists offers a paltry Rs 33,600 per month, which public health experts say is too low. The state lacks a public health cadre unlike Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Once the epidemic comes to an end, they will be forgotten, say epidemiologists. The industry standard for epidemiologists is Rs 80,000 to Rs 1 lakh. According to the state health department’s eligibility criteria for the post, one has to have three years experience in public health or have a postgraduate degree in epidemiology or in life sciences. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, told DH that applications have been invited from the eligible for filling four out of six vacant posts of epidemiologists’ posts in the state, four were advertised for. When asked the below par remuneration, especially in the times of pandemic, and that too when three epidemiologists are a part of the committee to analyse the Covid-19 data, he said, “I have asked the department to offer the maximum remuneration. The recruitment is happening under the National HealthMission.” R Ramachandran, Director, National Health Mission, Karnataka, said, “The basic salary offered is Rs 33,600. There will be a 5% hike in the coming year and thereafter a 10% hike. We cannot hike the salary of only epidemiologists. The rest of our staff will also demand a hike then. Right now, all four vacant posts have been filled.” A public health researcher with two decades experience in the field, told DH on the condition of anonymity, that a junior epidemiologist in an academic setup earns Rs 80,000 to Rs 1 lakh per month. “If you compare it with those in the hospitals or management, public health community gets underpaid. But the skillset is same or even more complex. The number of hours they spend is more and they do not have many holidays either. Their work conditions are tough. At the national-level one can work with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the WHO and there are a lot more avenues,” he said. “At the state and district levels, one wouldn’t get anything comparable. Whenever there is a crisis like H1N1 or dengue they need epidemiologists to look at the data and tell them what to do. There is no public health cadre in Karnataka. Whatever they want is a short-term or a stop gap arrangement. Once pandemic goes, nobody will care about epidemiologists until another crisis hits,” he rued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/overworked-but-underpaid-states-epidemiologists-seek-better-deal-826263.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Big relief for Jubilant: 'no traces of virus found on raw materials'||Jubilant Life Sciences has welcomed the report by National Institute of Virology, Pune, that no traces of Covid-19 virus were found in the imported raw material sampled from its Nanjangud-based subsidiary Jubilant Generics. It has to recalled that out of 61 Covid positive cases in Mysuru district, 49 are related, either directly or indirectly, to Jubilant Generics — employees, their family members or their contacts. In a press release, issued here, on Thursday, the company stated, "It is unfortunate that a wrong perception is created about the raw material imported from China. Besides, Patient-52 did not travel to China or to any other nation in the last six months. Further, none of the employees, who have tested positive, so far, have travelled overseas in the last six months." "P52, the first positive case of Covid-19 from the Nanjangud facility, neither had contact with any raw material nor had any role in receiving, transporting, handling or storage of raw materials,” the authorities said. "Jubilant Generics, at its plant in Nanjangud, manufactures active pharmaceutical ingredients used in drugs that are needed for sustaining patients’ lives, including Azithromycin Dihydrate and Azithromycin Monohydrate, which are needed to fight the global menace of Covid-19. Thus there is a need to resume manufacturing,” the press note states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/big-relief-for-jubilant-no-traces-of-virus-found-on-raw-materials-826270.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||As cases rise, a belated move to widen test scope||As the number of cases appear to be spiralling out of control, the government has announced it will increase the scope of its testing. Commissioner Pankaj Pandey of the Department of Health and Family Welfare said that health officials will test every individual affected by Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and Influenza-like illnesses (ILI) within new buffer zones. Officials zeroed in on ILI on Wednesday, after a one-year-old boy in Kalaburagi with the illness was found to have Covid-19. The incident triggered the emergence of one more Covid-19 case, when Patient 302 was disclosed on Thursday. The patient is a 23-year-old woman in Kalburagi, who is said to have been in contact with the boy. Pandemic expert Dr Girdhar R Babu said that the state should ramp up its testing to the point of including anyone reporting a fever or respiratory problems.  “The silent districts and silent taluks, which have so far reported no cases are as risky as the ones which have hotspots in them,” Dr Babu said.  “We must start setting up surveillance systems in every district or what we might see happen is that when the lockdown is lifted on May 3 for example, there will be a sharp jump in the numbers,” he explained.  He also pointed out that the government’s decision to start SARI testing was a wise one, because the timeline of the pandemic had shown that in whichever district the health officers had started testing for SARI, they had uncovered Covid-19 cases. Minister S Suresh Kumar pointed out that the state’s Covid-19 positive index was 2.3% “This percentage is a result of 13,724 samples being tested, out of which 315 were confirmed as positive,’ he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/as-cases-rise-a-belated-move-to-widen-test-scope-826274.html
16-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt to buy 2 lakh more testing kits||The state government has decided to purchase additional two lakh rapid testing kits for detecting Covid-19. The decision was arrived at the meeting of the task force on Covid-19, held here on Thursday.  Deputy Chief Minister Dr Ashwath Narayan, who chaired the meeting said that it had been decided to place orders with a company listed by the Chinese government. He said that as many as 250 kiosks would be set up across the state for facilitating collection of throat swabs of symptomatic patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-to-buy-2-lakh-more-testing-kits-826287.html
16-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||COVID-19 cases nearly doubled in 24 hours in Belagavi||A total of 6 persons, all contacts of patient No 224, tested positive for coronavirus while four persons in contact of patient No 245 and two persons in contact of patient No 225 tested positive for COVID-19.  Among the positive cases, nine are male and seven female. Three of the persons -- two male and one female -- tested positive in repeated tests. Nine of the positives are from Hirebagewadi village in Belagavi taluk and rest from Kuduchi town in Raibag taluk. Two persons, one each from Goa and Vijayapur, residing in Kuduchi town have tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/covid-19-cases-nearly-doubled-in-24-hours-in-belagavi-825994.html
16-04-2020||West||Centre should find solution to migrants' problems: Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said the centre should address the issues of migrant labourers who are stuck in various states and desirous of reaching their homes. Saying that resentment was brewing among the migrant labourers, he cited the example of Delhi, Mumbai and Surat where lockdown norms were defied by thousands of such people. The chief minister said it was an interstate matter and the centre should come up with a solution. "Anxiety among migrant labourers is rising. In Rajasthan, migrants are present in Jaisalmer, Sitapura in Jaipur and students are in Kota. They want to go back home at once," Gehlot told reporters through video conferencing. "The state government is taking care of them, providing food and has made arrangements for the stay of such labourers and they are satisfied to some extent but they have sentiments for going home," he said. The chief minister said the central government should have introduced the guidelines, which were issued Wednesday, five days ago during the 21-day lockdown period. "Decisions are being made hurriedly, maybe because of the prevailing situation worldwide. The prime minister suddenly made the announcement of lockdown. Due to this, many people are stuck. People could have moved to their places if they would get time of three days and what happened in Delhi, Mumbai or Surat would not have happened," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-should-find-solution-to-migrants-problems-gehlot-825910.html
16-04-2020||West||Maharashtra govt to probe misinformation on restarting train services||The misinformation and rumour-mongering on commencement of trains - that led to innocent migrant workers gathering in Bandra -  seems to be a big conspiracy according to Maharashtra government.  The Maharashtra government has decided to go to the root of the issue. "Misinformation regarding the commencement of trains from April 14, 2020, was spread using 11 different methods. The accounts have been tracked," Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said.  According to him, FIRs are being filed and due legal consequences will follow.  While Dubey has been remanded to police custody till April 21,  Kulkarni will be produced in court today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-to-probe-misinformation-on-restarting-train-services-825920.html
16-04-2020||West||Duty comes first for braveheart cops in war against coronavirus||At a time when people are staying at home to protect themselves from coronavirus, some braveheart police personnel are winning accolades for giving priority to duty and keeping their personal issues and safety aside. Showering praises, some social media users have termed these policemen as 'Corona Warriors'. One such 'corona warrior' is Dahod's police sub- inspector P K Jadav, whose elder brother died in Ahmedabad recently. Instead of taking leave, Jadav went to work after completing the last rites of his brother. Taking note of his dedication for work, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani called on Jadav to praise him, the state police tweeted. Another gutsy personnel is constable Indravijaysinh Rehvar, posted at Gambhoi police station in Sabarkantha. "Despite suffering from fracture on one arm, Rehvar, who was assigned the task of patrolling in a PCR van, resumed duty after getting his broken arm plastered. We appreciate his dedication for service," Sabarkantha Superintendent of Police Chaitanya Mandlik said. In Morbi district, constable Vipul Fultariya refused to take leave even after getting the news of being blessed with a baby girl. "Instead, he went home, showered his love on his new born daughter and came back to resume his duty," Gujarat Police said in a tweet. In Bhuj town of Kutch district, woman constable Alka Desai has been doing her duty carrying her two-year-old daughter along with her. Since her husband is also a police constable, there is no one at home to take care of the child. "I have joined the police force to serve the nation. I can't take leave when the nation needs me the most. At the same time, I am also a mother. So I have decided to carry on my duty with my daughter along," Desai said. After the authorities learnt about her dedication, she was assigned duty close to a police station where she can keep her daughter. Another 'corona warrior' is Jyoti Parikh, working as constable with Raopura police of Vadodara city. Despite getting stitches on her forehead following an accident, she decided to resume her duty "in service of the nation", the Gujarat Police said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/duty-comes-first-for-braveheart-cops-in-war-against-coronavirus-825957.html
16-04-2020||West||25 fresh cases of coronavirus in Rajasthan, tally rises to 1,101||Rajasthan on Thursday reported 25 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the state's virus tally to 1,101, officials said. Of the new cases, 11 are from Tonk, 10 from Jodhpur, 2 from Jhunjhunu and one each from Bikaner and Ajmer. With the new 25 cases, the number of positive cases in the state has gone up to 1,101, they said. A total of 37,860 samples have been collected in the state so far. 1,101 were positive and 31,902 were negative while 4,857 samples are under processing. As many as 157 patients have been cured so far and 82 of them discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/25-fresh-cases-of-coronavirus-in-rajasthan-tally-rises-to-1101-825958.html
16-04-2020||West||Three more die of coronavirus in Gujarat; state toll rises to 36||Three more patients succumbed to coronavirus in Gujarat in the last 12 hours, taking the death toll in the state to 36, an official said on Thursday. These deaths were reported from Kutch, Ahmedabad and Botad districts, state principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi said. A 62-year-old COVID-19 patient undergoing treatment at a hospital died in Kutch, while an 80-year-old man succumbed in Botad. Besides, a 60-year-old woman died due to the disease at SVP Hospital in Ahmedabad, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-more-die-of-coronavirus-in-gujarat-state-toll-rises-to-36-825993.html
16-04-2020||West||Will expose 'conspiracy' behind migrants' unrest: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Thursday said the Maharashtra government will expose the "conspiracy" behind the recent migrants' unrest in Mumbai, and accused the opposition BJP of leaving no chance to disturb the Uddhav Thackeray-led dispensation in the state. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said outstation trains depart not just from suburban Bandra, but also from Lokmanya Tilak Terminus, Mumbai Central and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus in the metropolis. But, the crowd gathered only at Bandra. Television news channels completely ignored a similar situation at Surat in Gujarat, it claimed.  "What do you call this? It is a big conspiracy and we will unmask it. The state government will nail attempts to see the coronavirus crisis as an opportunity to create a disturbance. We are sad that the opposition should stoop to a new low," the Marathi daily said. Ignoring lockdown norms, over 1,000 migrant workers who earn daily wages gathered near Bandra station on Tuesday demanding transport arrangements to go back to their native places, hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the coronavirus-enforced curbs till May 3. The Sena said the present crisis has affected a cross-section of society, but daily wagers are the worst hit and the government needs to take a different stand for poor people. "The country is in a financial crisis, and running a state is also not easy. Till yesterday, the state looked after these people and now they want to run away. This is 'beimani' (cheating). Those who stay here in critical times are the real sons of the soil," the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. The government should ensure that those who want to run away creating trouble will not return, the Sena said. It should find out the background of people who gathered at Bandra. These people violated the lockdown rules and tried to damage the state, it claimed. "What were the police doing during this period? These people didn't have any luggage with them if they were planning to go to their native places," it noted.  Hitting out at the BJP, it alleged the opposition party does not leave a chance to disturb the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government (comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress), and would stoop to any level to do that. The Sena said there were no rumours about resumption of train services. "There was a circular in this regard. It was news. How did the Railways take reservations after April 15? When there was no clarity that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will extend the lockdown, it was a crime to take 40 lakh reservations and create confusion," it said. The Railway Ministry is "also responsible" for what happened in Bandra, the Sena said. "Will Leader of the Opposition in Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis demand Railway Minister Piyush Goyal's resignation?" it asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-expose-conspiracy-behind-migrants-unrest-shiv-sena-826035.html
16-04-2020||West||105 new COVID-19 cases in Gujarat; state tally jumps to 871||The total number of coronavirus cases in Gujarat rose to 871 after 105 more people tested positive for the infection during the last 12 hours, a health official said on Thursday. Among the new cases, 42 were reported from Ahmedabad, 35 from Surat, eight from Anand, six from Vadodara, four each from Banaskantha and Narmada, three from Rajkot, and one each from Gandhinagar, Kheda and Panchmahal, state principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi said. So far, 64 people from the state have been discharged after recovery, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/105-new-covid-19-cases-in-gujarat-state-tally-jumps-to-871-826037.html
16-04-2020||West||28 fresh cases of coronavirus in Rajasthan  ||Rajasthan on Thursday reported 28 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the state's virus tally to 1,104, officials said. Of the new cases, 11 each are from Tonk and Jodhpur, 2 each from Jhunjhunu and Kota and one each from Bikaner and Ajmer.  With the new 28 cases, the number of positive cases in the state has gone up to 1,104, they said. A total of 40,778 samples have been collected in the state so far. 1,104 were positive and 33,739 were negative while remaining samples are under processing. As many as 164 patients have been cured so far and 82 of them discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/28-fresh-cases-of-coronavirus-in-rajasthan-826040.html
16-04-2020||West||Pune cops make morning walkers do yoga for violating coronavirus lockdown  ||The Pune police on Thursday meted out a healthy punishment to morning walkers who violated the COVID-19 lockdown, by making them perform yoga and exercise. As many as a 100 people, including 25 to 30 morning walkers, were made to do yoga and exercise by personnel from the Kondhwa police station, an official said.  "Apart from morning walkers, we also caught hold of people who had ventured out of their homes early in the morning to buy essentials," senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of Kondhwa police station said. Lockdown violators were made to stand in a row while maintaining proper distance and were asked to perform yoga and do some exercises, he said. Cases will be registered against morning walkers under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. "We will issue notices to others who had stepped out to buy essentials," he added.  Kondhwa is one of the areas in Maharashtra's Pune city where several localities have been marked as containment zones after several COVID-19 cases were found there. "As per norms, Kondhwa residents are only supposed to go out to buy essentials between 10 am and 12 noon," Gaikwad said. Similarly, Swargate police also detained over 70 people for roaming on the streets in the early hours of the day, while Bibvewadi police made morning walkers from the area perform yoga as a penalty for stepping out of their homes during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-cops-make-morning-walkers-do-yoga-for-violating-coronavirus-lockdown-826067.html
16-04-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Migrant workers protest in Surat for better food||Around 100 migrant workers gathered in an industrial area of Surat city in Gujarat on Thursday afternoon and protested over the issue of food being served to them during the lockdown, officials said. The migrant workers and their family members, mostly from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, sat on a street in Pandesara area, complaining that the food being served to them is not as per their taste, a local police officer said. After being alerted about the incident, a police team, led by DCP Vidhi Chaudhari, rushed to the spot to convince the workers to adhere to lockdown rules.  "It was a small issue about their food. The situation was brought under control," Chaudhari said. Talking to reporters, some of the migrants said that food being served to them by NGOs is not as per their taste, as they prefer spicy and non-veg food. On Wednesday, hundreds of migrant workers had hit the streets in Pandol industrial area with a similar demand. Thousands of migrants working in factories, diamond polishing units and textile units are stuck in Surat due to the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus. They are being served food by the authorities with the help of NGOs.  Two days back, migrant workers had come out in large numbers in Varachha area demanding that they should be allowed to go to their native places. Last week, migrant workers, mostly from Odisha, had engaged in stone pelting and arson in Laskana area of the city with similar demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-migrant-workers-protest-in-surat-for-better-food-826078.html
16-04-2020||West||Mumbai: Juhu police station cop tests coronavirus positive||A constable attached to Juhu police station in Mumbai has tested positive for coronavirus, an official said on Thursday. Other police personnel who came in contact with the constable will also be tested, he said. The constable, a resident of Kandivali area here, was on leave as he had not been keeping well since the last few days. After he started showing symptoms of coronavirus, his test was conducted which came out positive on Wednesday, the official said. He is currently admitted to a civic-run hospital. "The constable's test report has come out positive for coronavirus. Samples of seven to eight other officials, who came in contact with him, will also be sent for testing," Juhu police station's senior inspector Pandrinath Wavhal said. Earlier this month, a sub-inspector attached to Kurar police station here also tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-juhu-police-station-cop-tests-coronavirus-positive-826082.html
16-04-2020||West||Freedom fighter R V Bhuskute who participated in Quit India movement passes away||Freedom fighter R V Bhuskute, who had participated in the Quit India Movement, died of prolonged illness in Maharashtra's Raigadh district on Thursday, family sources said. He was 94 and is survived by his wife, three sons and three daughters. According to sources, Bhuskute was living with his daughter at Mangaon of Raigadh district, where he died. Bhuskute, who had participated in the Quit India Movement, wrote several books on land laws and worked for the release and rehabilitation of bonded labourers in tribal areas of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/freedom-fighter-r-v-bhuskute-who-participated-in-quit-india-movement-passes-away-826086.html
16-04-2020||West||30 persons from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh escape from shelter in Maharashtra||A group of thirty persons, labourers and students from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh who were quarantined in Akola district of Maharashtra, were found to have escaped, a senior official said on Thursday. None of them was known to be suffering from coronavirus, District Collector Jitendra Papalkar said.  They had been stopped while trying to return to their home states on March 30 after lockdown began, and quarantined at Patur in the district, he said. They were found to have gone missing from the Maulana Azad Cultural Bhavan in Patur town in the early hours of Wednesday. Search is on for them, the collector added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/30-persons-from-telangana-andhra-pradesh-escape-from-shelter-in-maharashtra-826090.html
16-04-2020||West||COVID-19: No community transmission in Mumbai, says BMC||In what comes as a major sigh of relief for Mumbai, that has the highest number of COVID-19 positive cases in India, so far does not have incidents of community transmission. The declaration came from the BrihanMumbai  Municipal Corporation (BMC) after it collected data from 97 'fever clinics" in India's financial capital, that started a few days ago.These clinics are running across the city including containment zones.  The BMC said that so far 3,585 persons have been examined in these clinics.  "Of them, 912  have been sent for COVID-19 tests, of which five persons have tested positive," BMC officials said, adding that these five persons have travel history. "Accordingly all precautions were taken and protocols were followed," the officials said. The test data reveals that there was no community transmission, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-no-community-transmission-in-mumbai-says-bmc-826096.html
16-04-2020||West||Sixty new coronavirus patients in Pune, four deaths||Sixty new coronavirus patients were detected in Pune district since Wednesday night, taking the total to 497, health officials said. Four COVID-19 patients died during this period, which took the death toll due to the pandemic in the district to 47. A total of 423 coronavirus cases have been reported in Pune city, 45 in Pimpri Chinchwad and 29 in rural parts of the district, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sixty-new-coronavirus-patients-in-pune-four-deaths-826099.html
16-04-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Journalist held for misleading report causing migrants' unrest gets bail||A Mumbai court here on Thursday granted bail to a television journalist arrested for allegedly `spreading misinformation' with his report that the government was thinking of starting Jan Sadharan train services for migrants, which allegedly led to a crowd gathering in Bandra. Rahul Kulkarni, journalist with a Marathi news channel, was arrested by Mumbai Police on Wednesday, a day after several migrant workers gathered near Bandra station here demanding that they be sent back to their home towns. Kulkarni was produced before a magistrate in Bandra on Thursday where the police sought his custody.  The court, however, refused the police's plea and remanded Kulkarni in judicial custody, following which his advocate Subodh Desai immediately filed a bail application. After hearing brief arguments, the court granted him bail on a surety of Rs 15,000. Ten others arrested in the case were remanded in police custody till April 19. The police booked Kulkarni under Indian Penal Code Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 505(b) (intent to cause fear or alarm among public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the state or against public tranquility), and provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act. According to police, Kulkarni allegedly gave a "false" story, saying the Railways was going to start special trains to ferry migrant workers stranded in Maharashtra back to their native states. The police said hundreds of migrant workers gathered at the Bandra station on Tuesday after watching the news, and they were later dispersed. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut hailed court's decision to grant bail to Kulkarni.  He said the arrest of the journalist in connection with the gathering of migrants in Bandra was unfortunate. Talking to a news channel, Raut said the government and media were both important pillars of democracy. "Both sides should be alert that such an incident should not happen again. I am happy journalist Rahul Kulkarni got bail. The police should find out truth into the charges on which he was arrested," the Rajya Sabha member said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-journalist-held-for-misleading-report-causing-migrants-unrest-gets-bail-826112.html
16-04-2020||West||Mumbai: 11 new coronavirus cases in Dharavi; slum area tally rises to 71||The number of coronavirus cases in Dharavi reached 71 after 11 more people tested positive for the disease in the slum area of Mumbai on Thursday, a civic official said. Of the 11 new cases, four were reported from Mukund Nagar, two each from Social Nagar and Rajiv Nagar, and one each from Sai Raj Nagar, Transit camp and Ramji Chawl localities of Dharavi, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. Out of the total 71 cases, 18 have so far been reported from Mukund Nagar area of Dharavi, eight from Social Nagar and seven from Muslim Nagar localities, he said. So far, eight patients from Dharavi have died. Dharavi is one of the largest slum areas in Asia. Nearly 15 lakh people live in shanties located in this highly congested area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-11-new-coronavirus-cases-in-dharavi-slum-area-tally-rises-to-71-826119.html
16-04-2020||West||23 cops have contracted COVID-19 in Maharashtra so far||At least 23 police personnel have tested positive for coronavirus infection in Maharashta so far, an official said on Thursday. Fifteen of these personnel are based in Mumbai, he said. Police are among the `frontline' workers in the battle against the pandemic, as they are busy enforcing lockdown. Since March 22, at least seven police officers and 16 constables have been found to have contracted the infection, the official said. All of them are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the state, and their condition was stable, he added. The police in every district have been provided with mobile disinfection vans, he informed. The police in the state have also faced attacks while enforcing lockdown. As many as 97 police pesonnel were attacked by anti-social elements, and 162 persons have been arrested in these cases, the official said.  For defiance of restrictions of movement during lockdown, 46,671 cases have been registered under section 188 of IPC (disobedience to order of public servant) and 9,155 persons arrested in the state. A total of 1,019 offences of illegal transportation of people has been registered, and 31,296 vehicles seized Around Rs 1.70 crore in fine was collected from the vehicle owners for violating prohibitory orders, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/23-cops-have-contracted-covid-19-in-maharashtra-so-far-826204.html
16-04-2020||West||163 new coronavirus cases found in Gujarat; total tops 900||With three more deaths reported during the period, the toll in the state has reached 36, said Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi. She said 73 COVID-19 patients have also recovered and given discharge till date. Out of the 163 new cases reported during the last 24 hours, a majority of them were reported from Ahmedabad (95) and Surat (37), she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/163-new-coronavirus-cases-found-in-gujarat-total-tops-900-826208.html
16-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Maharashta CM relief fund gets donations worth Rs 245 crore||The Maharashtra Chief Minister's relief fund has so far received donations worth Rs 245 crore in support of the state's fight against coronavirus outbreak. In a statement issued on Thursday, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said people of Maharashtra have joined the state government in the war against the virus. "Till today, Rs 245 crore have been deposited in the relief fund to provide a helping hand to the government in thefight against coronavirus," he said. Apart from the cash donations, help has also come in the form of food grains, supply of food and shelter to the needy people, the chief minister added.  Contributions made to the relief fund can be claimed as a deduction under Section 80G of the Income Tax Act, Thackeray said. So far, there are 3,081people have tested coronavirus positive in the state, of whom 187 have died, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashta-cm-relief-fund-gets-donations-worth-rs-245-crore-826213.html
16-04-2020||West||Rate of doubling of cases slowing down: Maharashtra health minister||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Thursday that the rate of doubling of coronavirus cases in the state has fallen, while complaining that the state has not recieved enough N-95 masks and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits. In a video message, he also said all the 1,400 persons who arrived in the state after attending Tablighi Jamaat meet in Delhi have been traced, and only 50 of them have tested positive for coronavirus. The rest have been quarantined, he said, without elaborating on their test status. "We have demanded eight lakh N-95 masks and 1.50 lakh PPE kits but received only one lakh masks and 30,000 kits," he said. "However, the state's doubling rate of COVID-19 cases has slowed down significantly. "The rate when COVID-19 cases double from its earlier figures is known as doubling rate. It was earlier two days which slowed down to three and a half days and now it is five and a half days. It is a promising sign," said the minister. "We have also sought permission from the Centre to use the plasma of recovered patients to treat infected people. There has been research to support it, and we need official permission from ICMR," Tope said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rate-of-doubling-of-cases-slowing-down-maharashtra-health-minister-826216.html
16-04-2020||West||Mumbai's Dharavi records 26 new coronavirus cases in 24 hours||In an alarming development, 26 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Dharavi, the biggest slum cluster of Asia, in a span of 24 hours, on Thursday.  So far, Dharavi has recorded 86 positive cases and nine deaths.  Meanwhile,  on Thursday, Mumbai reported three deaths and over 100 cases. In Maharashtra, the total number of cases have shot to 3202. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government is planning to ease restrictions selectively in certain industrial areas with stringent safety conditions from Monday. According to Industries Minister Subhash Desai, areas or industries falling under the ‘Red Zone’ will not be permitted for the time being in view of a large number of cases there. The government will consider all aspects and consult the local authorities before deciding on the ‘Orange Zones’, while in ‘Green Zones’. Lockdown will continue in areas like Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivali and Bhiwandi in Thane, Vasai-Virar in Palghar, Pimpri-Chinchwad in Pune, Aurangabad, Nashik, Nagpur and other urban industrial centres falling in the ‘Red Zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-dharavi-records-26-new-coronavirus-cases-in-24-hours-826230.html
16-04-2020||West||Mumbai: Minor stabs man to death, two detained||A 19-year-old man was allegedly stabbed to death by three persons, including two minors, over a petty dispute in the western suburb of Malad here, police said on Thursday. While the minors were detained by the police, the hunt is on for the absconding accused, an official said. The incident took place late on Wednesday when Karan Sigwan, a resident of Ambedkar Nagar in Appapada, confronted one of the minors for allegedly stealing some pigeons that he owned, he said. A heated argument ensued and the minor stabbed Sigwan in the stomach killing him instantly, while two other accused aided the attack, he said. The minors were detained by the Kurar police, while the hunt is on for the third accused, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-minor-stabs-man-to-death-two-detained-826233.html
16-04-2020||West||After six COVID-19 coronavirus cases in Ahmedabad slum, civic body intensifies testing, seeks sponsors||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-six-covid-19-coronavirus-cases-in-ahmedabad-slum-civic-body-intensifies-testing-seeks-sponsors-826269.html
16-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Mumbai man arrested for spitting on Manipuri woman||A 29-year-old man was arrested by suburban Vakola police on Thursday for allegedly spitting on a woman from Manipur ten days ago, an official said. The accused was identified as Amir Khan, resident of Kurla (West).  The woman, who is around 30 years old, was walking from Geeta Vihar junction towards Kalina Military Camp in Santacruz where groceries and other essential items were being distributed amid lockdown for coronavirus on April 6. Suddenly a motorbike-rider spat on her before speeding away, she alleged. Police identified the accused with the help of CCTV footage which showed the motorbike's registration number. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone 8) Manjunath Singhe said Khan is a salesman. "We have arrested him under IPC section 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 352 (Punishment for assault or criminal force otherwise than on grave provocation) of the IPC," the DCP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-mumbai-man-arrested-for-spitting-on-manipuri-woman-826285.html
