17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka students in Maharashtra walk 100 km in attempt to reach home amidst coronavirus lockdown||In the wake of nationwide lockdown, around 39 students from Karnataka, studying at an Agriculture college in Latur of neighbouring Maharashtra, walked down 100 km but were sent for hostel quarantine on Thursday as the officials at the inter-state check post near Khajuri of Aland taluk refused to let them walk home. Fifteen female students were also part of the team which was on the move on foot. The students who belonged to Yadgir and Raichur districts were undergoing agriculture training for the past six months in Latur.    They stayed back after the nationwide lockdown was announced. Anxiety gripped them after the lockdown was extended to May 3. Hence, they set out on foot on Wednesday night from Latur. The students were stopped on the inter-state border and were sent for hostel quarantine at Koralli's minorities hostel located on the outskirts of Aland town.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-students-in-maharashtra-walk-100-km-in-attempt-to-reach-home-amidst-coronavirus-lockdown-826343.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bison, wild boars found dead in Bhadra Wildlife Sanctuary||More than 10 wild boars and a bison were found dead in Lakkavalli region of Bhadra Wildlife Sanctuary zone in the last 15 days. Bhadra Project Tiger Director S Dhananjaya stated that the samples collected from the dead boars and a bison have been sent to the laboratory in Bengaluru. The report is awaited. On April 1, decomposed bodies of five wild boars were spotted in the backwater region of Bhadra, at Mattikere area. The next day, another wild boar was found dead in the same area. Bodies of wild boars were found in Hosahalli, Koligoodu and Mavinahalla on April 10, 12, and on April 14. The body of a bison was found in Jenuhalla on April 13. Forest department staff said that the bodies of the animals were partially eaten by crocodiles and other wild boars.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bison-wild-boars-found-dead-in-bhadra-wildlife-sanctuary-826350.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bantwal police crack down illegal sand extraction racket||The Bantwal police have cracked down on an illegal sand extraction racket at Kariyangala, where sand was being extracted from banks of river Phalguni. Police arrested a lorry driver, besides seizing boats, lorry and loads of sand. Acting on a tip-off, the police raided the banks of River Phalguni where illegal sand extraction was being carried out by violating lockdown guidelines. The police have arrested tipper lorry driver Panduranga and seized property worth Rs 20 lakh. The police have seized 10 loads of sand, one tipper lorry and three boats. Cases have been booked against Akesh, Naveen, Shakeer and Kabeer who were also part of illegal sand extraction||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bantwal-police-crack-down-illegal-sand-extraction-racket-826388.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mystery over Nanjangud coronavirus case deepens||||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mystery-over-nanjangud-coronavirus-case-deepens-826392.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Man with travel history to Delhi tests coronavirus positive in Dakshina Kannada||A 39-year-old man from Uppinangady, who has a travel history to Delhi, has tested positive for COVID-19 in Dakshina Kannada. This is the 13th case reported in the district.  According to DC Sindhu B Rupesh, he was admitted to quarantine centre on April 1. The throat swab samples collected on April 2 had tested negative for COVID-19. After completing 14 days of quarantine, his throat swab was collected again which tested positive for coronavirus, said the DC.  The patient is shifted to Wenlock COVID Hospital in Mangaluru for treatment and is responding to the treatment.  The DC said that of 13 cases reported in DK, nine patients have recovered and discharged from hospitals. Those who are discharged are under 14 days of home quarantine and they are being monitored by the authorities, said the DC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-with-travel-history-to-delhi-tests-coronavirus-positive-in-dakshina-kannada-826430.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru: Three booked for violating COVID-19 lockdown guidelines||The City Police booked three persons for violating lockdown guidelines. Vijayanagar police have registered FIR against Nagaraj, Mahadevaswamy, and Sampath. According to the Police, Nagaraj runs a restaurant on KDroad and he did not follow closedown order despite repeated warnings. The police who were on routine patrol registered the case against Nagaraj, his employee Mahadevaswamy and customer Sampath.  They were booked under IPC sections 188, 269, 271 and 51 (b) of the National Disaster Management Act 2005 and section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-three-booked-for-violating-covid-19-lockdown-guidelines-826444.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Body of missing man found at Ullala Hoige||The body of a man, who had abandoned his car at Nethravathi Bridge on NH 66, was found at Ullala Hoige on Friday morning. The car was found abandoned with doors open on the night of April 15. Vikram Gatti (34), the owner of the car, had gone missing on April 15. According to family members, on that day, at around 9 pm, Vikram, a resident of Pulinchadi in Konaje, had said that he was going out to charge his car battery but never returned. His phone remained switched off. A missing complaint was registered at Konaje Police Station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/body-of-missing-man-found-at-ullala-hoige-826466.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Cases against people who shelter infiltrators: Koratagere Tahsildar||Koratagere Tahsildar B M Govindaraju cautioned that cases would be booked against those who shelter people who come from other districts by avoiding checkpoints. He addressed the media on Friday. He observed that people were sneaking across the taluk border on two-wheelers and entering through forest paths and fields at Arsapura and Akkajji villages from Gauribidanur, Hindupur in Andhra Pradesh and Chikkaballapur.   As Covid-19 cases have been reported in these places, people from there should not be allowed to enter Koratagere he added. He also asked people who notice such infiltration to report the incidents to the nearest police station. He reiterated that cases would be booked against people who give the infiltrators shelter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cases-against-people-who-shelter-infiltrators-koratagere-tahsildar-826603.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Expecting, nursing mothers, newborns, under Karnataka Health department's radar||Since the Covid-19 lockdown, expecting and nursing mothers and newborns in the district are being treated at home. Health workers are visiting them at home once a week, checking their weight, blood pressure and other parameters and counselling them. If there is a necessity they are being taken to doctors. Asha and Anganwadi workers have given them numbers to call in case of emergencies. Because the district hospital has been turned into a Covid-19 hospital, expecting and nursing mothers and newborn children are being treated at Sridevi and Siddartha hospitals. The treatment of people with common ailments coming to city hospitals is stopped. They have been asked to get treated at primary health centres. Police have been asked not to stop women in labour at check-posts. Matrupoorna Scheme Under the Matrupoorna scheme, expecting and nursing mothers were being given nutritious food in Anganwadis. Now this food is being delivered home to them. Rice, pulses, eggs, cereals and iron-rich nutrition enough for 25 days, is being delivered to them. The same amount of food is also being delivered to homes with children aged six months to three years and Anganwadi children aged three to six years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/expecting-nursing-mothers-newborns-under-karnataka-health-departments-radar-826604.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Stranded Kerala youth reaches native place||A youth from Kerala, who was stranded in Kollur Mookambika Temple, reached his native with the efforts of Kannur MP, Dakshina Kannada Youth Congress president and district administration. Sajith (21), a native of Kannur, had reached Kollur temple days before the lockdown was declared. He was engaged in reciting ‘japa’ and having meals at the temple. After the announcement of the lockdown, he could not return to his native village. As all lodges were remained closed after the lockdown in the temple town, Sajith was staying on the banks of River Sauparnika. Later, he sought help by contacting helpline of Kerala. Kannur MP K Sudhakaran later contacted Congress leader Mithun Rai and sought his help. Rai, in turn, contacted Udupi district administration and explained his condition.  Kollur police succeeded in convincing Sajith and accompanied him till Hejamady, the border of Udupi district. Later, with the help of an ambulance, arranged by DK Youth Congress president Mithun Rai, the youth was taken to Talapady. From Talapady, MP Sudhakaran had arranged a vehicle to take him to his village in Kannur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/stranded-kerala-youth-reaches-native-place-826612.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Police raid illegal sand extraction unit: 1 arrested||Acting on a tip-off, Bantwal police raided an illegal sand extraction unit on the banks of river Phalguni at Kariyangala and arrested a lorry driver, besides seizing boats, lorry and loads of sand.  The accused had carried out sand extraction illegally by violating the guidelines of lockdown. In connection with the case, police arrested tipper lorry driver Panduranga and seized property worth Rs 20 lakhs. Police also seized 10 loads of sand, one tipper lorry and three boats used to extract sand. Police have booked cases against Akesh, Naveen, Shakeer and Kabeer for allegedly involving in illegal sand extraction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-raid-illegal-sand-extraction-unit-1-arrested-826615.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||MLC Harish Kumar demands supply of free grocery items||MLC and District Congress Committee (DCC) President Harish Kumar urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to facilitate the supply of grocery items, lasting for over two months, to poor families.  He said that 10 kg rice per person in the family has been supplied for the month of April and May for BPL cardholders. In reality, every member of a BPL card is eligible for 7 kg rice per month. The remaining four kg of boiled rice along with wheat should be supplied in the month of May. All the APL cardholders should be supplied with 15 kg rice, 2 kg wheat and tur dal. A LPG cylinder should be supplied free of cost for BPL cardholders, he urged.  Though the government has given three months' time to pay EMI, the interest also should be waived off. He urged CM to announce a special package for beedi workers who are in distress following the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mlc-harish-kumar-demands-supply-of-free-grocery-items-826618.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hefty fines for spitting, not wearing masks||Invoking the National Disaster Management Act, the Tumakuru Mahanagara Palike has imposed certain restrictions with fines (if violated) in the city.  As per the new norms, people who spit in public places, don't wear masks and urinate in public, will have to pay hefty fines. A person caught spitting in a public place for the first time will be fined Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 if caught the next time. A person caught without a mask or urinating in public will be fined Rs 100 the first time and Rs 200 the next time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hefty-fines-for-spitting-not-wearing-masks-826672.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Udupi tops in Covid-19 testing in Karnataka||Udupi district tops the list in Covid-19 testing in Karnataka. As per the analysed data from the state, Udupi is testing 34 suspects per lakh population which is a very good testing rate and a good attempt to contain community transmission. The population in Udupi district is 11,77,361. As many as 403 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/udupi-tops-in-covid-19-testing-in-karnataka-826678.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||2 more jumbo deaths in Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary||Elephant deaths under Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary limits continue with a male elephant electrocuted on Friday and spotting of a carcass of a female elephant in the same range. The tusker is said to be 35-year-old and was electrocuted at a farm belonging to Shivanna at Dantalli forest area under Koudalli Wildlife range. The tusker had come in search of food and water when it came in contact with the electric cable of the pump set, it is learnt.  Cauvery Wildlife Range Deputy Conservator of Forest Dr S Ramesh visited the spot. Besides, the carcass of a female elephant was found at the same range later on the day at Toppengundi forest area. It is suspected that the jumbo might have died of indigestion and dehydration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/2-more-jumbo-deaths-in-cauvery-wildlife-sanctuary-826679.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Lift ban on tobacco products: Beedi workers||Beedi workers of the district have demanded lifting of the ban on tobacco products, imposed as part of the lockdown, in view of the spread of coronavirus or Covid-19. They said, as major beedi brands have stopped operations, duplicate and sub-standard beedis are flooding the market. Beedi workers, who roll tobacco into beedis, said the restriction on transportation and sales of tobacco products, has denied them their daily earnings and is also encouraging the sales of duplicate beedis, resulting in a huge loss to the state exchequer. K C Showkath Pasha, general secretary of Mysore Beedi Mazdoor Association, said, beedi rolling is done by workers, mostly women, from their respective house, so, there will be no violation of the lockdown guidelines. “There is no need to travel and no crowding of people. Small firms are having a field day by making duplicate beedis. They are pushing sub-standard and duplicate beedis to shops. People have no choice and they are buying,” he said. Pasha said, “There are about 8 to 10 lakh families across Karnataka, who are directly or indirectly dependent on beedi manufacturing industries. A majority of them are in Mangaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Tumakuru, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Kolar, Ramnagar and Mandya.” “Every worker earns Rs 150 to Rs 250 per day, by rolling beedi at home. If more than one person does the work in a family, their income doubles. Men is such families are mostly dependent on their wives, due to various socio-economic reasons. As beedi companies have stopped work, their families are facing hardships,” he said.  “There are two types of beedi manufacturers — major and small. Workers are organised, semi-organised and unorganised. Major beedi manufactures are Mangalore Ganesh Beedies, Telephone Beedi, 30 No Beedi and PVS Beedi. They employ lakhs of workers through contractors, following Beedi and Cigar Workers (Conditions of Employment) Act, 1966, and pay wages as per Minimum Wages Act, with all statutory benefits like provident fund, bonus and paid leave. However, small manufacturers do not follow these rules,” Pasha said. “Mangalore Ganesh Beedies and others stooped rolling of beedies since March 22. Upon enquiry, the manufacturers informed that they cannot provide work due to heavy piling up of stocks, due to the lockdown. In the interest of the workers, the government should allow sales of beedies,” he said. M Jagannath Shenoy, managing director of Mangalore Ganesh Beedi Works, said, he understands that the workers are going without work and duplicate beedis are flooding the market, causing harm to smokers and also state exchequer. “All beedi manufacturers have appealed to the Union government to lift the ban on tobacco products, citing the problems. However, we stick to the rules and we follow the guidelines till further orders,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lift-ban-on-tobacco-products-beedi-workers-826684.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mango Board to link farmers, consumers and bulk buyers||As the second phase of the lockdown stretches to May 3, the Mango Board is trying to open different pathways to ensure that the produce reaches the consumers and doesn’t burn the farmers during the ‘off year’ when the yield is expected to come down by more than 30%. Agriculture Department principal secretary Rajendra Kumar Kataria, also the chairman of the Karnataka Mango Development And Marketing Board, said several strategies have been drawn up to facilitate the sale of the mangoes. “This year is considered as ‘off year’ which is normal for every alternate year. The total produce for 2020 is expected to be around 9 to 10 lakh tonnes, a dip from the usual output of 12 to 14 lakh tonnes. Even then, the department has drawn up plans to clear the stock,” he said. The Board’s online sale portal has already received orders for 800 boxes (3 kg each) of mangoes which will be delivered by the post offices. In yet another move, an effort is on to link whole apartment complexes with farmers through resident welfare associations (RWA). “RWAs have already placed orders for 1 tonne and we expect this to increase in the coming days,” Kataria said. Two new connections Going a step further, the department is connecting bulk buyers and food processing industries with the farmers. This will bring the bulk buyers to the farm, cutting the need for the farmers to arrange for transport of the fruit. Similarly, the food processing industries, which consume 35% of the entire produce, will pick up the fruits directly from the farms. Ramanagar APMC has already started receiving the first batch of the king of fruits and officials expect the arrivals to shoot up in the coming days. Usually, the arrival increases from 10,000-20,000 tonnes per week in March-April to nearly 50,000 tonnes per week in the peak season in May. Kataria said the department has reached out to bulk buyers in the neighbouring states that to prevent glut in the market. “Besides Tamil Nadu and Kerala, we are looking at Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh where the local produce has not yet come to the market. We have already spoken to bulk buyers in these states and received a positive response from them,” he said. Last year, the Board had shipped 25 tonnes of mango to Europe. But the officials said they have dropped hopes of ramping it up this year. “About 5% of the produce, mostly Alphonso variety, was exported last year. We were planning to increase the export and build a brand for our mango. The economic crisis has complicated the matter and such plans may not be feasible now,” a Board official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mango-board-to-link-farmers-consumers-and-bulk-buyers-826685.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru: 12 positive cases on a single day||Report of the highest number of detection of Covid-19 positive cases on a single day in Mysuru was on Friday, at 12. With 12 more testing positive for Covid-19 on Friday, the total active cases increased to 60. With the fresh cases, a total of 73 positive cases are reported in the district. Out of them, 13 patients have recovered and are discharged from the hospital. Of the 12 fresh cases, 11 are linked with Nanjangud-based Jubilant Pharma Company and primary contacts of P52. Another patient is a 47-year-old woman and a contact of P273. With each passing day, Mysuru is registering more number of cases. It has to be noted that 10 cases were reported on Wednesday, the second-highest for a day so far. As the numbers of cases are on a rise, it has become a challenge for the district administration and Police department to tackle the spread of Covid-19. A majority of the cases are from Nanjangud-based Jubilant Generics, flowed by visitors to Nizamuddin Tabliqi Jamaat in Delhi.    Following the increase in cases, Mysuru is declared as a hotspot and the authorities have taken stringent measures to tackle the spread of Covid-19.  City Police Commissioner Chandragupta and Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth have clamped several restrictions to fight Covid-19. The police have warned the citizens not to move around unnecessarily and also intensified the lockdown at the areas where Covid-19 cases are reported. The authorities have taken several measures to maintain social distance and have installed disinfectant units. In addition, the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has established vegetable markets in the city to ensure social distance.   While Nanjangud is the hotspot in rural Mysuru, as many as 12 areas in the city are considered as affected as a few cases are reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-12-positive-cases-on-a-single-day-826687.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Jain Mutt delivers 10K food packets everyday||The Jain Mutt in Shravanabelagola, Hassan district, led by seer Charukeerthi Bhattaraka Swami, has extended support by distributing food, groceries and money to hundreds of daily wagers, irrespective of caste and community. Seer Charukeerthi Bhattaraka Swami has taken all measures to ensure that the poor does not go hungry. His followers have been distributing food to the poor, migrant workers and labourers. Every day, volunteers of the Jain community distribute around 10,000 food packets in many districts, including Bengaluru. The needy are provided food, essential items and drinking water. Animals and birds too are fed. The Jain Mutt has distributed Rs 1,000 each to hundreds of daily wagers in Shravanabelagola. Besides, groceries and essential items are also being distributed. The seer had recently donated Rs 10 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Four doctors of Bahubali Children’s Hospital are visiting rural areas, conducting health screening and providing free medicines. On April 19, 2020, Charukeerthi Bhattaraka Swami completes 50 years of being consecrated as the head of the mutt. The golden jubilee celebrations that were planned earlier, are cancelled due to Covid-19. It would be celebrated on a later date. It may be mentioned that Bhattaraka Swami had led the Bahubali Mahamastakabhisheka in 1981, 1993, 2006 and 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jain-mutt-delivers-10k-food-packets-everyday-826688.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Government for developing blueprint for water utilisation: Jarkiholi||The state government is making efforts to develop a blueprint charting out the state’s needs for drinking water, groundwater recharge and industrial water consumption, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has said. The minister, who held a meeting with retired secretary of the department Captain Raja Rao, said that the blueprint would help map water supply and utilisation. Mulling a State Irrigation Commission, to plan for requirements over the next three decades, the minister said he would discuss the constitution of the commission with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa.   Batting for inter-state linking of rivers, Jarkiholi said he would discuss the same with the union water resources minister. That apart, a comprehensive plan would be developed for drip irrigation. A decision would also be taken to come up with policies for largescale lift irrigation projects, he added. As for the projects lined up for this year, officials in the department said emphasis would be given for completing the existing projects that were in the final stages. “Owing to the current crisis, the government will have to re-strategize how funds will be allocated and the department will have to tweak its action plan. The priority is on drinking water projects. As for irrigation, emphasis will be given to ensure that the canals are in good shape to facilitate water flow once the monsoon period sets in,” an official in the department informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/government-for-developing-blueprint-for-water-utilisation-jarkiholi-826691.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||N-K farmers invest a fortune on raisins, their fortunes now bleak||Around 38,000 grape growers in Vijayapura, Bagalkot and Belagavi districts have produced around 80 lakh tonnes of raisins this season, but could not sell the produce due to lockdown. With the local market under locks, the farmers have rented private cold storages to stock their produce in Vijayapura and neighbouring Maharashtra. The e-trading facility is available in Vijayapura, but no trader is coming forward to call for tenders to purchase the produce. Moreover, farmers have not yet received payments for 15 truckloads of green grapes transported to markets in Hyderabad and Kerala. This has put the growers in a quandary. Sangli, Tasagaon and Pandarpur in Maharashtra are the main markets for the grapes grown in North Karnataka. But due to the increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases in Maharashtra, the market is totally closed there.  Almost 75% of the total grape yield in the region is processed and dried while 25% is sold as table grapes. But this year only 5% of the table grapes were sold before the lockdown. The farmers had got good prices too. But due to the lockdown, the remaining 20% of grapes were not marketed. Thus, the farmers opted for drying all their yield to make raisins.  Karnataka State Grape Growers' Association president Abhaykumar S Nandrekar said around 20% of raisins were sold before the lockdown. The remaining 80% is stuck in the godowns, he added. Farmers have to pay Rs 750 per tonne as rent for storing raisins in private cold storages. During April, the grape growers usually take up pruning work in the grapevines, for the new crop. The cost for this is more than Rs 1 lakh per acre. But the farmers are left with no money to hire labourers in their farms for this job, he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/n-k-farmers-invest-a-fortune-on-raisins-their-fortunes-now-bleak-826694.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||CFTRI makes special biscuits for Covid-19 patients||The city-based Central Food and Technological Research Institute (CFTRI) has produced biscuits with protein content for Covid-19 patients. CFTRI has supplied 500 kg of special biscuits and rusk to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi. The AIIMS authorities had urged the Institute to supply biscuits and rusk for distribute them among Covid-19 patients. According to CFTRI Director K S M S Raghava Rao, the special biscuits contain 14% of protein while normal biscuits contain only 8%, he said. CFTRI and a Noida-based private company have produced the special biscuits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cftri-makes-special-biscuits-for-covid-19-patients-826709.html
17-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||H K Patil urges Karnataka government to scale-up testing||Senior Congress legislator H K Patil on Friday said the state would land in big trouble if the process of testing the people for Covid-19 and furnishing the reports was not expedited. Speaking to media persons here, Patil said, "The testing rate in the state is low at 125 to 130 per 10 lakh population. The government should set up Covid-19 labs in all districts. This will help in streamlining the process of testing, getting reports and providing the timely treatment and thereby mitigate the virus spread." The Indian Council of Medical Research's (ICMR) permission is necessary for setting up a Covid-19 lab. The chief minister should take personal interest and initiate a process to get the ICMR approval for the labs at the earliest, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/h-k-patil-urges-karnataka-government-to-scale-up-testing-826682.html
17-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||‘Follow social distancing or face closure of outlets’ ||Covid-19 nodal officer and DDPI K Rathnaiah on Friday warned that the district administration would shut down outlets if owners failed to ensure social distancing. He visited the vegetable market at junior college grounds here and expressed displeasures due to violation of the social distancing guideline. “The Covid-19 is haunting the entire world. Due to strict norms taken by the district administration, there are no cases of Covid-19 in the district so far. People will have to suffer if they fail to follow guidelines. The government advisory should be followed strictly,” he said. Rathnaiah said that people should maintain social distancing and realise the seriousness of the situation. They should have some patience while buying materials. He directed the owners to direct customers to wash hands with sanitiser and wear masks without fail. Materials should not be sold to those who fail to wear masks coming buying. Physical education instructor Manjunath and ECO R Srinivas were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/follow-social-distancing-or-face-closure-of-outlets-826625.html
17-04-2020||Mysuru||12 new COVID-19 cases in Mysuru; district tally at 73||With fresh cases, 73 positive cases have been reported so far. Of them, 12 have been discharged from hospital. Among the 12 new cases, except one, all others are linked with Nanjangud-based Jubilant Pharma Company. This is the highest number of cases reported in a single day.  It has to be noted that as many as 10 cases were reported on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/12-new-covid-19-cases-in-mysuru-district-tally-at-73-826433.html
17-04-2020||National||Rate of doubling of COVID-19 cases in India slower than in US, Italy, Spain: Officials||The rate at which COVID-19 cases has been doubling in India is slower as compared to several other countries such as the USA, Italy and Spain, according to officials. Similarly, the total number of cases and deaths per million is lower in India than these countries which have been hit hard by the pandemic. Officials quoting data sourced from the health ministry and Worldometers.info said India in comparison to several other countries tested more people when the cases crossed the 5,000 and 10,000 marks. Officials said the cases doubled from 750 to 1500 in four days in India and from 1500 to 3000 in four days again while it took five days for the number of cases to double from 3000-6000 and six days to reach the 12000 figure.  In comparison, in the US, it took two days for cases to double from 750, three days to go up from 1500 to 3000, two days from 3000 to 6000 and another two days to go up from 6000 to 12000 cases. In Italy, for the same range of cases, it took two, three, four days and three days respectively. The number of days it took in Spain for cases to double was one day (750-1500), two (1500-3000), two (3000-6000) and from four days (6000-12000).    In UK, cases went up from 750 to 1500 in three days, from 1500-3000 in three days, 3000-6000 in four days and from 6000-12000 in four days. Officials said India has nine COVID-19 patients per one million population while it stood at 267 per million globally.  As compared to India, Spain has 3,864 cases per million, Italy 2,732, France 2,265, the US 1,946, Germany 1,608 and Japan 68 cases. India has 0.3 deaths per million population, as compared to 86 in the US, 402 in Spain, 358 in Italy and 190 in the UK, 263 in France, 45 in Germany and one in Japan.  The deaths per million population worldwide stands at 17.3. As far as testing is concerned, India had conducted 1.14 lakh tests when it crossed 5000 cases and 2.17 lakh tests on the date the country recorded 10,000 cases. The Italy, US and UK had conducted 0.49 lakh, 1.04 lakh and 0.78 lakh tests on the date the cases crossed the 5000 mark respectively and 0.73 lakh, 1.39 lakh and 1.13 lakh tests respectively on the date the cases crossed the 10,000 mark.   Canada, however, had conducted 2.41 lakh tests on the date it crossed 5000 cases and 2.95 lakh tests when it hit 10,000. However, in the US and Germany, the number jumped from 6,000 to 12,000 cases in just two days, the data showed. While countries like the UK, Spain and France saw the rise of cases from 6,000 to 12,000 in four days each, in Italy it happened in three days. In Canada the number doubled to 12,000 in five days. The data also shows that India has only nine COVID-19 patients per 10 lakh population, which is far lesser than other countries.  While the US has 1946 patients per 10 lakh population, Spain has 3864 cases, Italy has 2732, France 2265, the UK 1451 and Germany 1608 coronavirus patients per 10 lakh population.  The pandemic which has claimed over 1.30 lakh lives globally, has led to the death of over 400 patients in India which is approximately 0.3 persons per 10 lakh population, the data said.  In the US, 86 people have died per 10 lakh population, 402 per 10 lakh population deaths have been recorded in Spain, 358 in Italy, 263 in France, 190 in the UK, 27 in Canada and 45 deaths per 10 lakh population in Germany.  The data also revealed that India has conducted more tests than the US, Italy, France and many other countries after crossing 10,000 cases. On the date India crossed 5000 COVID-19 cases, it had conducted 1,14,015 tests and when it crossed the 10,000 mark it had conducted 2,17,554 tests. In the USA, 1,04,073 patients were tested for the virus the day it crossed 5,000 cases and 1,39,878 tests were conducted when it crossed the 10,000 mark. On the date Italy crossed 10,000 cases it had conducted 73154 tests while the UK had conducted 78340 tests. The death toll due to coronavirus rose to 420 and the number of cases in the country climbed to 12,759 on Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rate-of-doubling-of-covid-19-cases-in-india-slower-than-in-us-italy-spain-officials-826318.html
17-04-2020||National||India will provide help to Mauritius, Seychelles: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said India and Mauritius will always stand by each other, especially in challenging times like the novel coronavirus pandemic. The prime minister also said New Delhi will provide all possible support to Seychelles for fighting COVID-19. He was responding to tweets by Mauritius Prime Minister Pravind Jugnauth and Seychelles President Danny Faure thanking New Delhi for sending medical consignments to their countries to contain the spread of the killer virus. "Thank you, Prime Minister @PKJugnauth for your warm words. India and Mauritius are united by history, culture, language and the Indian Ocean. We will always stand by each other, especially in challenging times like this," Modi tweeted. He was responding to a tweet by Prime Minister Jugnauth thanking New Delhi for the supplies. "I am very thankful to Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi for the generous donation of medical supplies from the government of India which reached Mauritius yesterday, Wednesday, April 15, by a special flight of Air India," Jugnauth tweeted. This high mark of goodwill underscores, once again, the close bonds between Mauritius and India, he said. The office of President Faure had also tweeted thanking India for sending medical consignments. "Grateful to President Danny Faure for his kind words. Seychelles is a valued member of our Indian Ocean family, and an important pillar in our vision of Security and Growth for All in the Region," Modi responded. India will provide all possible support to Seychelles for fighting COVID-19, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-provide-help-to-mauritius-seychelles-modi-826321.html
17-04-2020||National||M S Swaminathan suggests 5-pronged strategy to help farmers during the coronavirus lockdown||Noted agricultural scientist M S Swaminathan on Thursday suggested a five-pronged strategy for adoption by the Central and state governments to help farmers suffering economic hardships due to the lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus. Welcoming Prime Minister Narendra Modi's decision to exempt farming activities and the movement of agricultural produce from the lockdown that has been extended till May 3, the former Rajya Sabha member said peasants should be provided with suitable agro-advisories to maintain good field conditions and plant health, including the needed precautions against pests and disease. "This is important also for ensuring human health," he said. In a statement released through the M S Swaminathan Research Foundation headed by him, he stressed on the significance of cold storage or other storage facilities that can help farmers in keeping the produce fresh till markets open. "As in the case of milk by the NDDB (National Dairy Development Board), this should be a priority action to be facilitated by the National Horticulture Development Board," 94-year-old Swaminathan said. He said it is also necessary to ensure that small farmers have access to good quality seeds for the coming kharif season, and to technologies like three-dimensional cropping (air, soil and surface) so that the plant that is below the soil does not have to be dug out immediately. Swaminathan, dubbed Father of India's green revolution, said attention should be paid to women farmers as they play a significant role, giving the example of the milk revolution that he said came about through the participation of women.  "Women farmers are also at the forefront of horticulture. Special attention needs to be given to both their technological (including low horse-power tractors) and economic (such as credit) empowerment during this crisis". The scientist suggested that based on the manner in which the commodity is sold, suitable equipment like oil extraction machinery for jasmine, or conversion of fruits into juice, are important for value addition. "Such a strategy will also help move towards a small farmers' horticulture revolution," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/m-s-swaminathan-suggests-5-pronged-strategy-to-help-farmers-during-the-coronavirus-lockdown-826323.html
17-04-2020||National||DRDO shifts testing facility from Gwalior to Delhi to ensure swift delivery of PPEs||Seeking to ensure swift delivery of personal protective equipment (PPE) to fight coronavirus, the Defence Research and Development Organisation has shifted its testing facility from Gwalior to the national capital. The DRDO has shifted its testing facility from the Defence Research Development Establishment (DRDE), Gwalior to the Institute of Nuclear Medicine & Allied Sciences (INMAS) in Delhi, officials said.   The INMAS is a premier life science laboratory of the DRDO. "The facility at INMAS is fully operational for testing and evaluation of body suits and masks. More than 10 batches of these items have already been tested at the laboratory," the DRDO said in a statement. Officials said the move has been made to overcome delays and ensure swift delivery of personal protective equipment and face masks. The DRDE, Gwalior which has been at the forefront in fighting COVID-19, has now been tasked to confirm the label claims of masks and body suits received by the government-owned HLL Lifecare Limited from foreign countries, before they are distributed to various agencies, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-shifts-testing-facility-from-gwalior-to-delhi-to-ensure-swift-delivery-of-ppes-826331.html
17-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Govt's Principal Scientific Advisor pitches for substantial testing, digital contact tracing||The Central government's Principal Scientific Advisor K Vijay Raghavan on Thursday pitched for substantial but "focussed and intelligent" testing for coronavirus especially in identified zones or areas where it is important to carry out tests. Delivering an address in an online conference on 'Combating COVID-19 --Biotech to the Rescue' organised by Bennett University, VijayRaghavan also batted for digital contact tracing of coronavirus cases that he said may prove to be an effective tool post-lockdown. "Many people who talk about the levels of Indian testing use (as) the denominator the entire Indian population. That denominator is very large. However, what you should do is identify zones, areas in our country where it is important to test and look at those areas as a denominator --- large metros for example, hotsposts, districts and so on," VijayRaghavan said in response to a question on whether India is testing enough. "Testing has to be not only substantial but it has to be focussed and intelligent. Even by that measure, people would argue that we should be testing a lot more. And indeed, testing is scaled up enormously," he said. He said there are over 150 testing sites now in the country. Experts have been pitching for ramping up the testing. Data obtained from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said till April 14, the number of samples tested stood at 2,44,893, an increase of 27,339 from the corresponding figures till the previous day (2,17,554). According to the website http://worldometers.info"worldometers.info which maintains a global database on coronavirus cases and tests conducted, the US, where over 26,000 COVID-19 deaths have occurred, has done 31,00,387 tests averaging about 9,367 per million of population. The figures for India is 2,44,893 tests averaging 177 per million of population. Spain and Italy, two countries which have also seen several thousands of fatalities, have done 6,00,000 and 10,73,689 tests respectively. VijayRaghavan said at present, after identifying a coronavirus case, contact tracing is manually done of all those people who the patient has come in contact with to see whether they show any symptoms of the disease and then isolate them, and their contacts further.  "The problem with COVID-19 disease is that many people who have the disease and who transmit it don't show symptoms at all. Significantly, the spread of the disease is very rapid.   "So, we need a different type of contact tracing. That can be achieved by digital contact tracing," the principal scientific advisor said.   Explaining the concept of digital contact tracing, VijayRaghavan said if any individual has a smartphone, he has to turn on the bluetooth and GPS. So, the phone knows about people who are in close proximity to the person.   "Later on (if) this person turns out to be coronavirus positive, then you can go back in time and identify all those people in the 10-15 days' period who were close to this person and make sure that they are all assessed properly, at least those in close proximity first. This allows you to isolate even those who were not symptomatic and who may have been positive," he said, adding that this may help in curbing the disease. He noted that this is being done through a mobile application called Aarogya Setu. "As the economic lockdown is lifted and we get back into our economic activity, this allows us to go into a situation when you can get an e-pass and know whether you are digitally safe," he added. The Aarogya Setu mobile app, developed for tracking coronavirus patients, has been developed under a committee set up by the Prime Minister's Office with active involvement of the Niti Aayog and Ministry of Electronics and IT. It also alerts people about coronavirus patients in their vicinity. The 13-lakh strong Indian Army and public service broadcaster Prasar Bharati are among the government entities that have recommended to their staff to use the coronavirus tracking mobile application 'Aarogya Setu' which recorded around five crore downloads within 13 days of its launch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-govts-principal-scientific-advisor-pitches-for-substantial-testing-digital-contact-tracing-826337.html
17-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 17, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.  Stay healthy, stay safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-17-2020-edition-826330.html
17-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 17||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 14,376 as of April 17.  States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 462 Meghalaya: 1 Andhra Pradesh: 14 Assam: 1 Bihar: 2 Delhi: 42 Gujarat: 41 Haryana: 3 Himachal Pradesh: 2 Jammu and Kashmir: 5 Jharkhand: 2 Karnataka: 13 Kerala: 3 Madhya Pradesh: 57 Maharashtra: 194 Odisha: 1 Punjab: 13 Rajasthan: 11 Tamil Nadu: 15 Telangana: 18 Uttar Pradesh: 14 West Bengal: 10 Coronavirus in India: States/UTs with confirmed positive cases (Details are updated as we receive information) Maharashtra: 3,320 Delhi: 1,710 Tamil Nadu: 1,323 Rajasthan: 1,229 Madhya Pradesh: 1,308 Gujarat: 1,099 Uttar Pradesh: 846 Telangana: 766 Andhra Pradesh: 572 Kerala: 395 Karnataka: 353 Jammu and Kashmir: 314 West Bengal: 255 Haryana: 214 Punjab: 186 Bihar: 83 Odisha: 60 Uttarakhand: 40 Himachal Pradesh: 37 Chhattisgarh: 36 Assam: 35 Jharkhand: 32 Chandigarh: 21 Ladakh: 18 Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 11 Puducherry: 7 Goa: 7 Meghalaya: 9 Manipur: 2 Tripura: 2 Mizoram: 1 Arunachal Pradesh: 1 Nagaland: 1 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 1515 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-17-826340.html
17-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: India joins Germany, France, others to support WHO; subtly disapproves US move against it||India has joined Germany, France and 22 other nations in endorsing the World Health Organization (WHO) as the “backbone” of the efforts to contain the COVID-19 pandemic – signaling that it had no intention to rally behind the United States, which launched a tirade against the international agency.  The Foreign Ministers and the senior diplomats of the 25 member-nations of the “Alliance for Multilateralism” had a video-conference on Thursday to discuss the ways to strengthen the “key international organisations” in the efforts to contain the virus, which infected nearly two million people and killed over 1,30,000 of them so far around the world. “What we need now is more international coordination, not less,” German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said after the video-conference, which was convened by him and his French counterpart Jean-Yves Le Drian.   External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar did not participate in the “Alliance for Multilateralism” video-conference, but senior diplomat Vikas Swarup, Secretary (West) at the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), represented India. “A priority is to strengthen key international organisations so that the crisis can be brought under control,” Maas was quoted saying in a post on the official website of the Federal Foreign Office of Germany. “The Alliance for Multilateralism is therefore supporting the call issued by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres for a worldwide ceasefire, as well as the work of the World Health Organization (WHO) as a key coordinator of the efforts to tackle the pandemic.”   “We need to strengthen international organizations – especially @UN and @WHO. Weakening the @WHO now would be like throwing the pilot out of the plane during a flight. We agreed on this at the meeting of the Alliance for Multilateralism,” Mass posted on Twitter. Germany and France led the “Alliance of Multilateralism” to support the WHO just after the US President Donald Trump suspended funding to the agency accusing it of “severely mismanaging and covering up the spread” of the COVID-19 virus from China. The COVID-19 virus was previously unknown before the outbreak began at Wuhan in China in December 2019. Trump criticised the WHO for not recommending restrictions on travel from China to the US and other nations for several days after the COVID-19 outbreak was reported in the communist country. India indicated that it would not support any move to put the WHO under scanner at a time when the international organisation should instead be allowed to do its job of coordinating the global effort to contain the pandemic. A source in New Delhi stated that the “question” on the WHO’s role could be revisited once the world would have had addressed the crisis. Germany and France were, however, more candid in disapproving the US move to suspend funding to the WHO. “Blaming others won't help. The virus knows no borders,” Maas tweeted on Wednesday. “One of the best investments is to strengthen the UN, above all the under-financed WHO, for the development and distribution of tests and vaccines.” France too expressed regret over the US move against the WHO. The video-conference of the Alliance for Multilateralism on Thursday saw more nations coming out to support the WHO – tacitly disapproving the US campaign against the organisation. “(The) UN and (the) WHO need our strong support,” Pekka Havisto, Foreign Minister of Finland, tweeted after the virtual meeting.  New Delhi did not make public the statement Swarup, the MEA Secretary (West), presented during the video-conference of the Alliance for Multilateralism. He, however, tweeted that “improvements in global health governance and multilateral institutions to fight the pandemic” were discussed at the virtual meet. French and German Foreign Ministers had launched the “Alliance for Multilateralism” on April 2, 2019. It is an informal coalition of countries to protect multilateralism at a time of growing nationalism and protectionism around the world. The launch of the coalition itself was a response to the US President’s “America First” policies and his decisions to slash American Government’s funding for multilateral organisations like the United Nation as well as to pull out from bodies like the United Nations Human Rights Council and United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation and from pacts like the Paris Climate Agreement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-joins-germany-france-others-to-support-who-subtly-disapproves-us-move-against-it-826341.html
17-04-2020||National||Encounter breaks out between security forces, militants in J&K's Shopian||An encounter broke out between security forces and militants in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian district on Friday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the Dairoo area of Shopian in south Kashmir on Friday following specific information about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants fired upon security forces, who retaliated. The gunfight is on, the official said, adding further details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-militants-in-jks-shopian-826366.html
17-04-2020||National||Death toll due to COVID-19 touches 437; cases climb to 13,387||The death toll due to coronavirus rose to 437 and the number of cases to 13,387 in the country on Friday, according to the Union Health Ministry. While the number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 11,201, as many as 1,748 people have been cured and discharged, and one had migrated, it said. The total number of positive cases includes 76 foreign nationals. Seventeen deaths have been reported since Thursday evening -- seven from Maharashtra, six from Delhi, three from West Bengal and one from Tamil Nadu. Of the total 437 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 194 fatalities, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 53, Delhi 38, Gujarat 36 and Telengana 18. Tamil Nadu has reported 15 deaths while Andhra Pradesh has 14 deaths. Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka have reported 13 deaths each. West Bengal has registered ten fatalities. Four persons have lost lives in Jammu and Kashmir. Kerala, Haryana and Rajasthan have recorded three deaths each. Jharkhand has reported two deaths. Meghalaya, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Assam reported one fatality each, according to the health ministry's latest data. However, a PTI tally of figures reported by various states as on Thursday evening showed at least 444 deaths. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of deaths announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states. According to the ministry's data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 3,205, followed by Delhi at 1,640 and Tamil Nadu at 1,267. COVID-19 cases have gone up to 1,131 in Rajasthan, followed by 1,120 in Madhya Pradesh, 930 in Gujarat and 805 in Uttar Pradesh. Telengana has 700 cases, followed by Andhra Pradesh at 534 and Kerala at 395. The number of novel coronavirus cases has risen to 315 in Karanataka, 314 in Jammu and Kashmir, 255 in West Bengal, 205 in Haryana and 186 in Punjab.  Bihar has reported 80 cases and Odisha 60. Thirty-seven people were infected with the virus in Uttarakhand, while Himachal Pradesh and Assam have registered 35 cases each. Chhattisgarh have registered 33 cases, Jharkhand 28, Chandigarh 21 and Ladakh 18. Eleven cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Meghalaya, Goa and Puducherry have reported seven COVID-19 infections each. Manipur and Tripura have two cases each, while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported a case each. "State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation," the ministry said on its website. The website also mentions that a COVID-19 patient from Nagaland has been shifted to Assam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-due-to-covid-19-touches-437-cases-climb-to-13387-826389.html
17-04-2020||National||L&T to donate personnel protective equipment, N95 masks, other medical equipment amid coronavirus crisis||To help India fight against COVID-19 pandemic, Larsen & Toubro will provide medical aid worth Rs 40 crore comprising of PPEs, N95 masks, diagnostic kits and other medical equipments, a top company official said on Friday. This will be in addition to the Rs 500 crore provision per month by the engineering giant for providing support to 160,000 contract labour spread across the country and donation of Rs 150 crore to the PM-CARES Fund announced on March 30. The company will provide 45,000 PPEs, 151,000 N95 masks and 155 diagnostic kits. The value of the medical aid to combat deadly coronavirus is estimated at about Rs 40 crore. "As a responsible corporate citizen, we are providing the PPEs, diagnostic kits, N95 masks and critical hospital equipment including ventilators that will be helpful in effectively combating the pandemic", SN Subrahmanyan, CEO & MD, Larsen & Toubro told PTI. The conglomerate plans to donate Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) to various healthcare organisations under State governments of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Assam and Telangana. It plans to donate 151,000 N-95 masks to health agencies in Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, he said.  The company has already handed over 100 semi fowler beds with matresses, 2 ventilators, 7 bipap ventilators and 20 multiparameter monitors to Tamil Nadu Health Department-run The King Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research, Chennai. The institute will further receive 8 ventilators from L&T shortly, he said adding, the company also plans to donate 12 ventilators for state health authorities in Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. L&T is sourcing 155 make-in-India test kits - capable of conducting 15,500 tests - developed by Pune-based molecular diagnostic company, Mylab Discovery Solutions to be donated to Central government and state governments. Each kit can conduct 100 tests and is capable of detecting infection in 2.5 hours as opposed to other imported kits that take longer duration. The move assumes significance in the wake of shortage of testing kits and short supplies of equipment. As the daily wage earners are facing problems during the lockdown, L&T has also provided grocery kits to 1,966 families and cooked meals were provided to 8,000 people in Mumbai through its NGO partners. Also, the company is providing 2,000 meals per day for 2 weeks to doctors, sanitation workers, stranded families in public hospitals in Chennai, as per information. Additionally, 20,000 meals are being provided to migrant workers and labourers in the state capital of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lt-to-donate-personnel-protective-equipment-n95-masks-other-medical-equipment-amid-coronavirus-crisis-826412.html
17-04-2020||National||Govt allows further relaxations in nationwide coronavirus lockdown||The government has further relaxed COVID-19 lockdown measures, especially in rural India, by allowing harvesting of bamboo, coconut and functioning of cooperative credit societies as well as permitting tribals to collect and harvest non-timber produce in forest areas. The order on further relaxations issued by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla came on Thursday, a day after the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued exhaustive guidelines for the extended period of lockdown till May 3, during which it allowed opening up of economic activities but with restrictions. Resumption of services can start from April 20, provided the states come up with Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in these sectors. In a further leg up for the plantation sector, the new order allowed the "harvesting, processing, packaging, sale and marketing" of bamboo, coconut, cocoa and spices. This is expected to be a boost for the plantation sector as the April 15 guidelines had already allowed operations of tea, coffee and rubber plantations with a maximum of 50 per cent workers.   The MHA has also now sought to include tribals, who were left out in the first set of guidelines, by allowing them to collect, harvest and process Minor Forest Produce (MFP)/non-timber Forest Produce (NTFP) by Scheduled Tribes and other forest dwellers. Expanding the scope of construction activities in rural areas, the order has included water supply and sanitation, laying and erection of power transmission lines and laying of telecom optical fibre and cable along with related activities. Keeping in mind the demands of financial sector, the MHA also allowed functioning of non-banking financial institutions (NBFCs), including Housing Finance Companies (HFCs) and Micro Finance Companies (NBFC--MFIs), with bare minimum staff. It has also now permitted the functioning of Cooperative Credit Societies. Only RBI, RBI regulated financial markets, banks, ATMs, IT vendors for banking operations, SEBI, capital and debt market services, IRDAI and Insurance companies were allowed to function so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-allows-further-relaxations-in-nationwide-coronavirus-lockdown-826425.html
17-04-2020||National||Two militants killed in Kashmir’s Shopian||Two unidentified militants were killed in an encounter with security forces and militants in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Friday morning. Police said on specific inputs about the presence of militants in Dairoo Keegam area of Shopian, 58 km from here, a joint team of army’s 44 Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a Cordon-And-Search Operation (CASO) in the area. “As the forces intensified searches, hiding militants fired upon which was retaliated, triggering an encounter,” a police spokesperson said and added during the exchange of fire, two militants were killed. The identity and group affiliation of the slain militants were not known immediately. Reports said as the encounter ended, security forces launched another CASO in nearby Mughal Pora village. The village is just one kilometer away from the encounter site. “There is a possibility that one militant may have fled from the encounter site and may be hiding in the village,” sources said. Amid coronavirus pandemic, the militancy incidents and ceasefire violations along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir have seen a rise in recent weeks with six security personnel, 12 militants and eight civilians killed. Amid ceasefire violations, Army Chief General MM Naravane arrived in Kashmir on Thursday on a two-day visit to review the security situation along the borders and hinterland. During his interaction with troops in Kashmir, the army chief reiterated the need to be prepared to meet emerging security challenges at all times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-militants-killed-in-kashmir-s-shopian-826428.html
17-04-2020||National||RBI measures will enhance liquidity, says PM Modi||Amid mounting migrant problem,  Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday hailed the decisions of RBI including extending Rs 25000 crore credit facility to NABARD, saying it will farmers and the poor while Home Minister Amit Shah said Modi government is ensuring a minimum disruption in people’s lives while planning for a strong and stable India in days ahead. BJP chief J P Nadda said the RBI’s announcements on providing liquidity and improving credit flow will help protect the livelihoods of the Indian people. The International Commission of Jurists on Friday called on the Indian government to take effective measures to mitigate the “disproportionate impact of the lockdown on internal migrant workers” and guarantee the right to a minimum adequate standard of living to all, in line with India’s international obligations and Indian law.  “While the measures are taken by the Government so far are important, they have proved inadequate. The Government’s efforts need to be targeted towards internal migrant workers and respond to the multiple layers of discrimination and risks they face,” said Maitreyi Gupta, ICJ India International Legal Advisor.  “Today’s announcements by RBI will greatly enhance liquidity and improve credit supply. These steps would help our small businesses, MSMEs, farmers and the poor. It will also help all states by increasing WMA limits,” said Modi.  Home Minister Shah meanwhile said the RBI’s decision to extend Rs 25000 crore credit facility to NABARD will greatly help our farmers, Rs 15,000 crore to SIDBI will provide much needed financial stability to MSMEs and startups, boost the Make in India program, Rs10,000 core to NHB and liquidity measures for Banks & NBFCs will help too. Shah claimed Modi government is leaving no stone unturned in this fight against COVID-19, ensuring a minimum disruption in people’s lives while planning for a strong and stable India in days ahead. Steps taken by RBI today, to boost the Indian economy, further reinforce PM Narendra Modi’s vision. Nadda said under the leadership of Modi, the government is taking all necessary steps to help the economy cope with this crisis during COVID-19.  He said the RBI’s announcements today on providing liquidity and improving credit flow will help protect the livelihoods of the Indian people. “Today's announcement by RBI is in line with the vision of our PM to take steps which are business and people-friendly. RBI had already taken some big steps on March 27. These steps will go a long way to help PM Modi's effort to keep the economy strong during & after the pandemic,” Nadda said. The Bank cut the reverse repo rate and announced a slew of measures including re-finance window of Rs 50,000 crore and targeted long term repo auction of a similar amount to deal with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-measures-will-enhance-liquidity-says-pm-modi-826448.html
17-04-2020||National||COVID-19 positive patient dies in Srinagar, toll reaches 5 in J&K||A COVID-19 patient died at a Srinagar hospital on Friday taking the COVID-19 related death toll to five in Jammu and Kashmir. Medical superintendent of JVC hospital in Srinagar Dr. Shafia Deva said that a 70-year-old patient from Sopore area of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district, who was admitted before 10 days, expired on Friday morning. She said at present around 95 COVID-19 patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital. Pertinently with the latest death of COVID-19 patient, the toll in J&K Union Territory reached five. To recall, on 8 April, a 61-year-old lady from Udhampur died at a Jammu hospital while on 7 April, a 54-year-old man from north Kashmir’s Bandipora died at SMHS hospital in Srinagar.  On 29 March, a 50-year-old man from Baramulla died at CD hospital in Srinagar while four days prior, a 65-year-old Tableegi Jamaat preacher from Hyderpora in Srinagar became the first COVID casualty in J&K.  Till April 16 evening, the number of people testing positive for novel coronavirus in Jammu and Kashmir had reached 314. While the first case was reported in J&K on March 18, there were very few cases for a couple of weeks. However, it began to rise in the first week of April breaching 100 cases on April 5. The next 100 reached rapidly, in just five days, on April 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-positive-patient-dies-in-srinagar-toll-reaches-5-in-jk-826450.html
17-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Disappointed with RBI announcements, need more measures to help poor, says Congress||The Congress expressed disappointment over the announcements made by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday to support the economy, saying the government should take more measures to mitigate the problems of the poor people suffering due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken claimed the measures announced by the RBI would not help all those who are suffering due to the crisis caused by the virus and said the country's central bank should introduce more measures. "The announcements made by the RBI have no meaning. The Congress and people are disappointed with the announcements. The government should take more measures to mitigate the problems of the poor and the vulnerable," he said at a press conference held via video link. The RBI has further eased bad-loan rules, froze dividend payment by lenders and pushed banks to lend more by cutting the reverse repo rate by 25 basis points, as it unveiled a second set of measures to support the economy hit hard by a coronavirus-led slowdown. In his second televised address since the nationwide lockdown began from March 25, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das also pledged to boost liquidity and expand bank credit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-disappointed-with-rbi-announcements-need-more-measures-to-help-poor-says-congress-826467.html
17-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Parcel trains bring revenue to railways||The earnings of the India Railways from the passenger segment became nil due to the suspension of passenger train services due to COVID-19, but the national transporter is earning revenue from parcel trains, which are carrying essential items. The railways operating 507 parcel trains on 67 routes across the country and so for it transported 20,400 tonne of consignments.  The railways earned about  Rs 7.54 crores from parcel trains since March 24, said, railway official. The railways ensured parcel vans available for quick transportation of essential items in small parcel sizes to supplement the supply chain during the lockdown, said the official.  Essential items including medical supplies, medical equipment, food, milk powder in small parcel sizes are going to be very important during the lockdown in the wake of COVID-19. In order to fill in this vital need, Indian Railways has made railway parcel vans available for quick mass transportation by E-Commerce entities and other customers including State governments, said the official. The national transporter also decided to run time-tabled Parcel Special trains on select routes, to ensure uninterrupted supply connecting between major cities of the country, including Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and  Hyderabad. Earning of the railways already take hit due to suspension of passengers trains. It has to forgo around Rs 1,490 crore revenue due to cancellation of 94 lakh tickets booked for travel between March 24 to May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-parcel-trains-bring-revenue-to-railways-826468.html
17-04-2020||National||New portable UV racket can disinfect surfaces just by waving||Researchers have developed a portable racket with ultraviolet (UV) light which they say can disinfect almost every surface -- from groceries, e-commerce packets, keys, currency notes to vehicles -- simply by waving the device over them, and may help in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The 80-centimetre-long racket comprises of an oval head which has tubes of UVC -- ultraviolet light with wavelengths between 200-280 nanometres -- embedded on the one side, the researchers said. The other side of the device is covered with a metallic sheet to shield the person holding it from bodily contact with harmful UVC rays, they said. "The current pandemic has shown that we need to be more vigilant about our safety and should ideally disinfect anything that we carry from outside into our homes," Mandeep Singh, an assistant professor at Lovely Professional University (LPU) in Punjab, told PTI.  "Our UV racket is a perfect solution to achieve this. Whether it is keys, bags, food delivery or e-commerce packets; one needs to wave the racket over them just for a few minutes to disinfect them,” Singh said. The researchers explained that all one needs to do is to wave the racket over the surfaces while holding it at a distance of 4-5 inches from the object for 60 seconds to disinfect it. The racket is also equipped with an object movement identification feature, which means the device shuts the sanitising process if it observes any human intervention, to avoid any harm to the human skin, they said. The racket has been fitted with a timer which beeps after 60 seconds when sanitisation is complete, said Anant Kumar Rajput, a B. Tech student at LPU, who developed the racket under the guidance of Singh and project officer Ruhul Amin Choudhury. Once the disinfected item is sanitised with the UV rays, users can touch or hold the product immediately, said Rajput. The racket can run either on electricity or using an inbuilt battery which can be recharged in half an hour, and can provide power for 15 minutes. The team has filed a patent for the racket and is looking for industrial partners for its commercialisation, adding the racket would then be available for Rs. 1,000. "We are confident once the racket hits the market, consumers will find it very useful," Singh added. Research has shown that UV light can penetrate the cells of pathogens, and damage the DNA or RNA that contain their genetic code. UV can also damage the amino acids and proteins that either protect the virus or allow it to attach to and infect a host cell, studies have found. According to the World Health Organization, UVC is the highest-energy category of ultraviolet light, and is also the most damaging. The UV light used in medical disinfection devices is a particular wavelength of UVC, WHO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-portable-uv-racket-can-disinfect-surfaces-just-by-waving-826469.html
17-04-2020||National||Pandemic and disaster stories on screen: to see or to not see, that is the question||Art imitates life most times but what happens when life mimics the movies, echoing doomsday scenarios being played out in reality? As the COVID-29 pandemic spreads across the world, films such as Hollywood blockbuster “Contagion” and the Malayalam thriller “The Virus” are back in our ‘entertainment’ reckoning and people are either fleeing or flocking to them. They are either fans or not -- few maybes in these days when much of the world has shut down to ward off the disease, which has infected more than two million people and claimed more than 1,37,000 lives.   Steven Soderberg's 2011 eerily prescient medical thriller "Contagion", which deals with a deadly virus that is spread through a bat, is bang in the middle of the debate. To some, it is an uncomfortable reminder of a grim present and a grimmer future. For others, it is about hope. "Soderberg dealt with everything in-depth and my take away from it was one about hope. I know that a cure for COVID-19 will come sooner or later," said Rakhi, a homemaker. Khusboo Bhatia, a senior executive at an MNC, said she prefers rom-coms these days and wants to stay away from films that echo the present. "I haven’t watched 'Contagion', more so because of the reviews received by people who have watched it and the uncanny resemblance to the current situation in countries affected the most,” she said. Soderberg's film starts in China and shows the virus spreading worldwide, exacting a toll of over 25 million people. As COVID-19 travelled from China to Iran, Italy, Spain, France and across the world, the film also saw a surge in viewership across many platforms. It emerged as one of the most watched films on Amazon Prime Video and was the seventh most viewed movie on iTunes in March in the US.  According to a recent paper released by piracy analytics company MUSO, "Contagion" saw a jump from 546 visits on January 7 to 30,418 visits by January 31 on piracy streaming sites. The film's pirated download saw a surge of whopping 5,609 per cent in the month. Figures for the following months are not available yet. Malayalam filmmaker Aashiq Abu’s 2019 "The Virus" is not fiction but documents recent history with many parallels to the present. It focuses on the 2018 Nipah virus outbreak in Kerala that claimed the lives of 17 people. It documents how Kerala responded quickly to contain the outbreak and a group of doctors worked round the clock to contact trace those infected by it. It also talks about the Islamophobia because of the index victim. Kerala has come in for praise for its handling of the coronavirus pandemic. The debate over the pandemic has taken on communal overtones in many parts of the country. Long before "Contagion" and "Virus" was the Morgan Stanley-Dustin Hoffman starrer "Outbreak". The 1995 feature was about a group of CDC scientists racing against time to stop the spread of a new viral hemorrhagic disease. The film added a plot twist about an army general who wants to use the disease as a bio-weapon against the enemies of the US. Terry Gilliam's cult classic "12 Monkeys" released the same year.   The movie is about a man (Bruce Willis) who travels back in time to stop the group, called Army of the Twelve Monkeys, from releasing a deadly virus that has nearly wiped the whole humanity. In 2013 came South Korean thriller "The Flu", chronicling the spread of a highly dangerous strain of H5N1 virus in the city of Bundang. There are many other films dealing with pandemics, zombie outbreaks or, in the case of “Chernobyl”, retracing a nuclear disaster and the government’s poor response to it. HBO's 2019 hit series tells the stories of the first responders to the nuclear disaster in 1986. Will Smith's "I am Legend", Milla Jovovich's "Resident Evil" films, Pitt's World War Z", Danny Boyle's "28 Days Later" and its sequel "28 Weeks Later", and South Korean hit "Train to Busan" are some of the best-remembered movies in the genre. On the TV front, shows such as "Walking Dead", its spinoff "Fear the Walking Dead", Netflix series "Kingdom" and National Geographic's miniseries "The Hot Zone", based on Richard Preston’s book of the same name, dealt with an outbreak of a contagious disease. Not everyone is a fan though. Sidaq Batra, a film aficionado, said movies dealing with doom and gloom are the last thing he wants to watch now. "I don't look forward to doomsday films, only for the reason that everything seems to be doomed," he added. Sharing similar views, Shubham Pandey, a journalist, said he would rather focus on finding interesting movies from previous years. Raj Nidimuro, who co-directed the 2013 movie "Go Goa Gone" about a zombie outbreak, said he has consciously taken a decision to cut off scary and negative things. "These films will make you think even more. Instead, I am watching regular grounded shows. I have also cut off seeing news and reading on social media about all the articles that are written. The news anyways is coming to me. So I don’t want to overindulge in the news," he added. Like many others, "Thappad" co-writer Mrunmayee Lagoo Waikul is also indulging in content that will keep her happy.   "I'm watching light stuff because the news is horrifying enough. We are already in it and to watch all of that…," she said. Mexican star Diego Luna, best known for his turn as a drug mafia in “Narcos: Mexico” and Steven Spielberg’s “The Terminal”, said he watched “Chernobyl” during his self-isolation and it was “terrifying”. In an Instagram live chat with IndieWire’s Eric Kohn, Luna, who is back home in the Mexico city, said the response to COVID-19 by governments is similar to what happened with Chernobyl. "I remember in London one day before we were told it was time to go home, I tried to watch ‘Chernobyl’ and it was such a big mistake. Terrifying! I was seeing the reaction of so many governments to COVID-19 represented in that show. "That beginning of the show where the authorities say no, no, nothing’s happening, everything’s under control. It sounded so much like what we were living in," Luna said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-and-disaster-stories-on-screen-to-see-or-to-not-see-that-is-the-question-826481.html
17-04-2020||National||Fact-check: Video of women spitting inside houses in Rajasthan’s Kota amidst coronavirus lockdown given false Muslim angle||On April 13, several media outlets carried reports on a CCTV footage of a group of women spitting in front of houses in Rajasthan’s Kota. Mainstream media reported it as a ‘conspiracy of spitting’. It is noteworthy that the government has imposed a complete ban on public spitting and public urination in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Soon after the video was aired by leading channel, several prominent social media users picked it up and shared it with an anti-Muslim angle. Twitter user Deepak Sharma, who is followed by BJP Delhi spokesperson Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga, tweeted the clip with the following caption: “#थूकलमानो का नया कारनामा सुनो पॉलिथीन में थूककर लोगों के घरों में फेंक रही बुरकेवालियाँ हद है जाहिलों – क्या ये सब देखकर तुम लोगों का ज़मीर न थूकता तुमपर कि कैसे थुकैले मज़हब में जन्म हो गया तुम्हारा.” This translates to: “Listen to the new deed of #Thukalmano (a wordplay on ‘Musalmano’) burqa-clad women are collecting their spittle in polyethene bags and throwing them inside houses. The uncivilised has crossed limits…” पॉलिथीन में थूककर लोगों के घरों में फेंक रही बुरकेवालियाँ Women being used to throw spit inside houses in Kota, Rajasthan. Fact-check “The five women, identified as Mala Bawari (30), Anariya Bawari (65), Dulari Bawari (35), Asha Bawari (35) and Chanda Bawari (20), residents of Bapu Kacchi Basti in Kunhari, were on Tuesday produced before the court that ordered to send them to jail under 14-day judicial custody,” SHO Gumanpura Manoj Sikarwar has been quoted in the report. TV9 Bharatvasrh aired a video report on the incident which carries a statement by SP Gaurav Yadav: “We traced the women within 24 hours and rounded them up for investigation. The women are residents of Kunhari area and hail from the Bawari community. They beg for alms in the area. They spat after being denied alms. Till now we haven’t found any link with corona, the reason being that no positive cases have been reported in the area. The area where positive cases were reported is quite far.”  A local channel ‘Kota News’ also carried a video report along similar lines. The channel spoke with SHO Sikarwar who said that the investigation has not found that the act was carried out to spread coronavirus.  Therefore, the CCTV footage was first sensationalised by the media and subsequently communalised on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-video-of-women-spitting-inside-houses-in-rajasthan-s-kota-amidst-coronavirus-lockdown-given-false-muslim-angle-826484.html
17-04-2020||National||Nitin Gadkari, Piyush Goyal hail RBI measures to prop up coronavirus-hit economy||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said that "bold and forward looking" policy interventions by the RBI shall provide a much-needed boost to the economy. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) cut the reverse repo rate and announced a slew of measures including re-finance window of Rs 50,000 crore and targetted long term repo auction of similar amount to deal with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Besides, it has been decided that the NPA classification norms will exclude the 3-month moratorium window that banks are allowed to give on loan repayments, to ease the worries of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) that are in danger of becoming bad loan accounts.  "I specially thank RBI for their special focus on MSME and providing 50,000 cr for refinancing of MSMEs through SIDBI, NABARD & NHB. The extension of loan classification to 180 days for stressed assists shall address to NPA's issue, " the Minister for MSME and Road Transport and Highways Gadkari tweeted.  In another tweet, he said: "State governments are under severe liquidity crunch, increasing of WMA limit by 60 per cent shall help state governments garner more resources".  Commerce and Industry Minister Goyal also took to micro blogging site Twitter to express his views on the FBI's announcements.  "Given the visionary steps taken under the leadership of PM @narendramodi ji to protect the lives of the people, today's steps by RBI to support the economy will provide liquidity for growth & help India emerge as a world leader in a post COVID-19 world," Goyal tweeted.  He said the exclusion of moratorium period from 90 days NPA norm will help borrowers, while simultaneously the health of banks is being maintained through 10 per cent higher provisioning and stopping dividends for the year. Union Minister for Textiles and Women and Child Development Irani tweeted that the "announcements aimed at ensuring adequate liquidity, facilitating bank credit flows & enabling normal functioning of markets, will significantly ease financial stress & eventually strengthen India's growth & progress". The central bank's Governor Shaktikanta Das assured that RBI will use all instruments at its disposal to deal with the challenges posed by the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, depending on evolving situations. This is not the last of the announcements, and based on evolving situations, the central bank will come up with responses in the future in the interest of the economy, he said. In a video message, Das said in order to encourage banks to deploy the surplus funds in investments and loans in productive sectors of the economy, it has been decided to reduce the fixed rate reverse repo rate under the liquidity adjustment facility (LAF) by 25 basis points from 4 per cent to 3.75 per cent with immediate effect. The reverse repo rate is the rate banks earn by parking deposits with the RBI. Surplus liquidity in the banking system has risen significantly in the wake of government spending and the various liquidity enhancing measures undertaken by the RBI, Das noted. He also said that it has been decided to conduct targeted long-term repo operations (TLTRO 2.0) for an aggregate amount of Rs 50,000 crore, to begin with, in tranches of appropriate sizes. Das announced special refinance facilities for a total amount of Rs 50,000 crore to Nabard, Sidbi and National Housing Bank (NHB) to enable them to meet sectoral credit needs. To provide greater comfort to the states for undertaking COVID-19 containment and mitigation efforts, the RBI announced a 30 per cent increase in the ways and means advances limit. It has been decided that in respect of all accounts for which lending institutions decide to grant moratorium or deferment, and which were standard as on March 1, 2020, the 90-day NPA norm shall exclude the moratorium period, i.e., there would an asset classification standstill for all such accounts from March 1, 2020 to May 31, 2020. Pointing out that the RBI is monitoring all macro parameters on a continuous basis, he said, economic activity has come to standstill during lockdown. The impact of COVID-19 is not captured in the index of industrial production (IIP) data for February, he said, adding that the contraction in exports in March at 34.6 per cent is much more severe than global financial crisis of 2008-09.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitin-gadkari-piyush-goyal-hail-rbi-measures-to-prop-up-coronavirus-hit-economy-826493.html
17-04-2020||National||Domestic violence on rise in lockdown period: NCW||As the COVID-19 lockdown entered the fourth week, all is not well when it comes to women. Instances of domestic violence are on the rise in the country, with the National Commission of Women (NCW) suggesting an almost 100% increase in such incidents during the lockdown as more and more people are staying at home or working from home. An analysis of calls and complaints received by the NCW for 25 days between March 23 and April 16 showed 239 incidents, compared to 123 received during the previous 25 days (February 27 to March 22). The country initially went into a complete lockdown from March 25 to April 14, which has now been extended to May 3. As a rising trend was noticed, NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma had launched a dedicated WhatsApp number 721 77 35 372 on April 10 to report domestic violence to help women who are not able to access the online portal to register a complaint. At least 40 women have approached the NCW with complaints since its launch. According to the NCW, the situation around the COVID-19 pandemic across India and lockdown has bought several challenges for women like mental stress, home-schooling, work-from-home, household works, and also experience domestic violence.  Activist Anuradha Kapoor, who works with NGO Swayam, said, lockdown orders have been issued to safeguard one’s safety and that of others. However, for countless women and children living in situations of domestic violence, the lockdown fails to ensure their safety, instead, it exacerbates the violence they face." The analysis of NCW showed that there was a 48.23% rise in the number of complaints related to gender-based violence it received during the lockdown till April 16 compared to 25 days prior to March 23. If it received 396 complaints from February 27 to March 22, the numbers rose to 587 in the next 25 days of which domestic violence accounted for 40.71% of the cases. Next to domestic violence comes complaints filed under the head 'right to live with dignity', which rose from 117 to 166 during this period. Complaints related to cybercrime has also increased from 20 to 33 while those related to dowry harassment has recorded a small decline from 44 to 37. (ENDS) Complaints received by NCW February 27 – March 22 March 23 – April 16 Cyber Crime Against Women 20 33 Outraging the Modesty of Women 25 15 Police Apathy against Women 19 20 Right to Live with Dignity 117 166 Domestic Violence 123 239* TOTAL 396 587 *Including 40 complaints received via dedicated WhatsApp number since April 10||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-violence-on-rise-in-lockdown-period-ncw-826498.html
17-04-2020||National||Tamil Nadu receives first set of COVID-19 rapid test kits||Tamil Nadu, which currently stands at the third position in the number of COVID-19 patients, on Friday received 24,000 rapid test kits from China that can deliver results of the blood tests in just half-hour. The kits are part of the order placed by the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC), the medical procurement agency of the state government. The kits reached New Delhi from Guangzhou province in China on Thursday and were flown to Chennai on Friday morning. The rapid test kits are extremely crucial for Tamil Nadu to carry out tests in the containment zones, basically the areas where positive COVID-19 patients reside. These kits were delayed by a week as the first consignment was sent to the US. “The first set of rapid test kits numbering 24,000 have come to Tamil Nadu. We had ordered these kits to perform COVID-19 tests faster to contain its spread,” Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami tweeted. A senior official with the Directorate of Health Services told DH that the rapid test kits will be used to screen the primary and secondary contacts of COVID-19 patients in the state and to screen people with influenza-like illness (ILI). “We will be putting these kits to use in containment zones. We plan to test all primary and secondary contacts of the positive patients. Since we expect more kits to arrive, we will have no issues in exhausting these kits. The testing will be ramped up now,” the official said. He maintained that the rapid test kits will be used for screening purposes and any positive case will be confirmed by an RT-PCR test, considered the gold standard by doctors and experts. He said the guidelines for using these kits are being drafted and will be put in the public domain by Saturday. Besides the 24,000, the state is also expected to get another 12,000 kits from the Centre’s quota for Tamil Nadu.  Currently, the state follows the PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test that uses a nasal or throat swab for screening, but results take more than five to six hours. The rapid test kits can deliver results in half-hour thus reducing the time in diagnostics and since they are quite mobile in nature, they can be carried easily by health professionals. The government is also buying more RT-PCR kits as it feels they are an integral part of its “aggressive testing strategy.” It currently has 24,000 RT-PCR kits and expects another 90,000 to arrive soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-receives-first-set-of-covid-19-rapid-test-kits-826503.html
17-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Didn’t stop even for tea, says BJP MP who drove from Delhi to Ranchi||At least two BJP MPs, both Lok Sabha members from Jharkhand, are in the eye of the storm for driving more than 1000 kilometres during the lockdown. While one BJP MP, PN Singh, reached his parliamentary constituency Dhanbad from New Delhi on Sunday, the other parliamentarian from Ranchi, Sanjay Seth reached the Jharkhand capital on Monday late night at 11.30 pm. After much hue and cry was raised about their travel by road during the lockdown period, the Jharkhand Health Department on Thursday asked both the law-makers to undergo home quarantine for 14 days. “I did not stop even to have a cup of tea while driving from New Delhi to Ranchi,” said the BJP MP from Ranchi, Sanjay Seth. “I took permission from Delhi Police Commissioner to travel from the national capital to Jharkhand capital,” said Seth, arguing that his travel was necessitated as he wanted to help the people of his parliamentary constituency. His BJP colleague and MP from Dhanbad too had the same excuse for driving during the lockdown. “I had permission from the Delhi Police to travel. I was stopped at 20 to 25 places for questioning by the cops. Everywhere I said I have to go to Dhanbad to meet my ‘janata’ (people from his constituency),” said Singh, the veteran BJP MP.  “Please make the permission letter from Delhi Police Commissioner public, so that I could also get similar permission and bring some of my acquaintances from Delhi to Ranchi,” said Congress legislator, Irfaan Ansari, questioning the claim made by the BJP MP. As the controversy snowballed, the BJP MP from Ranchi on Thursday put a notice board outside his house in the Jharkhand capital saying he was “under home quarantine and will meet after May 3.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-didn-t-stop-even-for-tea-says-bjp-mp-who-drove-from-delhi-to-ranchi-826504.html
17-04-2020||National||Child helpline 'CHILDLINE 1098' responded to 4.6 lakh calls in 21 days; most calls received during lockdown||These calls were received from March 20 to April 10, said CHILDLINE 1098, the 24x7 helpline across 571 districts for children in distress. The CHILDLINE 1098 in a statement said that 30 per cent of the calls were from the northern region, followed by 29 per cent from the western region, and 21 per cent and 20 per cent from southern and eastern regions respectively. "These calls include calls for information, active intervention, prank/crank calls, or even silent calls where the confidence building of the caller is undertaken. The helpline is providing information about COVID-19 prevention as well as referring to the relief services through district level linkages," the CHILDLINE 1098 said in a statement. A total of 9,385 interventions were also taken up on the ground by the CHILDLINE 1098 frontline workers during this period. "Of these, 30 per cent of the cases were related to the pandemic situation. Within the coronavirus-related interventions, 91 per cent of them requested for food, while 6 per cent needed medical assistance and the remaining were regarding help with transportation," the helpline said. Of these 9,385 interventions, to name a major few categories; emergency interventions for child protection aspects (protection from abuse) accounted for 20 per cent which includes preventing child marriage, physical abuse, emotional abuse, sexual abuse, trafficking, abandonment, neglect, child labour, it said. About 9 per cent of the calls were related to health aspects. Missing children and education related issues accounted for 5 per cent each, it said. "However, it is felt that a large number of children may not have had opportunities to report their distress as they may not have access to mobile phones or to their friends, teachers or other concerned adults. The helpline is planning to actively follow up on the cases of abuse reported to ensure that they are safe," the helpline said. Childline service has been identifying vulnerable children and adults like migrants, nomadic population, tribal, pavement dwellers and street children in the districts and linking them to other donors and district administration for continuation of relief services. Apart from working with the district administration, teams have been supporting the Health Department in raising awareness on COVID-19, distributing safety masks and sanitisers to 'break the chain', working with the Labour Department and down to the Panchayat level, it said. "However, communities are fast quarantining themselves, and are not allowing any outsider to enter their villages; therefore they find it difficult to rescue a child from such communities," it said. Shelter for the child rescued is also an issue in some districts as the child care institutions are hesitant to receive new children. The rehabilitation aspects are getting delayed due to lack of railways and other transport, the helpline said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/child-helpline-childline-1098-responded-to-46-lakh-calls-in-21-days-most-calls-received-during-lockdown-826506.html
17-04-2020||National||Gujarat institute identifies 3 new mutations of novel coronavirus||Researchers at the state government-run Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) have succeeded in decoding the entire genome sequence of the novel coronavirus, and identified its three new mutations, officials said on Friday. Talking to reporters, the officials expressed confidence that the findings will help in developing medicines or vaccines needed to stop the spread of the deadly virus, which has wreaked havoc across the globe. With this, the Gandhinagar-based GBRC has become the second institute in India after the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune to decode the entire genome sequence of the virus, they said. "The Gujarat government-run GBRC has become the second institute after the Pune-based NIV to decode the entire genome sequence of COVID-19 virus. Many research institutes in the country are trying to do it," state Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi said. She said the breakthrough is a matter of pride for Gujarat. "The first genome sequence of the COVID-19 virus was found by Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention in Bejing on January 10. It was made public by China. After that, the GBRC has also done it here. It has found total nine mutations in its genome sequence," she said.  "However, six of the mutations were already found by other research institutes around the world. Three mutations, out of the total nine found by the GBRC, are new and it will help in determining how the virus is changing in our conditions," Ravi added. GBRC director Chaitanya Joshi said the virus mutates so as to survive in different conditions. "We had taken the sample from a COVID-19 patient from here and worked on it," he said. "The virus mutates in order to adapt to and survive in different situations. It mutates when medicines try to control it. This virus is mutating fast," he said. "After establishing the genome sequence from one sample, our studies are on. We have collected around 100 samples from patients in different parts of Gujarat. We will analyse the genome in them and after that formulate a strategy to fight the virus," he said. Joshi said that finding out the genome sequence will help in developing medicines and vaccines to fight the virus. "We will first try out different compounds in lab test on virus. Once effective compounds are found, we can take it forward for trials," he said. "All living beings, be it humans, animals, plants or even viruses, their basic structure is found in the DNA or RNA. Many viruses have DNA or RNA (ribonucleic acid). This virus has RNA," he said. The state government officials said that the genome sequence found out the GBRC will be shared with the scientific community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-institute-identifies-3-new-mutations-of-novel-coronavirus-826517.html
17-04-2020||National||Karnataka caps COVID-19 sample test cost at Rs 2,250||In a first in the country, Karnataka has brought down the cost of testing COVID-19 samples from Rs. 4,500 (fixed by the Indian Council of Medical Research) to Rs. 2,250 per sample. A government order to this effect was issued on Friday. But private labs say they were in the dark about this and that this order comes as a shock to them. However, the reduction in testing price is not valid for all but for only to the samples sent by the government in case of government labs being burdened with a lot. A regular patient still walking into these labs with a prescription still has to pay Rs 4,500 per COVID-19 test. "There is an urgent need to bring in more and more private laboratories for testing the samples. Meetings and negotiations were held with some private laboratories for conducting COVID-19 sample testing. Based on the discussions and negotiations, the cost per test has been fixed at Rs. 2,250. This includes the screening test and a confirmatory test. The state government will not provide any of the testing kits and other accessories required for testing," said an order from Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Karnataka. Cancyte Technologies Private Limited is one of the five private labs approved for COVID-19 testing by ICMR in Karnataka. Dr. KN Sridhar, founder and Managing Director of Cancyte, Basavanagudi, told DH, "We will comply with the order since it is necessary. But it is not true that there were negotiations and discussions held with private laboratories to arrive at this cost. Nothing is surprising with this government anymore." Apollo Hospital, Bannerghatta Road, is another facility approved for COVID-19 testing in Karnataka. Dr Sahana Govindaiah, medical superintendent, Apollo Hospital, Bannerghatta Road, has two problems. One, it was kept in the dark about the price reduction and two, it is awaiting testing kits from the government when the order clearly states that the state government will not provide any testing kits to the private labs. "We got this order this morning and we were surprised because we weren't part of any discussions or negotiations. Second, the order says that the state government will not provide any testing kit but we have been waiting for these kits from the government. We don't have a real-time PCR machine, we have a GeneXpert machine which is used for testing TB. We were told when the government centres get cartridges from the Centre, we will get it too, but the order contradicts that," Govindaiah said.  Dr Kalpaja DA, Director, Vydehi Institute of Medical Sciences refused to comment. Dr Sujay Prasad, Medical Director, Neuberg Anand, "We're doing it free of cost. But the rationale of arriving at Rs. 2,250 is subjective. Vydehi said its test kit costs Rs. 2,000. But they didn't take into account the cost of PPEs and other overheads. At the same time, Sakra said it costs them anywhere between Rs. 2,500 to Rs. 3,000. Out of the four labs who charge, two came and two did not. The labs did not know the prices would be discussed. They did not have permissions from their management to convey a price." Sakra Hospital has not started testing COVID-19 samples so far. Dr Deepak Balani, Chief of Medical Services, Sakra Hospital said, "Neuberg, Vydehi and Sakra were present in this meeting with the health department. Neuberg is already offering tests for free. Despite the individual quotations given by Vydehi and Sakra, the government went ahead and fixed Rs. 2,250. They're assuming that we're running at full capacity. We haven't even started testing. Getting any test kits on our own is difficult. World over, there is a clamour for kits. I have 100 kits and will test as long as they last. The government order states that they are not going to give us test kits but we cannot test without their help in getting the kits." Neuberg Anand in Shivajinagar is already providing sample testing free of cost with the help of some charitable organisations. It has tested approximately 1,200 samples so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-caps-covid-19-sample-test-cost-at-rs-2250-826525.html
17-04-2020||National||PIL filed in Supreme Court to ensure migrant workers get food grains||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court to safeguard the right of migrant workers to get subsidised food grains during the period of lockdown, in absence of 'One Nation-One Ration Card' scheme. The plea filed by advocate Reepak Kansal asked the court to ensure food, temporary shelter and medical aid to the migrant laborers or employees or citizens who were locked in their rented premises or were in transit on roads, national highways due to lockdown introduced to contain Coronavirus. He said it was important to ensure that the poor do not go hungry even if they don't have local ration cards.   The petitioner said the scheme of “One Nation One Ration Card, announced by the central government is scheduled to start in the month of June 2020. Till the time it was implemented, steps must be taken to ensure no migrant worker remained without food.  Lakhs of migrant workers remained stuck in several states after the countrywide lockdown was announced on March 24 to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. The 21-day lockdown was subsequently extended up to May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-supreme-court-to-ensure-migrant-workers-get-food-grains-826528.html
17-04-2020||National||Containment ops to be scaled down if no secondary COVID-19 case for 4 weeks: Govt||Containment operations will be scaled down if no secondary positive case of COVID-19 is reported from a quarantine zone for at least four weeks after the last confirmed test has been isolated and all his contacts have been followed up for 28 days, the Union Health Ministry said. According to the ministry's "Updated containment plan for large outbreaks COVID-19", a containment operation (large outbreak or cluster) is deemed to be over 28 days from the date the last case in that zone tests negative. The closing of the surveillance for the clusters could be independent of one another provided there is no geographic continuity between clusters. However the surveillance will continue for severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI). States shall ensure that all required steps are taken to contain clusters within the large outbreak and chain of transmission is broken, it said. The document stated that in India also, clusters and large outbreaks have been noted in parts of the country and unless they are contained in time, the risk of further spread remains very high. Large number of cases has been reported from Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. The Centre has declared 170 hotspots ---123 hotspot districts with large outbreaks and 47 hotspot districts with clusters. Besides, it has identified 207 non-hotspot districts with clusters. In a bid to utilize the extended lockdown period to the maximum extent to contain the spread of coronavirus, states have been asked by the ministry to classify districts witnessing higher number of cases or high growth rate as hotspots, districts where some cases have been found as non-hotspots, and those which have reported no cases as green zones. According to the Health Ministry's document, "containment for large outbreaks through geographic quarantine strategy calls for near absolute interruption of movement of people to and from a relatively large defined area where there is single large outbreak or multiple foci of local transmission" of COVID-19. In simple terms, it is a barrier erected around the focus of infection. Geographic quarantine shall be applicable to such areas reporting large outbreak and/or multiple clusters of COVID-19 spread over multiple blocks of one or more districts that are contiguous based on the distribution of cases and contacts. According to the plan, the authorities will do extensive contact tracing and active search for cases in containment zone, test all suspect cases and high-risk contacts, isolate all suspect or confirmed cases, implement social distancing measures and intensive risk communication as part of the cluster containment strategy. For large outbreaks amenable to containment, the documents stated that the strategy will remain the same but vary in extent depending upon spread and response to be mounted to contain it. Geographic quarantine and containment strategy will include defining the area of operation, active surveillance for cases and contacts in the identified geographic zone, expanding laboratory capacity for testing all suspect cases, high risk contacts and SARI cases and operationalising surge capacities created for isolation (COVID-19 hospitals/blocks) to hospitalise and manage all suspect or confirmed cases. It will also include implementation of social distancing measures with strict perimeter control, providing chemoprophylaxis with hydroxychloroquine to all asymptomatic healthcare workers and asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases and further intensification of risk communication through audio, social and visual media. "The objective of this containment plan is to stop the chain of transmission thus reducing the morbidity and mortality due to COVID-19," the ministry said. The death toll due to coronavirus rose to 420 and the number of cases in the country climbed to 13,387 on Friday, according to the Union Health Ministry. However, according to a PTI tally based on reports from the states, the total number of cases was 13,201 while 1,594 patients had recovered. The death toll stood at 444. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of deaths announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/containment-ops-to-be-scaled-down-if-no-secondary-covid-19-case-for-4-weeks-govt-826533.html
17-04-2020||National||Bollywood actor and former BJP MP Paresh Rawal castigates own party leaders||It was not clear if he failed to recognise the leaders of his own party and posted the message.  Known for his strong remarks on social media on opposition leaders, Bollywood actor and former BJP MP Paresh Rawal virtually castigated the saffron party leaders for seeking publicity even in times of crisis. Rawal posted a picture on his Twitter handle showing BJP Lok Sabha member from Kanpur Satyadeo Pachauri and some other leaders putting a few peeled potatoes into a pan, apparently for cooking. ''Aloo ek darjan, dayalu do darjan'' (one dozen potatoes and two dozen publicity seekers), Rawal captioned the picture. The post drew hundreds of responses from the netizens. A large number of netizens wondered if 'Babu Bhaiya' (Rawal's character in the movie Phir Hera Pheri) could not recognise his own party leaders and posted the picture. Some also said that he might face action. There has been a competition of sorts among the politicians, mainly the BJP leaders, including even the ministers, to ensure their acts of charity gets good publicity. A few days back, ration packets carrying pictures of UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya were distributed among the people. In Varanasi, the BJP leaders were distributing 'Modi Gamchas' (towels carrying prime minister Narendra Modi's name and lotus (BJP election symbol). Modi had recently asked the people to use towels as masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bollywood-actor-and-former-bjp-mp-paresh-rawal-castigates-own-party-leaders-826555.html
17-04-2020||National||RBI's fiscal stimulus has no meaning: Congress||Congress on Friday claimed that the measures announced by the RBI to infuse liquidity in the banking system “have no meaning” and urged the Modi government to do more to help the poor and vulnerable sections of the society. Maken’s comments came hours after the RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das announced a second financial stimulus to boost the economy that has been slowing down due to the nationwide shutdown to arrest the spread of COVID-19. “The announcements made by the RBI have no meaning. Congress and people are disappointed with the announcements. The government should take more measures to mitigate the problems of the poor and the vulnerable,” he said at a press conference held via video link. But, much of Maken’s ire was targeted at Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over the reported go-ahead to private schools in the national capital to charge one-month tuition fee and demanded that the state should bear a major part of the expenses on salaries of their teachers. “It is wrong to ask private schools to take a month’s fee. How will the parents pay the fee when there is a lockdown? The Delhi government should pay 75% of expenses borne on teachers’ salaries so that these schools get relief and waive three-month fees,” Maken said, adding that 66% of Delhi’s children were enrolled in private schools. Maken, a former Delhi Congress chief, also demanded that the Delhi government waive fixed electricity charges and water bills for all establishments facing closure due to the lockdown extended till May 3. The Congress leader demanded that the number of coronavirus tests should be increased to remain ahead of the virus. Maken also demanded to provide two months of ration to migrants which includes 70 kg rice and cover labourers, daily-wagers and the self-employed. The Congress leader also demanded that the government should also bear 75% salaries of the MSME sector workers. He also wanted the government to give Rs 7,500 each to the poor and daily-wagers as well as provide PPE kits to frontline workers like sanitation workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbis-fiscal-stimulus-has-no-meaning-congress-826562.html
17-04-2020||National||RBI measures will help protect livelihoods, be milestone in keeping economy strong: Nadda||Another party leader and Union minister Piyush Goyal asserted that RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das' announcement to do whatever it takes is a "massive confidence booster" for the economy.  The Reserve Bank of India on Friday cut the reverse repo rate and announced a slew of measures including re-finance window of Rs 50,000 crore and targeted long-term repo auction of similar amount to deal with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Das assured that the RBI will use all instruments at its disposal to deal with the challenges posed by the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, depending on the evolving situation. In a statement, Nadda said the RBI decision will infuse liquidity and improve credit flow, and it is in line with Modi's vision for decisions that are friendly to businesses as well as people. The Union government, he added, is taking all necessary steps to help the economy cope with this crisis during the pandemic, Nadda said.  "Initial Rs 50,000 crore to support small and mid NBFCs, refinance facilities of Rs 25,000 crore to NABARD to help farmers, Rs 15,000 crore to SIDBI to boost loans to start-ups and SMEs, Rs 10,000 crore to NHB to support housing for all, will prove to be significant steps," the BJP president said, citing various measures announced by the RBI governor.  "These steps will prove to be a milestone in helping Prime Minister Narendra Modi's efforts to keep economy strong during and after the pandemic," Nadda said. He noted that the RBI had taken several decisions last month as well in this regard.  Praising the RBI's decisions, Goyal, who is railways, and commerce and industry minister, said these steps will provide liquidity for growth and help India emerge as a world leader in the post COVID-19 world. "The RBI governor's announcement to do 'whatever it takes' is a massive confidence booster for the economy. RBI is continuously monitoring the economy to support growth. IMF has also projected India as one of the fastest growing countries in the current financial year," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-measures-will-help-protect-livelihoods-be-milestone-in-keeping-economy-strong-nadda-826565.html
17-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Tales of awareness raise hope in Bengal||As the violation of lockdown especially in some markets places in the state has become a cause of concern in West Bengal, several instances of awareness in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak have become a source of inspiration. From people working with police, with zeal to spread awareness after being arrested for violating lockdown to petrol pumps refusing to sell fuel if customers are not wearing masks, several such tales of inspiration are coming up in the state. The life of a resident of the Park Circus area of the city underwent a sea of change after he was arrested for allegedly violating the lockdown on April 11. He went out of his home on his scooter for no major reason and showed a lame excuse when intercepted by officials of the Charu Market Police Station in the city. According to police sources not only was he unable to show proper documents but also misbehaved with the on-duty officials. He was promptly booked under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and Section 353 of the IPC (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty). A city court granted him bail under the condition that he will have to work with police two hours per day for one week to spread public awareness. “Since then he is coming to work with us every day. He doesn’t show any displeasure with what he has to do and is working with us way more than two hours. I think he has realized his mistake,” a senior Kolkata Police official said.  Whenever he sees that someone has stepped has come out on the road without any important reason he is advising them to stay at home for the sake of their own safety and of others. Meanwhile, several petrol pumps across the state have been refusing to sell fuel to those who are not wearing masks and put up signboards stating “no mask no fuel”. The decision has been taken by the West Bengal Petroleum Dealers Association.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tales-of-awareness-raise-hope-in-bengal-826572.html
17-04-2020||National||Sufficient stock of medicines available: Sadananda Gowda||There is sufficient stock of medicines available across the country and the public need not worry about it, Union Chemical and Fertiliser Minister D V Sadananda Gowda aid here on Friday. Three major drugs, which is used to treat  COVID-19 patients, Hydroxychloroquine, Paracetamol and Azithromycin, anti-biotic, tablets are available in sufficient quantity for domestic consumption, Gowda said here. After keeping the domestic requirements, the government is exporting these drugs. The pharma companies increased the production of these drugs as there is enough quantity of API ( Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients) available in the country. The Centre is closely monitoring the medicines production and is in touch with the pharma industry, he added. India required 95 lakh Hydroxychloroquine tablets per month for domestic usage and we have stock for three months. Of the required 2.5 crore Azithromycin tablets per year, we have the capacity to produce  9.6 crore tablets in a year. Around 482 crore Paracetamol tablets readily available for domestic use, he said. The government is working with the pharma industry for a smooth supply of the medicines all over the country in coordination with the postal department, either through special parcel trains or cargo flights.  The companies also ramping up the production of masks, sanitisers and personal protection equipment (PPE), he said. He also said there is also sufficient stock of medicines in Jan Aushadhi medical stores across the country as the government has streamlined the supply chain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sufficient-stock-of-medicines-available-sadananda-gowda-826579.html
17-04-2020||National||Sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases in Belgavi alarms neighbouring Goa||The sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases in North Karnataka's Belgavi district has triggered alarm in Goa, with the Opposition urging Chief Minister Pramod Sawant to evolve a new strategy to prevent any possible spread to Goa. Wholesale markets in Belgavi district, which shares two road borders with Goa, are one of the major sources of vegetables, fruits and food grains for the consumers in the tiny state. "With 17 new positive cases during the last 24 hours at Belgavi, it is a matter of great concern for Goa. Both boundaries have a distance of just 60 kms. Our daily vegetable supplies comes from Belgavi. Goa CM must work out a strategy to deal with new challenges," Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar said on Friday. Belgavi district administration officials have admitted to a sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases, which rose from 19 to 36 within a span of 24 hours on Thursday. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said, that in view of the sudden spurt of cases in Belgavi, screening at the state's borders had been beefed up.  "We have at least ten policemen stationed on each road border, with a 12-hour shift, along with a state administrative services officer. A health department official is also in place to take a thermal scan of every goods truck driver who enters Goa and sanitise them," the Chief Minister told reporters on Friday. Labourers who accompany goods vehicles are not allowed into the state. Sawant also said, that the state government had also developed an app, which would help keep track of drivers of vehicles ferrying essential commodities and ensure that they exit the state from a pre-appointed road border and date. According to unofficial estimates, more than 5000 commercial vehicles ferry vegetables, fruits, food grains and milk every day from Belgaum to Goa, which is deficit state as far as food and dairy production is concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sudden-spurt-in-covid-19-cases-in-belgavi-alarms-neighbouring-goa-826584.html
17-04-2020||National||Doubling rate of COVID-19 cases in India reduced with imposition of lockdown: Health Ministry||The Union Health Ministry said on Friday the rate at which the number of coronavirus cases in the country was becoming double in the last one week was 6.2 days, as against three days before the nationwide lockdown was imposed. At a daily media briefing about updates on COVID-19 situation, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal claimed that India has been doing better than many other countries on the outcome ratio, which is the number of recoveries from coronavirus infection versus the number of deaths. "If 80 per cent of the patients in India are recovering and in 20 per cent cases deaths are being reported, then by that standard India has been doing a little better than many other nations on the outcome ratio," he said. "Before lockdown, the doubling rate of coronavirus cases was 3 days. Going by the number of cases in the last seven days, the doubling rate has been 6.2 days. In 19 states and Union Territories the doubling rate is less than the national average," he said.  The health ministry official also said the average growth factor of cases from April 1 has been 1.2, whereas between March 15 and 31 it was 2.1. This decline of 40 per cent was due to increase in testing, including that of cases with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and influenza-like illness (ILI), Agarwal said. He also informed reporters that 1,919 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals with 1.73 lakh isolation beds and 21,800 ICU beds have been readied till now. The number of novel coronavirus cases in India rose by 1,007 and 23 deaths were reported in 24 hours, taking the tally of total infections to 13,387 and fatalities to 437, the joint secretary in the health ministry said, adding 1,749 people have been cured of the infection so far, which is 13.06 per cent of the total patients. Agarwal further informed that five lakh rapid antibody testing kits, which arrived from China on Thursday, are being distributed to states for districts with high case burden. Head of Epidemiology and Communicable diseases at Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar said 3,19,400 COVID-19 tests have been conducted so far in the country. "Out of these, 28,340 tests were conducted on Thursday, of which 23,932 were done at 183 laboratories under ICMR network and the rest at 80 private labs," he said. Agarwal said a Group of Ministers held a meeting on Friday to chalk out a roadmap about the lockdown and reviewed efforts of science and technology institutes in diagnosis, vaccines, drugs, hospital equipment accessories and general wellness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doubling-rate-of-covid-19-cases-in-india-reduced-with-imposition-of-lockdown-health-ministry-826596.html
17-04-2020||National||Congress urges Kejriwal govt to help migrants, daily wagers in distress due to COVID-19 lockdown||The party also urged the Delhi government to waive school fees and fixed power charges for shopkeepers, and pay 75 per cent salaries of teachers in aided schools, as it put forth a 10-point demand charter before the Arvind Kejriwal dispensation to help those in distress. Senior Congress spokesperson Ajay Maken demanded from the city government that "all micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) should be given 75 per cent of their employees' salaries for three months" to help them tide over the current crisis. He also sought Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), to be notified as regulations, for delivery agents in Delhi as a COVID-19 prevention measure. On Thursday, a pizza delivery agent tested positive for the coronavirus in south Delhi, following which 89 families whom he delivered pizza to were put under home quarantine. Maken said all the people who came in contact with the delivery agent have been quarantined and they should be immediately tested for the virus. Testing should be ramped up in the national capital, he said while addressing a press conference through video-conferencing. Maken also asked the government whether Delhi had entered the community transmission stage (stage-3) of the virus as 135 people have been kept "under investigation". The former Delhi Congress chief said," migrants should be incentivised in Delhi and in other towns as they are the backbone of any city and demanded that they be given Rs 7,500 per month immediately to help them cope with the crisis." "Migrants are the backbone of any city and hence they should be incentivised to make them feel safe in Delhi and other towns," Maken said. He demanded payment of ration for two months to the poor and vulnerable, besides advance payment of pension to senior citizens and widows, and risk allowance to sanitation and frontline health workers. Maken asked for an allowance of Rs 5,000 to all the unemployed people in the national capital. He suggested that random testing should be ramped up. "India has the lowest population wise testing in the world for COVID-19. India needs to equal the best in the world on testing levels,"Maken said. He noted that India is not among the top 40 safest countries to challenge the virus. As part of its 10 suggestions to the Kejriwal government, Maken said Delhi has one of the highest cases at 1,640.   "There are 135 patients under investigation. So, have we entered the stage 3 of COVID-19? Fifty-five healthcare professionals have been infected in Delhi. "Highest in the country, but no efforts by the Delhi or the Union government to procure new ventilators, while the faulty ventilators at many places still exist," he said. He said aggressive testing both at the state and national levels need to be done.   "We suggest SOPs for delivery boys should be prepared and be notified as regulations so that they are binding on everyone. Protection gears, including sanitisers, mask, and hand gloves, should be provided by employers," the Congress leader said. He said the Rajasthan and Punjab governments -- both Congress-ruled states -- have deferred fixed charges on electricity bills of all non-domestic and industrial connections for March and April. The Delhi government should ensure that no fixed charges on electricity bills are charged for the period of three months from the industrial and non-domestic (commercial) connections, he demanded. He also said that two months ration including 70kgs of rice, 2kgs of sugar and 3kgs of pulses, be given to all households in slums, and resettlement, unauthorised, and unauthorised-regularised colonies. This, he said, will cover around 60 per cent of households in Delhi. He said the Delhi government should pass an order for not charging any fees and should ensure 75 per cent of the salaries for the teachers are provided to schools. " Private or government safai karamcharis (sanitation workers) and healthcare workers should be provided Rs 7,500 per month as risk allowance for three months," Maken said. On the pattern of that in Punjab and Rajasthan, two months pension for senior citizens, widows and physically challenged should also immediately be released. Besides, all unemployed youth up to the age of 35 yrs, who have already registered up to April 30, should be provided unemployment allowance of Rs 5,000, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-urges-kejriwal-govt-to-help-migrants-daily-wagers-in-distress-due-to-covid-19-lockdown-826597.html
17-04-2020||National||Finish GST fraud case probe within 3 months or else accused will get bail: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to complete its probe within three months against a man who created 555 fake firms to dupe the government of Rs 74 crore in the GST fraud case. The top court also clarified if the investigation was not completed within three months, then accused, Sandeep Goyal would be entitled to get bail. Goyal was accused of creating about 555 fake firms across the country to evade GST payments. The firms were used to issue invoices to the tune of Rs 74 crore. The Rajasthan High Court had denied him bail in the case in February. On Friday, a bench of Justices Mohan M Shantanagoudar and R Subhash Reddy recorded in the order that Goyal should be released on bail if the probe into the case is not completed in three months. The court also noted that he has already been in jail for over 20 months in the case where the maximum jail term is five years. Additional Solicitor General K M Natraj opposed the bail plea by Goyal, saying that the investigation was still pending.  He submitted that more fake firms created by the petitioner are being detected, and so, this is not the right time for allowing him bail. The court, however, also noted some of the co-accused had already been released on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finish-gst-fraud-case-probe-within-3-months-or-else-accused-will-get-bail-sc-826600.html
17-04-2020||National||Jamia violence: Court grants 45-day interim bail to local politician||A Delhi court has granted interim bail of 45 days to a local politician, Ashu Khan, arrested for allegedly rioting and instigating a mob during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act on December 15 last year which resulted in damage to public property and injuries to police near Jamia Millia Islamia University. Additional Sessions Judge Sandeep Garg granted the interim relief to Khan in two cases related to violent protests at Jamia Nagar and New Friends Colony area, on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 2 lakh. The court took note of the decision of the High Powered Committee that undertrial prisoners involved in offences punishable up to 10 years imprisonment be granted interim bail to decongest overcrowded prisons due to the coronavirus pandemic. "The court is of the considered view that it is cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence that an accused is presumed to be innocent till his guilt is established beyond reasonable doubt. Admittedly no custodial interrogation of the accused Ashu Khan is required," the court said. It directed him not to tamper with evidence or leave the country without its permission. During the hearing held through video conferencing, police said Khan not only participated in riots, but was also involved in mobilising and instigating the mob which resulted into damage to public property and injuries to the public as well as the police. Police claimed that Khan had admitted in an interview given to a television channel that he led the protestors and raised slogans against the legislation. Khan gave a speech and on his instigation protestors turned aggressive, pelted stones on the police and set vehicles and police booths on fire, police alleged. Advocates Asghar Khan and Tahir Khan, appearing for the accused, argued that he has been falsely implicated in the case and he be granted interim bail because of the possible threat of coronavirus in the congested prisons. "There is also possible threat of transmission and fatal consequences of coronavirus and it is very necessary that prisons must ensure maximum possible distancing amongst the prisoners including undertrials. Social distancing is practically not possible as the prisons are overcrowded and hence accused (Ashu Khan) be released on bail," the counsel said. The lawyers further said that Ashu was exercising his fundamental right guaranteed by the Constitution and criticising the newly passed Citizenship Amendment Act and proposed NRC as it is against the spirit of Constitution. The Jamia Millia Islamia has also filed a case against the alleged attack on the university students by the police inside the campus, which is pending in the court. On December 15 last year, a protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act near Jamia turned violent, with demonstrators pelting stones at police and setting public buses and private vehicles on fire. Police later entered Jamia, allegedly fired tear gas shells and baton-charged students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jamia-violence-court-grants-45-day-interim-bail-to-local-politician-826601.html
17-04-2020||National||Andhra Pradesh receives South Korean coronavirus testing kits; plans 10,000 tests daily||Andhra Pradesh government has received one lakh rapid test kits from South Korea capable of revealing the COVID-19 result in 10-15 minutes. The ICMR approved kits, which came in an Air India chartered flight from Seoul, are planned for community testing in the state where positive cases are nearing 600. Unveiling the kits on Friday, Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy said that these kits would augment the number of tests conducted in the state and thus help in government’s anti-virus spread efforts. According to the officials, the kits have two strips - called IGG and IGM - in which the suspect’s blood drop and control solution would be added, and the result would show virus presence or absence in 10-15 minutes. The kits would be dispatched to the districts in 3-4 days.   The state is also utilizing the Tuberculosis testing TrueNat machines for COVID-19, into which the Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone manufactured swab sample cartridges are loaded for analysis. Officials say the daily test numbers could go up to 10,000 in the coming days, using the AMTZ cartridges and South Korean kits. As of now, AP is testing over 2000 samples daily at its seven viral research diagnostic labs. Two more laboratories - in SV Medical College, Tirupati and in Kurnool Medical College would be functional soon. Till Thursday – 16 April, the cumulative number of samples tested are 16,555, which officials say places AP at fourth place in the country among the states with the highest average number of tests conducted per a million population.    “Community surveillance and cluster containment are the two major strategies followed by the government in fighting COVID-19. 154 cluster containments were identified, and the count would vary with newly reported cases. We are conducting the maximum number of tests to identify every positive case in the state,” Special Chief Secretary (Health) Jawahar Reddy said. “In the next seven days, the target is to conduct 17,000 tests. Maximum number of tests help in identifying all possible positive cases and that helps us in the demarcation of red zones and hotspot areas after lifting of lockdown on May 3,” Jawahar Reddy said. Officials said that Andhra Pradesh is equipped with 1,35,000 PPEs, 1,16,000 N-95 masks, and about 2,000 ventilators. The state govt gave a notification for the recruitment of 1184 specialist doctors and general duty medical officers in government hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-receives-south-korean-coronavirus-testing-kits-plans-10000-tests-daily-826606.html
17-04-2020||National||HRD Minister urges private schools to reconsider annual fee hike, quarterly fee payment structure||Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' on Friday urged private schools to reconsider their decisions on annual fee hike and collecting fee quarterly during the lockdown. "It has been brought to my notice by many parents from all across the country that even in this time of crisis many schools are increasing their annual fee. A lot of schools are also asking the parents to deposit the school fee for 3 months together. I request all schools to join hands in the fight against coronavirus, empathize with the parents amid this global disaster and re-consider their decision," Nishank tweeted. He also appealed to states' education departments to work towards best interest of schools and parents. "I am happy that some states have already taken positive steps on this, I appreciate their initiative and hope that all other states will re-consider my request," he said. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also urged to give priority to human values in the time of this epidemic. And hence, I hope all schools would be providing timely salary to their teachers & staff," he further said. The country is under a lockdown since March 25 due to the coronavirus outbreak. The lockdown has now been extended till May 3. While schools were closed and exams postponed at least two weeks before the lockdown was announced, online classes are being conducted by private schools as well as Delhi government-run schools. Several parents have been approaching the government with requests for fee waivers during the lockdown period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hrd-minister-urges-private-schools-to-reconsider-annual-fee-hike-quarterly-fee-payment-structure-826607.html
17-04-2020||National||COVID-19: MoEF reverses policy on import of second-hand ventilators||Faced with a critical shortage of ventilators, the central government has reversed one of its old decisions to allow the import of second-hand ventilators to battle the COVID-19 pandemic, sweeping the country. Earlier this month, the Union Ministry of Environment and Forest permitted the import of used ventilators by hospitals till September 30. India currently has an estimated 60,000-80,000 ventilators, but only a small fraction of them are available for COVID-19 patients who require ventilation. The lockdown period gives much needed time to the state administration and hospitals to ramp up their infrastructure such as additional beds and ventilators to battle the pandemic. But a 2015 MoEF order under the Hazardous Waste Rules, 2008 turns out to be a hurdle as it prevents import on medical equipment and other such electronic and electric equipment that are more than three years old. The ministry has now reversed its policy after receiving several requests to relax the import rules to facilitate the clearance of used ventilators. The changed rules would also be extended to the used ventilators lying at ports awaiting customs approval.     The decision would benefit a consignment of 200 second-hand ventilators lying at the Chennai port. A Chennai-based company imported them from the USA in 2018 but didn’t receive the customs clearance. The company also could not send them back as the Centre stopped the export of ventilators following the COVID-19 crisis. An association of domestic manufacturers of medical devices has flagged concerns on the post-purchase servicing of such life-saving instruments. “The government should not permit the free import of second-hand ventilators without assuring warranty and delivery of services and spares for the next seven years as well as a list of their service staff posted in India with telephone numbers,” said Rajiv Nath, forum coordinators, Association of Indian Medical Device Industry.  A public health specialist aired similar apprehension. “The question that arises around second-hand ventilators is who would service them. Second-hand ventilators may just add to the total tally of increasing capacity but if they need to wait for spare parts from the overseas due to any unforeseen breakdown, they would cause more harm than good,” Oommen John, a senior public health researcher from the George Institute for Global Health, India told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-moef-reverses-policy-on-import-of-second-hand-ventilators-826619.html
17-04-2020||National||COVID-19 doubling rate dips during lockdown in India||The number of COVID-19 cases in the country is doubling at a slower rate during the lockdown period, the Centre said on Friday as the confirmed cases of respiratory disease touched 13,835. Before the lockdown was announced, COVID-19 cases were doubling every three days, but analysis of the data for the past seven days showed that the rate of growth of doubling has decreased to 6.2 days. The Group of Ministers (GoM) on COVID-19 Response, chaired by Health Minister Harshvardhan, reviewed the current situation and issued directions to deliver immediate solutions for meeting the healthcare challenges. “Doubling rate in 19 states and union territories are even lower than average doubling rate,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health told reporters at the daily briefing on the COVID-19 situation. He said the doubling rate was lower than the national level (6.2) in Kerala, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Puducherry, Bihar, Odisha, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Punjab, Assam, Tripura, Jammu and Kashmir. “The ratio between COVID-19 patients who have recovered and deaths stands at 80:20 in the country, which is higher than that of several other countries,” Aggarwal said. He said of the 13,835 persons infected with the disease, 1,749 have recovered and discharged from hospitals – which accounts for 13.6% of the total cases. On the health infrastructure, he said 1,919 dedicated COVID hospitals have been set up across the country with a total number of 1.73 lakh beds, including 21,800 ICU beds. GoM, that has External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Shipping Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, Minister of State for Home Nityananda Rai and junior health minister Ashwani Choubey as members, also reviewed the testing strategy and availability of testing kits across the country along with the strategy for hotspots and cluster management.  The five lakh rapid antibody test kits that were received from China on Thursday have been distributed to states and districts on the basis of a high case burden. Besides, indigenous manufacturing of RT-PCR kits has started and 10 lakh kits per month could be produced from May. Similarly, rapid antibody test kits will also be produced locally with a manufacturing capacity of 10 lakh kits per month from May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-doubling-rate-dips-during-lockdown-in-india-826636.html
17-04-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll rises to 452 in country; cases climb to 13,835: Health Ministry||he death toll due to the novel coronavirus rose to 452 with 32 fatalities reported since Thursday evening, while the number of cases saw a jump of 1,076 to go up to 13,835 cases on Friday, according to the Union Health Ministry. While the number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 11,616, as many as 1,766 people have been cured and discharged, and one has migrated, it said. The total number of cases include 76 foreign nationals. Thirty-two deaths have been reported since Thursday evening, of which eight were reported from Rajasthan, seven from Maharashtra, six from Delhi, four from Madhya Pradesh, three from West Bengal, two from Gujarat and one each from Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. Of the total 452 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 194 fatalities, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 57, Gujarat and Delhi at 38 each and Telengana 18. Tamil Nadu has reported 15 deaths while Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have reported 14 fatalities each. Punjab and Karnataka have reported 13 deaths each. Rajasthan has registered 11 deaths while West Bengal has reported 10 deaths fatalities. Four persons have lost their lives in Jammu and Kashmir while Kerala and Haryana have recorded three deaths each. Jharkhand has reported two deaths. Meghalaya, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Assam have reported one fatality each, according to health ministry data. However, a PTI tally of figures reported by various states as on Thursday showed at least 457 deaths. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of deaths announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states.  According to the ministry's data updated in the evening, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 3,205 followed by Delhi at 1,640, Madhya Pradesh at 1,308 and Tamil Nadu at 1,267.   COVID-19 cases have gone up to 1,131 in Rajasthan, 1,021 in Gujarat and 846 in Uttar Pradesh. Telengana has 743 cases, followed by Andhra Pradesh at 572 and Kerala at 395. The number of novel coronavirus cases has risen to 353 in Karanataka, 314 in Jammu and Kashmir, 255 in West Bengal, 205 in Haryana and 186 in Punjab. Bihar has reported 83 infection cases, while Odisha has 60 coronavirus cases. Thirty-seven people were infected with the virus in Uttarakhand, while Chhattisgarh has 36 cases. Himachal Pradesh and Assam have registered 35 cases each. Jharkhand has 29 cases, Chandigarh has 21 cases and Ladakh has 18, while 11 cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Meghalaya has reported nine cases while Goa and Puducherry have reported seven COVID-19 infections each. Manipur and Tripura have two cases each, while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported a case each. "State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation," the ministry said on its website. The website also mentions that the patient from Nagaland has been shifted to Assam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-452-in-country-cases-climb-to-13835-health-ministry-826637.html
17-04-2020||National||Chhattisgarh: One more COVID-19 patient discharged; 24 recovered so far||One more COVID-19 patient was discharged from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Raipur in Chhattisgarh on Friday after recovering from the infection, health officials here said. The total number of cured and discharged cases has now reached to 24 in the state, while the number of active cases stands at 12. "A 27-year-old woman, hailing from Katghora town of Korba district, was discharged after her two consecutive tests showed that she is no longer infected," a public relations official of the AIIMS told PTI. Now, 12 patients are undergoing treatment in the isolation ward of the AIIMS and are in stable condition, he said. Katghora, located around 200 km from the state capital Raipur, has emerged as the COVID-19 hotspot in the state with 27 confirmed cases reported so far there. The health officials said, "Of the 5,776 samples sent for screening until now in the state, 36 tested positive, while 5,484 came out negative. Reports of 256 persons are awaited." So far, 24 people have been discharged after recovering from the infection, they said. As many as 65,911 people, most of them with travel history abroad or other affected states, are in home quarantine in Chhattisgarh as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of coronavirus, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-one-more-covid-19-patient-discharged-24-recovered-so-far-826644.html
17-04-2020||National||Amid coronavirus lockdown, Centre unveils truck booking app for farmers||Farmers now can book trucks or tractors to ferry their produce to markets the same way one books cab rides in cities through aggregator apps such as Uber and Ola. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday unveiled ‘Kisan Rath’, a transport aggregator app to enable farmers book trucks or tractors which are in demand at a time when harvesting rabi crops has begun with gusto across the food grain belt. “The Kisan Rath App aims to provide a timely, economical and hassle-free mechanism to transport the agricultural produce,” Tomar said. The App has been developed by the National Informatics Centre. The app is currently available in eight languages. A farmer would be required to post the quantity of farm produce he wishes to transport using the app. The request would be visible to transporters as well as traders who could quote a price for the service. The farmers can negotiate the price offline and arrange for a pick up at the required date. Similar services would also be available for traders to transport farm produce from one market to the other. According to an official statement, 20,000 tractors from 14,000 Custom Hiring Centres and 5.7 lakh trucks from five transport aggregators have already been registered with the ‘Kisan Rath’ app. The app could help the farmer in identifying the right mode of transportation for the movement of farm produce ranging from foodgrain (cereal, coarse cereal, pulses, etc), fruits & vegetables, oilseeds, spices, fiber crops, flowers, bamboo, log & minor forest produce, coconuts. It also facilitates traders in the transportation of perishable commodities by reefer (Refrigerated) vehicles, an official statement said. Transportation of Agri produce is a critical and indispensable component of the supply chain.  During the extraordinary situation prevailing in the country currently due to lockdown, ‘Kisan Rath’ could ensure smooth and seamless supply linkages between farmers, warehouses, Farmer Producer Organisations, Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee mandis and intra-state & inter-state buyers and help in the reduction of food wastage by providing timely services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-coronavirus-lockdown-centre-unveils-truck-booking-app-for-farmers-826646.html
17-04-2020||National||Govt making efforts to keep citizens away from COVID-19, court's duty to ensure no roadblock: HC||The governments are straining every sinew in keeping citizens away from coronavirus and even though there is criticism from some people, it is the duty of the courts to step in and ensure that the executive's efforts are not subjected to roadblocks in the form of ill-conceived litigations, the Delhi High Court has said. The court's observation came while dismissing a contempt petition with a cost of Rs 10,000 to be deposited with the PM-CARES Fund by a charitable trust within two weeks after lifting of the lockdown.  Justice C Hari Shankar said in the present situation of crisis following the COVID-19 pandemic with which the whole world is concerned, the enforcement of isolation measures by the government is aimed at ensuring, as far as possible, limited exposure of the country and its denizens to the virus. "Judicial notice may be taken of the fact, apparent at ground level, that the Central, as well as the State Governments – including the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi – are straining every sinew, in achieving this aim and are committed to making no compromises, whatsoever, on that score. "We have, as it is, naysayers aplenty, and it is the duty of courts to step in and ensure that the efforts, of the executive administration, to somehow tide over the crisis, are not subjected to roadblocks in the form of abortive and ill-conceived litigative exercises. This court, were it to at all entertain the present contempt petition would, in my view, be acting in eminent opposition to public interest," the judge said.  The charitable trust, Civilian Welfare and Development Trust, filed a contempt plea against the authorities and a district magistrate for alleged contemptuous and wilful disobedience of an April 8 order by which the high court was informed by the authorities that passes have already been issued to the trustees and volunteers of the trust for movement during the lockdown for supplying various essential items like ration, food and medicines to persons in need. In the contempt plea, the trust alleged that its offices are located within Chandni Mahal area in Central Delhi and due to the containment order, they are unable to provide ration to the needy persons there. A containment order was issued on April 10 by the district magistrate of Central district, invoking the containment plan for Chandni Mahal area where three persons had died of coronavirus. The counsel for the authorities submitted that strict adherence to the containment order is necessary to check the spreading of the COVID-19, which has ravaged the world. The counsel also said that in Chandni Mahal area, 102 coronavirus positive cases have surfaced and therefore, the Delhi government has taken a conscious decision not to extend the passes issued to the petitioner trust or allow any further access to containment areas. The court said there was no substance in the contempt petition and by no stretch of imagination it could be said that there has been any contemptuous or wilful disobedience of the earlier order. "A reading of the containment order dated April 10, 2020, makes it apparent that, in view of spread of the n-COVID-2019 epidemic in the GNCTD area, as well as the fact that, even till the date of issuance of the said order, at least three patients had died from the said disease in Chandni Mahal, it had been consciously decided to strictly delimit the Chandni Mahal area as a containment area," it said. The court noted that the Delhi government has directed the SDM, Kotwali and the SHO of Chandni Mahal police station to ensure supply of essential commodities in the containment area, in coordination with the market associations or any other appropriate mechanism. "In view of the above, this contempt petition is dismissed, with costs which are, for the present, being fixed, on a token basis, at Rs 10,000. Costs are required to be deposited by the petitioner, by way of a crossed cheque favouring 'PM Cares', within a period of two weeks after the lifting of lockdown by the government," it said. PTI SKV HMP RDM RDM||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-making-efforts-to-keep-citizens-away-from-covid-19-courts-duty-to-ensure-no-roadblock-hc-826648.html
17-04-2020||National||Opposition to COVID-19 victims' funeral in Meghalaya, TN blot on society's consciousness: Naidu||Such incidents are a blot on the society's consciousness, he said. Citing a newspaper report, he said there was a delay of 36 hours in the funeral of the Meghalaya doctor. "Such incidents are a blot on the society's consciousness and of great concern for all of us, irrespective of party, religion and region," he said in a Facebook post. The "unfortunate behaviour" from the locals forced Chief Minister Conrad Sangma to finally intervene in the matter and help resolve it, Naidu said. The vice president said the physician's body lay for several hours in the hospital he had founded after attempts to bury or cremate him were unsuccessful due to local resistance. "Further distressed to know about a similar incident in Chennai, where locals resisted cremation of a doctor hailing from Nellore following his death in a city hospital. "Saddened to learn that the body had to be shifted to an alternative place for cremation with the help of police and other authorities," Naidu later said on Twitter. He felt that there is an urgent need to educate the people and remove misconceptions on COVID-19 to prevent such inhuman incidents in the future. The vice president has shared his concerns on the issue with the home secretary and the director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). He said it is a matter of deep anguish that such incidents occurred in spite of an advisory being issued by the central government in March for the management of dead bodies infected with novel coronavirus. "I urge all citizens to be empathic and respond compassionately, not react irrationally, especially during these testing times," Naidu said. People must act responsibly and not believe in rumours, the vice president said. The need of the hour is to create greater social awareness among the general public by various stakeholders, he opined. "Doctors and the medical fraternity are risking their lives to save us during the COVID-19  pandemic. We need to respect them and lend our support in these testing times," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-to-covid-19-victims-funeral-in-meghalaya-tn-blot-on-societys-consciousness-naidu-826667.html
17-04-2020||National||3 more COVID-19 cases in Uttarakhand, total climbs to 40||Three more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Uttarakhand on Friday, taking the number of coronavirus cases in the state to 40, officials said. Of the latest cases, two are from Dehradun district and one from Nainital district, a health bulletin of the state government said. With this, the total number of confirmed novel coronavirus cases in the state rose to 40, out of which 9 have already been discharged after recovery, it said. Dehradun DM Ashish Kumar Shrivastava said after two more persons tested positive, the number of COVID-19 patients in the district has risen to 20, out of which eight have recovered and 12 are under treatment. Ten of them are members of the Tablighi Jamaat, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-more-covid-19-cases-in-uttarakhand-total-climbs-to-40-826681.html
17-04-2020||National||Kerala-based institute develops test kit that can confirm COVID-19 in 2 hours: Vardhan||The diagnostic test kit developed by the Thiruvananthapuram institute can detect coronavirus in 10 minutes, and the sample to result time will be less than two hours, Vardhan tweeted.  A total of 30 samples can be tested in a single batch on a single machine, he said. "The confirmatory diagnostic test, which detects the N Gene of #SARS_COV_2 using reverse transcriptase loop-mediated amplification of viral nucleic acid, will be one of the world's first few, if not the first of its kind in the world," Vardhan tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-based-institute-develops-test-kit-that-can-confirm-covid-19-in-2-hours-vardhan-826705.html
17-04-2020||National||MHA extends visa of stranded foreigners till May 3||The Home Ministry on Friday extended regular and e-visas of all foreigners who are stranded in India due to the coronavirus lockdown till May 3 on gratis basis. The Home Ministry also said the visa granted to those foreigners, except diplomats and UN officials, who are supposed to come to India, will remain suspended till May 3, an official statement said. Regular visa, e-visa or stay stipulation, of such foreign nationals who have been stranded in India because of spread of COVID-19 in many parts of the world and also due to travel restrictions imposed by the Indian authorities, and whose visas have expired or would be expiring during the period from February 1 (midnight) to May 3 (midnight), would be extended till midnight of May 3 on 'Gratis' basis, after online application by the foreigner, the statement said. The Home Ministry has also decided to extend the suspension of all existing visas granted to foreigners, except to those belonging to diplomatic, official, UN and international organisations, employment and project categories, till May 3, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-extends-visa-of-stranded-foreigners-till-may-3-826712.html
17-04-2020||National||PM Modi assures India's support to SA, Egypt for essential med supplies to fight coronavirus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday assured India's support to South Africa in maintaining essential medical supplies to fight coronavirus. "Had a good discussion with President @CyrilRamaphosa about the COVID-19 challenge, and assured India's support to South Africa for maintaining essential medical supplies," the prime minister tweeted. The prime minister also discussed the global health crisis with Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi. "Discussed on phone with President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi @AlsisiOfficial about the COVID-19 situation in India and Egypt. India will extend all possible support to Egypt's efforts to control the spread of the virus and its impact," Modi said in another tweet. An official statement later said Prime Minister Modi and South African President Cyril Ramaphosa exchanged views about the domestic, regional and global challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. They discussed the steps being taken by their respective governments to protect the health of their people as well as to minimise economic impacts. "The prime minister assured that India would provide all possible support to South Africa for ensuring supplies of essential medicines during this challenging time," the statement said. Modi commended the proactive role being played by President Ramaphosa, in his current capacity as the Chair of the African Union, for coordinating a continent-wide response to the pandemic. Evoking the centuries-old ties of friendship and people-to-people exchanges between India and Africa, Modi conveyed India's full support for the joint African effort against the virus. Another statement said Modi and President El-Sisi discussed the evolving global situation in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and exchanged information about the steps being taken by their respective governments to protect their populations. They agreed on the utility of continuous exchange of experiences and best-practices, in order to learn from each other.  "The prime minister assured the Egyptian President that India would provide all possible support to ensure availability of pharmaceutical supplies during these difficult times," the statement said. Modi also thanked President El-Sisi for the support being provided to Indian citizens present in Egypt. The two leaders agreed that their teams would remain in touch to ensure close coordination and experience-sharing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-assures-indias-support-to-sa-egypt-for-essential-med-supplies-to-fight-coronavirus-826713.html
17-04-2020||National||98 fresh COVID-19 cases, two more deaths reported in Rajasthan||A 56-year-old man suffering from the coronavirus died in Jodhpur around midnight, while a 22-year old man passed away due to the disease on Friday in Jaipur. Of the 98 fresh cases, the highest 38 were reported from Jodhpur, 22 from Tonk, nine from Ajmer, eight from Jaipur, six each from Nagaur and Kota and one each from Jhalawar, Dausa, Jhunjhunu. The remaining six are evacuees from Iran, the officials said. With the two fatalities, the number of COVID-19 deaths has increased to 17, according to a government official. The man who died in Jodhpur was found coronavirus positive on Wednesday. "He also had cardiac complications," the official said. The patient who died in Jaipur was from Uttar Pradesh and was living in Ghatgate area along with his brothers in a rented accommodation. Test reports of his brothers are awaited, SMS Hospital's Superintendent Dr D S Meena said. “He was admitted to the hospital on April 14 with complaint of stomach pain. He had a problem in his intestine and was operated upon yesterday. He was a COVID-19 patient and died today,” he said. A total of 42,847 samples have been collected in the state so far and 1229 of them were tested positive and 36153 were tested negative, while 5464 samples are under process. Also, 183 COVID-19 patients have been cured and 93 of them have been discharged till date, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/98-fresh-covid-19-cases-two-more-deaths-reported-in-rajasthan-826716.html
17-04-2020||National||J&K police registers FIR against renowned businessman for flouting COVID-19 norms||Jammu and Kashmir police have lodged an FIR against a leading businessman from the Valley after he allegedly left from a Red Zone area in violation of norms. A wireless communication No: 07-20/4625 dated 17-04-2020 flashed by the police to Deputy Commissioner Srinagar reads: “As intimated by SHO P/S Trikuta Naga, Jammu one Mushtaq Ahmad Chaya R/O Zakoora, Srinagar, who was staying at Bathinda, Jammu has deliberately left for Srinagar along with other persons from the Red Zone, Bathandi, Jammu.” A case FIR No 109/20 U/s 188 IPC, 3 Epidemic Disease has been registered against the accused. “The subject has reportedly reached his residence in Srinagar. As such it is requested that a medical team may be deputed to his residence for immediate medical screening and required quarantine as the case may be,” it added. Ironically, on the same day, Chaya, who is chairman of a chain of hotels in J&K, in a press statement, urged the government of India to restore 4G internet services in Jammu and Kashmir as “it was necessary to combat COVID-19 pandemic.” Over the years Chaya has been seen sharing good relations with people in power. He is believed to be a close associate of business-tycoon-turned politician Altaf Bukhari, who launched a new political outfit in J&K last month to challenge the dynastic regional parties National Conference (NC) and the PDP. Bukhari, who was a senior leader of PDP till last year, held the Finance portfolio in J&K when the PDP-BJP alliance was in power from 2015-2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-police-registers-fir-against-renowned-businessman-for-flouting-covid-19-norms-826717.html
17-04-2020||National||Enlist sex workers also in COVID-19 battle: HIV expert||India's sex workers had played a key role in bringing down HIV infections and their services can now be utilised to contain the spread of COVID-19, says a noted physician. Dr Sundar Sundararaman, who has worked in HIV field for more than 30 years, urged the government to co-opt sex workers and deploy them on the ground to undertake tasks like the ones done by ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) and Anganwadi workers. "Had sex workers not cooperated in the last 15 years, we wouldn't have brought down HIV at all, the independent consultant told PTI. "In fact, today we are talking about COVID warriors heroes.Why are we forgetting HIV warriors, and HIV heroes. Sex workers were in the frontline who made sure new (HIV) infections were mitigated." During the ongoing lockdown period, Sundararaman said loss for sex workers, who are in every single geography, is going to be very huge because of social distancing. Like ASHA and Anganwadi workers, they have the capacity and skill to gather and disseminate information and their services can be also be utilised for similar initiatives to curb the spread of COVID-19 and positioned as social champions. This is a very good opportunity for sex workers to become socially relevant, he said. Secretary of Ashodaya Samithi, a Mysuru-based sex workers collective, Bhagyalakshmi said sex workers, out of business during the lockdown period, are struggling to make ends meet.  Some have bank passbook, some don't as they live on the roads and have no houses, she said, appealing to the government to give them at least Rs 1000-Rs 1500 to buy essentials.   Sources said some sex workers are using innovative ways to offer their service, like sex talk, long-distance sex and mobile videos and get paid through digital payment platforms. But it's a very small amount of money and small number of people is involved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enlist-sex-workers-also-in-covid-19-battle-hiv-expert-826725.html
17-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: NHAI to resume toll collection on national highways from April 20||Toll collections will resume from April 20 onwards following the  Centre announced relaxation in several restrictions from lockdown. The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has written to all toll plazas operating on highways to collect user fees from vehicles as like earlier. Since the Ministry of Home Affairs announced the relaxation in lockdown from April 20 and allowing commercial vehicles plying, the toll collection can be resumed, said the NHAI order said. Earlier, NHAI had halted the toll collections as only essential vehicles allowed to ply following nationwide lockdown announced by the Centre on March 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-nhai-to-resume-toll-collection-on-national-highways-from-april-20-826729.html
17-04-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi pitches for aggressive testing to defeat coronavirus||Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the national lockdown against the coronavirus pandemic was only a “pause button” and asked the Modi government to ramp up health infrastructure across the country to meet the challenge. Addressing press conference through video link, the former Congress President called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to adopt a “bottom-up and not a top-down” approach and asked him to empower states for the fight against COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-pitches-for-aggressive-testing-to-defeat-coronavirus-826342.html
17-04-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi writes to UP CM, asks to provide relief for farmers, labourers||In a letter to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, she demanded that farmers be assured of the procurement of their produce and their pending dues for sugarcane crop be cleared immediately. She also demanded smooth harvest and procurement of Rabi crop and relaxing of conditions for the use of combined harvesters, agricultural machines that reap, thresh, and clean cereal crops.    Priyanka Gandhi also sought free ration like wheat, pulses, oil and spices for all those labourers and workers not registered in the state. She said the coronavirus pandemic has brought an economic destruction and industries in the state have suffered while lakhs of weavers are facing problems. She also said the pandemic has cast its shadow on small scale industries and the economic activity has come to a standstill.  "I urge you to set up an economic revival task force in Uttar Pradesh with noted experts to put in place an economic revival plan. The task of this force would be to prepare a roadmap for the economic revival in the state," Prinanka Gandhi said in her letter to Adityanath. She also said it is the time to focus on helping the people and providing them relief to reduce their sufferings caused by the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-writes-to-up-cm-asks-to-provide-relief-for-farmers-labourers-826476.html
17-04-2020||National Politics||Modi govt leaving no stone unturned to fight coronavirus: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Friday the Narendra Modi government is leaving no stone unturned to tackle the crisis caused by the novel coronavirus outbreak in the country. Complimenting the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for the steps taken to boost the economy, Shah said such action will further reinforce Modi's vision. "Modi government is leaving no stone unturned in this fight against COVID-19, ensuring minimum disruption in people's lives while planning for a strong and stable India in days ahead," he tweeted. The home minister said the RBI's decision to extend Rs 20,000 crore credit facility to NABARD and Rs 15,000 crore to SIDBI will greatly help the farmers, provide the much needed financial stability to MSMEs and start ups, and boost the 'Make in India' programme. Shah said the Rs 10,000 crore to National Housing Bank (NHB) and liquidity measures for banks and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) will help too. "Steps taken by RBI today, to boost Indian economy, further reinforce PM Narendra Modi's vision," he said. The RBI on Friday further eased bad-loan rules, froze dividend payment by lenders and pushed banks to lend more by cutting the reverse repo rate by 25 basis points, as it unveiled a second set of measures to support the economy hit hard by a coronavirus-led slowdown. In his second televised address since the nationwide lockdown began from March 25, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das pledged to boost liquidity and expand bank credit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-govt-leaving-no-stone-unturned-to-fight-coronavirus-amit-shah-826483.html
17-04-2020||National Politics||Where there is will, there is way: Rahul Gandhi praises Congress-ruled states' fight against COVID-19||"Congress-ruled states: Rajasthan, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Puducherry are putting up a strong fight against Covid19. New, special hospitals are being readied, like in Chhattisgarh this 200-bedded hospital especially for Coronavirus treatment has been readied in merely 20 days. Where there is a will, there is a way," he said in a tweet in Hindi. The former Congress chief has been lauding Congress-ruled states for their efforts in fighting the pandemic and has urged the central government to empower them more, as the real fight was at the ground level done by states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/where-there-is-will-there-is-way-rahul-gandhi-praises-congress-ruled-states-fight-against-covid-19-826516.html
17-04-2020||National Politics||Lockdown announcement delayed so that in MP BJP govt can be sworn in: Yechury||CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury on Friday alleged that the Narendra Modi government delayed announcement of the COVID-19 lockdown so that the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh can be sworn in. Just 15 months after losing power, BJP leader Shivraj Singh Chouhan took oath as chief minister of Madhya Pradesh on March 23, a day before PM Modi announced a nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of the pandemic. "Knowing full well that the pandemic is galloping, Modi delayed the lockdown for swearing in its govt in MP (Madhya Pradesh). BJP's lust for power has exposed millions to become victims. Its insatiable, unprincipled greed is directly responsible for this worsening public health emergency," Yechury tweeted. He also appealed to the government to conduct more tests for COVID-19. In another tweet, the CPI(M) leader said, "Eighty-nine days after the first case was detected in India, we are still not testing enough. Govt must stop making excuses, for it is clear that a lockdown will only work with much higher and aggressive testing, especially in some of our most populous states." Yechury also slammed the Mamata Banerjee-led government in West Bengal, saying transparency was needed while addressing a public health emergency. "A public health emergency needs transparency and honest communication. By abandoning these fundamental principles, the TMC govt in Bengal has put lives of millions at risk," he said in a tweet.  CPI(M) leader Fuad Hakim has moved court seeking data on the number of coronavirus cases and fatalities in West Bengal.   According to the Union Health Ministry, the death toll due to coronavirus rose to 437 and the number of cases to 13,387 in the country on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lockdown-announcement-delayed-so-that-in-mp-bjp-govt-can-be-sworn-in-yechury-826588.html
17-04-2020||National Politics||Mamata Banerjee slams Jagdeep Dhankhar, says those who have no work criticise govt||Praising the state police and administration for doing a great job, the chief minister said she does not consider those who indulge in politics and criticism at a time of crisis as "true humans". Although Banerjee did not name either Dhankhar or any BJP leader, her comments came in the backdrop of the governors tweet earlier this week suggesting that the state government should seek central paramilitary forces to ensure that the lockdown succeeds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-banerjee-slams-jagdeep-dhankhar-says-those-who-have-no-work-criticise-govt-826665.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||68 medical staff at Delhi hospital in home quarantine after patient dies||The decision was taken by authorities at the government-run Bhagwan  Mahavir Hospital (BMH), who claimed that the woman did not disclose her travel history and or her 'home-quarantine' status to the hospital authorities. The woman, who was admitted at the facility on Monday died on Wednesday night, the hospital said in a circular issued on Thursday. The document said the patient "did not disclose her travel history" despite repeated verbal queries at the time of admission and submitted "wrong information" in the prescribed form.  She later disclosed her travel history and that she was exposed to COVID-19 positive co-travellers, and also about her four family members being on home quarantine from April 10 for 14 days, the circular said.  Sixty-eight medical staff members including doctors and nurses of the hospital, who came in contact with her and her relatives who stayed at the hospital with her, have been sent to home quarantine till the deceased patient's coronavirus test reports are received, it said. The number of coronavirus cases in Delhi on Thursday rise to 1,640 with 38 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/68-medical-staff-at-delhi-hospital-in-home-quarantine-after-patient-dies-826365.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Two militants killed encounter with security forces in J&K's Shopian||Two militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian district on Friday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the Dairoo area of Shopian in south Kashmir in the morning following specific information about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants fired upon security forces, who retaliated. In the ensuing gunfight, two militants were killed, the official said, adding their identity and group affiliation is being ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-militants-killed-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jks-shopian-826380.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus positive man dies in Rajasthan, 62 fresh virus cases in state||A 56-year-old man suffering from coronavirus died in Rajasthan, where 62 fresh cases were reported on Friday, taking the total number of COVID-19 positive cases to 1,193 in the state, officials said. A government official said the man was found coronavirus positive on Wednesday and died at the MDM Hospital in Jodhpur late on Thursday night. "He also had cardiac complications," the official said. A government report said the number of deaths in the state due to COVID-19 has gone up to 17. Meanwhile, the number of positive cases increased to 1,193. Of the fresh cases, maximum 28 are from Jodhpur, 13 from Tonk, six each from Jaipur and Kota, two from Nagaur, and one each from Ajmer, Jhalawar and Jhunjhunu. The remaining four are evacuees from Iran.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-positive-man-dies-in-rajasthan-62-fresh-virus-cases-in-state-826385.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Plea in High Court seeks to restrain Delhi govt from classifying coronavirus cases as Tablighi||A plea has been moved in the Delhi High Court seeking to restrain Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his administration from classifying some COVID-19 cases as "Tablighi Jamaat" or "Masjid Markaz", alleging it amounts to religious profiling. In Delhi, coronavirus has infected around 1,640 and claimed 38 lives. The petition by a lawyer on Thursday alleged that after the Tablighi event, Kejriwal via his tweets "deliberately" classified several affected cases under a separate caption -- "Masjid Markaz".  The petitioner, advocate M M Kashyap, claimed that such reporting of the coronavirus cases has led to "communal antagonism" and perpetrating of hatred against a specific religious community. It contended that when the atmosphere was already tense and sensitive in Delhi, post the riots in north east parts of the national capital, such reporting of COVID-19 cases would only deteriorate the situation. The plea, filed through advocates Fozia Rahman and M Qayam-ud-din, said that it was the need of the hour that the nation is united in the fight against coronavirus and giving communal angle to the cases would hamper the same. The petition, likely to be heard on April 20, contends that communal reporting of the Tablighi Jamaat incident needs to be stopped immediately and any delay in doing so would promote ill-will, enmity and hatred towards Muslim community. It also contended that Kejriwal has violated the advisory or guidelines issued by the World Health Organisation (WHO) which has strictly advised to refrain from religious profiling of coronavirus cases. The petition seeks directions to Kejriwal and Delhi government to prohibit and stop dissemination of coronavirus infection data allegedly on the basis of religious or communal classification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-in-high-court-seeks-to-restrain-delhi-govt-from-classifying-coronavirus-cases-as-tablighi-826399.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Private schools can only charge tuition fee during coronavirus lockdown in Delhi: Manish Sisodia||No private school will be allowed to increase fees during the coronavirus lockdown and only the tuition fee can be charged till the time schools reopen, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia announced on Friday. "We have got several complaints about schools hiking fees and also levying charges like transport fee, which is not even being utilised during the lockdown. No private school will be allowed to hike fees without seeking permission from the government. Schools also cannot charge beyond the tuition fee," Sisodia said at a press conference. Sisodia, who is also the education minister of Delhi, clarified that charges such as transport fee, annual fee or any other miscellaneous head cannot be levied during the lockdown, which will continue till May 3.  "No school can charge three months' tuition fee (at a time), the fee has to be collected monthly. Schools are mandated to pay salaries to their staff including the contractual ones. If they are short of funds, they can reach out to their parent organisation for funds. "No student's access to online classes should be restricted, irrespective of fee payment," Sisodia said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/private-schools-can-only-charge-tuition-fee-during-coronavirus-lockdown-in-delhi-manish-sisodia-826442.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||IAF chopper makes emergency landing in Hoshiarpur, pilots safe||An Apache helicopter of the Indian Air Force made an emergency landing in the fields of Budhawar village in the district on Friday following a technical glitch, officials said. Two pilots on board --Flight Lieutenant Anoop and Flight Lieutenant Rajat --are safe. There was no damage to the helicopter or on the ground, they said. The helicopter had taken off from the Pathankot base.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iaf-chopper-makes-emergency-landing-in-hoshiarpur-pilots-safe-826451.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Congress` makes 10-point demand charter to Delhi govt, seeks help for those in distress due to coronavirus lockdown||The Congress on Friday said migrants and daily wagers should be incentivised as it put forth a 10-point demand charter before the Arvind Kejriwal government to help those in distress in the national capital due to COVID-19. The party demanded that fixed power charges be waived off and school fees should not be charged from students, besides payment of salaries of school teachers in aided schools and workers in MSMEs by the government. Congress senior spokesperson Ajay Maken sought Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), to be notified as regulations, for delivery boys in the national capital to help stop the spread of the deadly virus through them. He said all 89 people who were in touch with a Pizza delivery boy, feared to be infected with the virus, and have been quarantined should be immediately tested.  Addressing a press conference through video-conferencing, Maken said testing should be ramped up in the national capital and asked whether Delhi had entered the community transmission stage-3 of the virus as 135 people have been kept "under investigation". The former Delhi Congress chief said migrants should be incentivised in Delhi and in other towns as they are the backbone of any city and demanded that they be given Rs 7,500 per month immediately to help them cope with the crisis. "Migrants are the backbone of any city and hence they should be incentivised to make them feel safe in Delhi and other towns," maken said. He also demanded payment of ration for two months to the poor and vulnerable, besides advance payment of pension to senior citizens and widows and risk allowance to sanitation and frontline health workers. Maken also asked for an unemployment allowance of Rs 5,000 to all unemployed in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-makes-10-point-demand-charter-to-delhi-govt-seeks-help-for-those-in-distress-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown-826456.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: J&K to allow construction activities during lockdown||Jammu and Kashmir has issued instructions for regulating and facilitating construction activities to be carried out during the lockdown period while following the norms of social distancing. According to an order issued by the Chief Secretary, it has been impressed upon the departments to carry out certain construction activities under set guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOP). The concerned executive engineers have been asked to identify the works to be resumed during the lockdown period and list of such projects/works have to be shared with the concerned district magistrates. They have also been directed to prepare the list of the required machinery and equipment to be deployed at the identified construction sites/works and same shall be submitted to the concerned district magistrates for permission. On Wednesday, the government of India released fresh guidelines for the nationwide lockdown with more relaxations to “mitigate hardships to the public.” The guidelines, issued by the home ministry a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the lockdown till May 3, allowed exemptions for construction activities and rural works under MNREGA to restart the economy in a graded manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-jk-to-allow-construction-activities-during-lockdown-826465.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Chhattisgarh to start pool testing in couple of days, says Deo; Rues Centre's conservative testing strategy||In an interview to PTI, Deo also said the Chhattisgarh government is in the process of procuring 75,000 rapid testing kits on its own and has also asked the Centre for providing some. "We have re-tendered for 75,000 kits on Thursday. We have also appealed to the Central government (for giving us kits) which I hear is to get a tranche of about 6,40,000 kits from abroad. Chhatisgarh is one of those states where we don't have even a single kit today," Deo said. The Centre is likely to send rapid testing kits to the state by Saturday, he said. However, he was not aware of the number being sent. He also asserted that the personal protective equipment (PPE) for medical personnel, including doctors and nurses, dealing directly with COVID-19 patients was in short supply. On the state set to adopt pool testing, Deo said, "We were one of those states asking for it. On Tuesday, the ICMR cleared this. We have talked to the laboratories at AIIMS and the medical college (Pt Jawahar Lal Nehru Memorial Medical College) in Raipur. They are in agreement that they will be able to do it," he said. AIIMS Raipur has a capacity of 350-400 sample tests in a day and with pool testing it can go up to 2,000, while the Raipur medical college has about 100-120 samples capacity which would be able to go up to 500-600 in a day, he said, adding that "the pool testing would start within a day or two." Pooling of samples involves testing them in batches and when pooled sample tests positive, then individual samples are assessed. Pool testing reduces the number of test kits used, and therefore, increases testing capacity. Asked about former Congress president Rahul Gandhi's assertion on ramping up testing, Deo said it has to be the way forward because if one is not testing aggressively then it is like being in a "dark room" and working on speculation. He said different protocols are being followed around the world and while one advocated a lockout, the other was testing and regulating movement. "Between South Korea and India, South Korea has tested about 7,000 per million, while India, I don’t think it would have touched even 200 per million, so that is the gap....It is easier not to have a lockdown if you have a more aggressive testing protocol. Then you are more aware of where to prevent people from moving around and where to allow people to be much freer to move around," Deo said. "The testing protocol (adopted by the Centre) was very conservative. The entire testing protocol in the country was with only one facility initially, NIV (National Institute of Virology), Pune. Now we have 220 labs. So either the government was not prepared or not planning," he alleged. Deo said that selective testing created a "big gap" between the asymptomatic population and those tested, and that was one of the reasons for the spread of the virus. On Chhattisgarh having fewer number of cases and zero death, the minister said the key was that the state started preparations early and then luck also played its part. "We did start early, that is true. We started on January 27 by putting in the rapid task force headed by the district collectors so that the inter-department coordination would be there as just the health department would not have been able to ensure compliance (of protocols) beyond a point," he said. "We are fortunate to have had only 33 cases, so I would give a lot to chance, a lot to luck, maybe our people have been alert. We have had a large population that has been under quarantine, Wednesday’s figures were 94,795 in home quarantine and 242 in government quarantine facilities," he said. Malls, cinema halls, and other business institutions were also asked to regulate activities or close down early in the state, he said. "Between January 27 to March 24, we had tried to put an administrative system in place which had identified COVID dedicated facilities and training of manpower….We started screening people coming in at the airport from January 28," he said. "It was very difficult at the bus stand and railway stations so we went for hoardings, billboards and jingles (for COVID-19 precautions). The idea was to educate the people because from day one it was absolutely clear that there was no cure, no medicine, that we could provide to the people," he said. The government had to try and contain the virus' spread, he added. According to the state government, there were 33 cases of coronavirus, out of which 23 people have been discharged or cured and there have been zero fatalities due to the pandemic in the state. The death toll in the country due to COVID-19 has risen to 437 and the number of total cases to 13,387 on Friday, according to the Union health ministry. The minister also said there was no early standardisation of the PPE kits for COVID-19 and the Indian Council of Medical Research ( ICMR) published its standard for such kits only on March 24. "We had placed our orders on March 5 for PPEs to government subsidiary HLL for 7,000 kits and subsequently for another 7,000 kits on March 16. Out of those 14,000 kits we ordered, the firm could supply us only 3,000," Deo said. These items are in short supply and it is not clear to manufacturers in the country as to what standard of PPE kits they have to supply for COVID-19, the senior minister in the Chhattisgarh government said. Asserting that the pandemic should serve as a wake up call for governments across the globe and they should commit at least 3 percent of the GDP to the health sector, he said there must be a sustained investment in the public health sector, he said. Deo also said the state government has asked the Centre for an automated DNA/RNA machine for sample procurement, noting that currently it is being done on a manual basis. If they provide us with this machine then the capacity doubles, the minister added. PTI ASK PYK PYK||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-chhattisgarh-to-start-pool-testing-in-couple-of-days-says-deo-rues-centres-conservative-testing-strategy-826472.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||UP: Two COVID-19 patients break open bathroom lock to escape from quarantine centre||Two people linked to the Tablighi Jamaat allegedly tried to escape from a quarantine centre by breaking open the lock of the bathroom, officials said on Friday. Twelve people from the Tajwapur locality here who had returned from Delhi were kept in a women's hospital of the district hospital which was converted into a quarantine centre. Two among them tried to escape by breaking open the lock of the bathroom on Thursday, Chief Medical Superintendent Dr DK Singh said. However, the alert hospital staff caught hold of them and brought them back, Singh said, adding they have been put in quarantine after a warning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-two-covid-19-patients-break-open-bathroom-lock-to-escape-from-quarantine-centre-826473.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Weddings, engagements being postponed in Jammu and Kashmir||Hundreds of weddings and engagement ceremonies in Kashmir scheduled at this time of year have been postponed or held in a “modified form” due to the lockdown announced last month to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. While some families have indefinitely postponed the weddings, others have opted to cancel only the grand function but not the essential rituals. A couple performed their nikah (A Muslim marriage) last week in a low-key affair with only four persons accompanying the bridegroom. The nikah sermon was read by a molvi (Islamic preacher) at the bride’s place, in a room that had only five people sitting while maintaining social distance. Now the bride is at her husband’s home but no party has been held yet. “The performance of the marriage is more important than inviting guests,” the groom told DH. “We have planned to throw the feast when the situation becomes normal. That will happen, for sure.”     According to the groom, the marriage had to be postponed last September due to the security lockdown imposed in the wake of abrogation of Article 370. “April is not the marriage season in Kashmir but the date was decided to keep in view the uncertainties of the summer, which have been a regular feature in the past decade,” he added. Last year thousands of marriages in Kashmir were performed with no barats, mega feasts and other rituals after a security and communication clampdown was imposed in August. This resulted in business in Kashmir's traditional wedding season taking a massive hit as thousands of couples opted for simpler ceremonies instead of lavish ones. However, this time, there are families who have altogether cancelled everything from the nikah ceremony to the bar at (the actual day when the bride is taken home by the groom). A Srinagar family shared that the match for their daughter was found in January and the wedding was scheduled in the last week of March. Just a week before the wedding, the coronavirus panic spread in the valley. The family instantly cancelled it, even though all arrangements were ready.  Even finding a match is getting difficult in the circumstances, said Bashir Ahmad, a 60-year-old matchmaker. The prospects of more weddings being agreed to due to his efforts have also faded. “I can’t go anywhere, can’t visit anyone. Nor can the families who wish to see their children married come to me. I don’t think anything is possible until normalcy returns,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-weddings-engagements-being-postponed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-826475.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: En route to hospital, woman gives birth inside police jeep in west Delhi's Khyala||A woman delivered a baby boy inside a police jeep amid the ongoing lockdown while they were on their way to a hospital in west Delhi's Khyala, police said on Friday. The pregnant woman along with her family went to the police station and met a woman constable Suman on Thursday night, they said. “The family requested the constable to seek an ambulance for the woman. The constable informed her seniors and a police gypsy was sent,” said Deepak Purohit, Deputy Commissioner of Police (West). The pregnant woman, Mini Kumar, was in labour and delivered the baby inside the police jeep, the DCP said. According to police, the jeep was hardly one kilometre away from the hospital when the woman delivered the baby. Her husband and sister pulled out the baby while the woman constable helped in the delivery. The doctors were informed and they came to the jeep with their medical equipment. The baby was wrapped in a towel and handed over to the doctors later who took care of both of them. Both the mother and baby are healthy and have been shifted to the hospital, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-en-route-to-hospital-woman-gives-birth-inside-police-jeep-in-west-delhis-khyala-826479.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||11 people hiding in truck headed for Kashmir booked, quarantined||Eleven people hiding in a truck headed for Kashmir were intercepted in the Union territory's Ramban district and booked for violating lockdown norms, officials here said on Friday. All of them were placed under administrative quarantine after a medical examination, they added. Police personnel conducting a routine check on the highway at Nashri stopped the truck and found the 11 people hiding in it, they said. The driver was identified as Mukhtayar Ahmed of Shopian and the truck was headed for Srinagar from Udhampur, the officials said. An FIR was lodged against them for violating the lockdown imposed across the country to combat the spread of COVID-19, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/11-people-hiding-in-truck-headed-for-kashmir-booked-quarantined-826485.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Anxiety grips farm labourers living on Yamuna floodplains amid coronavirus lockdown||Amid the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus, nearly 40-50 farm labourers living on the Yamuna floodplains have been cut off from the rest of the world and left waiting for the boat with food packets to arrive. They are facing hardships due to lack of connectivity through roads and dependent on outsiders for basic amenities. Around 40-50 farm labourers are totally cut off and can be reached only through boats, Sonu Pandit, a resident of Chilla village, said. "There are 15-20 families, including mine, who receive food that is brought to us through boats. Life was already tough for us and the lockdown made things worse," said Shiv Kumar, 25, who works as a farm labourer along with his four brothers. A community kitchen ,'Sewa Rasoi', run by Virendra Sachdeva and his friends Rajiv Kohli and Vijemdra Dhama in Mayur Vihar, is providing food parcels to the farm labourers amid the lockdown. "We learnt about the plight of people living on the Yamuna floodplains. Around 200 food packets are being sent to them daily through a boat," said Sachdeva, former president of the Mayur Vihar unit of the BJP. Abdul, a 23-year-old farm labourer and a construction worker, said he was worried when the lockdown was announced as he relied on his daily wages for food. "But luckily, we get food packets and sometimes dry ration from Sewa Bharti. Earlier, we used to buy items from nearby localities but it has stopped now due to the lockdown. We take water from a tanker near the Hanuman temple," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/anxiety-grips-farm-labourers-living-on-yamuna-floodplains-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-826491.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Security forces surround attackers who killed SPO in Kishtwar||A gunbattle has broken out between security forces and the suspected terrorists who killed a special police officer and critically injured his colleague in Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar district early this week, officials said. On Monday, the suspects attacked the SPOs with axes in Tander village and escaped into the jungle. The police had been on their trail since and located them on Friday. Additional security forces were rushed and a gunbattle ensued, a police officer said, adding details would be made available later. The attackers have been identified as local residents Ashiq Hussain, a rape accused who was released on bail from Kishtwar Central Jail three weeks ago, and Basharat Hussain. The official said the two are believed to have joined the terrorist ranks and carried out the attack to lay their hands on their weapons. This was the first terror attack in Kishtwar district this year. Kishtwar was rocked by a series of terrorist attacks in November 2018, when it saw its first terror attack in over a decade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-forces-surround-attackers-who-killed-spo-in-kishtwar-826501.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Man who tested positive for coronavirus dies in Punjab's Ludhiana||Gurmail Singh, who was a revenue official, tested positive for the infection on Thursday night.  Civil Surgeon Rajesh Bagga said he was from Payal sub-division here.  He was admitted to hospital after he complained of fever and breathlessness on April 14. Bagga said the man's contacts are being traced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-who-tested-positive-for-coronavirus-dies-in-punjabs-ludhiana-826524.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus cases rise to 221 in Haryana||Coronavirus cases in Haryana rose to 221 on Friday, with Nuh and Panchkula districts reporting fresh cases. While worst-hit Nuh reported five cases, Panchkula, which has seen a surge after nine members of a family earlier tested positive, reported two more cases, according to the state's health department bulletin. In another development, a private doctor in Panchkula was booked by the police under relevant provisions of law for allegedly failing to inform state health authorities that he had been treating a suspected coronavirus patient. The woman later tested positive. The 44-year-old woman, her husband and seven other members of their family, who reside in two houses in Panchkula's Sector 15, had tested positive for the virus, officials said. Earlier, Health Minister Anil Vij had directed that an FIR be filed against the erring doctor for negligence. The FIR will be filed under the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, he had said on Thursday. The total active COVID-19 patients in the state were 137, the state health department's daily bulletin said, adding 82 people have been discharged. The state has so far recorded two COVID-related deaths. The worst affected districts of the state are Nuh (55), Faridabad (33), Gurugram (32), Faridabad (33) and  Palwal (30). Panchkula district has reported 16 coronavirus cases. Vij has said that out of total positive cases, 122 are Tablighi Jamaat members.  “Had there not been a spike in the number of cases due to the Tablighi Jamaat members, the state would have been in a much better position today as far as the fight against COVID-19 is concerned,” he had said. As many as 8,796 samples have been tested so far, out of which 7,094 have tested negative. However, reports of 1,495 samples are awaited. Among the 24 foreign nationals who tested positive, 14 were Italian tourists and later 13 of them were discharged while one elderly woman in the group had passed away a few days ago even though she had recovered from the infection. The other ten foreign nationals found positive are from countries including Sri Lanka, Nepal, Thailand, South Africa and Indonesia while 64 are from other states, as per the bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-cases-rise-to-221-in-haryana-826529.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Four ultras, including two responsible for killing cop, shot dead in J&K||Four militants, including the two involved in the recent killing of policemen in Kishtwar, were shot dead in two separate encounters with security forces across Jammu and Kashmir on Friday. Two militants were killed in a gunfight with the security forces in Dachan area of hilly Kishtwar district of Jammu region, police said. “After the meticulous search for three continuous days, security forces zeroed in on Saunder village in a Nallah (rivulet). On observing the movement of forces, the militants fired at the search party and in the retaliatory action, both the militants were eliminated. One AK-74 rifle and one INSAS rifle were recovered from them,” Inspector General Police (IGP) Jammu, Mukesh Singh, said. He said the duo affiliated with Hizb-ul-Mujahideen outfit, were involved in hacking a special police officer (SPO) to death with an axe and critically injuring another on April 13 in Dachhan area of Kishtwar. The IGP added, with timely and sustained effort, an attempt by the Hizbul to revive militancy activities in the Dachan and Marwah areas of Kishtwar has been nipped. Earlier, in the day two more militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian district. Police said on specific inputs about the presence of militants in Dairoo Keegam area of Shopian, 58 km from here, a joint team of army’s 44 Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search operation (CASO) in the area. “As the forces intensified searches, hiding militants fired upon which was retaliated, triggering an encounter,” a police spokesperson said and added during the exchange of fire, two militants were killed. Amid coronavirus pandemic, the militancy incidents and ceasefire violations along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir have seen a rise in recent weeks. Also, Army Chief General MM Naravane arrived in Kashmir on Thursday on a two-day visit to review the security situation along the borders and hinterland. During his interaction with troops in Kashmir, the army chief reiterated the need to be prepared to meet emerging security challenges at all times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-ultras-including-two-responsible-for-killing-cop-shot-dead-in-jk-826569.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Woman IAS officer transferred for 'high-handedness' for enforcing coronavirus lockdown||A woman IAS officer was transferred after a former Congress MLA accused her of high-handedness in dealing with public in Rajasthan‘s Chittorgarh district to enforce lockdown. In his complaint lodged with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, former Congress MLA Surendra Singh Jadavat alleged that Chittorgarh SDM Tejasvi Rana also snatched currency notes from vendors in the mandi and tore the up. A sitting ruling party MLA, going to Circuit House in a vehicle, too was stopped by her and his driver was fined by police on her directions for not carrying licence. Rana, a 2017-batch IAS officer, was transferred after some videos, purportedly showing her snatching registers from traders in a mandi and throwing them besides pushing a table while enforcing lockdown on Tuesday, surfaced on social media. “The officer reached mandi and misbehaved with vendors there on Tuesday. It was the time when the district administration had already announced a relaxation for four hours. “There was no crowd on shops and the traders were sitting idele but the officer aggressively accosted them, threw their registers after snatching them from the shopkeepers,” Jadavat alleged. The IAS officer’s acts were got captured in CCTV cameras installed in shops and the videos got viral. “At one shop, the vendor was counting currency notes. She snatched the notes and tore them up. This is a crime,” he alleged. “Her behaviour was insensitive and objectionable. Her highhandedness created resentment among traders and I complained to the chief minister about it the same day,” Jadavat said. Jadavat also alleged that the officer also tore lockdown passes of two persons during checking on road.  “She conducted checking on roads and tore lockdown passes of two persons who were returning after distributing ration to the needy. This was the peak of highhandedness,” he said.   On the same day, the SDM stopped the vehicle carrying Congress MLA Rajendra Singh Bidhuri near Apsara cinema in the city and directed police to fine the driver for not carrying his licence. The MLA was going to the Circuit House, and when his vehicle was stopped and sent to the police station, he went to the Circuit House in another vehicle. “As per the SDM’s direction, the driver and the vehicle were sent to the police station where the driver was fined,” a police official said. Bidhuri said he has no issue with the police action as the officers were doing their jobs. “My vehicle was stopped by the SDM and police. They were doing their job and I have no problem with that. It was just a petty matter,” he said, adding, he has no role in her transfer. The incidents occurred on Tuesday and her transfer order was issued on Wednesday night. However, no reason for the transfer was mentioned in the order. When contacted, Rana, who was transferred to Jaipur on the post of joint CEO- state health assurance agency, refused to comment on the matters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-ias-officer-transferred-for-high-handedness-for-enforcing-coronavirus-lockdown-826578.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh reports 44 fresh COVID-19 cases, total climbs to 849||Uttar Pradesh reported 44 fresh coronavirus cases and one death on Friday, taking the total number of COVID-19 positive cases in the state to 849 and the death toll to 14, an official said. The death of a coronavirus positive patient was reported from Meerut on Friday. The state has so far recorded 14 deaths -- the maximum five from Agra, two each from Moradabad and Meerut and one each from Lucknow, Kanpur, Basti, Bulanshahr and Varanasi, health department sources said.   "The number of coronavirus positive cases in the state is 849 in 48 districts. Of the total cases, 82 patients have been treated and discharged," an official statement said here. Among the fresh cases reported on Friday, 32 are members of Tablighi Jamat, it said. Of the total cases, 504 Tablighi Jamaat members have tested positive for the virus, it added. Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said in three districts - Pilibhit, Hathras and Mahrajganj - where coronavirus cases were reported earlier, there are presently no active cases. "The patients were treated and there are no active cases in these districts. We have asked officers to remain alert and continue to collect samples," Prasad said. He said 3,200 samples were collected and 2,962 tests were conducted on Thursday. About the patients in isolation wards, he said, "At present 993 patients are admitted in isolation wards while 10,714 patients are in quarantine facilities. These are those patients who are symptomatic or were in contact with coronavirus positive cases," he added. When asked about reports that some Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits were not up to mark, Prasad said, "It is not so. The kits in question were old and purchased for H1N1 last year. They were purchased at Rs 115 per kit following all the norms. Presently, the new kits cost Rs 1,086 per unit."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-reports-44-fresh-covid-19-cases-total-climbs-to-849-826581.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Not enough labourers, UP farmers pool resources to harvest crop||Hit by a shortage of labourers and machines due to the coronavirus lockdown, many Uttar Pradesh farmers are forced to summon relatives to help them harvest the wheat crop standing in the fields. “Since the labourers are not available, we have to involve the entire family in harvesting,” said Ram Ishwar of Telma-Jamalidinpur village in Ballia district. The lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus has crippled the movement of farm workers and equipment like combine harvesters, which the bigger farmers take on rent during harvest time. Now, farmers like Shankar in Bahraich district’s Dhawaria village are looking at solutions closer to home. "Villagers have come together at the local level to help each other with the harvesting,” he said. Shankar said farmers in his areas have formed groups whose members help each other out. “I helped my villagers to harvest their crop and they did the same for me,” he said. Similarly, Ram Kumar said farmers in his Badhauli village in Gonda district are working together so that the harvesting is not delayed any further. Police and administration officials are aware that there is are risks involved when farmers call in their relatives from nearby places. Amid fears over the spread of coronavirus, local residents sometimes resist the arrival of outsiders. “This carries the risk of turning into a law and order problem,” an official said. Small farmers who often sow the crop, go to the city to find work and then return during harvest time are in bigger trouble. They are stranded a long way from home and their fields because of the lockdown enforced nationwide to combat the spread of coronavirus.  “My crop is ready and needs harvesting but I cannot go because of the lockdown. If it rains I will suffer a huge loss,” said Raju, who owns some land Bahraich’s Hasna village.   Bigger farmers in eastern UP who rely on rented mechanical harvesters said the machines are hard to find. “The harvesters and combine machines used to come from Punjab in large numbers. This has not been the case this time because of the lockdown,” said Manoj Yadav of Deoria’s Chainpur Gulaura village. “We have to depend on the local ones, and they are not easily available. This has come as a boon for those who have these machines and they are trying to dictate terms to us,” he said. The state government recently relaxed lockdown restrictions on the movement of people involved in harvesting. At a meeting last Sunday, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also said private agencies should be encouraged to directly buy foodgrain from farmers, as long as they match the minimum support price offered by the government. This has helped farmers in some areas. “There is no problem here. Harvesting is being done both manually and with the help of machines. Police and the administration are not stopping the movement of machines here,” Om Prakash, a farmer from Sahewa gram sabha in Banda district, told PTI on phone. But he admitted that harvesting is yet to gain momentum, and the dependence on local labourers has increased, like in other districts, as those from outside cannot travel. While allowing some relaxations, he said, the administration has warned that anti-coronavirus precautions should be taken and “there should not be any complaint from anywhere”. Wheat procurement in the state began on April 15. The UP government will buy 5.5 million tonnes of wheat, for which it has set up 5,500 purchase centres. An online token system has been introduced to prevent crowding at the wholesale markets. But farmers say they are running behind time in harvesting the crop. “We will be in a position to avail any facilities to sell our produce only when we are able to cut the entire crop,” Deoria’s Manoj Yadav said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-not-enough-labourers-up-farmers-pool-resources-to-harvest-crop-826623.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Army Jawan goes missing while patrolling on Indo-Tibet border in Himachal Pradesh||An army jawan went missing while patrolling on the Indo-Tibet border in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district, police said on Friday. The soldier, Prakash Ralla, of the 7 Madras Regiment had gone missing during patrolling on April 7 and the army lodged a missing person report at the Pooh police station on April 9, the police said. Efforts are on to search for the missing jawan, who is feared to have drowned in the Sutlej river after accidentally falling from a mountain peak, they added. Officials said 10 jawans of 7 Madras Unit went on short range patrolling towards Dhaga bridge on the Tibet border from Khab to Tashigang and Somangch. Two jawans were left behind on their way back to Khab base camp from Dhaga bridge. The eight jawans kept waiting midway for the two jawans. Later, they decided to reach Khab base camp as it was getting dark. The next morning, army jawans started searching for the two missing jawans. One jawan was found lying in an injured condition and was taken to a hospital in Pooh town for treatment, they said. The other missing jawan, Prakash Ralla, could not be traced. It is feared that the two jawans lost their way while returning to Khab base camp and fell after slipping from mountain peaks, the officials said. Efforts are on to search for Ralla, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-jawan-goes-missing-while-patrolling-on-indo-tibet-border-in-himachal-pradesh-826655.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Unable to get 'likes' on TikTok, Noida teen ends life||A teenager allegedly hanged himself to death at his home here as he was apparently "depressed" over not getting "likes" on his TikTok videos of late, police said on Friday. The 18-year-old lived in Salarpur, under Sector 39 police station limits in Noida, and the incident was reported on Thursday evening, the police said. They said the teenager was active on TikTok, a China-made mobile phone application that allows users to post short clips of themselves performing acts, stunts and lip-syncing songs and tunes. "The local police reached the spot immediately after they were alerted about the incident. They broke down the door that was bolted from inside and found his body hanging from the ceiling fan on Thursday evening," Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Noida, Ranvijay Singh said. "During inquiry it came to light that he would make videos on TikTok and nobody was 'liking' his videos on the app since past few days. It's a shocking finding... People from his family and neighbourhood said that he was really worried over not getting 'likes' on TikTok and that is why he took this extreme step," the officer said. The ADCP said no suicide note was found from the spot but the teenager had told his family members and neighbours that he was "depressed" because he was not getting the expected response on the social media app. "However, we are investigating the matter and proceedings will be carried out depending on the findings in the case," Singh said. A popular social media app now, India is one of the most significant markets for TikTok.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unable-to-get-likes-on-tiktok-noida-teen-ends-life-826660.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Unable to go to parents' home due to lockdown, married woman ends life in UP||A married woman in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida allegedly ended her life on Friday apparently due to being unable to go to her parents' home in Haryana amid the lockdown imposed due to coronavirus, police said. The 22-year-old woman, who was living in Dadri area of Greater Noida, wanted to visit her parents' home in Palwal district of Haryana but was advised against it by her husband and her brothers, the police said. "Hemlata Kashyap was found dead in her house on Friday. She was found hanging from the ceiling of her room with the help of a 'chunni' stole. Her husband had gone out to the local market during the time of the incident," Deputy Commissioner of Police, Greater Noida, Rajesh Kumar Singh said. The matter was reported to the local police by her husband, he said, adding that the body was then taken into custody and sent for post mortem examination. "The woman had returned from her parents' home on March 16 and wanted to go again. Her husband as well as her brothers had told her not to insist about travelling during the lockdown and she can go later," the DCP said. "She was married for nearly one-and-a-half-year now. The couple had no child. It is still to be found out why she was insisting on going to her parents' home," Singh told PTI. Further legal proceedings are underway in the case, the police said. The entire country is currently under a lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic that has barred people's non-essential movement outdoors since March 25. The lockdown that was supposed to be in place till April 14 has now been extended till May 3 by the central government. Gautam Buddh Nagar in western UP is among the worst-hit districts in the state due to the pandemic with 92 positive cases so far. Besides the general lockdown restrictions, the police here have imposed CrPC section 144 which bars assembly of four or more persons and urged people to stay indoors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unable-to-go-to-parents-home-due-to-lockdown-married-woman-ends-life-in-up-826661.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||J&K records 5th COVID-19 death as 14 more test positive, tally jumps to 328||Jammu and Kashmir on Friday recorded fifth COVID-19 death while 14 more patients were tested positive for novel coronavirus taking the total number of positive cases to 328 in the Union Territory (UT). A 75-year-old man from Sopore area of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district breathed his last ten days after he was tested positive for COVID-19 in a Srinagar hospital on Friday morning. “His body was sent to his home town amid proper protocol,” a doctor said. According to the Media Bulletin on coronavirus 14 new positive cases (all from Kashmir division), were reported, taking the total number of positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir to 328. Out of 328 positive cases, 281 are Active Positive, 42 have recovered and five have died.  Pertinently in the last seven days, more than 100 positive cases have been reported from Kashmir division only. Out of 20 districts in J&K, eight have been identified as COVID-19 hotspots by the Union Health Ministry. Of them, six have been classified as hotspots with a large outbreak of COVID-19 and two as hotspots with clusters. It is worthwhile to mention here that 90 Red Zones have been identified in J&K so far, in order to prevent the spread of the deadly coronavirus. 14 hotspots for COVID-19 have been found in Jammu while 76 are from Kashmir region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-records-5th-covid-19-death-as-14-more-test-positive-tally-jumps-to-328-826673.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: MHA asks states to trace Rohingyas who attended Tablighi Jamaat events||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has asked states to trace Rohingya Muslims who had attended religious congregations organised by Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi and other places fearing that they might have contracted COVID-19. In a letter to states, the MHA said there was a need to start screening Rohingyas who attended these events, including in south Delhi's Nizamuddin, and those who came in contact with them. Sources said the letter mentioned that Rohingya Muslims have attended such meetings in Haryana's Mewat and Nizamuddin. Those living in Hyderabad camps are learnt to have visited Mewat and Nizamuddin. Some of the Rohingyas, who were living in Shaheen Bagh, had also gone for Tablighi Jamaat event in the capital in mid-March and had not returned to their camps.  Sources said the letter also mentions that the presence of Rohingya Muslims who attended these events were reported from Derabassi in Punjab as well as in Punjab. The MHA has asked states to identify and screen these people and their contacts on a priority basis to ensure that COVID-19 does not further spread. The mid-March religious gathering in Nizamuddin has been linked to a large number of COVID-19 cases after a large number of attendees returned to their home states. The possible link to Nizamuddin meeting emerged after over half-dozen persons who tested positive for COVID-19 in Andaman and Nicobar referred to them attending the event. Later, a large number of people who attended the meeting from Tamil Nadu and Telangana among other states tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-mha-asks-states-to-trace-rohingyas-who-attended-tablighi-jamaat-events-826683.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||India exports coronavirus medicines, Pakistan terror, says General Naravane||Stating that Pakistan was exporting terror at a time when India is sending medicines to other countries to fight COVID-19 pandemic, Army Chief General MM Naravane Friday confirmed that eight positive cases of coronavirus have been confirmed among Indian army. “While India is sending out medical teams to other countries and exporting medicines, Pakistan is only exporting terror,” he told a selected group of reporters in frontier Kupwara district while concluding his two-day visit to Kashmir. While referring to recent ceasefire violations along the Line of Control (LoC) by Pakistan Army, the General said it is unfortunate that while the world has got together to fight COVID-19, Pakistan has resorted to firing heavy calibre artillery and killing innocent Kashmiris to garner international attention.  Talking about the recent infiltration bid, he said earlier this month, a group of militants infiltrated into this side and there was an encounter in which a junior commissioned officer and four soldiers were killed. “We were able to foil the infiltration attempt. The operation was conducted in very difficult conditions amid snowfall in the area,” the Army Chief said. “The route infiltrators had taken would not have been possible without the support of the Pakistani army.” He confirmed that there were eight positive COVID-19 cases among the Indian army. “So far, we have only eight positive cases in the entire Army, of which two are doctors, one nursing assistant,” he said.     General Naravane said that the morale of soldiers is very high despite lockdown. “Soldiers are doing an excelling job. I want to compliment them not only those who are in J&K but those guarding northern borders and northeast also,” he said. Meanwhile, on the second day of his two-day visit to Kashmir, General Naravane continued to review the security situation along the LoC, a defence spokesperson said. “The Army Chief accompanied by the Northern Army Commander Lt Gen YK Joshi and Srinagar based 15 Corps Commander, Lt Gen BS Raju visited the formations and units, wherein the local Commanders briefed the army chief  on the existing security situation and the measures instituted so that infiltration bids by terrorists are foiled.” He said that the army chief was briefed by the local Commanders on the situation on the LoC, ceasefire violations, retaliation, counter-infiltration operations and operational preparedness being maintained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-exports-coronavirus-medicines-pakistan-terror-says-general-naravane-826695.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesg: Number of coronavirus patients up by 12 to 1,310||The total includes 842 from Indore who had tested positive for the infection till Thursday night, they said. As coronavirus claimed the lives of six more persons since late Thursday night- four in Dewas and one each in Khargone and Bhopal- the state's death toll has reached 69, the officials said. As per the reports received so far, the virus has now expanded its footprint to 25 out of the total 52 districts of the state. In Bhopal, one more case was reported, which raised the count of COVID-19 patients in the state capital to 197, officials said. Four persons tested positive in Dhar, three in Hoshangabad, and one each in Ujjain, Betul, Dewas and Mandsaur. Of the 69 COVID-19 deaths in the state, 47 were reported in Indore alone, they said. So far, six persons each have died in Bhopal and Ujjain, five in Dewas, four in Khargone and one in Chhindwara. Apart from Bhopal, Morena district has recorded 14 cases, Jabalpur 13, Ujjain 31 (one new), Hoshangabad 19 (three new), Khargone 39, Barwani 22, Raisen eight, Gwalior six, Khandwa 33, Dewas 18 (one new), Sheopur three, Vidisha 13, Chhindwara four, Satna two, Dhar 10 (four new), Shivpuri two, Ratlam 12, Shajapur five, Mandsaur eight (one new), Agar Malwa four and Betul two (one new), Tikamgarh, Alirajpur and Sagar one each, the health officials said. Two patients hail from other states. So far, 68 patients have recovered and returned home, the officials said. The health officials also said that 408 containment zones have been created across the affected cities in the state to curb the spread of he virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesg-number-of-coronavirus-patients-up-by-12-to-1310-826698.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Distressed labourers rehabilitated by Delhi Police amid coronavirus lockdown||Seven labourers, who were walking towards their native village in Uttar Pradesh's Hardoi with their luggage in hand after being evicted by their landlord here due to non-payment of rent, were sent back to their rented accommodation by the Delhi Police. During patrolling on Thursday, two policemen spotted seven labourers walking towards Sarai Kalen Khan at Barapula, an official said. When they were questioned, the labourers revealed that they were thrown out by their landlord due to non-payment of rent, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. The labourers, who used to work in Delhi's Janakpuri area, were then provided with water and food, he said.  Their landlord Madan Lal was contacted who happens to be the head constable in a Delhi jail and was convinced to waive off the rent, Thakur said. After the landlord agreed, the labourers were escorted to their rented accommodation at Brahmpuri in a DTC bus, the DCP said. A gas cylinder and ration for one month were given to the labourers, he said. In another incident, three workers from Agra were rehabilitated at a shelter home here after police spotted them at Aurobindo Marg. Nanak, Gurushevak and Mangal said due to the lockdown, they were left with no jobs and decided to go to their native village in Ambala. The workers started their journey on foot from Agra, but later they got a lift from a truck driver who dropped them at Faridabad on Thursday. Police said the three men were accommodated at a shelter home in south Delhi. The nationwide lockdown was declared across the country by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 to prevent the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/distressed-labourers-rehabilitated-by-delhi-police-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-826702.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Lt Guv e-inaugurates J&K's 1st coronavirus call centre||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Friday inaugurated the union territory's first COVID-19 response call centre in Srinagar, an official spokesperson said. It also launched web and mobile applications which will help in real time integrated management of the coronavirus disease, he said. The call centre and the web and mobile applications were e-inaugurated by Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu, the spokesperson added. Deputy commissioner, Srinagar, Shahid Iqbal Chaudhary said the magnitude of the COVID-19 crisis needed a central response. "Our colleagues were working on a unique system. The Lt Governor has dedicated to Srinagar the first Covid response Call Centre," he said. The applications will help in quarantine management system, COVID-19 symptom tracking, Geo-fencing, tracking of quarantined persons and health survey, Chaudhary added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lt-guv-e-inaugurates-jks-1st-coronavirus-call-centre-826707.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi reports 4 new deaths, 67 fresh cases||Four more deaths and 67 cases related to COVID-19 were reported in the national capital on Friday even as a fresh order has been issued for testing of samples. With the latest figures, the death toll has risen to 42 while the number of cases has touched 1,707. Twenty-one people were discharged, taking the total to 73, including one who migrated out during treatment. At present, there are 1,592 people in hospitals who were tested positive for COVID-19. According to the health bulletin, an order has been issued regarding testing of samples of the community under surveillance, people under quarantine and contacts of COVID-19 patients and patients admitted in hospitals. The authorities also declared six more localities as containment zones, taking the total number to 66.  Health teams have also collected 2,983 samples from the containment zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-reports-4-new-deaths-67-fresh-cases-826719.html
17-04-2020||North and Central||Congress activists protest outside LPU, seek registration of FIR against management||Congress activists on Friday staged a demonstration outside the main gate of Lovely Professional University here demanding the varsity management be booked for flouting COVID-19 lockdown guidelines. Terming LPU's attitude as “extremely callous and irresponsible” in handling the case of a 21-year-old, coronavirus positive woman hosteller and keeping itself open, the Punjab government had on Thursday sought the varsity’s explanation over the breach of lockdown orders. The LPU violated the government of India’s lockdown orders under the Epidemic Act and Section 144 of CrPC for closure of the educational institutes across the country, the state government said, asking the varsity to explain why the no-objection certificate (NOC given to it should not be revoked. The notice sought to remind LPU that Punjab’s Higher Education department had on March 13 ordered suspension of all kinds of teaching work in all institutions, including private universities. In the demonstration outside LPU led by Phagwara Block Congress Committee (Urban) president and former councillor Sanjeev Bugga, the protesters demanded registration of an FIR against the university management for flouting the guidelines. Holding placards and shouting slogans against the university management, the protesters, however, maintained social distancing by standing afar from each other. Addressing the protesters, Bugga alleged that the private varsity had put the lives of hundreds of students at great risk by keeping them in hostels when the government had ordered closure of all educational institutions due to the deadly disease. “The management has also imperilled lives of thousands of villagers residing in its vicinity”, he alleged. Pointing to the incident of the varsity student who contracted the virus, Bugga demanded a case be registered against the varsity management for flouting lockdown norms in the same way as activists of Tablighi Jamaat were booked for holding a congregation at its New Delhi Markaz by throwing norms to the wind. He said that mere issuing of a show cause notice won't suffice adding that only an FIR against the erring management will act as a deterrent. Congress stalwarts like Gurdeep Singh Deepa and Om Parkash Bittu (ex-councillor) were also present during the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-activists-protest-outside-lpu-seek-registration-of-fir-against-management-826734.html
17-04-2020||Right in the Middle||Canine Musings||“To err is human, to forgive, canine”, Buddy said about his master’s thoughtless actions. His owner keeps him on a short leash most of the day and rarely lets him outside. Although we dogs consider humans as best friends, some of us like Buddy get a bad deal. Our saga with humans dates back to 12000 years and we were the first animals to be domesticated by early humans. In the Darwinian sense, we are considered evolutionary divergents of wolves. Our ancestors, the wolves, in spite of being carnivores and competitor for food with humans, probably in the spirit of ‘survival of friendliest’ domesticated themselves with the hunting clan.  The pointed ears became floppy and tails curved.  We started off as humans’ hunting companions and graduated to protectors, friends and objects of adoration.  We ask no questions, make no suggestions, impart no advice. We are no doctors but help with depression and provide stress relief. In fact, medical doctors claim that we boost the immune system of the humans, lower blood pressure and even detect cancers through our olfactory abilities. Gazing into our eyes make humans warm and fuzzy, due to the release of the ‘cuddle chemical’ oxytocin. In the urban jungle many of us are trained and hired to be members of the professional world. Only our payment consists of belly scratches, extra bones and long walks. The golden retrievers and Labradors among us guide the visually impaired.  Our cousins, poodles, collies and Pomeranians (therapy dogs) bring comfort and joy in retirement homes, hospices, hospitals and disaster relief. Want to keep the livestock in groups, Border Collies and Corgis do an amazing job. We are very proud of our German Shepherds and Springer Spaniels for their unmatched sense of smell, which is exploited in search and rescue, detection of drugs and explosives at airports, schools and borders. Our brethren, Beagles and Bloodhounds are part of search and rescue team for their sense of smell and direction. Our myriad huskies and eskimo dogs are sent into the coldest winds and harshest snows for transportation, delivery of medicines and other essential supplies. We thrive on affection and live in the moment, hence never hold grudges. No wonder the famous human Groucho Marx in his characteristic humorous way remarked, ‘outside of a dog, a book is a man’s best friend; inside of a dog, it’s too dark to read’!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/canine-musings-826329.html
17-04-2020||South||Andhra top cop's note on currency as COVID-19 carrier creates flutter||A communication from Andhra Pradesh's top police officer suggesting coronavirus may spread through currency notes has created a flutter in the state. In a state with minimal digital transaction, the possibility of such a "phenomenon" rings "danger bells," police said. Though the state police chief's office issued a memorandum to this effect recently to all Superintendents of Police, city Commissioners and Range DIGs and Guntur IG, DGP D G Sawang said, "there is no proof or any established evidence of contamination" by currency notes. "There is no proof or any established evidence of contamination by currency notes of any kind whatsoever in the state," he told PTI. He also denied, "first of all" having sent the memorandum but noted "our staff in office have incorporated (it) in one of the many routine messages which are sent on a daily basis to keep alerting units on the ground." It was just one of the possibilities of catching the infection, he added. The memo, however, caused a flutter in the bureaucracy, with IAS officers taking strong exception to it saying it could trigger "unwanted panic" when the state was fighting the pandemic. "This is a thoroughly baseless circular without any scientific thought. Police can't act like an authority unto themselves in such sensitive matters," a senior IAS officer remarked. The DGP's memo made some interesting suggestions, but health authorities monitoring the coronavirus cases round the clock did not corroborate them. It said people in East Godavari, Krishna and Guntur districts contracted the virus though they did not have any travel history or contact with primary\secondary contacts of any person who travelled within the country or abroad. It suggested they might have got infected as they have done business where cash transaction involving many people happens. Therefore, currency notes could have been the 'culprit' carrying the virus from infected people, it said.  "This phenomenon rings danger bells in our state," the top police official's memo said. Cable TV operators, drinking water suppliers and milk vendors were among those collecting money from multiple customers. Petrol stations, kirana shops, vegetable and fruit vendors and pharmacists also collect money from customers and in the process "may come into contact with contaminated notes." Referring to a case in Guntur district, the DGP office said medical practitioners who did not have awareness about the virus were treating and collecting money from patients and possibly lead to infection. In the light of these, the DGP instructed all police unit officers to propagate online transactions and ask people to accept cash only after "sanitizing themselves and the currency notes."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-top-cops-note-on-currency-as-covid-19-carrier-creates-flutter-826316.html
17-04-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Kannada news channel gets Centre's notice for airing 'false' news||The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on Thursday served a show cause notice to a Kannada news channel for broadcasting a programme in which it purportedly said that the Centre would 'air drop money' to the poor, owing to the COVID-19 lockdown. The notice said that the channel was "spreading false information, creating panic and social unrest. " The channel had allegedly aired a show titled, "Helicopter Money" on Wednesday which claimed that the Centre would drop money from helicopters during the lockdown period. A Twitter user took a serious note of it and complained to the Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar. The fact check team of the Press Information Bureau, under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, refuted the claim.  In its notice to the channel, PIB said, "You are hereby directed to show cause why your channel should not be taken out of air immediately. You are instructed to send your reply in this regard within 10 days of receipt of this notice." Reacting to the notice, the management of the news channels said, "A programme which has been seen in bits and pieces and those who have not even seen the programme appears to have complained. Notice will be replied accordingly."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-kannada-news-channel-gets-centres-notice-for-airing-false-news-826322.html
17-04-2020||South||Nizamabad deputy mayor and others booked for "obstructing" police, medical staff||A case has been registered against the Nizamabad deputy mayor, belonging to the AIMIM, and others for allegedly obstructing police and health officials from performing COVID-19 lockdown duty, police said on Thursday. A video showing some persons purportedly arguing with a police official was also telecast by local news channels. According to police, the incident happened on Tuesday afternoon in Nizamabad, when the police sub-inspector and a medical team went to the area after receiving information about the death of a 83-year-old woman (onMonday night), whose house is located in front of a COVID-19 positive patient, in order to shift the woman's family for government quarantine purpose. However, when the police and medical staff were on their work at that time Nizamabad deputy mayor Mohammed Idris Khan and a AIMIM corporator and others reportedly argued with the SI and the medical staff telling them not to shift all the family members in quarantine, a police official said. When a doctor and other medical staff tried to explain to them about the need for quarantine of thedeceased woman's family members, they allegedly told them "what is the necessity when the test results would be negative", police said.  The family members were willing to shift to government quarantine but the deputy mayor and others "interfered", police said,adding they were also told that if they had anyobjections for government quarantine they caninform the district collector and seek permission for home quarantine. Later the family members were shifted for quarantine and subsequently police registered a case under various IPC sections including353(Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) against the deputy mayor, corporator and others, the police official added. The exact cause of death of the elderly woman was not clear while thepositive COVID-19 patient isundergoing treatment in a state-run hospital in Hyderabad, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nizamabad-deputy-mayor-and-others-booked-for-obstructing-police-medical-staff-826326.html
17-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: 50-year-old woman travels 2,700 km across six states to meet ailing son in hospital||The woman was accompanied by her daughter-in-law and another relative during the journey, which they covered in three days time. Speaking to PTI from Jodhpur in Rajasthan, Sheelamma Vasan said the health condition of her son, Arun Kumar (29), who was suffering from myositis, (inflammation of muscles), was improving. "Due to gods grace we have reached here without any problems anywhere", she said. The family was informed by a Malayali doctor at AIIMS in Jodhpur about Arun Kumar's condition following which they decided to undertake the journey from Kerala through Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat to reach Rajasthan.  Thanks to the intervention of Union Minister V Muraleedharan, the office of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Congress leader, Oommen Chandy, the family could get necessary passes for the travel across the states. Volunteers of Hindu helpline, a VHP organisation, helped in arranging a cab and two taxi drivers free of cost to take them to Jodhpur. After getting necessary passes arranged by Kottayam District Collector P K Sudheer Babu, Sheelaamma accompanied by her daughter-in-law Parvathyand another relative set off on the journey from Panackachira village in Koruthodu panchayat in Kottayam on April 11and reached Jodhpur on 14th, "Vishu" (Malayalam new year).  The jawan, who had come to his village in February end on leave and days after his return had fallen ill, had expressed desire to meet his mother and wife. Arun Kumar's one-year-old child is in Kerala. The mother's journey comes close on the heels of another woman who rode 1400 km on her two-wheeler from Telangana to bring back her son stuck in Andhra Pradesh. The Burqa-clad mom, Razia Sultana, a school teacher from Bodhan town in Telangana undertook the journey on her scooter and brought her son, a student from Rehmatabadin Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-50-year-old-woman-travels-2700-km-across-six-states-to-meet-ailing-son-in-hospital-826390.html
17-04-2020||South||Kerala institute develops quicker, cheaper COVID-19 test kit||The Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) in Thiruvananthapuram, a pioneer institution in medical research and development under the Department of Science and Technology, has developed a COVID-19 test kit which could deliver results in a quicker and cheaper manner. SCTIMST spokesperson said that the Indian Council of Medical Research's nod for the kit is expected shortly as it was successfully tested at the National Institute of Virology unit in Kerala and found accurate. While the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test being conducted now would take at least six to seven hours to get results, in the new kit developed by SCTIMST based on Loop Mediated Isothermal Amplification method, the sample to result time is around two hours only.   The cost of the new test would be around Rs 1,000 while the RT-PCR test would be around Rs 4,000. Cost of the device for LAMP testing is around Rs 2.5 lakh, the spokesperson said. Faster test results are a key factor in COVID-19 control as it could reduce the number of persons being kept on quarantine with suspected COVID-19 infection.  Rapid test using blood specimen for quick preliminary detection of infection could not take off due to unavailability of kits. Even in Kerala, as many as 1,000 test results are pending.  SCTIMST has named the new kit as Chitra GeneLAMP-N. Up to 30 samples can be tested in a single batch in a single machine. Dr Anoop Thekkuveettil, a senior scientist of the Biomedical Technology wing of the Institute and Scientist-in-charge of the division of molecular medicine under the Department of Applied Biology, and his team developed the kit in the last three weeks. SCTIMST had recently initiated a project for treating acute COVID-19 infected patients using antibodies from those who recovered from COVID-19.  ICMR has already approved it and is awaiting the final nod of the ethics committee. The institute also developed examination booths that would help doctors examine patients without direct contact and disinfection gateway for decontamination of people. Kerala has already garnered international attention for swiftly flattening the COVID-19 curve by bringing down the number of infected persons and having a high recovery rate and low fatality rate. Recovery of a COVID-19-infected couple, aged around 90, was also a highlight of Kerala's health facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-institute-develops-quicker-cheaper-covid-19-test-kit-826431.html
17-04-2020||South||Farmer in Kerala gets Agriculture minister's help||The Horticorp officials also visited Bhat’s house and  have promised to buy ash gourd at the earliest. Following the lockdown, Bhat was unable to find a market for the ash gourd cultivated by him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/farmer-in-kerala-gets-agriculture-ministers-help-826461.html
17-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Temple festivals, marriages off the list; TN farmers in distress||The relaxation provided to the farming community to carry on their work in the midst of COVID-19 lockdown might have ensured smooth cultivation and harvesting of crops in Tamil Nadu, but the huge gap between the supply and demand for fruits, vegetables and flowers have left farmers who cultivate and grow them a worried lot. These farmers earn maximum from March to September as numerous religious festivals, marriages and other mass gatherings in Tamil Nadu fall during this season. With COVID-19 and social distancing norms shutting the doors of temples and paving the way for restriction on the way marriages are conducted, tons of fruits, vegetables, and flowers are lying at farms and in the homes of thousands of farmers across the state. Closing of juice shops in peak summer season and uncertainty on what would unfold in the coming months are also adding to farmers’ woes. On its part, the Tamil Nadu government has been proactive in ensuring a smooth supply of vegetables and fruits reaching markets from the farms, but the “huge gap” between the supply and demand is making things difficult for farmers.     Besides other measures, the government has also announced that farmers can make use of 138 cold storages with a huge capacity of 13,600 metric tonnes owned by it across the state for free of cost to ensure they do not get rotten. Less demand, more supply “Cultivation and harvesting are smooth thanks to the government. But our problem now is selling our produce. Only 20 to 30 percent of the vegetables and fruits are for use in households while the rest is for mass consumption. Where do we sell our products if there is no marriage and temple festival for the next few months? Our problems have only compounded,” P R Pandian, Coordinator, Tamil Nadu All Farmers Organisations Committee, told DH. Several temples in Tamil Nadu wear a festive look during the Tamil month of Panguni, Chithirai, Vaigasi, Aani, Aadi and Aavani (Mid-March to mid-September) for their annual festivals -- some of these months are considered very auspicious for tying the knot as well. The market for flowers also diminished as people are confined to their homes. Pandian also sought to know where farmers will sell their flowers if no temple is opened and festivals are cancelled. “Temples procure tons of flowers during this season and, while vegetables and fruits will go for mass consumption due to festivals and marriages during this season. All of this is almost gone this year,” he added. Farmers who grow banana, watermelon, musk melon, vegetables, and flowers are the worst affected this season as all festivals have either been cancelled or postponed and juice shops have been asked to down their shutters. The majority of these fruits cannot be kept inside cold storages for long, they point out. Bridging the gap between supply and demand Admitting the existence of a gap between supply and demand, Principal Secretary (Agriculture) Gagandeep Singh Bedi explained to DH the measures being taken by the government to help farmers during the COVID-19 lockdown. “We have almost normalised the supply chain from Tamil Nadu to Kerala and Karnataka while ensuring the functioning of wholesale fruit and vegetable market across the state. We have also launched 4,600 mobile fruit and vegetable markets to help the products reach the end-customers. The government is also facilitating trading of harvested pulses,” he said. Besides operationalizing Uzhavar Sandhai (farmers’ market), the government has ensured that the supply chain was intact during the crisis. “We are trying to help the farmers through various measures but still the gap between supply and demand exists and it needs to be bridged. Marriages are not taking place and there are no festivals which means there is no market for fruits and flowers,” Bedi added.  Mahadhanapuram Rajaram, a banana farmer in the Cauvery Delta region, said the demand for the banana leaf is almost nil since the outbreak of COVID-19 and farmers are struggling to sell their produce due to less demand in the market. “Some have not plucked bananas from their trees due to less demand. Almost 90 per cent of the bananas have reached ripening state and they cannot be kept in cold storage for more than a week,” he told DH. Farmers’ woes Banana leaves and bananas are extensively used in temple festivals and marriages and there is absolutely no demand for them in the market, Rajaram said. “Cold storages are not an option for small farmers. It can be an option only when the government buys the product from us and keep it there. Unless that happens, we cannot keep our products be it banana or anything in cold storage,” he added. Palaniswami, a farmer from Tiruppur district, says farmers will suffer losses to the tune of crores of rupees if the situation continues. “Bananas are usually sold in tea stalls and small shops. All of them have now been closed and people who have cultivated banana and were hoping to make money by selling banana leaf during marriage season don’t know how to sell their produce,” he said. With juice shops also closed, farmers who grew watermelon and musk melon are either selling them at dead cheap rates or let them rot in their own gardens. These farmers make maximum money during the Summer and COVID-19 has taken away more than a month’s revenue from them. “We sell these watermelons and musk melons to juice shops and vendors who sell on the roadside. With a blanket ban on all such shops, we are left high and dry. We cannot keep them for long. They got rotten after some time. What do we do?” a farmer, who cultivated watermelon, asked. Acknowledging the woes of flower growers, Bedi said the government negotiated with manufacturers of perfume growers and ensure buying of 35 metric tonnes of flowers. “Still that is also not enough. We are trying our best,” he added. The way out Pandian wanted the Tamil Nadu government to step in and waive off loans availed by farmers who will not be able to overcome the losses from the situation arising out of COVID-19. “Farmers are already reeling under stress and economic crisis. They will not be able to survive if the government does not help. We want a waiver of all loans by the administration,” Pandian said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-temple-festivals-marriages-off-the-list-tn-farmers-in-distress-826505.html
17-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Kerala's double standards in accounting COVID-19 death||It is a week since a Kerala native died of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. But till date his death has not yet been accounted in COVID-19 tally of either of the states, allegedly owing to a double standard being maintained by Kerala. When a native of Mahe, a part of Puducherry lying close to Kerala, died in Kannur district in Kerala on April 11, Kerala refused to include his death in state's COVID-19 tally citing that he hailed from Puducherry. But when Tamilnadu authorities reported the death of the Kerala native in a hospital at Coimbatore, the Kerala government officials in Palakkad maintained that since the death took place in Tamilnadu, the death has to be accounted there. However, Tamil Nadu authorities pointed out the instance of the Mahe native. As a result, the death of Kerala native in Tamilnadu is till remaining unaccounted in either of the states. The 71-year old man residing at Nurani on the outskirts of Palakkad district in Kerala went for treatment at a hospital in Coimbatore, which was only around 50 kilometres from Nurani, on April 2 owing to illness. He was later tested positive and died on April 10.    Palakkad district medical officer Dr K P Reetha told DH that since a final decision on the matter was pending, the death of the man was yet to accounted either in Kerala on Tamilnadu. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja told DH that the Palakkad native got the infection from Coimbatore and died there and hence he could not be considered in Kerala's COVID-19 tally. But in the case of the Mahe native, he got the infection from Mahe and was only treated and died in Kerala. Hence his death was recorded on Puducherry. This is being done as per the central government norms only, she said. However, sources in Kannur where the Mahe native died said that a conclusive report on the source of infection of the Mahe native was yet to be revealed by the local government authorities. There were allegations that he contracted the infection from a leading private hospital in Kannur district only and attempts were being done to cover up it. A health department official, who did not want to be quoted, said that the general norm would be to record the death of a person in the place where he was diagnosed of the disease, under treatment and died. Kerala should have accounted for the death of the Mahe native in Kerala's tally. Then Kerala could have justified its position in asking Tamilnadu to record the death of the Palakkad native. With only two COVID-19 deaths being recorded so far and the death rate remaining at a very low rate of 0.5 per cent, Kerala has been receiving national and international attention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-keralas-double-standards-in-accounting-covid-19-death-826530.html
17-04-2020||South||Less demand, more supply: The sad tale of Tamil Nadu farmers||The relaxation provided to the farming community to carry on their work in the midst of COVID-19 lockdown might have ensured smooth cultivation and harvesting of crops in Tamil Nadu, but the huge gap between the supply and demand for fruits, vegetables and flowers have left farmers who cultivate and grow them a worried lot. These farmers earn maximum from March to September as numerous religious festivals, marriages and other mass gatherings in Tamil Nadu fall during this season. With COVID-19 and social distancing norms shutting the doors of temples and paving the way for restriction on the way marriages are conducted, tons of fruits, vegetables, and flowers are lying at farms and in the homes of thousands of farmers across the state. Closing of juice shops in peak summer season and uncertainty on what would unfold in the coming months are also adding to farmers’ woes. On its part, the Tamil Nadu government has been proactive in ensuring a smooth supply of vegetables and fruits reaching markets from the farms, but the “huge gap” between the supply and demand is making things difficult for farmers. Besides other measures, the government has also announced that farmers can make use of 138 cold storages with a huge capacity of 13,600 metric tonnes owned by it across the state for free of cost to ensure they do not get rotten.     Less demand, more supply “Cultivation and harvesting are smooth thanks to the government. But our problem now is selling our produce. Only 20 to 30 per cent of the vegetables and fruits are for use in households while the rest is for mass consumption. Where do we sell our products if there is no marriage and temple festival for the next few months? Our problems have only compounded,” P R Pandian, Coordinator, Tamil Nadu All Farmers Organisations Committee, told DH. Pandian also sought to know where farmers will sell their flowers if no temple is opened and festivals are cancelled. Farmers who grow banana, watermelon, musk melon, vegetables, and flowers are the worst affected this season as all festivals have either been cancelled or postponed and juice shops have been asked to down their shutters. The majority of these fruits cannot be kept inside cold storages for long, they point out.  Bridging the gap between supply and demand Admitting the existence of a gap between supply and demand, Principal Secretary (Agriculture) Gagandeep Singh Bedi explained to DH the measures being taken by the government to help farmers during the COVID-19 lockdown. “We have almost normalised the supply chain from Tamil Nadu to Kerala and Karnataka while ensuring the functioning of wholesale fruit and vegetable market across the state. We have also launched 4,600 mobile fruit and vegetable markets to help the products reach the end-customers. The government is also facilitating trading of harvested pulses,” he said. Besides operationalizing Uzhavar Sandhai (farmers’ market), the government has ensured that the supply chain was intact during the crisis. “We are trying to help the farmers through various measures but still the gap between supply and demand exists and it needs to be bridged. Marriages are not taking place and there are no festivals which means there is no market for fruits and flowers,” Bedi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/less-demand-more-supply-the-sad-tale-of-tamil-nadu-farmers-826536.html
17-04-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh govt imports 1 lakh COVID-19 testing kits from South Korea||The Andhra Pradesh government on Friday imported one lakh rapid test kits (RTKs) from South Korea to step up COVID-19 testing in the state. The AP government chartered a special flight to import the RTKs from Seoul directly to Vijayawada airport. The kits, manufactured by SD Biosensor of South Korea, were presented to Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy at a high-level review meeting on COVID-19 at his camp office on Friday. With the use of RTKs, the result could be obtained in just 10 minutes on whether or not a person carried the virus. The state government placed an order for a total of one million RTKs and the first batch of one lakh kits was delivered on Friday. The kits will be dispatched to all 13 districts in the next three days and doctors and other medical staff will be trained in their usage before they are put to actual use in a week. With the arrival of one lakh RTKs, the government now seeks to ramp up testing of Corona cases to 17,000 per day by next week, Special Chief Secretary (Health) K S Jawahar Reddy said. "We started with 90 tests per day on February 15, with just one lab in the state. Now, with seven VRDL facilities, the testing capacity has gone up to 3,000 per day. With RTKs and TruNat machines, the testing capacity will increase to 17,000 a day in a week," Reddy told reporters. The Medical and Health Department is also going in for pooled sample testing, wherein one sample could determine the condition of five people. "The ICMR has suggested this method where 100 tests will give the result of 500 people. We are initially doing the pooled sample testing in Vijayawada city," the Special CS said. As part of community surveillance measures, (blood) sample collection, tracking and results would all be monitored online through a new MIS module. In the door-to-door 'Syndromic Survey' conducted by Asha workers and ANMs recently, over 32,000 people were found to have symptoms for COVID-19. "In the next seven days, we will complete testing of all these 32,700 people," Jawahar Reddy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-govt-imports-1-lakh-covid-19-testing-kits-from-south-korea-826580.html
17-04-2020||South||Startup in Kerala develops drone with AI to combat coronavirus||A startup at Maker Village Kochi has developed a drone supported with artificial intelligence (AI) that can help combat COVID-19 by monitoring body temperature, supplying essential commodities and spraying disinfectants. The unmanned 'Garud' has been designed and engineered by AI Aerial Dynamics at the Maker Village, claimed to be India's largest electronic hardware incubator and ESDM facility. The integrated solution was developed fully leveraging globally-benchmarked labs and equipment besides product development software solutions available at Maker Village. The indigenously-made drone is highly efficient and effective than those currently imported from other countries, where the applicable payload is lower than that of Garud and the option for customization is not possible, officials said here on Friday. Garud can monitor roads and bylanes besides residential pockets and aerodromes that have been locked down across the country since March 25 in an effort to check the spread of coronavirus that is posing a global threat to human life. Already, Kerala Police are using the drones to ensure the efficacy of the shutdown. Also, the aerial vehicle can collect thermal data by using an array of IR sensors and advanced digital technology called EDGE (Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution), thus working as a means to combat the pandemic, according to a statement issued by the Maker Village. The vehicle can collect swabs and samples of people for the virus test. It has the capacity to carry weight up to 60 kg, thus facilitating distribution of even essential commodities if there is an exigency. Further, Garud can feature a modern sprayer which can be used to shower disinfectants from above. It has also a loudspeaker for public announcements, according to AI Aerial Dynamics founder-CEO Vishnu V Nath. "Besides the AI-supported engine, the fully- automated Garud has a high-resolution camera, a facility to carry weight, a micro-sprayer and thermal scanner. The visuals it generates can zoom into specifics with centimeter-level accuracy.The images it captures will be simultaneously saved in the operating unit on the ground," Nath said. "If the vehicle loses range or exhausts battery (capacity: 150 minutes), it will fly down to the point of take-off." The UAV uses a hybrid engine for its flight. The 2016-founded Maker Village, which functions at the Integrated Startup Complex near here, is a joint initiative of Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology and the Government of Kerala with IIITM-K in Thiruvananthapuram as the nodal agency. IA Aerial Dynamics is also developing drones for the NPOL lab of DRDO and other defence establishments. The drone is capable of adapting to requirements since it has been developed indigenously. "Its capability to fly with a load weighing as much as 60 kg is one instance of how Garud has an edge over its counterparts in other countries," Nath added. The UAV, with its high payload, unique platform for integration of sensors and provisions such as sanitizer and pickup mechanism besides the AI engine, makes the solution a one-of-its kind in combating the pandemic and similar applications in disaster management. The vehicle was widely used for relief activities during the flood in the year 2019. A state-of-the-art lab in Maker Village enabled IA Aerial Dynamics to conceive and engineer the prototype for Garud, Nath said. "That is how we could so quickly launch the product in the market," he pointed out. Maker Village, which is emerging as the largest and the best deep-tech innovation platform in the country, is implementing various innovation and entrepreneurship development programmes with Ministry of Defence, Department of Science and Technology, Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of MSME, apart from the flagship ESDM scheme with Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, according to the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/startup-in-kerala-develops-drone-with-ai-to-combat-coronavirus-826598.html
17-04-2020||South||A day after flaying Kerala govt over fund collection, vigilance case against opposition MLA||In what seems like an act of settling political scores, the Kerala government on Friday ordered vigilance investigation against an opposition MLA who had alleged of misuse of distress relief funds by Kerala government. The vigilance investigation was ordered against KM Sahji, an MLA of Indian Union Muslim League, which is a coalition partner of the Congress in Kerala. He allegedly accepted a bribe of Rs. 25 lakh from an aided school management for upgrading high school to higher secondary school. The other day Shaji flayed Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's call for contribution to Chief Minister's Distress Relief Fund in connection with COVID relief. He alleged of misuse of government funds for conducting cases in which CPM workers accused in political murders and improper utilisation of the funds collected during the previous floods. Even as the Chief Minister strongly flayed Shaji's allegations, Shaji stood by it and it even triggered widespread debates. Meanwhile, government sources said the process for ordering the probe was progressing and it was just a coincidence that the order was issued at this point of time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-day-after-flaying-kerala-govt-over-fund-collection-vigilance-case-against-opposition-mla-826638.html
17-04-2020||South||56 new COVID-19 patients reported in Tamil Nadu; 103 discharged from hospitals||As many as 103 Covid-19 patients were discharged from various hospitals across Tamil Nadu on Friday, the biggest recovery reported in a single day ever since the Coronavirus outbreak in the state in March. The day also saw 56 new patients testing positive for Covid-19 as the government machinery shied away from holding the daily press conference in which statistics of tests and recovery are given to the media. The move by the government to announce the new cases in the daily bulletin issued after the press conference usually addressed by Health Secretary Dr. Beela Rajesh could be a strategy to avoid questions on claims made by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami that the state could achieve “zero cases” in the next three to four days.    He had on Thursday made the claim while flaunting the decrease in the number of positive cases since April 14. While 31 cases were reported on April 14, it rose to 38 the next day and came down to 25 on Thursday. The fresh cases take the tally to 1,323 including 283 discharges and 15 deaths. The state had witnessed an exponential increase in the number of cases from March 31 to April 13 – the number of cases went below 40 for three days beginning April 14 before going above the 40-mark on Friday. The state has so far tested 29,673 samples, including 4,699 repeat samples of the same persons, and 21,628 samples are tested negative. “Testing of 2,023 samples are under process,” an update from the Health Department said.  div style="position:relative;padding-bottom:56.25%;height:0;overflow:hidden;"> In good news, as many as 103 patients – 30 from the Special Covid-19 hospital set up by the Tamil Nadu government here alone – left home from hospitals, profusely thanking the doctors for the treatment that they received. At the Government Omandurar Medical College here, the 30 patients were given a warm send-off with the dean himself advising them to home quarantine for another 14 days. He also handed over fruits to the recovered patients. Dr Narayana Babu, Dean of the college, also appealed to people not to stigmatize people who received treatment. “The patients should isolate themselves in their houses. General people should not isolate them. They have been treated and they are no longer carriers of the virus,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/56-new-covid-19-patients-reported-in-tamil-nadu-103-discharged-from-hospitals-826639.html
17-04-2020||South||Kerala volunteers deliver medicine to cancer patient in Mangaluru||The Kerala Youth Commission and the Kerala Fire and Rescue Services have delivered cancer drugs to a patient in Mangaluru from Palakkad district. Mangaluru native Madhuri Bolar sought the help of Kerala Youth Commission volunteers as the cancer drug for his relative was available only at Shornur in Palakkad district. The Youth Commission coordinated with the Kerala Fire and Rescue Services and handed over the medicine packets at Tholpetty border area. Madhuri, who is an SFI activist, expressed her gratitude to Kerala government over social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-volunteers-deliver-medicine-to-cancer-patient-in-mangaluru-826640.html
17-04-2020||South||Woman collapses, dies waiting in queue to get COVID-19 relief from bank in Telangana||A 47-year-old woman died on Friday while waiting in a queue to withdraw Rs 1,500 COVID-19 lockdown relief provided by the Telangana government, from a bank at a village in Kamareddy district, police said. The woman, who has a history of stroke, was sitting under a tree near the rural bank when she collapsed and died, they said. A case under Section 174 of CrPC has been registered and further probe was in progress. Announcing the lockdown, the state government had said all families holding food security card would be given a one- time support of Rs 1,500 to meet the expenditure for purchasing essentials such as dal and vegetables. The government had also announced 12 kgs of rice per person to all food security card holders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-collapses-dies-waiting-in-queue-to-get-covid-19-relief-from-bank-in-telangana-826643.html
17-04-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan takes COVID-19 rapid kit test; Tests negative||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy underwent the COVID-19 test on Friday using the newly acquired rapid test kits from South Korea. Reddy has tested negative. COVID-19 command control centre state coordinator Dr K Rambabu said that the CM took the test to convey a message to people that the tests are very simple and nothing to be afraid about. All that the test required is just one drop of blood, he said. Reddy’s message comes at a time when health officials suspect that several people are still not coming forward to take the virus tests. A vast majority of the state’s 572 positive cases (as of Friday morning) are connected to the Jamaat Tablighi’s Delhi Markaz event. The state has recorded 14 COVID-19 deaths till now, while the discharged are 35.   The AP government has acquired one lakh rapid test kits from South Korea to intensify and improve the tests drive to control COVID-19 in the state. Dr Rambabu said that the rapid test kits would help increase the tests rate in the containment zones. He said that patients showing COVID-19 symptoms need not fear as the government has ensured quality medical care, including single rooms, at the COVID-19 hospitals and quarantine centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-jagan-takes-covid-19-rapid-kit-test-tests-negative-826714.html
17-04-2020||State||Mango Board to link farmers, consumers and bulk buyers||As the second phase of the lockdown stretches to May 3, the Mango Board is trying to open different pathways to ensure that the produce reaches the consumers and doesn’t burn the farmers during the ‘off year’ when the yield is expected to come down by more than 30%. Agriculture Department principal secretary Rajendra Kumar Kataria, also the chairman of the Karnataka Mango Development And Marketing Board, said several strategies have been drawn up to facilitate the sale of the mangoes. “This year is considered as ‘off year’ which is normal for every alternate year. The total produce for 2020 is expected to be around 9 to 10 lakh tonnes, a dip from the usual output of 12 to 14 lakh tonnes. Even then, the department has drawn up plans to clear the stock,” he said. The Board’s online sale portal has already received orders for 800 boxes (3 kg each) of mangoes which will be delivered by the post offices. In yet another move, an effort is on to link whole apartment complexes with farmers through resident welfare associations (RWA). “RWAs have already placed orders for 1 tonne and we expect this to increase in the coming days,” Kataria said. Two new connections Going a step further, the department is connecting bulk buyers and food processing industries with the farmers. This will bring the bulk buyers to the farm, cutting the need for the farmers to arrange for transport of the fruit. Similarly, the food processing industries, which consume 35% of the entire produce, will pick up the fruits directly from the farms. Ramanagar APMC has already started receiving the first batch of the king of fruits and officials expect the arrivals to shoot up in the coming days. Usually, the arrival increases from 10,000-20,000 tonnes per week in March-April to nearly 50,000 tonnes per week in the peak season in May. Kataria said the department has reached out to bulk buyers in the neighbouring states that to prevent glut in the market. “Besides Tamil Nadu and Kerala, we are looking at Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh where the local produce has not yet come to the market. We have already spoken to bulk buyers in these states and received a positive response from them,” he said. Last year, the Board had shipped 25 tonnes of mango to Europe. But the officials said they have dropped hopes of ramping it up this year. “About 5% of the produce, mostly Alphonso variety, was exported last year. We were planning to increase the export and build a brand for our mango. The economic crisis has complicated the matter and such plans may not be feasible now,” a Board official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mango-board-to-link-farmers-consumers-and-bulk-buyers-826690.html
17-04-2020||State||Karnataka govt bats for Akrama-Sakrama scheme||With a plan to regularise over 35 lakh unauthorised buildings in the state under the Akrama-Sakrama scheme, the Karnataka government on Friday said it has decided to re-frame laws on regularising unauthorised properties and study how other states have done on the issue. The move is seen as an attempt towards generating revenue to the state government that is facing financial stress. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday chaired a meeting of ministers and officials to review the Akrama- Sakrama scheme. "In today's meeting it was decided to reframe laws on regularising unauthorised properties and study how other states have done on the issue," Yediyurappa said. Within a week Urban development department will prepare new guidelines, he said. Unauthorised layouts and buildings are being provided with all facilities, but they are not paying a paisa to the government, he further said, adding that the intention is unauthorised builder should be benefitted by getting his building legalised, while government should also get the revenue. The Akrama-Sakrama scheme was earlier proposed to regularize property violations, but was not implemented, due to legal issues. According to Yediyurappa, there are 2.93 lakh unauthorised buildings in Bengaluru City, and as per an old survey there are 35 lakh unauthorised buildings across the state. "It might have been doubled," he said. He said, the law permits upto 6 per cent penalty for building which have violation upto 50 per cent, and above this- the government can levy upto 25 per cent of market price. When it was pointed out that the Supreme Court in 2017 stayed the Akrama-Sakrama scheme, Yediyurappa said "We will submit a proposal to the supreme court about our plan and try to convince it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-bats-for-akrama-sakrama-scheme-826722.html
17-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt doubts efficacy of coronavirus lockdown||Karnataka on Thursday reported 36 COVID-19 cases, its biggest single-day spike so far, with the surging cases making state officials question the impact of the lockdown in containing the spread of the outbreak. The majority of patients were from north Karnataka’s Belagavi and Vijayapura districts, with the former reporting a whopping 17 cases. Bengaluru, with 32 hotspots, saw 5 fresh cases, which would make relaxation of restrictions difficult in the state capital even after May 3, when the extended lockdown is scheduled to end. Among the 36 cases, seven were from Vijayapura, three each from the Mysuru-Nanjangud pharma cluster and Kalaburagi and one from Gadag. Thursday’s cases — which include five children, 21 males and 15 women — take the state’s tally to 315. Minister for Primary & Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar was quite blunt on the impact of the lockdown in containing the contagion.  “I think that we all know by now that the lockdown has been less than 100% effective. We have had movement of people. By that measure, I would have to say that the lockdown may not have worked,” Suresh Kumar told DH.  The government, said Kumar, was now mulling to erect a “double-celled” containment system to halt the spread of the deadly pathogen. “Containment zones will be erected in problematic areas, within which buffer zones will also take shape. The lockdown has been less than 100% successful, yes, but we will now focus on sealing the hotspot areas completely,” Kumar said. The minister said the plan for the containment zones will be announced on Friday. Pankaj Pandey, Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare, said that monitoring within these zones will be at a higher level.  “This is already happening in Vijayapura, at Chapparband Galli, which is the ground zero of  infection in the town,” Pandey said. Hard times ahead for Bengaluru With Bengaluru reporting new cases every day, it is unlikely that the entire city will see a complete relaxation of lockdown after May 3, said officials from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagar Palike (BBMP). As of now, the city has been demarcated into 32 hotspots, based on at least one positive case in the last 28 days, down from 38 a few days ago. “We reviewed the list of hotspots and dropped six wards which had not reported any new COVID-19 positive case in the last 28 days,” BBMP Commissioner BH Anil Kumar told mediapersons on Thursday. A senior official of the BBMP health wing explained how the hotspot system works. As per the Centre’s protocol, A Red Zone can be categorised as orange if no positive case is reported in 14 days. If the same area does not report a single positive case in the next 14 days, it will be declared a Green Zone (non-infected) wards.  “The entire process spans 28 days. If any of the wards continue to report fresh cases, wards will continue to be under the lockdown,” he said. The BBMP commissioner said Bapuji Nagar and Padarayanapura will continue to remain sealed for a period of 28 days, starting from the day they were cut off (April 10). As for the hotspots, he said that special status and monitoring systems will remain in place until the wards show zero COVID-19 cases for a period of 28 days.  Flouting rules Anil Kumar also expressed displeasure over the continued flouting of rules by the public. “There have been regular complaints pertaining to violation of lockdown and sealdown orders, giving an impression that the situation is going out of control. If people do not abide by the rules, it would become inevitable for us to use force,” he warned and flagged the problem of distribution of milk packets.  BBMP official quarantined A BBMP health officer was quarantined after he showed COVID-19 symptoms. “The officer’s blood samples have been sent for testing and the reports are awaited. But we have moved the officer to quarantine facility already,” officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-doubts-efficacy-of-coronavirus-lockdown-826307.html
17-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees new record of coronavirus cases in single day||Karnataka sets a new record of the highest number of coronavirus cases reported in a day on Friday. On Thursday, for the entire day, it had seen 36 new cases. But on Friday, by noon, it already reported 38 new cases taking the state tally from 315 to 353. Out of the 38 new cases, five are children: P317 from Bengaluru Urban (11-year-old girl), P326 from Bengaluru Urban (six-year-old boy), P329 (six-year-old boy from Vijaypura), P335 (10-year-old girl from Hospete, Ballari),  and P340 (nine-year-old boy from Chikkaballapur).   One patient is a contact of P273. Three patients contracted the disease in Malavall, Mandya from P171. One patient from Dakshina Kannada's Uppinangadi has a travel history to Delhi on March 28, days after the Tablighi Jamaat congregation ended.  One patient from Bidar has a contact history with someone who had travelled to Delhi recently. Two patients from Vijayapura are contacts of P221. Seven patients from Hospete, Ballari, are contacts of P141. Three patients from Chikkaballapur are contacts of P250.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-new-record-of-coronavirus-cases-in-single-day-826415.html
17-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka scales up coronavirus testing to 1,500 a day||In the biggest jump in a day, Karnataka reported 36 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total to 315 in the State, where the death toll stands at 13. Speaking to P T I on Friday, Medical Education Minister Sudhakar K, who is in-charge of all matters related to COVID-19, said those are not new cases in the sense they are related to primary and secondary contacts (who have been quarantined) of those who have already tested positive. He said 200-300 real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (real time RT-PCR) tests, one of the most accurate laboratory methods for detecting, tracking, and studying the coronavirus, were used to be conducted a day in the State. The number has now been increased five times, to 1,500 such tests per day, the Minister said, adding, it would be further scaled up substantially once rapid test kits are delivered from China in a day or two.    A medical professional himself, Sudhakar said the patients who lost their lives had co-morbidities, in addition to being COVID-19 positive, adding, they sought medical treatment only after their symptoms aggravated and their health condition worsened considerably. He said he has convened a meeting of specialists to discuss in detail the pattern of treatment of COVID-19 patients, adding, he has told doctors to adopt a little more aggressive treatment protocol without waiting for symptoms to aggravate. "Major reason for deaths, apart from co-morbidities and other things, is that the patients intentionally coming in (for treatment) at the last stage," Sudhakar said.    "When they knew they have fever, sore throat and difficulty in breathing, they should have come quickly and get test done and admitted; things would have dramatically changed. I have seen all these patients. They (some of them) have gone to some quacks initially. Had they come in the first week itself (once they had symptoms), 100 per cent I will tell you mortality would not have happened," he said. Sudhakar said people should be a little more sensitive and responsible in the sense they have to report to the health system the moment they have cold, cough or any medical issue if they have contacted COVID-19 positive patient. "We are doing on our own to identify, trace and track (COVID-19 cases) but (some of) those people try to hide from us. My earnest appeal to them is 'come and report to the health system'; they will be saving themselves," the Minister said. He said he would suggest to the Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa that the government issue an advisory to information technology and other companies to test their own employees with rapid kits when they restart operations with 50 per cent staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-scales-up-coronavirus-testing-to-1500-a-day-826435.html
17-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BBMP budget to be presented on April 20||BBMP budget 2020-21 will be presented on April 20, with a limited number of people in attendance, said Revenue Minister R Ashok, here on Friday. The budget is expected to have a reduced size compared to the last fiscal due to the pandemic. Following a meeting with the chief minister and BBMP officials, he said that BBMP authorities had planned to present the budget after April 14, assuming that lockdown will be relaxed by the Central government. But, due to the extension, only about 30 people, including the mayor, deputy mayor, opposition leader, standing committee chairmen and all members of the standing committee on finance will be there to present the budget 2020-21, he said. Corporators from other wards will participate via video-link from eight zonal offices of BBMP, he added. While the BBMP budget for 2019-20 was around Rs 14,000 cr, the size of the budget might reduce marginally. "I have also advised the same," Ashok noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bbmp-budget-to-be-presented-on-april-20-826452.html
17-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown relaxation depends on coronavirus cases in next few days: Karnataka CM||Resuming work with 50 per cent strength in IT and other sectors will be based on the number of COVID-19 cases reported in Karnataka in the next three to four days, said chief minister B S Yediyurappa, here Friday. Speaking to reporters following a meeting over the recent spurt in COVID-19 cases, he said that authorities have observed that patients approached the doctors on average four days after they had symptoms of the disease. "I urge anyone with fever, cough and other symptoms of COVID-19 to get tested immediately," he said. While no cases have been reported in 11 districts of the state, measures will be initiated to test people in these districts too. This will help in determining the prevalence of the disease in Karnataka, Yediyurappa said.   In order to augment the testing capabilities, 10 more labs will be approved by ICMR for COVID-19 testing by the end of April, he said. He said that one lakh rapid test kits had arrived in the state, while permission for plasma therapy on patients was still awaited, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-relaxation-depends-on-coronavirus-cases-in-next-few-days-karnataka-cm-826454.html
17-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Gulf expats urge Karnataka govt for repatriate flights||After several countries started flights from Gulf countries to repatriate their citizens, some of the 8.5 lakh ex-pat population in that region who hails from Karnataka are pressing for the same. In a memorandum, non-resident Indian Kannada organisations based in the United Arab Emirates have asked the BS Yediyurappa government to petition the Centre and ensure flights for several expats, who have been left jobless after the lockdown, to fly back to India. Due to the current situation, Indian expatriates are anxious about their lives as well as their family members. "In this regard, we urge the Indian government to take a lead on this issue and repatriate stranded Indians especially those who are in badly need of medical assistance," the memorandum read. It noted that several other countries had made arrangements for their citizens to fly back to their countries for free. However, the Indian government has not paid any heed to the concerns of expats in the UAE and other Gulf countries, according to the memorandum. Naseer Karaje, a social worker based in Dubai dealing with expats issues, said that several organisations of Karnataka expats have submitted the memorandum. "It is challenging for many ex-pats to make ends meet due to job loss and unpaid leaves," he said, adding that special flights should be arranged for the benefit of senior citizens and pregnant women. There are also rumours that the Centre will operate flights to Mumbai, Delhi and Kochi. In that case, an airport from Karnataka must also be added to the list, he said.  Airline operators started repatriation flights from April 12 to Indonesia, South Korea, Australia, Iraq, Iran and other countries, said Badruddin Azman, a human resources professional in Dubai. "A large group of the expats are blue-collar workers. While white-collar labour had the option to work from home, others were forced to remain in densely-populated areas where COVID-19 cases are reported, staring at an uncertain future," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-gulf-expats-urge-karnataka-govt-for-repatriate-flights-826518.html
17-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Three more test positive for Covid-19 in Chikkaballapur||Three more persons tested positive for novel coronavirus on Friday in Chikkaballapur. So far, 16 persons, 12 from Gauribidanur and four from Chikkaballapur, tested positive for the virus. The trio had come in contact with the 69-year-old man who died in Bengaluru on April 15 due to Covid-19. The victim’s 19-year-old son and two of his neighbours tested positive. After the victim, a resident of Anjuman road, tested positive, the health department quarantined six persons, including his wife and domestic help at the district hospital. Following the development, the district administration tightened the sealdown norms in four wards (wards-10, 12, 13 and 17). All roads connecting the ward-17 have been shut down. The district administration staff and volunteers are distributing free milk, groceries and other essentials at doorsteps in these wards where about 1,000 families stay. One nodal officer and four volunteers have been appointed to every ward, while urban development authority commissioner Bhaskar has been appointed as special officer.  The district administration has decided to continue the sealdown for another two weeks. The district administration has directed residents of these wards not to venture out of their houses. Residents of the remaining wards have been permitted to venture out to buy daily essentials without violating social distancing guideline||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/three-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-chikkaballapur-826608.html
17-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||This humble woman’s vow leaves many in awe||60-year-old Basamma has taken a vow to walk barefoot until Mangaluru gets rid of coronavirus. Basamma, a migrant labourer, has made Mangaluru her home for the past 30 years. She made the ‘harake' (vow) of shunning slippers and walking barefoot from the day lockdown was declared to contain COVID-19 across the country. “I also took a vow to fast on every Fridays before the presiding deity at `Kallurti sana’ in Guddeangadi near Kuloor,” said Basamma humbly with folded hands. Basamma, who hails from a village in Badami taluk, said she was aware about coronavirus as she regularly watches news bulletins telecast by TV channels. Basamma, who has had no schooling, said she was horrified by the images of death caused by the Covid-19. “My first apprehension was the safety of my five grandchildren and the babies in houses where I work as a maid,” she said.  Basamma, who hails from Kuruba community, said that her belief in Kallurti (a spirit) made her take the vow at Kallurti sana. “When my three children were young, I lost my job in a factory. That night not knowing how I would take care of my children, I had wept for hours before Kallurtiamma. On the following morning, the factory took me back and my joy knew no bounds," she said.  Basamma’s husband, an alcoholic, had passed away three years ago. “She overcame all obstacles and provided good education to her three children with help of donors,” Basamma’s friend Mallamma said. There is not an iota of regret on Basamma’s face even as the hot tar road scorches her feet. “The children should be spared of hardships, which I had faced. Thus, I took the vow,’’ she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/this-humble-woman-s-vow-leaves-many-in-awe-826610.html
17-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||With 3 more cases, Chikkaballapur under seal down||With three more persons testing positive for Covid-19 on Friday, the district administration has sealed down the whole city to bring the situation under control. Twelve from Gauribidanur and four from Chikkaballapur have tested positive for the viral infection till now and two of the patients have already succumbed. A 69-year-old infected living on Anjuman Road passed away two days ago and three persons who came in contact with the deceased tested positive on Friday. These three include a 19-year-old son of the deceased. As soon as the first Covid-19 case was detected on Anjuman Road, the health department had quarantined six persons including the wife, children and maid of the family.  The district administration had already locked down in wards 10, 12, 13 and 17 soon after the first case was detected. However, with the rise in numbers, the seal down was extended to the whole of the city. Barring medical stores, all other businesses and commercial establishments remain closed in Chikkaballapur. A nodal officer and volunteers have been deputed for each ward and commissioner of Urban Development Authority, Bhaskar, has been appointed special officer. The nodal officer has formed a WhatsApp group to ensure the supply of essential commodities to people through volunteers. Eight infected persons have recovered in the district. They have been discharged and are in quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/with-3-more-cases-chikkaballapur-under-seal-down-826675.html
17-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Government to supply ration to applicants of BPL cards||The state government will begin supplying ration even to those whose application for BPL cards is under process. Such people can access ration by showing a copy of the receipt of their application, Food and Civil Supplies Minister K Gopalaiah said on Friday. Gopalaiah said that the government had decided to provide three months’ ration for BPL applicants beginning Saturday. “This apart, about 1.30 lakh people had applied for APL cards, out of which, 63,000 applicants had opted for rice. The government will buy rice at Rs 25 and give it to the beneficiaries at Rs 15,” he said. As for the two months’ ration promised to BPL card holders earlier, more than 90 per cent of it was already distributed, he said, adding that beneficiaries could call the helpline 1967 in case of any lacunae in the process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/government-to-supply-ration-to-applicants-of-bpl-cards-826677.html
17-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Government to trim state syllabus for shorter academic year||The text books for state syllabus will be revised for 2020-21 academic year as per the guidelines of National Council for Education Research and Training (NCERT). Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar directed the officials of the department to submit proposals about the same by conducting meeting with experts. The measure has been taken following the Covid-19 crisis and lack of active academic days due to Covid-19 outbreak and nation-wide lockdown. Even the private school managements have suggested the state government to revisit the existing text books. "We have requested the department to revise the existing textbooks by reducing the syllabus as we will have less days during coming academic year," said D Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. Considering all these, Suresh Kumar directed the officials concerned to submit a proposal on the same. According to officials, the revision of text books is mainly because of shorter academic session available for coming year as there is need to cut down the existing syllabus, instead of adding new things. Teachers' transfer rules The minister even asked the department officials to frame rules for the Karnataka Teachers' Transfer Act for which amendments were passed in the recent Assembly and Council sessions. "The transfer process should not be delayed and directed the department officials to frame rules immediately considering the suggestions given by the Law and Parliamentary Affairs department," said Suresh Kumar. In the meeting with the department officials, the minister instructed them to verify online classes conducted by the private schools and permit them only if they are not demanding fee from parents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/government-to-trim-state-syllabus-for-shorter-academic-year-826680.html
17-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt clarifies on partnership with Art of Living||Preempting controversy, the state government on Friday clarified that its partnership with the Art of Living was just one among many options it is looking to forge in the areas of water and soil conservation.  The Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) department and the Art of Living will collaborate to rejuvenate water sources in nine districts. On Thursday, RDPR Minister K S Eshwarappa held talks with Art of Living founder Sri Sri Ravi Shankar to discuss the partnership. Questions were raised on why it had to be the Art of Living, prompting the government to clarify.  “AOL was chosen for tech support in some districts based on their previous work with the department for Vedavathi River Rejuvenation Project in Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Chitradurga districts,” RDPR principal secretary L K Atheeq said on Twitter. “The RDPR will sign an MoU with AOL. No monies will be paid to AOL,” he said.  The Art of Living will bring in expertise and human resources “at its cost” and works will be implemented through the panchayats, the officer said.  “The RDPR is open to working with civil society organisations, trusts, etc, if they can bring water and soil conservation expertise,” Atheeq said. “We are also working with GIZ and Foundation for Ecological Security,” he said, adding that an Expression of Interest has been issued inviting organisations for more such collaboration. “We take support only for planning, technology and training. Implementation is always through the panchayats with the involvement of the Gram Sabhas.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-clarifies-on-partnership-with-art-of-living-826700.html
17-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sudhakar bats for plasma therapy for treating COVID-19 patients||Backing plasma therapy to assist significantly in treating Covid-19 patients, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said that the government was awaiting Indian Council of Medical Research's (ICMR) approval to pursue it further. "As a doctor, I am confident that plasma therapy will work," Sudhakar, the minister in-charge for Covid-19 in Bengaluru, told DH, following a meeting chaired by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa with senior ministers and officials. The treatment has shown great promise in Kerala, and Karnataka was keen on taking up the same to treat patients, he said. It can be recalled that the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) ethics committee had cleared convalescent plasma therapy for treating critically-ill Covid-19 patients. The therapy will transfuse the antibodies present in a recovered patient's blood to a patients on ventilator support, which increases chances of the patients' recovery. Rapid kits One lakh rapid testing kits will arrive soon in the State, Sudhakar said, adding that they cannot be used to diagnose whether a patient had Covid-19. "Only Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test has 100% accuracy in detecting the disease. Rapid kits can be used just to check whether anti-bodies that fight Covid-19 are generated in a body," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sudhakar-bats-for-plasma-therapy-for-treating-covid-19-patients-826701.html
17-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Testing in non-COVID districts soon: CM B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Friday that the Covid-19 tests would be carried out even in those districts where cases were not reported till date, to assess the prevalence of the disease. Following a meeting with senior ministers, Yediyurappa said that officials were directed to test patients with symptoms for Covid-19, even in districts where cases have not been reported. “In 11 districts, there are no cases. But, we will have to test to assess how prevalent the disease was,” he said. In order to augment the testing capabilities of the government, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will approve 10 additional labs in the state, he said, citing its recent guidelines to set up two testing centres in each district. Karnataka will also come up with an app to ease the process of testing for those with fever, cold and breathing problems, which are known to have Covid-19 symptoms.  The government has also urged patients with Covid-19 symptoms to get tested immediately, as many patients came forward on average four days after developing symptoms. “Please visit a doctor as soon as you develop Covid-19 symptoms,” Yediyurappa said. Discussions were also held during the day on strategies to be adopted in the event of spike in cases post the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/testing-in-non-covid-districts-soon-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-826706.html
17-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||After a two weeks lull, Hosapete sees rapid surge in coronavirus cases||After a lull of almost two weeks, Hosapete town on Friday witnessed seven of a family contract novel coronavirus. With this the number of confirmed cases of Covid-19 in Ballari district has gone up to 13. Hosapete town alone has 11 cases. On March 30, Hosapete reported its first cases, when the throat swab samples of a couple and their daughter returned positive to virus - A 52-year-old man, his 48-year-old wife and their 26-ye ar-old daughter had contracted Covid-19. On April 4, their 47-year-old relative also tested positive. On Friday (April 17), seven members of the maternal home of the infected 48-year-old woman contracted Covid-19. The infected woman’s 68-year-old mother, her brothers, aged 50 and 39, 48-year-old sister and nephews, aged 21 and 24, and a 10-year-old niece have tested positive for the virus.The patients are being treated at the isolation ward of VIMS, Ballari. All the seven were placed under quarantine at private hotels after their relatives tested positive on March 30. Apart from Hosapete, Guggarahatti in Ballari and Siruguppa have reported one case each. Ballari district, until now, was classified as a non-hotspot district as the region had not seen a single case for 12 days. But a sudden surge in cases in Hosapete has transformed the region into the virus hotspot. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare is expected to classify the district intoCovid-19 hotspot anytime soon, say Health department officials.  A senior Health official, on the condition of anonymity, told DH, “Until April 16, Ballari had only six case. No fresh cases were reported in almost two weeks. The district was classified as non-hotspot. But a rapid surge in cases on Friday has changed the situation completely. There’s no doubt that Ballari district will be classified as Covid-19 hotspot.” A senior police officer told DH, ‘‘in Hosapete, people are allowed to step out of their houses to buy provision and other essentials from 7 am to 11 am. However, the spike in cases calls for the complete lockdown. A new lockdown guideline will be issued soon.’’||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-a-two-weeks-lull-hosapete-sees-rapid-surge-in-coronavirus-cases-826715.html
17-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka govt defines containment zones, procedures to be followed||Perpetual rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in various parts of the state including Bengaluru had prompted the state government last week to define hotspots, cluster and containment zones. Close in the heels of its earlier order, the state government on Friday issued guidelines on definition and procedures to be followed in these zones besides listing out the roles and responsibilities of various departments to contain the further spread of the COVID-19 across Karnataka. As per the new guidelines issued by the Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar, the area around the house of the COVID-19 patient can be declared as ‘Containment Zone’ and stringent measures will be put in place to contain the spread of COVID-19.  The activities include banning the movement of people, delivery of all essentials to the doorstep of citizens. The area will continue to remain as containment zone until no COVID-19 positive case is reported for the next 28-days from the same area. All the primary and secondary contacts within the containment area will strictly under home quarantine.  Interestingly, the nature of the ‘area’ to be demarcated as containment area varies from place to place according to the circular. “If a COVID-19 positive case is found in an apartment complex, then the entire block or apartment tower will be declared a containment zone. If it is a single block apartment, then the entire apartment complex will be declared as containment zone. Similarly, if the COVID-19 patient is found in an independent house or villa, the 100 mtrs radius area including the street on which the patient house is located will be declared as Containment zone,” the circular stated. In the cases of slums in urban localities, the entire slum will be declared as containment zone. Further, surrounding the Containment Zone, a ‘buffer zone’ will also be created by including the area within 7 km radius from the containment zone. “In urban areas, the officials can restrict it to 5 kms and put in place increased surveillance activities and adhere to social distancing rule across the buffer zone,” the order explained. A Commander to monitor the containment area Following the declaration of a containment area in Bengaluru, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has to appoint an executive magistrate or a Class-I officer as Commander with all magistrate powers to control the activities in the area. A command centre will be set up outside the containment area with special squads to cater to the requirement of the people especially in providing emergency medical care to pregnant women and cardiac patients.     As per the directions, the police will seal the entire area geographically on a permanent basis by setting up a barrier and check posts. “No person from the containment area shall be allowed to come out of the house and every containment zone will have only one entry and exit points. No private vehicle will be allowed to enter in or out of the area. The police must also make use of technology to enforce the seal down orders,” the directive explained. The health officials must identify the primary and secondary contacts in the area and put them under house quarantine besides monitoring them constantly for any symptoms of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-govt-defines-containment-zones-procedures-to-be-followed-826731.html
17-04-2020||West||20 areas in Palghar district declared coronavirus hotspots||As many as 20 localities in Palghar district of Maharashtra were on Thursday declared as coronavirus hotspots and sealed to stem the spread of the viral disease. Collector Kailas Shinde has declared 20 places in the district as coronavirus hotspots and imposed sweeping curbs to contain the infection. In an order issued late in the evening, he said entry and exit of citizens and vehicles in these areas have been banned, except for those classified as emergency and essential services. He said violation of the order will invite legal action. An official release by the district administration on Thursday said the number of COVID-19 cases rose to 75 from 55 on Wednesday. The district, located adjoining Mumbai, has also registered five deaths so far, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/20-areas-in-palghar-district-declared-coronavirus-hotspots-826314.html
17-04-2020||West||Maharashtra coronavirus tally zooms to 3,202 with 286 new cases; 7 die||As many as 286 new cases of COVID-19 were detected in Maharashtra, taking the tally beyond the 3,200-mark on Thursday, while the fatality count inched towards the 200-level with seven more deaths, most of them senior citizens, said a state health official. With the detection of fresh cases in the last 24 hours, Maharashtra has so far reported 3,202 coronavirus cases, the highest for a state in the country, while the death toll is now 194, he added. Five more COVID-19 patients were discharged after recovering from the disease, taking the tally of cured cases to 300, he said. "Out of the seven deaths, four were from Pune and three from Mumbai. Six of the deceased persons had high risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease. "Four out of these seven were aged over 60 years, while remaining were in the 40 to 60 age group," he said. The state has so far carried out 56,673 tests for coronavirus, of which 52,762 have come out negative till now, he said. "Mumbai city has 2,073 cases and 117 deaths followed by Pune city, which has reported 419 cases and 44 deaths," he said. Among various regions, the Thane division has so far reported 2,423 COVID-19 cases and 132 deaths which include the toll from Mumbai (117), the official said. The Pune division has reported 492 cases and 48 deaths, followed by the Nashik division in north Maharashtra with 79 coronavirus infections and five fatalities.  The number of COVID-19 cases in the Kolhapur division in western Maharashtra stood at 39 and one death, followed by the Aurangabad division in the Marathwada region which has reported 32 cases and two fatalities so far. The Latur division has reported 12 COVID-19 cases, while the Akola division in the Vidarbha region registered 54 infections and three deaths, the official said. The number of cases from the Nagpur division in east Maharashtra stood at 60 with one death, he added. A total of 11 people from neighbouring states were undergoing treatment in Maharashtra for COVID-19 and two of them have died, he said. The official said a total of 5,664 squads have carried out surveillance of more than 20.50 lakh people so far in the state as part of measures to detect coronavirus cases. The number of people put under home isolation was 71,076, while 6,108 were under institutional quarantine at the moment, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-coronavirus-tally-zooms-to-3202-with-286-new-cases-7-die-826315.html
17-04-2020||West||Man walks 350km to reach Parbhani from Pune; tests coronavirus positive||Parbhani district in central Maharashtra on Thursday reported its first coronavirus case after a young man, who came from Pune on foot, was found infected with the disease, an official said. A 21-year-old man, who reached Parbhani from Pune on foot, has been found to be coronavirus positive, Civil Surgeon Dr Prakash Dake told PTI. He was admitted in Parbhani Civil hospital after he showed symptoms of COVID-19 after arriving from Pune, walking more than 350km, he said. His swab was sent for testing and report received on Thursday found him to be positive for the disease, the official told. "There are no severe symptoms in him and the patient is now stable. We have found 8-9 close contacts of this patient and further formalities are on," said Dake.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-walks-350km-to-reach-parbhani-from-pune-tests-coronavirus-positive-826317.html
17-04-2020||West||Man booked for assaulting lady cop on lockdown duty amid coronavirus pandemic||A case was registered against a man for allegedly assaulting a lady police personnel who was on bandobast duty at Kalyan taluka in Maharashtra's Thane district amid the COVID-19 lockdown, police said on Friday. A lady police naik, who was posted for bandobast duty at Mharal village, spotted the accused Nishant Deshmukh driving a car in a rash manner, an official said. When the official intercepted the vehicle, the accused abused and manhandled her, during which she sustained injuries, he said. The accused was charged under sections 353 (assaulting a public servant) and other relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code and no arrest has been made in the case so far, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-booked-for-assaulting-lady-cop-on-lockdown-duty-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-826393.html
17-04-2020||West||Ministers must ensure smooth supply of food grains, says Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday asked all guardian ministers to ensure smooth distribution of food grains to the poor during the COVID-19 lockdown so that the government is not defamed unnecessarily. According to an official statement issued on Friday, Pawar, who is also the state's Finance Minister, wrote to the guardian ministers asking them to immediately address complaints raised by beneficiaries of the public distribution system (PDS). In a letter to the ministers, Pawar informed that the PDS food stock had been increased from 3.87 lakh metric tonnes to 7.74 lakh metric tonnes. As many as 1.52 lakh metric tonnes of grains were made available for the needy, he stated. "There is a need to ensure that the poor get adequate food grains and they are distributed in a streamlined manner so that no one goes hungry (during the lockdown period)," Pawar said in the letter. There should be no irregularity in the distribution of food grains and if there is any complaint, it has to be addressed immediately, Pawar directed. "See that the government is not defamed unnecessarily. Guardian ministers should personally pay attention to this," he added. He praised the state administration for doing a "good job" at all levels during the health crisis.  The state's food and civil supplies department was providing wheat and rice at Rs 2 and Rs 3 per kg respectively for three months to 7 crore people through fair price shops, he said. The 5 kg free rice announced by the Centre for ration card holders is also being distributed, he said, adding that wheat and rice at Rs 8 and Rs 12 per kg respectively will be distributed to the poor, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ministers-must-ensure-smooth-supply-of-food-grains-says-ajit-pawar-826402.html
17-04-2020||West||Three beaten to death in Maharahstra's Palghar||In a shocking and serious incident,  three persons were killed by a huge mob in a Gadchinchale village in the Palghar district that neighbours Mumbai as they suspected them to the thieves. The incident happened in the tribal belt,  located some 120 km off downtown Mumbai,  late on Thursday night,  when the district was in a state of COVID-19 India lockdown. The Kasa police station has registered a case on Friday early morning and investigations were in progress. The identity of the victims is not yet known. Initial reports said that the three victims - driver and two other persons were arriving in  Eeco van form Nashik and heading for Mumbai off the Dhabadi-Khnavel road in Dahanu tehsil of Palghar district. Assistant Sub Inspector Anandrao Kale said that the mob stopped the vehicle and started questioning them. The driver managed to call the police. They were taken into a police jeep,  however,  the villagers outnumbered them and attacked with stones and sticks. Some policemen were also injured in the incident. The bodies were taken to the government hospital. The post-mortem report is awaited. An offence under sections 302 (murder) along with others, including armed rioting and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. Besides, the FIR also includes violation of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. When the latest reports came in, nearly  30 to 40 persons have been detained for investigations. Palghar Collector Dr Kailas Shinde and Superintendent of Police Gaurav Singh has briefed the Maharashtra government about the incident. Just four days ago,  four policemen form Kasa police station was injured when a mob attacked the SUV of Thane-based skin specialist Dr Vishwas Walvi when he was distributing rice and conducting a thermal screening of villagers. Around a dozen, persons have been arrested and remanded to police custody. Reports said that over the past few days there have been rumours of robberies in the district by migrants. Additional police reinforcement has been called. The situation is now under control. Similar to Dhule incident The Palghar incident is similar to the Dhule incident of 2 July 2018, when five beggars mistaken to be child-lifters were lynched to death. The beggars hailed from Solapur district. The incident had taken place in Rainpada in Sakri tribal belt of Dhule. Two dozen persons were booked and arrested by the Dhule police. It was after this incident WhatsApp limited forwards to five||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-beaten-to-death-in-maharahstras-palghar-826405.html
17-04-2020||West||Two more die due to coronavirus in Gujarat; toll reaches 38||With two more persons succumbing to coronavirus in Gujarat, the toll due to the infection went up to 38 on Friday, health officials said. These deaths, reported in the last 12 hours, were recorded in Vadodara and Ahmedabad districts, said Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi. While a 31-year-old man died in Vadodara, the other, aged 55, succumbed in Ahmedabad during his treatment, she said. During the 12-hour period, one more COVID-19 patient recovered,taking the number of those discharged to 74 so far, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-more-die-due-to-coronavirus-in-gujarat-toll-reaches-38-826406.html
17-04-2020||West||92 new coronavirus cases in Gujarat; tally rises to 1,000||The total number of positive cases of coronavirus in Gujarat crossed the 1,000-mark on Friday after 92 new infections were reported during the last 12 hours, said health officials here. With this, the coronavirus count in Gujarat now stands at 1,021. Out of the 92 new cases reported during the last 12 hours, the highest, 45,were from Ahmedabad, followed by 14 in Surat, 9 in Vadodara, 8 in Bharuch and 5 in Narmada, said Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi. Other districts where new cases have emerged include Botad (3), Panchmahal (2) and one each in Anand, Chhotaudepur, Dahod, Kheda and Mahisagar, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/92-new-coronavirus-cases-in-gujarat-tally-rises-to-1000-826409.html
17-04-2020||West||Coronavirus cases in Gujarat cross 1,000-mark; three more die||Gujarat on Friday reported yet another steep rise in coronavirus infection with 170 new cases detected in the past 24 hours from 25 districts, taking the total number to 1099. The death toll also rose to 41 after three COVID-19 patients died in the span of the same time period between Thursday and Friday evening.  Ahmedabad with 622 positive cases and 21 casualties remains at the top of the chart. Meanwhile, what has started worrying the government is frontline workers including doctors, nurses and policemen getting infected. On Friday, a surgeon posted at LG hospital in the city was tested positive. The surgeon is the son of a senior medical officer posted with the civil hospital, Asarwa in Ahmedabad.  While the son has been admitted to SVP hospital, his family members including father, mother and wife have been home quarantined. Principal secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi confirmed the development. On Thursday, an assistant professor, two resident doctors and a nurse had been tested positive at the same hospital.  According to health officers, over 30 health workers have been infected in the fight against the lethal virus. Officials said that at least six policemen have also been infected with the virus in different parts of the state.  Meanwhile, two more districts- Aravalli and Mahisagar- detected their first coronavirus cases on Friday, increasing the list of affected districts to 25 out of 33. Apart from Ahmedabad, Vadodara with 142 cases, Surat 140, Rajkot 28, Bhavnagar 26, Anand 26 are among the troubled districts. On Friday, pockets of Rajkot city which are part hotspot was put under curfew. Rajkot is the third city that has imposed a curfew to contain the spread after Ahmedabad and Surat. Gujarat had recorded its first two cases on March 18. The list of infected persons till April 1 was merely 82. The data reveals that on April 7, total positive cases was 165, which in the past ten days rose to 1099.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-cases-in-gujarat-cross-1000-mark-three-more-die-826437.html
17-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown causes Goa's DJs to move party online||In keeping with the lockdown norms, few DJs in the state have been using their Facebook accounts to play party music for their audiences. "It is completely different from anything we have done before. I never honestly think of what is going on around me, I just make sure that I compose music," said Ashton Gonsalves, one of Goa's popular DJs, who performs regularly at few of the happening clubs in North Goa. Gonsalves goes live on Facebook at a dedicated time and performs from the comfort of his home. "When I started, I never thought I would get such a positive response from my fans and followers. I just did it for fun and the response was massive, thanks to everyone who believed in me and loved my music," he said. For South Goa-based DJ Anthony Fernandes, who performs at parties and clubs, lockdown was a time to practise his skills.    "I spent my days improving my skills as a DJ. Then I decided to give live performances online to entertain people who were bogged down by the current situation," he said. Fernandes goes live on Facebook every evening and has garnered a sizeable fan following. Goa, which is known its thumping nightclubs and parties, now wears a sombre look because of the lockdown. However, musicians and DJs have shifted the parties online with their live performances, catering not just to Goans, but people across the country and world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-causes-goas-djs-to-move-party-online-826486.html
17-04-2020||West||4 more COVID-19 cases detected in Maharashtra; tally 3,236||The number of COVID-19 patients in Maharashtra reached 3,236 on Friday with 34 more persons testing positive for the infection, an official said. Of the new cases, the highest, 23, were recorded in Pune since Thursday evening, while six more persons were diagnosed with the infection in Mumbai, said the state health department official. Four cases were detected in Malegaon town of Nashik district and one in Thane, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/4-more-covid-19-cases-detected-in-maharashtra-tally-3236-826507.html
17-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: 37 migrant labourers trying to reach Palwal in truck intercepted, sent to shelter home||Delhi police intercepted a truck carrying 37 migrant labourers to Haryana's Palwal town during lockdown early Friday and sent them to a shelter home, officials said. Around 1.30 am, police stopped a truck bearing a Haryana registration near Okhla T-point and found 37 labourers inside. The contractor told the police he was ferrying the labourers to Palwal Mandi from Okhla Mandi in Delhi for work. The contractor is a resident of Lakhi Sarai district in Bihar and had been staying in Palwal, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) RP Meena. The labourers were staying in Chhatarpur, he added. All of them have been booked under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and section 3 of the Epidemic Act. Another seven migrant labourers trying to travel to their home district Vaishali in Bihar were intercepted by a police team in South Extension. They had hired an SUV of a Trilokpuri resident for Rs 37,000, said Atul Kumar Thakur, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South). The vehicle was seized and the seven labourers were sent to a shelter home. A case has been registered against the driver and he has been arrested, Thakur said. The advance payment made to the driver has been returned, the DCP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-37-migrant-labourers-trying-to-reach-palwal-in-truck-intercepted-sent-to-shelter-home-826515.html
17-04-2020||West||Mumbai migrant mob may be political conspiracy, hints Thorat||Maharashtra Congress president and state Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat on Friday hinted that the gathering of migrant workers near Bandra station in Mumbai on April 14 may have been a political conspiracy. Addressing a press conference, Thorat said soon after the gathering, Twitter hashtags like "UddhavResign" and "President's Rule Imposition" were trending, and Union Home Minister Amit Shah also called up the state chief minister. "Migrant workers came out on to the streets twice in Surat (in BJP-ruled Gujarat) and elsewhere in the country but I am now aware if the Union home minister called up the CMs there or if there was a Twitter war as was seen after the Bandra incident," he said. In reply to another query, Thorat said Governor BS Koshyari should appoint CM Uddhav Thackeray to the Legislative Council at the earliest as it was a matter of political stability in the state. "If there was no lockdown, and (MLC) polls were held, the CM would have been elected easily. We hope the governor takes a decision on the cabinet recommendation made on April 6," he said, adding there were reports of some court case against this cabinet decision and that the governor was seeking legal advice. He lashed out at the Centre claiming the BJP, on the one hand, was criticising the state government for not doing enough over the coronavirus outbreak, and, on the other hand, was refusing to give Maharashtra's revenue share of Rs 16,000 crore. He said the lockdown was affecting revenue and a decision to resume industrial activities in districts where there are no COVID-19 cases will be taken up after April 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-migrant-mob-may-be-political-conspiracy-hints-thorat-826545.html
17-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: Woman dies after teenage son sets her on fire||A 49-year-old woman died after her teenage son allegedly set her on fire in Omsanabad district of Maharashtra over her refusal to give money to him, police said on Friday. The incident occurred on Wednesday at Ter town in Osmanabad district, they said. The 17-year-old accused was arrested and sent to a juvenile home in Osmanabad, police said. "The boy had demanded money from his mother. However, she refused do so. On Wednesday, when she was in the courtyard of their house, the boy set her on fire," police sub-inspector Mohan Jadhav said. "After hearing the woman's screams, their neighbours rescued her. She was rushed to a private hospital in Osmanabad, where she died on Thursday," he said. The boy's father later lodged a complaint and an offence was registered against the boy under IPC section 302 (murder) at Dhoki Police station. "The accused was presented in a court, which sent him to a juvenile home," Jadhav said. PTI AW NP NP||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-woman-dies-after-teenage-son-sets-her-on-fire-826548.html
17-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: BMC starts monsoon preparations||The monsoon preparations in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region has commenced along with the ongoing fight to contain pandemic COVID-19. The Maharashtra government on Friday took a review of the pre-monsoon work in Mumbai-MMR. Multiple agencies like BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation,  other municipal corporations and councils in MMR, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority, the Central Railway, Western Railway and Konkan Railway, public bus transport system like BEST are involved in the monsoon preparations. The drains, culverts are cleared of muck during May.  Monsoon generally sets in Mumbai in the first or second week of June. Mumbai's Municipal Commissioner Praveen Pardeshi briefed the government of the measures undertaken. "This afternoon, I took a zoom video meeting of BMC officers, along with Municipal Commissioner Pravin Pardeshi, for the preparations of the onset of the monsoon and to complete the essential pre-monsoon works in time, along with our fight against COVID-19," said state Tourism Minister Aditya Thackeray, who is the Guardian Minister of Mumbai Suburban district. State Textile and Fisheries Minister Aslam Shaikh,  who is the Guardian Minister for Mumbai City,  also joined the meeting. During the review, a detailed briefing on COVID-19 response was also done. The Maharashtra government wants the COVID-19 pandemic to end before the onset of monsoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-bmc-starts-monsoon-preparations-826550.html
17-04-2020||West||Man from Tablighi Jamaat files complaint against Rangoli Ranaut, Babita Phogat's tweets||A man in Aurangabad in Maharashtra has filed a complaint claiming tweets by wrestler-turned-politician Babita Phogat and actor Kangana Ranaut's sister Rangoli Chandel in connection with the novel coronavirus outbreak intended to create disharmony among communities, police said on Friday. The man, associated with the Tablighi Jamaat, filed the complaint in City Chowk police station on Thursday, an official said, and added it would be forwarded through the Aurangabad commissioner to the police in the areas where the two reside. "The complainant has cited tweets by Phogat on April 2 and April 15. He also alleged that Chandel's tweet on April 15 was intended to target a specific community and spread hate. He has demanded registration of a case against Phogat and Chandel under section 153A of IPC and the Information Technology Act," the official informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-from-tablighi-jamaat-files-complaint-against-rangoli-ranaut-babita-phogats-tweets-826553.html
17-04-2020||West||Dharavi's coronavirus count reaches 101 with 15 new cases||A 62-year-old COVID-19 patient from the area died at Sion hospital, he added. A total of 10 coronavirus patients from this densely populated area have died so far. Three new cases each were found in Matunga labour camp, Muslim Nagarand Indira Nagar, two at Social Nagar and one each at Dr Baliga Nagar,Laxmi Chawl, Janata society and Sarvoday Society on Friday, said the BMC official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dharavis-coronavirus-count-reaches-101-with-15-new-cases-826554.html
17-04-2020||West||Lockdown: Maharashtra asks landlords to give tenants rent breather||The Maharashtra housing department has asked landlords to postpone rent recovery from tenants for at least three months due to the lockdown for the coronavirus outbreak. In a circular issued on Friday, Additional Chief Secretary (Housing Department) Sanjay Kumar also asked landlords not to drive tenants out of their homes if they fail to pay rents during the current period. The official noted financial transactions have not been taking place across markets and factories due to the lockdown, and the this had a bearing on income and employment of people. "Several people are faced with difficult financial situations. Large number of people are not able to pay their regular rents. Hence, rent recovery should be postponed for at least three months and no tenant be driven out for non-payment of rent," Kumar said in the circular.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-maharashtra-asks-landlords-to-give-tenants-rent-breather-826574.html
17-04-2020||West||Nearly 50,000 cases filed, 10,000 people held so far for lockdown violation in Maharashtra||Maharashtra police have so far registered close to 50,000 cases and arrested over 10,000 people for offences related to flouting of lockdown norms in place for the novel coronavirus outbreak, an official said on Friday. He said 30 Maharashtra police personnel, including seven officers, have so far got infected with the coronavirus while on frontline duty to combat the outbreak. "We have registered 49,756 offences under section 188 of IPC and arrested 10,276 persons. There have been 102 incidents of assault on policemen during this period and 162 people have been arrested in them," he said. "We seized 32,424 vehicles for violating prohibitory orders, and 1,044 offences have been registered for illegal transportation during the lockdown," he added. The official said police across the state had handled 70,300 calls related to coronavirus queries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nearly-50000-cases-filed-10000-people-held-so-far-for-lockdown-violation-in-maharashtra-826594.html
17-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Give Maharashtra Rs 25,000 crore package, Balasaheb Thorat tells Centre||Addressing a press conference, he said the state was the first to order a lockdown in the country and was taking care of 7.5 lakh poor and migrant labourers in 6,500 camps. "We have demanded PPE kits from the Centre but are yet to get them. We want the Centre to give us a package of Rs 25,000 crore as well as Rs 16,500 GST refund to tackle the outbreak," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-give-maharashtra-rs-25000-crore-package-balasaheb-thorat-tells-centre-826624.html
17-04-2020||West||COVID-19: People entering from Karnataka, says Goa minister||As per the lockdown in place for coronavirus outbreak, Goa has sealed off its borders and is only allowing movement of vehicles carrying essential items. "It has been brought to my notice that in view of the rising cases of #COVID-19 in Belgavi, a lot of people are entering the state via Chorla Ghat into Keri, which can pose a great danger to the citizens," Rane tweeted. "I have appealed CM @DrPramodPSawant to take stringent action and ensure that this movement into the state is restricted or banned, except for the transport of trade and essential commodities. I am confident that Hon'ble CM @DrPramodPSawant will take necessary action in this regard," he added. He thanked village authorities for bringing this issue to the notice of authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-people-entering-from-karnataka-says-goa-minister-826663.html
