18-04-2020||First Edit||Does only the PM care and not CMs?||It is wrong that contributions made by companies to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund (CMRF) in the states are not considered as part of their corporate social responsibility (CSR) expenditure, while those given to the central government’s newly set-up relief fund called the PM-CARES Fund qualify as such expenditure. The PM-CARES Fund was recently set up with the declared aim of raising funds from companies and others to finance the government’s efforts to fight Covid-19. The CMRF also is utlilised for the same purpose and state governments have called for contributions for this. All states are hard-pressed for funds as their income and revenues have been stretched badly. Many of them, including those ruled by the BJP, have complained that the Centre has not passed on to them funds which they should rightly have got. The CSR provision has the effect of discouraging donors from making contributions to state relief funds.  The Companies Act provides for certain categories of companies to set apart and utilise or donate a share of their profits for CSR activities. The existing provision is tilted in favour of the Centre, and companies will now contribute only to the central fund. The central government has said that the provision has existed from the time of the UPA government and it is only following it. Under Schedule VII of the Act, as amended in 2014, the 'eligible funds' include only the Prime Minister's Relief Fund and any other fund set up by the central government. This is only a technical and lame reason and the government could well amend the provision to make the CM’s relief fund also eligible for CSR contributions. The government has made contributions to state disaster management authorities eligible for CSR contributions but left out the CM’s relief fund. Several state governments have criticised the denial of CSR contributions to the CM’s fund. This has been cited as a violation of federal principles, especially when the areas where the CSR funds are to be used are within the purview of state governments.  The setting up of the PM-CARES Fund itself is contentious. The rationale for a new fund is not clear when the PM’s National Relief Fund exists. It is not clear under which law it has been created. There is a lack of transparency about it, and it does not have even a website. The name itself has been criticised as sentimentally loaded and chosen to project the Prime Minister as a caring person. While the government has not explained why this has been set up, it can even now make the necessary changes in law to enable CSR contributions to the CM’s relief fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/does-only-the-pm-care-and-not-cms-826886.html
18-04-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Coronavirus lockdown: Congress accuses Jagadish Shettar's son of misusing Infosys kit||Medium and Large Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar’s son, Sankalp Shettar, and district level BJP leaders are accused of distributing food and other essential kits among the poor that were provided by Sudha Murthy’s Infosys Foundation to the district administration.    Hubballi-Dharwad City-District Congress Committee office bearers have filed a formal complaint against Sankalp Shettar and Hubballi-Dharwad East Constituency BJP President Prabhuraj Navalgundmath with the Deputy Commissioner. Congress leaders have also shared the photographic proof of the BJP leaders distributing food kits with the logo of Infosys. Prabhuraj has also shared a photo of him, along with BJP leaders, donating the food grains to a security guard of a newspaper company, on his Facebook page, claiming the Infosys food kit as party’s kit.  Congress District General Secretary Rajath Ullagaddimutt questioned the ‘constitutional’ authority of both Sankalp and Prabhuraj to distribute the government kits among the poor. “District In-Charge Minister Jagadish Shettar has to explain, how his son or party workers who do not hold any government posts are distributing government kits, that too donated by Infosys foundation,” he said.  “We would not have objected if any of their six BJP MLAs in the district had distributed the kits as they have rights, just like Congress MLA Prasad Abbayya. However, Minister Shettar, to promote his son and party leaders, is misusing the Infosys Foundation kits,” he said.   Defending his act, Sankalp said: “I alone did not distribute the kits. There were officials also. I just handed over them.” He, however, falsely claimed that even district in-charge minister was also present at the event. The Infosys Foundation has provided groceries worth Rs 20 lakh to the district administration, which were supposed to be distributed among the Gokul villagers. Each kit has rice (5kg), Tur-dal (2 kg), sugar, oil and salt one kg each.  Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan said she has instructed the BJP leaders not to misuse the food kits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/coronavirus-lockdown-congress-accuses-jagadish-shettars-son-of-misusing-infosys-kit-826873.html
18-04-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||63-year-old graveyard guard tests positive for COVID-19 in Hubballi||Until now, the district had six active cases, including three children aged between 3 and 7. One patient who recovered has been discharged from the hospital. A 63-year-old man (P-363), a secondary contact of  P-236, tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. He is a resident of Old Hubballi. On Friday night, he was shifted to the isolation ward at Karnataka, Institute of Medical Science, Hubballi, the COVID-19 centre of the district.   Sources said that he was housed at government quarantine facility since April 14, after medical reports of P-236 in Old Hubballi, came out positive. While the P-363, says that he had no direct contact with P-236, they both are said to have met at Bada Qabristan in Gavi Oni of Old Hubballi during a funeral on March 24. P-363 works as a guard at the graveyard.  P-363 is a bachelor and have no direct family members. District administration is tracking his primary and secondary contacts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/63-year-old-graveyard-guard-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-hubballi-826878.html
18-04-2020||In Perspective||Coronavirus: Have you thought about your maid’s plight?||When the heartrending scenes of migrant labourers fleeing big cities -- either walking on foot or crowding into buses to take them back to their villages -- broke on news channels and newspapers, it was the most chilling turn to the Covid-19 pandemic. The exodus included daily-wage earners and contract labour, like rickshaw-pullers, ragpickers, construction workers, factory workers, unskilled and semi-skilled workers and housemaids. With businesses downing their shutters, migrant workers had no source of income and no money to pay rent or buy food. According to the Census of 2011, there were more than 60 million migrant workers in our cities, including Bengaluru. The government’s 21-day lockdown, now extended till May 3, imposed in the country to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, appeared almost futile as tens of thousands of panic-stricken migrant workers and their families poured out of the cities in an attempt to leave for their distant villages.  Braving the risk of catching the virus in such close quarters, the migrant population laid all social distancing norms by the wayside. On March 31, the Supreme Court heard a Public Interest Litigation on the plight of migrant workers. The petition sought relief for tens of thousands of migrant workers and directions to the government to ensure basic amenities like food, water, shelter and medical help to these jobless and homeless migrant workers, fleeing the cities during the lockdown. Although the PIL also included housemaids in its petition, when issues concerning migrant labour is addressed, it’s usually the maids, cooks, drivers and other house help who fall through the cracks. As per the National Sample Survey (NSSO Statistics 2011-2012, 68th round) there were an estimated 3.9 million people employed as domestic workers by private households, of which 2.6 million are female domestic workers. Early last year, the Ministry of Labour & Employment was considering formulating a National Policy for Domestic Workers. This policy, still in its draft stage, was to guarantee them, among other things, minimum wages and social security. Unlike daily wage labourers, or contract labour, who move their entire families where their work takes them, maids and other house help have to lay roots in the cities they work in. They live with their families in clusters around housing societies where they are employed. In Bengaluru, on an average, maids work in three or four houses, dusting, sweeping, mopping, washing dishes and sometimes chopping vegetables or walking the dogs. In Mumbai, maids are known to work in eight to ten houses.  While most maids are usually women, the cooks are from both genders. Cooks often work in anywhere between five to ten houses. With the flourishing of the IT industry and start-ups in Bengaluru, cooks are in high demand with young working people. Maids make around ₹12,000 to ₹15,000 a month and cooks sometimes work in five to eight houses and make nearly ₹18,000 to ₹25,000 a month. Then, there are the drivers, gardeners, ironing families, security staff etc., who are part of the well-oiled machinery behind our comfortable middle-class lives. Many maids are the sole breadwinners for their families, raising their children alone and managing alcoholic husbands. They often have huge borrowings and local chit funds to service every month, for however hard they work, it’s never enough. For instance, in the tech city of Bengaluru, rents can range from ₹4,500 to ₹8,000 or more for a one-room tenement. Food and other essentials take up the rest of their monthly earnings. They are aspirational, as they should be, and have dreams for their children. So, they send their children to private English-medium schools. And these English-medium schools don’t come cheap -- fees, books, uniforms -- cost a lot of money. They usually borrow during the beginning of the school year to manage these expenses and end up in a vicious cycle of borrowing in the years after. For other exigencies like weddings and yearly festivals, there’s always the local, unorganised chit funds. It’s only in recent years that maids have opened bank accounts and have learnt to use e-wallets. Otherwise, most of them spend their cash before the month is out. Sadly, given the above scenario, health comes last in their list of priorities. They have no contingency funds for any medical emergencies, including Covid-19. As the lockdown creeps into early May, uncertainty faces the tens of thousands of housemaids and other house-staff employed in India’s middle-class homes. They not only stand to lose their livelihoods but are also at the risk of catching the coronavirus. They are vulnerable in more ways than one –- social distancing is a luxury in crowded one-tenement colonies. Add to that, little or no access to clean water, low hygiene and low immunity. Medical experts are already worried about the local spread of the virus, where millions of people live in dense urban neighbourhoods. When the lockdown began on March 25, many housing societies took the call to send house-keeping staff home. Most employers covered their maids’ pay for the month of March. But, with the lockdown continuing through April, will their employers, be able to continue to cover their pay, if they are unable to return to their jobs? For, their employers might soon be staring at lay-offs themselves. Economists have already said the world is going into a recession, and no one knows how the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to pan out in the next few months, or how long these conditions will last.        (The writer is a journalist, storyteller and author)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/coronavirus-have-you-thought-about-your-maid-s-plight-826888.html
18-04-2020||Kalaburagi||Two more persons test positive for COVID-19 in Kalaburagi||With this, the total number of positive patients including three deaths in the district shot up to 22.   A 34-year-old man of the city and the 16-year-old boy from Shahabad of the district tested positive for the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/two-more-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kalaburagi-826896.html
18-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Cash-strapped government to push for Akrama-Sakrama||Desperate to raise revenues, the BJP government has decided to push for the regularisation of more than 35 lakh unauthorised buildings in Karnataka, including those in Bengaluru, under the Akrama-Sakrama scheme. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Friday that the government will convince the Supreme Court, which has put the scheme on hold, of the need to implement it. Measures will be taken to ensure that only the poor and the middle-class benefit from the scheme and not real estate developers, the government said. Yediyurappa chaired a meeting to review the scheme, which is being seen as a move to generate revenue for the fiscally-stressed government.  The Akrama-Sakrama scheme to regularise property violations gained momentum in 2007. The previous Siddaramaiah-led Congress government was about to implement it when the Supreme Court stayed it in 2017.  The scheme proposed to regularise commercial establishments and residential buildings with violations up to 25% and 50% of building by-laws pertaining to setback and floor area, respectively. It was applicable to all layouts and buildings in Karnataka that came up before October 19, 2013. This was estimated to fetch Rs 10,000-15,000 crore.  The Namma Bengaluru Foundation was among the key petitioners who challenged the scheme. BJP Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar, who is the founder trustee and chairman of the Foundation, attended the meeting on Friday. According to Yediyurappa, there are 2.93 illegal constructions in Bengaluru and, as per an old survey, 35 lakh across the state. This number might have doubled, apparently. The law permits levying a penalty of 6% of the market value of buildings with violations up to 50% and up to 25% if the violation is more.  Guidelines for regularisation will be re-framed by the Urban Development Department in a week's time, the CM said. "The government has provided basic facilities to many unauthorised layouts and buildings, but they are not generating any revenue. Therefore, we will regularise the same," he said. Revenue Minister R Ashoka told reporters that an affidavit will be filed by the state government in the Supreme Court, which would draw the case towards closure. "Primarily, poor and middle-class families will be the beneficiaries of the regularisation scheme as most of the unauthorised buildings on revenue sites belong to them," Ashoka said. The revenue generated will help both the state government and local bodies. "Though many governments have tried to implement the scheme in the past, it has been unsuccessful," he pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cash-strapped-government-to-push-for-akrama-sakrama-826761.html
18-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Government asks universities to develop student apps for remote learning||State-run universities taking online classes to complete the syllabus during the lockdown have started developing their own student apps following a government directive.  The Higher Education Department has asked all the universities to follow in the footsteps of the Karnataka State Open University (KSOU), which recently unveiled a student app. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan discussed this matter with university vice-chancellors at a meeting recently.  An official in the department said universities would have to pay for the development of apps. “Once the apps are ready, university authorities must fix the technical issues and launch them for the students,” the official added.  Following the directive, state-run universities are now looking for technology experts to develop apps.  The government wants the apps to provide a virtual admission and learning interface to the students, from paying the fee to applying for exams, accessing reference materials and previous year’s question papers, etc. This is similar to what the KSOU has done.  Prof Lingraju Gandhi, Registrar, KSOU, said they had sought suggestions from students and other stakeholders before launching the app. A message was sent to all the students in this regard.  Bangalore University, Bengaluru North University and Visvesvaraya Technological University are already taking online classes on the Zoom app. BU Vice-Chancellor Prof K R Venugopal himself started taking online classes for the students of the University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering (UVCE).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/government-asks-universities-to-develop-student-apps-for-remote-learning-826763.html
18-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Lightning strike kills three women labourers in Kalasa||Three women labourers died when lightning struck them at Balehole Hithlumakki in Kalasa. The deceased are Jyothi (28), Madamma (62) and Mari (27). All three hail from  Pappireddipatti in Dharmapuri of Tamil Nadu. The mishap occurred when they were collecting firewood in an estate belonging to Gajendra Hebbar. They had come for work in the estate five months ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lightning-strike-kills-three-women-labourers-in-kalasa-827020.html
18-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ration card applicants to get three-month ration||Ration for three months would be distributed to those expecting priority and non-priority ration cards in the state, said Food, Civil Supplies & Consumer Affairs Department deputy director Nagaraj Kelaginamani. “The government is distributing 10 kg rice freely to priority cardholders and 10 kg rice at Rs 15 per kg to the non-priority cardholders due to lockdown. Pass, thumb impression or one-time password are collected before the distribution,” he said. “Those who have submitted applications seeking the ration cards may approach the outlets they have mentioned in the applications. They may submit Aadhaar cards of their family members to get the ration,” he said The department’s vigilance squad officials on Saturday raided outlets that had failed to distribute the allotted quantities of rice and wheat to beneficiaries. Licenses of the outlets have been cancelled. The raids followed complaints lodged by beneficiaries. Less quantities of wheat and rice were being distributed at VSSN outlet at Dommasandra village in Mulbagal taluk and at Mahila Vividoddesha Sahakara Sangha at Kallandur village in Kolar taluk. Licenses of these outlets have been scrapped, Kelaginamani said.  Checks were held at 18 places, while Rs 16,500 each has been imposed as penalty in six cases, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ration-card-applicants-to-get-three-month-ration-827057.html
18-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||20 elephants chased back to forest||The Forest Department officials have chased 20 elephants, which were camping in the coffee estates in and around Siddapura, back to forest. The elephants were camping at Nelyahudikeri, Athimangala and Valnooru-Thyagathooru area for the last few days. A team of forest officials chased the elephants back to the Dubare forest by bursting crackers. RFO Subraya said the elephants included five calves. The laying of a fence using railway track is in progress to check the entry of elephants to villages, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/20-elephants-chased-back-to-forest-827110.html
18-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||18 govt depts to resume work from April 20||All government offices will resume work from April 20, Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar has said in a circular. Bhaskar has mandated full working strength for 18 government departments that have been identified as essential. They are: Health and Family Welfare, Medical Education, Home, Revenue, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, Urban Development, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, Information and Public Relations, Transport, Energy, Personnel and Administrative Reforms (e-Governance), Finance (including treasuries), Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, Forest, Ecology and Environment, APMC markets, Agriculture, Labour and Horticulture. In all other departments, Group A and B employees must come to work whereas only 33% of Group C and D staff should show up. The circular will be valid from April 20 to May 3, Bhaskar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/18-govt-depts-to-resume-work-from-april-20-827124.html
18-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sudden surge in cases in Belagavi alarms Goa||The sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases in Belagavi district has triggered alarm in Goa, with the Opposition urging Chief Minister Pramod Sawant to evolve a new strategy to prevent any possible spread to Goa.  Wholesale markets in Belagavi district, which shares two road borders with Goa, are one of the major sources of vegetables, fruits and food grains for the consumers in the tiny state. “A total of 17 new positive cases in the last two days in Belagavi is a matter of great concern for Goa. Both boundaries has a distance of just 60 km. Our daily vegetable supplies come from Belagavi. Goa CM must work out a strategy to deal with new challenges,” Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar said on Friday.  Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that in view of the sudden surge of cases in Belagavi, screening at the state’s borders had been beefed up.  “We have at least ten policemen stationed on each road border, with a 12-hour shift, along with a state administrative services officer. A health department official is also in place to take a thermal scan of every goods truck driver who enters Goa, and sanitise them,” the Chief Minister told reporters on Friday. Labourers who accompany goods vehicles are not allowed into the state.  Sawant also said that the state government had also developed an app, which would help keep track of drivers of vehicles ferrying essential commodities and ensure that they exit the state from a pre-appointed road border and date.  According to unofficial estimates more than 5,000 commercial vehicles ferry vegetables, fruits, food grains and milk every day from Belagavi to Goa, which is deficit state as far as food and dairy production is concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sudden-surge-in-cases-in-belagavi-alarms-goa-827128.html
18-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Yediyurappa defends Gowda family conducting marriage amid coronavirus lockdown||Virtually defending the Gowda family for conducting a marriage reportedly defying lockdown restrictions, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday said it was performed in a simple manner and well within their limits, "for which they are to be congratulated." "All the necessary permissions were given and the marriage was performed in a simple manner. There is no need to discuss about it. They had done it well within their limits for which I congratulate them," Yediyurappa said to a query from reporters during the post-COVID-19 briefing. Scores of people had thronged a farmhouse on Friday to get a glimpse of the wedding of former Prime Minister and JD (S) supremo, H D Deve Gowda's grandson Nikhil Kumaraswamy, ignoring appeals not to visit the venue in view of the ongoing lockdown to check the COVID-19 outbreak. Nikhil, son of former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy, tied the nuptial knot with Revathi, the grand-niece of former Karnataka housing minister M Krishnappa. The marriage was solemnised at Kumaraswamy's Kethaganahalli farmhouse at Bidadi in the neighbouring Ramanagara district, a JD(S) stronghold. Kumaraswamy had taken to Twitter after the marriage, thanking his party MLAs, leaders and workers for staying away from the event and blessing his son from their houses. In a series of tweets, he had said social distancing was maintained and all precautionary measures were taken throughout the event. BJP had hit out at the JD(S) first family for flouting the norms, alleging that at least 150 to 200 vehicles were given permission to attend the event, that too at at time when social workers wanting to serve the badly affected poor people were not being allowed to ply any form of transport JD(S) leader N H Konareddi and MLC T A Sharavanna had denied the charges, saying the union government guidelines had been followed and that social distancing was maintained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yediyurappa-defends-gowda-family-conducting-marriage-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-826991.html
18-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) MLC Farookh cries foul over Ramzan prayer order||A recent government order prohibiting congregations, Ramzan prayers is discriminatory and needs to be withdrawn, JD(S) MLC B M Farookh has demanded. In a letter to the chief secretary, Farookh pointed out that the order contained certain conditions such as restriction of the use of public address system and delivering Azan in low decibels, which had nothing to do with the prevention of Covid-19 disease. “These days, Azan includes a call for the community to pray at home and does not offer namaz at mosque. The order also prohibits preparation and distribution of porridge, which has always been taken up in the interest of the poor. The High Court has noted that the relief distribution by NGOs or individuals should not be prevented and the state machinery has to coordinate the same by ensuring social distancing. The ban on distribution of porridge by mosques amounts to discrimination. The order needs to be withdrawn or revisited,” he wrote in his letter. Further, observing that a religious fair was conducted in Kalaburagi recently, in violation of the government’s social distancing norms, Farookh sought the government to ensure that social distancing norms are enforced with regard to festivals of all communities without discrimination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-mlc-farookh-cries-foul-over-ramzan-prayer-order-827111.html
18-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||CM B S Yediyurappa backs Gowda family on Nikhil’s wedding||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday backed the Gowda family over actor-politician Nikhil Kumaraswamy’s wedding, which drew flak for allegedly violating lockdown norms. Nikhil, the son of former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy and grandson of former prime minister H D Devegowda, entered into wedlock on Friday at a Bidadi farmhouse with Revathi, the grandniece of former Congress minister M Krishnappa. “They had all the permissions and the event was held in a simple fashion. There’s no need to discuss this,” Yediyurappa told reporters. “Despite having many relatives, they stuck to the limitations. For this, I congratulate them,” he said. Yediyurappa’s stand counters that of his deputy C N Ashwathnarayan, who criticized the JD(S) leaders for conducting the wedding despite the lockdown.  According to sources, some 42 passes were issued by the Ramanagara district administration for the families to travel from Bengaluru to Kethaganahalli, where the wedding took place. It was said that steps were taken to ensure social distancing in the positioning of seats and that hand sanitiser was sprayed at the entrance. But when photographs and video footage of the wedding surfaced online, eyebrows were raised as people sans masks were seen crowding in violation of lockdownnorms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-backs-gowda-family-on-nikhil-s-wedding-827112.html
18-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Barbers now face upheaval task to run families||Like many others, barbers in the district are facing distress due to lockdown and subsequent restrictions in the wake of Covid-19. The saloons have been shut down since March 22. The barber’s duty assumes significance as the barber will have to touch his customers while shaving, cutting and trimming of hair. The barber will have to come very close to his customer’s face while performing these tasks. Since, there will be very close contact, the permission has not been granted to the barbers to resume operations. As per the data, there are over 1000 saloons in the district which are sources of primary income for 2,500 families. As the saloons have been shut down for over three weeks, these families are now feeling the heat due to lack of income. Each barber would earn around Rs 500 per day and each of them has suffered losses of over Rs 4000 since March 22. About three workers are employed in each saloon in urban areas. These labourers would share half of their earning with their owners. Even these labourers have been worst-hit now. According to some labourers, owners and labourers are borrowing money from others to run their families. Some of them are engaged in the sales of fruits and vegetables to earn some money. In rural areas, wives of labourers are going to work so that they can support their husbands in managing the families. Though there are offers to barbers to visit houses, they are hesitating to take up the tasks considering the infection of novel coronavirus. Some of them visited the houses, but were caught by the police and received punishment too, they said. “There are 11 members in my family. It is now tough for me to manage the affairs. We would earn around Rs 600 daily. Situation has gone out of control after closure of the saloon. We have received grains from the government and we are managing the show using those grains,” Chandu, the owner of Metro Saloon on B B Road narrated his difficulty. Murali, a resident of Chelur, was employed at a saloon in Chikkaballapur.   “I haven’t earned a penny since March 22. I will have to be ready for the worse if the same situation continues,” he says. Nataraj, president, Savitha Samaja, Chikkaballapur taluk unit, said that members of the Samaj have been considered as workers in the unorganized sector. The workers aren’t getting any benefits. The government is paying Rs 2,000 to construction labourers. The same facility should be extended to the Samaj members. Situation will be worse if the government doesn’t help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/barbers-now-face-upheaval-task-to-run-families-826987.html
18-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Sudarshan asks CM B S Yediyurappa to frame action plan, task force||Former Chairman of the Legislative Council V R Sudarshan has requested Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to prepare an action plan and constitute a strong task force to control Covid-19 in the state. The government should frame rules to hold gram panchayat polls simultaneously with Zilla panchayat and taluk panchayat polls in 2021. Short-term and long-term schemes should be finalized to contain novel coronavirus, he said in a press release. Sudarshan said that people were facing economic distress due to lockdown. There was an improper distribution of ration in many parts of the state. The government should fix problems. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, despite old age, is discharging duties responsibly. There should not be political, religious and other consideration to ensure relief to people. The government should fulfill the demands of those staff that are deputed in the fight against Covid-19, he said. Due to the strong blow to the economy, there is a need to implement programmes wisely. The government should ensure proper price and market to farmers’ produces. Hopcoms and APMCs should function effectively, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/sudarshan-asks-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-frame-action-plan-task-force-827063.html
18-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||As summer intensifies, district faces drinking water crisis||As summer intensifies, the district is facing a drinking water crisis. Most borewells have dried up the worsening situation. Kolar had the highest number of tanks in the state in the past. However, the district has turned out be dry these days. The geographical area of the district is about 4,012 square kilometres, while the population is over 20 lakh. The district has six taluks and has no water bodies like river and rivulet. The district is dependent on wells and tanks for water. There are 2055 tanks in the district which are mostly dry now. There are 1798 villages in 156 gram panchayats. The primary occupation in the district is agriculture. Farmers are dependent on borewells for farming activities. The farming community has used excess groundwater for farming activities which have depleted groundwater table. Water at 1800 feet deep is not available at present. The government has prescribed 135 litres of water to every citizen daily. However, nobody is getting even half of what has been prescribed. The water crisis has also hit cattle and livestock. The water from borewells contain fluoride which is harmful to health. The government has commissioned purified drinking water units in villages having more than 500 population. Such units have been set up in urban areas too. Due to power disruption and lack of water, most of these units are defunct. The administration has failed to fix problems at these units. The government has identified 175 villages as problematic. These villages are receiving water through tankers and private borewells. An amount of Rs 550 is paid to per tanker load.  It is a common sight to see people in rural areas to walk miles to fetch drinking water. Tricycles, bicycles and two-wheelers are also used to collect the water. “The district is facing drinking water crisis due to summer. The situation will worsen if the district doesn’t receive sufficient rainfall. There is no shortage of funds to supply drinking water,” H V Darsha, Chief Executive Officer, Zilla Panchayat, said.  In numbers 4,012: Square kilometre geographical area 20 lakh: population 2055: Tanks 175: Villages facing drinking water crisis||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/as-summer-intensifies-district-faces-drinking-water-crisis-827067.html
18-04-2020||Main Article||Coronavirus outbreak: Let’s learn from Socrates||That made me reflect. Do I have the answer? Do I really know how the world would pan out 3-6 months hence?  After a couple of hours, I sent this reply: “I’ve honest misgivings about my ability to offer any insight. I mean, predicting anything on this epidemic about which so little is known, and based on that half-baked knowledge offering cure or counsel about aviation, I will be no better than quacks who are peddling cow urine as a cure for coronavirus. I will be like the modern-day godmen who hop around in helicopters, surrounded by lovely women sashaying in silk, and dispensing instant ‘nirvana’. One of them said drinking fiery hot rasam can kill the virus; another, that “You can test yourself if you have coronavirus by doing pranayam after yoga and holding your breath for 30 seconds. If you can’t, then you know you have the COVID-19.  “I’m sorry you may think I’ve digressed from ‘aviation’, but how can aviation be looked at independently? If millions of labourers and small farmers, the very backbone of the economy, are deprived of their livelihoods and income, then can the automobile or the airline industry on top of the pyramid survive when the base collapses? Don’t you think we should postpone this interview for a while till we can make some sense of all this? I hesitate to wear the mantle of an ‘oracle’.”  After thus declining the invitation long-windedly, my mind went back several years, to my childhood. There was a prolonged drought once and the village was under the grip of famine. Cattle were dying. Food became scarce. The poor begged for jobs. And one day, I saw a procession of villagers with sounds of drums and cymbals and pipes, and people dancing. As it came in front of my house, I saw my mother carry a copper pitcher of water to the centre of the dancing throng. There, in the middle, was a strange sight. Instead of a deity, there were a few frogs tied to a plank and were carried by two bare-bodied youth. And my mother poured the cold water on the frogs that were wriggling under the hot sun and performed ‘aarti’ on them. As she came back into the house, my father, an agnostic, muttered, ‘Fools!’ I watched in amazement and asked him what it meant. With a smile, he mocked, “Just like those poor villagers, your mother also believes in the age-old superstition that if rains fail, you offer pooja and bathe the toads, then the heavens will send showers.”  We were a joint family in my early years. One day, I overheard that my granduncle’s wife was his fourth wife. I was stunned. My father, trying to hide a smirk, said, “She is actually the third wife. The first two wives died in quick succession one after the other soon after he married them. Then the number three being an unlucky number, and to break the jinx of deaths, his third marriage was performed with a live banana tree and after the symbolic ceremony, the tree was killed by cutting it in two. After that, he married his present wife.” Then he chuckled mischievously, “But the banana sacrifice may not prevent him from being widowed again. He ill-treats her all the time. God only knows when she may take her own life.” Such were the superstitions of our ancestors, but when you see our modern-day gurus and political masters and their disciples preaching rubbish, you ask, will the new demon, the invisible virus, be killed by chants and cymbals or will the pathogen be stopped by virologists and vaccine-makers? Can the scourge be conquered by prophets or men of science? Will the ‘guru’ chant a ‘mantra’ when his tooth aches or go to the dentist? We all know the answer to that because truth will ultimately out. So, at the core, it is about stopping fooling oneself. Then, you will stop fooling the public.  Now, coming to our real crisis of life and death. There may be an answer, a glimmer of hope to conquer this crisis if we go back to what we learnt in our school days -- to the historical figure, Socrates, considered the wisest man who ever lived. He admitted unhesitatingly, explicitly that he did not know. And from that admission of ignorance, he gained indomitable courage and strength to question those who peddled falsehoods.  Physicist and Nobel laureate Richard Feynman said, “The scientist has a lot of experience with ignorance and doubt and uncertainty, and this experience is of very great importance…Our freedom to doubt was born out of a struggle against authority in the early days of science. It was a very deep and strong struggle: ‘permit us to question, to doubt, to not be sure…’ This is not a new idea; this is the idea of the age of reason. This is the philosophy that guided the men who made the democracy that we live under. The idea that no one really knew how to run a government led to the idea that we should arrange a system by which new ideas could be developed, tried out, and tossed out if necessary…doubt and discussion were essential to progress into the unknown. If we want to solve a problem that we have never solved before, we must leave the door to the unknown ajar…”  This crisis is so unprecedented that there are no lessons from history how to deal with this. It has to be fought through collaboration -- of minds and efforts -- and not by noble intentions or intuitions alone. So, if  our political leaders simply admit that they do not know, and with humility and without losing any more time bring together the best brains of India from across the world -- scientists, epidemiologists, doctors and economists and social scientists, et al -- to find the best way forward, an answer will emerge how best to fight this unknown terror and save both lives and livelihoods. As the Rigveda says, “Let noble thoughts come to us from every side.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/coronavirus-outbreak-let-s-learn-from-socrates-826825.html
18-04-2020||Mysuru||Three more persons in Mysuru test positive for COVID-19, one more in Mandya||In Mysuru, while the two fresh cases are linked to Jubilant Generic, one has been reported from Mosambayanahalli village of Mysore taluk.   According to Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, contacts of the patient from Mosambayanahalli is being traced. The family members are being tested as they are the primary contacts.  With the fresh cases, the total number of active cases in Mysuru has increased to 63. Of total 76 positive cases reported so far, 13 have been discharged from hospital. In Mandya, the fresh case is a primary contact of P134 and P138.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/three-more-persons-in-mysuru-test-positive-for-covid-19-one-more-in-mandya-826883.html
18-04-2020||Mysuru||Sringeri, Koppa, Tarikere get heavy rain||Heavy rain, accompanied by lightning and thunder, lashed various parts of Sringeri, Koppa and Tarikere taluks.  S K Border, Kerekatte, Gulugunjimane, Nemmar, Halandooru, Shidle, Sasimane, Kunchebailu, Gadikallu. The rain brought some respite from the scorching sun.  Tarikere and surrounding areas received hailstones too. The gusty wind uprooted trees and disrupted power supply as well. Jayapura, Kuduregundi, Gadikal, Banakal, Javali, Balooru and Phalguni areas near Kottigehara too received bountiful rain. Various parts of Kalasa taluk experienced rain on Saturday. Horanadu, Thotadooru, Munoorupal, Ganganakodige, Haluvalli, Kelagooru and Kalasa received rain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/sringeri-koppa-tarikere-get-heavy-rain-827104.html
18-04-2020||National||Action will be taken against hospitals if they turn away patients: Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan||Action would be taken against healthcare personnel if any patient needing immediate attention is turned away from hospitals without treatment, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday. He made the remarks while chairing a video conference meeting with the Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal, Health Minister Satyendar Jain and medical superintendents of major central and city government hospitals and municipal commissioners of Delhi. Vardhan said he has received a lot of complaints through calls, social media, twitter and the print media, regarding denial of treatment to patients suffering from critical ailments, other than COVID-19. He said these patients include those requiring dialysis, blood transfusion and those suffering from respiratory or heart diseases. “We need to take a serious view against this denial of treatment to patients who have been visiting hospitals in case of emergency and are being forced to visit a number of hospitals, one after another resulting in denial of immediate medical attention which may result in loss of their lives," the minister said. He instructed all the medical superintendents of hospitals to take proper care of non-COVID patients just like they are taking care of COVID-19 patients. It is a testing time for everybody during the lockdown. Patients who are really ill and require urgent medical attention are venturing out with great difficulty to reach the hospital for treatment in this situation, Vardhan said.  "We should not turn them away on any kind of flimsy pretexts as certain procedures like blood transfusion, dialysis etc can't wait," he said. "Action would be taken against erring health care personnel if any patient needing immediate attention is turned away from hospitals without treatment," he said.  He said the national capital presently has dedicated COVID-19 facilities in hospitals like  AIIMS and Safdarjung, and two dedicated COVID Delhi Government hospitals--LNJP and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality  Hospital. The rest of the hospitals are supposed to take care of non- COVID patients who have been visiting hospitals with a hope of getting due treatment, Vardhan said. The health ministry has also issued a detailed guideline on enabling delivery of essential healthcare services to meet the unprecedented demand on the current healthcare system during this outbreak. Such patients may also be provided services related to tele-consultation, digital prescription and home delivery of medicines, Vardhan said. He urged them to respond to these patients with compassion and care as they are already going through severe hardships during lockdown.  “We need pre-emptive, proactive, and effective measures to treat all the needy patients including those from vulnerable sections,” the Union minister said Vardhan exhorted hospitals to keep sufficient blood stock for transfusion by promoting voluntary blood donors and utilising various services like mobile blood collection vans with the help of Indian Red Cross Society.  In addition to this, he asked the Indian Red Cross Society to send such mobile blood collection vans to the premises of regular blood donors to facilitate them to come forward for blood donation which is a noble deed at this point of time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/action-will-be-taken-against-hospitals-if-they-turn-away-patients-union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-826775.html
18-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 18, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-18-2020-edition-826786.html
18-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 18||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 15,543 as of April 18.  States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 499   Andhra Pradesh: 14 Assam: 1 Bihar: 2 Delhi: 43 Gujarat: 53 Haryana: 3 Himachal Pradesh: 2 Jammu and Kashmir: 5 Jharkhand: 2 Karnataka: 14 Kerala: 3 Madhya Pradesh: 69 Maharashtra: 201 Meghalaya: 1 Odisha: 1 Punjab: 13 Rajasthan: 13 Tamil Nadu: 15 Telangana: 18 Uttar Pradesh: 14 West Bengal: 12 Coronavirus in India: States/UTs with confirmed positive cases (Details are updated as we receive information) Maharashtra: 3,648 Delhi: 1,893 Tamil Nadu: 1,323 Rajasthan: 1,351 Madhya Pradesh: 1,360 Gujarat: 1,376 Uttar Pradesh: 974 Telangana: 766 Andhra Pradesh: 603 Kerala: 395 Karnataka: 384 Jammu and Kashmir: 341 West Bengal: 287 Haryana: 227 Punjab: 202 Bihar: 85 Odisha: 61 Uttarakhand: 42 Himachal Pradesh: 38 Chhattisgarh: 36 Assam: 35 Jharkhand: 33 Chandigarh: 21 Ladakh: 18 Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 12 Puducherry: 7 Goa: 7 Meghalaya: 11 Manipur: 2 Tripura: 2 Mizoram: 1 Arunachal Pradesh: 1 Nagaland: 1 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 1515 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-18-826787.html
18-04-2020||National||Action will be taken against hospitals if they turn away patients: Harsh Vardhan||Action would be taken against healthcare personnel if any patient needing immediate attention is turned away from hospitals without treatment, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan has warned. Chairing a video conference with Delhi LG Anil Baijal, Health Minister Satyendar Jain and medical superintendents of major central and city government hospitals and municipal commissioners of Delhi, Vardhan said he has received complaints about denial of treatment to people suffering from critical ailments, other than COVID-19. “We need to take a serious view against this denial of treatment to patients who have been visiting hospitals in case of emergency and are being forced to visit a number of hospitals, one after another resulting in denial of immediate medical attention which may result in loss of their lives," the minister said on Friday.  He instructed all the medical superintendents to take proper care of non-COVID patients. "It is a testing time for everybody. Patients who are really ill and require urgent medical attention are venturing out with great difficulty to reach the hospital," Vardhan said. "We should not turn them away on any kind of flimsy pretext as certain procedures like blood transfusion, dialysis etc can't wait." He said action would be taken against healthcare personnel if a patient needing immediate attention is turned away from hospitals without treatment. He said the national capital has dedicated COVID-19 facilities and the rest should take care of non-COVID patients.  Patients may also be provided services through tele-consultation and digital prescription, Vardhan said. “We need preemptive, proactive, and effective measures to treat all patients including those from vulnerable sections,” the Union minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/action-will-be-taken-against-hospitals-if-they-turn-away-patients-harsh-vardhan-826817.html
18-04-2020||National||MP: 50 more COVID-19 patients in Indore; state tally now 1,360||So far, 69 persons have died due to the infection in the state, the officials said on Saturday. With this, the number of coronavirus positive cases in Indore has gone up to 892. Of the 69 COVID-19 deaths in the state so far, as many as 47 people have died in this city alone, they said.    According to the officials, six persons each have died in Bhopal and Ujjain, five in Dewas, four in Khargone and one in Chhindwara. The deadly virus has now expanded its footprint to 25 out of 52 districts of the state, they added.    Till now, 99 patients in the state have recovered and returned home, the officials said. As many as 408 containment zones have been created across the affected cities in the state to curb the spread of the virus. The state had registered 470 coronavirus positive cases and 37 deaths on April 10. The number of COVID-19 patients on April 16 was 1,299 with 63 deaths, the health bulletin has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-50-more-covid-19-patients-in-indore-state-tally-now-1360-826829.html
18-04-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: COVID-19 cases and deaths counting conundrum||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast gives you a bird’s-eye view of the COVID-19 situation. In today’s episode, we look into the anomalies that creep in due to geography and other factors when tallying the deaths due to the virus. A voice representing Ayurveda and its view on the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-covid-19-cases-and-deaths-counting-conundrum-826830.html
18-04-2020||National||Death toll due to COVID-19 rises to 480; cases climb to||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 480 and the number of cases to 14,378 in the country on Saturday, according to the Union Health Ministry. While the number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 11,906, as many as 1,991 people have been cured and discharged, and one had migrated, it said. The total number of cases includes 76 foreign nationals. Twenty-eight deaths have been reported since Friday evening -- 12 from Madhya Pradesh, seven from Maharashtra, four from Delhi, three from Gujarat, one each from Jammu and Kashmir and Bihar. Of the total 480 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 201 fatalities, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 69, Delhi at 42, Gujarat at 41 and Telengana at 18. Tamil Nadu has reported 15 deaths while Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have reported 14 fatalities each. Punjab and Karnataka have reported 13 deaths each. Rajasthan has registered 11 deaths while West Bengal has reported 10 deaths fatalities. Five persons have lost their lives in Jammu and Kashmir while Kerala and Haryana have recorded three deaths each. Jharkhand and Bihar have reported two deaths each. Meghalaya, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Assam reported one fatality each, according to the health ministry's data updated in the morning. The highest number of confirmed cases in the country is from Maharashtra at 3,323, followed by Delhi at 1,707, Tamil Nadu at 1,323 and Madhya Pradesh at 1,310. COVID-19 cases have gone up to 1,229 in Rajasthan, 1,099 in Gujarat and 849 in Uttar Pradesh. Telengana has 766 cases, followed by Andhra Pradesh at 572 and Kerala at 396. The number of novel coronavirus cases has risen to 359 in Karanataka, 328 in Jammu and Kashmir, 287 in West Bengal, 225 in Haryana and 202 in Punjab. Bihar has reported 83 cases and Odisha 60. Forty people were infected with the virus in Uttarakhand, while Chhattisgarh and Himachal Pradesh have 36 cases each. Assam has registered 35 cases so far. Jharkhand has 33 cases, Chandigarh 21 and Ladakh 18. Twelve cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Meghalaya has reported nine cases while Goa and Puducherry have reported seven COVID-19 infections each. Manipur and Tripura have two cases each, while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported a case each. "State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation," the ministry said on its website. The website also mentions that a COVID-19 patient from Nagaland has been shifted to Assam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-due-to-covid-19-rises-to-480-cases-climb-to-826831.html
18-04-2020||National||Need to mobilise scientists, engineers to work on innovative solutions to COVID-19 crisis: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday described the COVID-19 pandemic as a "huge challange" and an "opportunity", saying there is a need to mobilise the country's scientists, engineers and data experts to work on innovative solutions to the crisis. "The Covid19 pandemic is a huge challenge but it is also an opportunity," he said in a tweet.  "We need to mobilise our huge pool of scientists, engineers & data experts to work on innovative solutions needed during the crisis," the former Congress president said. On Thursday, Gandhi had called for a united fight against the pandemic and said a lockdown is not the solution to defeat coronavirus. He had asserted that aggressive testing is the "biggest weapon" to fight the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-mobilise-scientists-engineers-to-work-on-innovative-solutions-to-covid-19-crisis-rahul-826846.html
18-04-2020||National||Bihar environment dept launches online quiz contest to keep people at home during coronavirus lockdown||In an effort to keep people at home during the ongoing lockdown, the environment department of Bihar has introduced an online quiz competition, an official said on Saturday. The department has also decided to give prizes and certificates, as a token of appreciation, to the winners of the competition to encourage people to participate in the programme, he said. The quiz contest aims at engaging people during the lockdown and giving them an opportunity to know about nature and wildlife of Bihar, the environment, forest and climate change department's principal secretary Dipak Kumar Singh said.    "Initially, we have launched the programme to entertain people and build awareness about environment. Now, we have converted it to a competition," Singh said. One has to visit the Facebook page and Twitter account of the department to take part in the quiz competition, he said, adding that there will be multiple-choice questions and participants have to select one among four options given for each question.    The competition will be arranged every day during the ongoing lockdown, he said. "During the first phase of the lockdown, we had conducted a special campaign on What Mother Nature Teaches Us' in a series of 21 unique informative posts on social media. Now we are conducting the quiz. "We have a treasure of information related to the environment, forest and climate of Bihar, which common people may not know and this would be interesting for them," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-environment-dept-launches-online-quiz-contest-to-keep-people-at-home-during-coronavirus-lockdown-826870.html
18-04-2020||National||Humanity will overcome coronavirus pandemic, says PM Narendra Modi as he hails ministries for helping people in lockdown||Humanity will surely overcome the coronavirus pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday as he hailed the efforts put in by various ministries to help people during the lockdown, and in the fight against COVID-19. "The world is fighting COVID-19 together. Humanity will surely overcome this pandemic," Modi wrote on Twitter while retweeting a tweet by the Indian Embassy in Switzerland. "Indian Tricolor of more than 1000 meters in size projected on Matterhorn Mountain, Zermatt, Switzerland to express Solidarity to all Indians in the fight against COVID 19. A big Thank You to @zermatt_tourism for the gesture," the tweet said. The prime minister also responded to tweets by various ministries and his cabinet colleagues on how efforts were being made to help people amid the lockdown.  "Proud of the Indian Railways team. They've been continuously helping our citizens in this crucial hour," Modi said in response to a tweet by Railway Minister Piyush Goyal. Goyal said that while passenger trains stopped during the lockdown, the Railways did not. "With relentless dedication, hard work and meticulous planning, Railways keeps the nation running smoothly," he tweeted. Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan tweeted that he has thanked LOG cylinder delivery personnel for carrying out their responsibility in fulfilling people's needs during the lockdown. Modi responded by saying, "Kudos to all those working round the clock, across the nation, to ensure India's energy needs are met." The Income Tax department said as a relief to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), income tax refunds worth Rs 5,204 crore have been issued by the CBDT in the last 10 days to nearly 8.2 lakh small businesses in view of the COVID-19 situation. Modi tweeted that the department was committed to helping dynamic small and medium businesses. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri posted on Twitter that coronavirus warriors of the civil aviation sector have now flown 262 flights across 2,64,181 kms with 454 tonnes of medical and essential cargo under Lifeline Udan since 26 March. Reacting to the tweet, the prime minister said, "Ensuring all possible assistance to those who need it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/humanity-will-overcome-coronavirus-pandemic-says-pm-narendra-modi-as-he-hails-ministries-for-helping-people-in-lockdown-826877.html
18-04-2020||National||NHAI to resume toll collection on national highways from April 20||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will resume toll collection on national highways from April 20, as per a government communication, a move which is being opposed by the transport fraternity. The government had on March 25 announced temporarily suspending toll collection on national highways to ease emergency services in view of the coronavirus outbreak. "In view of the relaxations provided by the Ministry of Home Affairs for the inter state and intra state movement of all trucks and other goods / carrier vehicles ...NHAI should take actions necessary for compliance of the orders of Ministry of Home Affairs ... and tolling operations be resumed w.e.f. 20th of April 2020," the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said in a letter to NHAI. Replying to communication from NHAI, the ministry said the authority in letters dated April 11 and April 14 had highlighted reasons for resuming the collection of user fee on national highways, saying that the Ministry of Home Affairs has allowed a lot of activities with effect from April 20, including commercial and private establishments and construction work. "It has been further highlighted that user fee collection contributes to the government exchequer and also provides financial strength to NHAI in terms of budgetary support," the letter mentioned. However, transporters' apex body All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) has opposed the move. "This is appallingly preposterous. On one hand the Government want the continuity of essential supplies and which our fraternity is doing against all odds and at even loss, in service of the nation," it said. AIMTC represents about 95 lakh truckers and transport entities. Its President Kultaran Singh Atwal said: "The entire transport fratenity is financially broke and does not have finance for operations and bringing back drivers either, which is another big challenge. Yet the government instead of extending this sector a helping hand by giving a bare minimum rescue package, submitted by AIMTC, it is burdening it with toll charges that account for 20 per cent of the operating costs." Indian Foundation of Transport Research and Training (IFTRT) Coordinator SP Singh in the past 21 days the benefit of toll fee not being levied was hardly being passed on in form of any reduction in truck rentals across the country. "In view of COVID-19, it has been ordered to temporarily suspend the collection of toll at all toll plazas across India," Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari has announced on March 25. This will not only reduce inconvenience to emergency services but also save critical time, he has said. The minister has said maintenance of roads and availability of emergency resources at toll plazas will continue as usual. Earlier, the road transport and highways ministry had advised the NHAI to follow the home ministry's guidelines about toll plaza operations following the lockdown. The prevailing condition may be treated as "Force Majeure" of concession or contract agreement in terms of the finance ministry, it had said. The NHAI had rolled out the electronic toll collection programme across India in December on its over 500 toll plazas while doubling toll charges from the vehicles entering FASTag lanes without the tag.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhai-to-resume-toll-collection-on-national-highways-from-april-20-826880.html
18-04-2020||National||Elgar case: Anand Teltumbde's NIA custody extended till April 25||A special court here on Saturday extended till April 25 the National Investigation Agency (NIA) custody of Dalit scholar and activist Anand Teltumbde, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-alleged Maoist links case. Teltumbde was arrested by the NIA on April 14 after he surrendered before it following the Supreme Court's directives. Teltumbde, the grandson-in-law of Dalit icon Dr B R Ambedkar, was produced before a special NIA court judge A T Wankehede after his remand ended on Saturday. Special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty submitted that his custody for seven more days was needed as the agency was yet to complete its probe. The court allowed its plea. The agency told thecourt that it wanted to verify with the accused the contents of his social media account. Voluminous documents have been recovered from the co- accused in the case, which need to be verified with him, it said. The agency said that the accused had received funds from the CPI (Maoist) and there was a "deep-rooted conspiracy" between him and unidentified persons associated with the banned terrorist organisation, which needed to be probe. Besides Teltumbde, civil rights activist Gautam Navlakha, a co-accused in the case, had alsosurrendered before the NIA in Delhi on April 14. His anticipatory bail plea was also rejected by the apex court. He is currently in the custody of the investigating agency in the national capital. Teltumbde, Navlakha and nine other civil rights activists have been booked under the stringent provisions of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for having alleged Maoist links and conspiring to overthrow the government. The activists were booked initially by Pune Police following violence that erupted at Koregaon Bhima in the district. According to police, the activists made inflammatory speeches and provocative statements at the Elgar Parishad meet held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which triggered the violence the next day. The police also said that these activists were active members of banned Maoist groups. The case was later transferred to NIA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elgar-case-anand-teltumbdes-nia-custody-extended-till-april-25-826898.html
18-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Women lead lockdown vigil in UP's Bahraich||They have made rosters to deploy the "manpower" in Akbarpura to ensure social distancing is practised strictly. There are four entry points to the area but three of them have been closed. The fourth has been barricaded and entry is restricted. "We are trying to set an example by successfully enforcing lockdown in our locality. The temples and mosques in our locality are closed, people are offering prayers from their homes," former corporator Faibina Afsar said. In times like these, the coming together of women is a great symbol of unity against a deadly virus.      Alia Zehra, Sushila Devi, Sarojini, Laado, Khusboo, Simran, Rabia, Shahjahan, Razia and Mumtaz have been put on barrier duty, ensuring no outsider enters the area. A strict vigil has to be maintained and everyone must practise social distancing, they said. "Residents are strictly following social distancing. Police officials' visit give us of a feeling of security but they do not have to work hard to enforce social distancing here," said Dr Ghazala, a resident and spokesperson of Kisan Post Graduate College, Bahraich.  Corporator Afsar Ali said the women work in two-hour shifts during the day and the men takeover at night. At scheduled time, vendors selling essential items such as vegetables, fruits, medicines, groceries are allowed entry into the area. Earlier this week, two people linked to the Tablighi Jamaat allegedly tried to escape from a quarantine centre in the district, but they were caught and put back into the centre with a warning to not repeat their act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-women-lead-lockdown-vigil-in-ups-bahraich-826907.html
18-04-2020||National||Ample measures in place to safeguard domestic violence victims during coronavirus lockdown: AAP govt to HC||The AAP government and the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) have told the Delhi High Court that there are sufficient measures in place to safeguard victims of domestic violence and child abuse amid the lockdown in the country. The submission was made before a bench of justices J R Midha and Jyoti Singh which was hearing via video conferencing an NGO's plea claiming that there was an increasing in number of domestic violence incidents since the nation was put under lockdown and sought an urgent intervention by the court.    The Women and Child Development Department, represented by Delhi government's additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose and advocate Urvi Mohan, told the court that sufficient facilities were available to house victims of domestic violence and children in need of care and protection. The department also said there are 24x7 helplines in place and when a complaint is received, rescue of the victim(s) is carried out immediately.  The DCW, represented by advocate Rajshekhar Rao, told the court that the volume of calls on its helpline - 181 - has gone down after April 1. However, there was a spike in call volume between March 26 and March 31, but it was largely for seeking clarity in relation to the imposition of the lockdown. Normally, on an average, the DCW receives around 1500-1800 calls, it told the court. The submissions were made on notes placed before the bench by the department and the DCW on Friday. The court, thereafter, listed the matter for further hearing on Saturday afternoon. The DCW, in its note, has also said that analysis of the calls received on its helpline during the lockdown indicated no rising trend in domestic violence cases. "On the contrary, the number of cases reported to the helpline has decreased. While no definite conclusion can be drawn, this is probably due to the circumspection on the part of victims in reporting such incidents due to the presence of the perpetrators in the house and the fear of further violence if such attempts to report were made known to the perpetrator," the commission said. It has also said in its note that the cases of molestation, sexual assault and stalking, etc. have “decreased manifold presumably since a large number of these incidents take place outside the domestic setting and by third parties". "The reported cases of rapes have also decreased by 71 per cent (approx.) again presumably due to the perpetrators being third parties and the location of the attacks being outside the household. Kidnapping cases reported to the helpline has also seen a fall of more than 90 per cent," the commission said in its note. The NGO, in its plea, has contended that incidents of domestic violence and child abuse have gripped not only India, but countries such as Australia, the UK and the US, and the reports suggest that countries are witnessing a horrific surge in domestic violence cases since the COVID-19 outbreak and lockdowns. The plea has claimed that the helpline numbers across the country have received about 92,000 calls based on domestic abuse and violence in the first 11 days of the lockdown alone, and sought to appoint nodal officers to attend such distress calls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ample-measures-in-place-to-safeguard-domestic-violence-victims-during-coronavirus-lockdown-aap-govt-to-hc-826908.html
18-04-2020||National||Jammu-Srinagar highway remains closed for second day due to landslides||The 270-km Jammu-Srinagar national highway remained closed for the second consecutive day on Saturday as inclement weather triggered more landslides at several places in Ramban district, traffic officials said. The traffic on the highway, the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with the rest of the country, was suspended on Friday, leaving hundreds of trucks carrying essential commodities to the valley stranded. "Several fresh landslides occurred between Panthiyal and Ramsu...due to continuous rainfall which is hampering the road clearance operation,” an official of the traffic department said. He said shooting of stones from hillocks overlooking the highway near Planthiyal was also going on. "The clearance operation was started at Cafeteria Morh near Ramban, while men and machines are ready to move to other affected areas once the weather permits,” the official said. The highway is presently open to essential services only in view of the nationwide lockdown to combat the coronavirus. While the high altitude areas of Jammu and Kashmir experienced fresh snowfall, the plains including the lower hills witnessed intermittent rains since early Friday. The weatherman has predicted intermittent light to moderate rain at fairly widespread places with thunderstorm and strong gusty winds at a speed of 30 to 40 kms per hour at scattered places across Jammu and Kashmir till April 19. “Overall, weather is likely to remain erratic during next one week,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-srinagar-highway-remains-closed-for-second-day-due-to-landslides-826912.html
18-04-2020||National||AIIMS to provide tele-consultancy to registered patients from April 20||The patients can register online and seek medical advice over the phone from April 20. An official statement said AIIMS is at the forefront of the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic but it is also conscious about the medical attention needed by non-COVID patients. AIIMS is providing tele-consultations to non-COVID patients who had previously taken appointments, ensuring social distancing is maintained and lockdown orders are not violated. "All patients who were undergoing treatment in AIIMS New Delhi and had been advised a follow-up, can now register online for obtaining a follow-up appointment. On the given date, doctors of concerned department/speciality will call up these patients and give them the requisite medical advice. The follow-up patients of AIIMS, New Delhi, can visit this link https://ors.gov.in/followup/ and obtain appointments," the statement said. For the first time in its history, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences here decided to indefinitely shut down OPD services, including speciality and all new and follow-up registration. The order had come into effect from March 24. AIIMS had issued a circular postponing all non-essential elective procedures and surgeries and directed for only emergency life-saving surgeries with effect from March 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-to-provide-tele-consultancy-to-registered-patients-from-april-20-826914.html
18-04-2020||National||Punjab records another COVID-19 death, 23 new cases; Tally at 234||A police officer died of COVID-19 infection in Punjab's Ludhiana on Saturday, taking the number of fatalities to 16 as 23 new cases surfaced in the state, officials here said. The state's coronavirus count now stands at 234, of which 187 are active cases, according to a medical bulletin. Assistant Commissioner of Police Anil Kohli (52) died while undergoing treatment for the disease at the SPS hospital in the afternoon, Ludhiana Civil Surgeon Rajesh Bagga said. It is the second death in the state within a period of 24 hours. A 58-year-old revenue official died of the infection on Friday. ACP Kohli had tested positive for coronavirus on April 12. On Friday, the state government had decided to treat him with plasma therapy. Among the fresh cases, 15 were reported in Patiala, six in Jalandhar and one each in Mohali and Ludhiana, as per the bulletin. Mohali topped the COVID-19 tally in the state, with 57 cases so far. Jalandhar has reported 41 cases, followed by 26 in Patiala, 24 in Pathankot, 19 in Nawanshahr, 16 in Ludhiana, 11 each in Mansa and Amritsar, seven in Hoshiarpur, four in Moga, three each in Rupnagar, Sangrur and Faridkot, two each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Kapurthala, and Barnala, and one each in Muktsar, Gurdsapur and Ferozepur, the bulletin said. One patient is in critical condition and on ventilator support, the bulletin stated. Thirty-one patients have been discharged from hospitals so far. A total of 6,167 samples have been taken for testing in the state. Reports of 579 samples are still awaited, the bulletin stated. Meanwhile, two people tested positive for COVID-19 in Chandigarh, taking the total count to 23 in the Union territory. A total of 394 samples have been taken so far. Reports of 22 are awaited. Eleven patients have been discharged after being cured, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-records-another-covid-19-death-23-new-cases-tally-at-234-826918.html
18-04-2020||National||Migrant labourers facing discrimination: Sharad Yadav||Opposition leader Sharad Yadav on Saturday alleged that migrant labourers were facing discrimination as they were not allowed to travel to their native places while the Uttar Pradesh government was allowed to bring back state students studying in Kota in Rajasthan. "As a matter of fact, there should have been the same treatment for the students and the labourers," the Loktantrik Janata Dal leader said in a statement, adding that the central government should take the responsibility for everyone stuck in different parts of the country.  Even weddings are taking place at some places, he noted and highlighted the plight of migrant labourers who have been stopped in states like Maharashtra and Delhi from trying to reach their native places.  "This is height of discrimination which is intolerable... The most perturbing part is that the central government has brought back people from abroad in flights because they belong to well-off families.  Some states are bringing their students and others in luxury buses, and there are labourers who have been forced to proceed to their states on foot while facing police action like baton charge in many places," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-labourers-facing-discrimination-sharad-yadav-826919.html
18-04-2020||National||Undesirable conduct of individuals shouldn't dampen cooperation: Kiren Rijiju||Undesirable conduct of individuals should not come in the way of institutional cooperation, said Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Saturday, trying to defuse the tension after the IOA complained of ministry interference in national federations and drew sharp criticism from the sports secretary. Rijiju said Indian Olympic Association (IOA) President Narinder Batra had brought to his notice, recent reports of concerns raised by some National Sports Federations (NSFs) that the Ministry and the Sports Authority of India were trying to seize control of their functioning. "Regular consultation and discussion among the stakeholders at various levels must be smooth but undesirable conduct by individuals at any circumstances should not dampen our cooperation and spirit...," the Minister stated. Sports Secretary Radheshyam Julaniya had responded quite sharply to the NSFs' allegations by stating that they should give up facilities provided by the government before complaining about interference. "...any remark made by individuals at certain situation should not be treated as a matter of policy. We are determined to work together to realise the dream of making India a sports superpower," said Rijiju. Batra had alleged that Sports Authority of India's TOPS (Target Olympic Podium Scheme) CEO Rajesh Rajagopalan was interfering in the functioning of federations. The Minister, however, said the government has no such intention. "...the autonomous functioning of the National Sports Federations must be maintained at any cost. Adherence to National Sports Code and Good Governance in NSFs are cornerstones of transparency and fairness in all its conducts," he said. "Govt is committed to provide the necessary support to NSFs for the promotion of sports and to ensure the well-being of our athletes is not compromised," the minister added. Rijiju said the common goal of the Sports Ministry, IOA and the NSFs should be to work towards improving the overall sports ecosystem of the country with a focus on identifying and nurturing talent. "Providing the best facilities to our athletes in terms of training, diet and top-level competition exposure and to ensure that India finishes in the Top 10 in 2028 Olympics, an ambitious target declared by me as Sports Minister of the country," he said. The minister stressed the need for all stakeholders to work unitedly to achieve the common goal. "To achieve these goals, the way forward is to have proper coordination between Sports Ministry, SAI, IOA and NSFs. "Government is committed to work closely with all NSFs and IOA to ensure that there is no gap in the communication between stakeholders," Rijiju said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/undesirable-conduct-of-individuals-shouldnt-dampen-cooperation-kiren-rijiju-826920.html
18-04-2020||National||Left outfits accuse PM of giving 'hollow speeches'; call for nationwide protest on April 21||Farmers, workers, women and youth organisations linked to CPI(M) have given a call for a nationwide protest on April 21 charging the Narendra Modi government of being "totally apathetic and insensitive to the miseries" of the workers and farmers. Raising the slogan "Bhashan Nahi, Ration/Vetan Chahiye" (Enough of the hollow speeches! Give us food, jobs, wages and safety), the organisations have asked people to protest in front of their houses showing placards and raising slogans for five to ten minutes by observing physical distancing and following guidelines issued by the World Health Organisation (WHO). The call has been given by the centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), All India Agricultural Workers Union (AIAWU), All India Democratic Women's Association (AIDWA) and Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI). The demands include stopping retrenchment of all workers, ensure wages, transfer of not less than Rs 7,500 to non-income tax-paying families for three months, expanding MNREGA and paying pending wages, providing financial support to micro, small and medium enterprises and interest-free bank loans to Self Helf Groups.  "The BJP government has been totally apathetic and insensitive to the miseries of the workers, particularly the unorganised sector workers, migrant workers, contract workers etc...Instead of providing adequate financial resources, the Prime Minister is limiting himself to only words and 'pravachans' (prophecy). None of the issues of the migrant workers are addressed, letting them die out of hunger," CITU said in a statement. "The peasantry, agricultural workers and even MSMEs are being neglected. The poultry sector faced complete collapse since the price has been crashed from Rs 85 to Rs 27 per kilo live weight. The dairy farmers are unable to sell milk even at half of the price. The impact on vegetables, fish and all other perishable products is extremely severe. In other crops,  farmers have lost their income heavily due to lack of workers to harvest the crop and total disruption of transportation and close down of shops and restaurants," AIKS said. The organisations accused Modi of being silent on how his government will ensure food, shelter and income support to people to sustain life. "The government which has given out around Rs 15.62 lakh crore to the corporates is not ready to even give Rs 7,500 per non-income tax-paying families," the CITU said. "The danger of hunger and impoverishment is looming large in front of crores of people, especially the daily wagers including the vast majority of the migrant workers, rural and urban poor and the poor peasantry," the AIKS said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/left-outfits-accuse-pm-of-giving-hollow-speeches-call-for-nationwide-protest-on-april-21-826926.html
18-04-2020||National||BCCI pitches in to encourage face mask use amid coronavirus pandemic with 'Team Mask Force'||The 'Team Mask Force' has been created to spread awareness about wearing masks in public places. "TeamIndia is now #TeamMaskForce! Join #IndiaFightsCorona and download @mygovindia's @SetuAarogya mobile application Mobile phone," the BCCI tweeted.     "Being a part of India team is a matter of great pride. But today we are going to create a bigger team, Team Mask Force," Indian captain Kohli said in the video. Doing his bit, Tendulkar said, "Come on India, make masks and become part of mask force. And remember to wash hands for 20 seconds and maintain social distancing." The video has messages from BCCI President Sourav Ganguly, Smriti Mandhana, Rohit Sharma, Harbhajan Singh, Harmanpreet Kaur, Virender Sehwag, Rahul Dravid and Mithali Raj, all of them speaking about the importance of wearing masks and following the directives of the government in this fight. "Becoming a part of Mask Force is very easy, just sit at home and make masks, like I made one for myself," Rohit said. Earlier, the BCCI contributed Rs 51 crore to the Prime Ministers' Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund. The pandemic, which originated in the Chinese city of Wuhan in Hubei province, has so far claimed 496 lives and infected over 14500 people across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bcci-pitches-in-to-encourage-face-mask-use-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-with-team-mask-force-826927.html
18-04-2020||National||Group of Ministers reviews ways to mitigate hardships of poor people amid coronavirus||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday chaired a meeting of a Group of Ministers (GoM) with a focus on finding ways to mitigate the hardships being faced by people across the country. Government sources said the GoM on coronavirus crisis also reviewed various measures being initiated by concerned ministries to allow partial economic activity in "non-hotspot zones" from April 20. It was the fifth meeting of the GoM headed by the defence minister. "Interacted with the GoM on the COVID-19 situation. We discussed ways to mitigate the hardships faced by the people and the role ministries can play in providing relief to people," Singh tweeted. The lockdown had shone the spotlight on the miseries of lakhs of migrant workers whose journeys on foot from several urban centres to their villages hundreds of kilometres away had grabbed headlines for many days last month.  Several opposition parties have demanded the government to announce specific welfare measures to help poor people as the lockdown has triggered job losses due to economic disruptions. He said the guidelines to allow limited activities and the measures as announced by the Reserve Bank of India were also appreciated. "The GoM obtained feedback from various ministers on the overall situation. It appreciated the decision of gradual opening up of economic activity in areas which have not reported any coronavirus cases," said a source. Sources said the GoM also appreciated disbursement of Rs 31,000 crore to more than 33.25 crore beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to help the economically weaker sections of population. The meeting was attended by Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, Railways Minister Piyush Goyal, Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar. HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Zubin Irani, Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Civil Aviation Minsister Hardeep Singh Puri were also among those who attended the meeting. India went under a total shutdown of 21 days from March 25 to April 14 to fight the coronavirus pandemic. On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced extending the lockdown till May 3, adding the drastic measures would be relaxed in some areas from April 20. On Wednesday, the Home Ministry issued detailed guidelines allowing certain sectors to resume their economic activities from April 20. According to the Union Health Ministry, India has recorded a total of 14,378 coronavirus cases and 480 people lost their lives in the infection.  Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday chaired a meeting of a Group of Ministers (GoM) with a focus on finding ways to mitigate the hardships being faced by people across the country. Government sources said the GoM on coronavirus crisis also reviewed various measures being initiated by concerned ministries to allow partial economic activity in "non-hotspot zones" from April 20. It was the fifth meeting of the GoM headed by the defence minister. "Interacted with the GoM on the COVID-19 situation. We discussed ways to mitigate the hardships faced by the people and the role ministries can play in providing relief to people," Singh tweeted. The lockdown had shone the spotlight on the miseries of lakhs of migrant workers whose journeys on foot from several urban centres to their villages hundreds of kilometres away had grabbed headlines for many days last month. Several opposition parties have demanded the government to announce specific welfare measures to help poor people as the lockdown has triggered job losses due to economic disruptions. He said the guidelines to allow limited activities and the measures as announced by the Reserve Bank of India were also appreciated. "The GoM obtained feedback from various ministers on the overall situation. It appreciated the decision of gradual opening up of economic activity in areas which have not reported any coronavirus cases," said a source. Sources said the GoM also appreciated disbursement of Rs 31,000 crore to more than 33.25 crore beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to help the economically weaker sections of population. The meeting was attended by Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, Railways Minister Piyush Goyal, Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar. HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Zubin Irani, Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Civil Aviation Minsister Hardeep Singh Puri were also among those who attended the meeting. India went under a total shutdown of 21 days from March 25 to April 14 to fight the coronavirus pandemic. On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced extending the lockdown till May 3, adding the drastic measures would be relaxed in some areas from April 20. On Wednesday, the Home Ministry issued detailed guidelines allowing certain sectors to resume their economic activities from April 20. According to the Union Health Ministry, India has recorded a total of 14,378 coronavirus cases and 480 people lost their lives in the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/group-of-ministers-reviews-ways-to-mitigate-hardships-of-poor-people-amid-coronavirus-826929.html
18-04-2020||National||Gujarat's tally of COVID-19 cases up by 176 to 1,272||The total number of coronavirus positive cases in Gujarat rose to 1,272 on Saturday after 176 more people were found to be infected, a state Health Department official said. Most of the cases were detected in the hotspot areas where surveillance has been stepped up. Gujarat also reported seven more deaths due to COVID-19 disease, taking their tally to 48. Meanwhile, the number of recoveries stood at 88 with two patients being discharged from Rajkot and Gandhinagar hospitals, the official added. Five of the seven deceased were from Ahmedabad, while one death each was reported from Vadodara and Surat, said Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi. Among the 176 new cases, the additions from Ahmedabad were 143, taking the total number of the affected people in the city to 765. "A majority of these cases were reported from hotspot areas where intense surveillance is being done," said Ravi.  Vadodara and Surat reported 13 new cases each, while Rajkot and Bhavnagar reported two cases each, followed by Anand, Bharuch and Panchmahal reporting one case each. The age of the seven deceased ranged from 36 years to 72 years. Three out of the total five deceased in Ahmedabad--all women--had comorbidities. While a 68-year-old woman was suffering from hypertension and TB, another woman (72) had kidney disease. While a 65-year-old woman was suffering from hypertension and kidney failure, another 50-year-old had some mental illness. A 70-year-old woman from Aravalli who died in Ahmedabad hospital was suffering from heart disease. A 36-year-old woman who died in Surat had hypertension. She reportedly didn't have any underlying conditions, Ravi said, adding that another deceased, a 60-year-old man, succumbed to the COVID-19 disease in Vadodara. With fresh deaths, the death toll in Ahmedabad stands at 25, Vadodara (7) and Surat (6). Ravi said seven out of the total 1136 active cases are on ventilator support. A total 2802 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, out of which 251 tested negative, she said. "So far, the state has tested 24,614 samples, out of which 1,272 have tested positive," Ravi added. Ravi also informed that Gujarat has received about 24,000 rapid testing kits from Delhi. "Technical experts are studying details regarding the rapid testing kits. They will calibrate them and try them on discharged COVID-19 patients. We will also conduct massive training from Saturday afternoon, as per the protocol specified by the Central government. We will begin their utilisation in different districts from either today or tomorrow," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarats-tally-of-covid-19-cases-up-by-176-to-1272-826930.html
18-04-2020||National||Amid COVID-19 lockdown, PIL filed in SC to allow migrant workers return to native places||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court for allowing migrant workers across the country to return to their hometowns and villages after conducting necessary COVID-19 test. The plea by activist Jagdeep S Chhokar and advocate Gaurav Jain also seek a direction to the Centre to allow safe travel and transportation for such workers, who were amongst the worst affected category of people due to the lockdown. Hundreds of such workers have come out on roads in Delhi, Mumbai and Surat and other parts of the country, feeling desperate on the announcement of countrywide lockdown initially for three weeks from March 25 and its subsequent extension till May 3. The PIL filed by advocate Prashant Bhushan claimed thousands of migrant workers, who didn't join mass exodus on initial national 21-day lockdown, were being harassed by local residents and also being beaten up at some places leading to "humiliation and inexplicable sufferings". Chhokar, former Director-in charge IIM-Ahmedabad and founder of 'Association of Democratic Reforms' and Jain, in their joint plea, contended that the fundamental right of the migrant workers enshrined under Article 19(1)(d) (right to move freely throughout the territory of India) and Article 19(1)(e) of the Constitution (right to reside and settle in any part of the territory of India) cannot be suspended for an indefinite period. Forcing these workers to stay away from their families and living in unpredictable and arduous conditions, were unreasonable restrictions upon their rights, they said.  They also contended the extension of lockdown was casting a disproportionate burden on migrant workers, stranded in cities of their migration as compared to those living with their own families at their own residences. This was violative of right to equality under Article 14 and right to live with dignity under Article 21 of the Constitution. Referring to a status report filed by the Centre in a separate case, the petitioners said only 25 lakh migrant workers were being taken care of, while their actual number ranged from four to 12 crore. The petition drawn by advocates Neha Rathi and Jatin Bharadwaj gave the examples of Delhi's Anand Vihar Bus Terminal, Mumbai's Bandra and Surat incidents where a large number of workers came out on roads, for payment of salaries and permission to go back to their respective native places.  "In view of the extension of the national lockdown and also the possibility of its further extension, similar incidences are very likely to unfold across the country. Such skirmishes will result in problems of public order, over and above the primary and challenging task of taking care of the public health," their plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-covid-19-lockdown-pil-filed-in-sc-to-allow-migrant-workers-return-to-native-places-826935.html
18-04-2020||National||Shops collecting higher prices for hand sanitiser, says survey||Despite the government fixing a price cap on hand sanitisers, shops are collecting higher prices from consumers, says the latest survey. Among those who bought hand sanitiser, 62% paid a higher price than the one fixed by the government and 37% bought unknown brands as popular brands were stocked out, says the survey conducted by LocalCirles, a community based social media platform. A total of 16,000 participated in the survey conducted between April 10 to 17 to find out the availability of hand sanitiser in the market and consumers experience in buying. Though the survey revealed that 15% improvement in the availability of hand sanitiser in the second week of April when compared to March last week, still 435% of consumers unable to find them. To make hand sanitiser available to all and prevent escalation of prices, the government included it in the list of essential commodities and fixed Rs 100 for 200 ml. After the government request, many liquor manufacturers and beauty product manufacturers started making quality hand sanitiser but found it tough to make it available to consumers due to logistical constraints, the survey said. The consumers have also reported that many retailers are not giving proper bills for these sanitisers of unknown brands even on request.  With Covid-19, the world is facing an unprecedented crisis which has impacted every section of society. Hand sanitisers have become one of the most critical products in this crisis but it has been difficult for consumers to find them on shelves of retail stores and on e-commerce sites, says the survey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shops-collecting-higher-prices-for-hand-sanitiser-says-survey-826940.html
18-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: List of services that will resume in India after April 20||As India has entered its 25th day of the nationwide lockdown to fight against coronavirus, the government, on Saturday, released a list of services that will remain open all over India after April 20. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad released the list on his twitter handle mentioning that the list will not be applicable to the containment zones."Here is a list of what will remain open all over India with effect from 20th April 2020. This will NOT be applicable in the containment zones. Let us all fight together against COVID-19," he tweeted.   Here is a list of what will remain open all over India with effect from 20th April 2020. This will NOT be applicable in the containment zones.   Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation on April 14 had said that the government would assess all the states and districts on the stringency of lockdown measures and curbing the emergence of coronavirus. If such areas are successful in curbing new hotspots, relaxation would be given. If lockdown rules are not adhered to, the relaxation will be revoked.  Here is a list of what will be open in the country after April 20: 1) All health services, AYUSH to remain functional. 2) All agriculture and horticulture activities to remain fully functional 3) Operations of the fishing (marine/inland) to remain functional 4) Plantation activities such as tea, coffee and rubber to remain functional with 50 per cent of workers  5) Animal husbandry will start functioning 6) The financial sector to remain functional 7) The social sector to remain functional 8) MNREGA works are allowed with strict implementation of social distancing and face mask 9) Public utilities to remain functional     10) Movement of loading and unloading of goods/cargo (inter and intra) state is allowed 12) Online teaching/distance learning to be encouraged 13) Supply of essential goods is allowed 14) Commercial and private establishments will be allowed to operate 15) Industries/Industrial establishments (both government and private) will be allowed to operate 16) Construction activities will be allowed to operate 17) Private vehicles for emergency services, including medical and veterinary care and for procuring essential commodities and all personnel travelling to the place of work in exempted categories as per the instructions of State/UT local authority are allowed 18) Offices of the government of India and offices of the state and UT governments will remain open||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-list-of-services-that-will-resume-in-india-after-april-20-826943.html
18-04-2020||National||Senior doctor at Pune hospital tests positive for coronavirus||Sassoon Hospital is the designated COVID-19 critical care centre in Maharashtra's Pune city and so far, over 40 coronavirus-related deaths have been reported from the state- run facility. "He is a senior doctor who attended to COVID-19 patients at Sassoon. A couple of days ago, he complained of breathlessness and got himself admitted at the hospital," an official from the hospital said.  The doctor's test results came out positive on Thursday night and his condition remains stable, he said. High-risk contacts of the doctor have been traced and quarantined, the official said. Recently, three nurses working in the isolation ward also tested positive for the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-doctor-at-pune-hospital-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-826944.html
18-04-2020||National||PIL filed in SC for allowing migrants to return to native places||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court for allowing migrant workers across the country to return to their hometowns and villages after conducting necessary Covid-19 test. The plea by activist Jagdeep S Chhokar and advocate Gaurav Jain also seeks a direction to the Centre to allow safe travel and transportation for such workers, who were amongst the worst affected category of people due to the lockdown. Hundreds of such workers have come out on roads in Delhi, Mumbai and Surat and other parts of the country, feeling desperate on the announcement of the countrywide lockdown initially for three weeks from March 25 and subsequent extension till May 3. The PIL filed by advocate Prashant Bhushan claimed that thousands of migrant workers, who didn't join mass exodus in the initial 21-day lockdown, were being harassed by local residents and also being beaten up at some places leading to "humiliation and inexplicable sufferings". Chhokar, former Director-in charge IIM-Ahmedabad and founder of 'Association of Democratic Reforms' and Jain, in their joint plea, contended that the fundamental right of the migrant workers enshrined under Article 19(1)(d) (right to move freely throughout the territory of India) and Article 19(1)(e) of the Constitution (right to reside and settle in any part of the territory of India) cannot be suspended for an indefinite period. Forcing these workers to stay away from their families and living in unpredictable and arduous conditions, were unreasonable restrictions upon their rights, they said. They also contended the extension of lockdown was casting a disproportionate burden on migrant workers, stranded in cities of their migration as compared to those living with their own families at their own residences. This was violative of Right to Equality under Article 14 and Right to Live with dignity under Article 21 of the Constitution.  Referring to a status report filed by the Centre in a separate case, the petitioners said only 25 lakh migrant workers were being taken care of, while their actual number ranged from four to 12 crore. The petition drawn by advocates Neha Rathi and Jatin Bharadwaj gave an example of Delhi's Anand Vihar Bus Terminal, Mumbai's Bandra and Surat incidents where a large number of workers came out on roads, for payment of salaries and permission to go back to their respective native places. "In view of the extension of the national lockdown and also possibility of its further extension, similar incidences are very likely to unfold across the country. Such skirmishes will result in problems of public order, over and above the primary and challenging task of taking care of the public health," their plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-sc-for-allowing-migrants-to-return-to-native-places-826949.html
18-04-2020||National||Congress says govt doing 'injustice' to retailers, seeks level-playing field for them||The Congress on Saturday highlighted the plight of retail traders during the lockdown, alleging the government is doing "injustice" to them by allowing only e-commerce companies to sell non-essential items. Congress senior spokesperson Ajay Maken demanded a level-playing field for retailers and asked the Home Ministry to issue guidelines for online sales. "While their shops are locked down for the last one months, their main competitors are open and have been allowed to sell non-essential items online. This is an injustice to retailers and the government should not allow this," he said. Maken said traders have locked down their shops for the past one month and before that, suffered due to demonetisation, e-commerce competition and the GST, which have broken their backbone. These retailers still will have to pay salaries, rent, fixed electricity charges, property taxes at commercial rates, he said, adding that on top of this, the Home Ministry allowed e-commerce companies and their vehicles to run after April 20. "This (April 15) order does not stop e-commerce companies from trading non-essential items. We demand from the government that the Home Ministry clarifies if the e-commerce companies have been allowed to trade non-essential items. The government should take steps so that a level-playing field is provided for these locked-down small-shop owners," he said at a press conference addressed through video. Maken said the government should come forward for the rescue of small-shop owners. "We demand that the government waive fixed electricity charges for small traders and share their salary burden on the lines of MSMEs," he said. The Congress leader said as per the Sixth Economic Census, retail trade is the most dominant economic activity outside the agriculture sector, factoring for 35.41 per cent of the total. As far as the employment generation is concerned, retail trade accounts for the one-fifth of total employment in India, giving employment to around 2.72 crore families, Maken said. He said other state governments should follow Congress-ruled Punjab and Rajasthan where fixed charges on electricity for non-domestic connections have been deferred by two months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-says-govt-doing-injustice-to-retailers-seeks-level-playing-field-for-them-826952.html
18-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Naxals struggle as lockdown hits supply chain of essentials||As a result, the Naxals have now started snatching a significant part of the ration distributed to villagers under the Public Distribution System (PDS) in Bastar division during the ongoing crisis, the officials said. Bastar region, spread over an area of about 40,000 sq km, is considered a stronghold of ultras and comprises seven districts of Dantewada, Bijapur, Bastar, Narayanpur, Kondagaon, Sukma and Kanker.  "As per the preliminary information, Maoists' supply networks are facing a challenge to operate due to the restrictions imposed to prevent the spread of virus. To meet their need of essentials, Naxals are putting extra pressure on local villagers," Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI. In the past as well, the local militia cadres of the outlawed CPI (Maoist) used to take ration from villagers and ask them to cook food for their group of about 10-15 members, but the bigger formations of Naxals arrange food and essential commodities through their designated supply team, he said. Haat bazaars or village markets held in remote areas of Bastar, which have been closed due to the lockdown, served as an ideal destination for Maoist couriers to procure ration and items of daily use. Besides, local cadres also visit town areas to arrange such things, he said.  "But the fear of being caught if they move to urban areas in the current situation, Maoist couriers are preferring to arrange these things from local villagers resulting in burden on innocent tribals, who do not dare to refuse them," he said. Dantewada Superintendent of Police Abhishek Pallava said that security forces have been launching operations on getting inputs about Maoists looting the ration of villagers in remote areas in his district. "We are constantly getting tip-offs that Naxals are snatching the month's ration of villagers in Kirandul and Bhansi police station area of Dantewada," he said. Notably, the state government has been providing two months (March and April) ration at one go free of cost to BPL cardholders across the state during the lockdown. "Out of fear, villagers do not dare to report these incidents to police. Acting on one such input, we had launched an operation on April 16 in the forests along Dantewada- Bijapur border, during which a Naxal was killed in a gunfight," Pallava said. Despite a complete ban on holding religious and social gatherings, Naxals have been convening meetings of villagers deep inside the jungles and taking away their ration. This reflects Maoists' insensitivity toward tribals in this period of crisis, he said. Another police official posted in Bastar said, Maoists carry out annual 'tactical counter offensive campaign' (TCOC) in summer, during which they intensify their offensive against the security forces. In the initial part of the campaign, they generally stock a huge quantity of ration and other essential items, which would help them during their three-month (March-May) long offensive. "Scarcity of supplies could have an impact on their conventional warfare strategy in the coming days," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-naxals-struggle-as-lockdown-hits-supply-chain-of-essentials-826953.html
18-04-2020||National||Govindacharya seeks NIC-based infrastructure for video-conferencing by judiciary||RSS ideologue K N Govindacharya has filed a plea in the Supreme Court for use of video conferencing facility, developed by National Informatics Centre (NIC), instead of foreign companies' apps, by the government and courts in the country.  He sought amendment into the Supreme Court Rules, 2013 and Rules of the High Courts, in accordance with the top court's Suo Motu order of April 6, 2020, with necessary safeguards for hearing of matters through video conferencing. In an application, he contended that video conferencing and live streaming infrastructure should be treated as “critical information infrastructure” and their security must be audited by the government agencies as per Information Technology (National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre and Manner of Performing Functions and Duties) Rules, 2013. "Important meetings like those of the Cabinet have may secretive contents, which should not come out in the public. India is always a target of terrorism and needs to take special care to avoid any attack, be it traditional, biological or technological," he said. He cited the April 12, 2020 advisory issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs against use of 'Zoom' video conferencing software as unsafe. It was learnt that several High Courts were using this particular app for hearing of the matter. On April 15, 2020, the Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-IN) also issued an advisory in relation to video conferencing platforms, saying that “fraudsters have found…opportunity to conduct unauthorised activities resulting in obtaining of sensitive information of individuals and organization”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govindacharya-seeks-nic-based-infrastructure-for-video-conferencing-by-judiciary-826955.html
18-04-2020||National||3,000 students from Kota en route home in UP govt's buses; thousands more unsure||Nearly 3,000 students stranded in Kota due to the ongoing lockdown left for their home in 100 buses sent by the UP government but another 7,000 were waiting for their turn in the Rajasthan city on Saturday. The UP government had sent 250 buses to Kota on Friday, estimating the total number of students to be around 7,500, but more students gathered at the three boarding points in the city after learning about the travel arrangement. Some of the students were accompanied by their parents. Officials now fear the buses available could be inadequate to accommodate all the students willing to return home. But Kota Public Relations Deputy Director Hariom Gurjar told PTI that the UP government has assured them that more buses would be arranged if there is a shortfall. The Kota administration had prepared the list of students based on information received from coaching institutes and did not account for those studying in the city without enrolling in any institute, officials said. The 100 buses with around 3,000 students left for UP early Saturday, Additional Superintendent of Police Rajesh Mill, overseeing the exercise, told PTI. The process to send the remaining students whose names are in the list is underway, Mill added.\ Asked about the students who are not listed, he expressed the inability of the Kota administration in arranging more buses, saying, "It would not be possible at our level. The resources have to come from there (UP) and we can only cooperate and maintain social distancing while sending the students back home". He said he "cannot comment" on what additional resources would be needed and who would arrange them. The remaining 7,000 students largely belong to the Agra division, said Nitesh Sharma, a member of Allen Career Institute. "We have asked some students enlisted for departure to not move out of the hostels until more buses are arranged."  The students had started a social media campaign #SendUsBackHome on Tuesday, following which the UP government decided to bring them back. The move earned praise from Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who said other state governments should follow Uttar Pradesh. "As the UP govt called back students of UP living in #Kota #Rajasthan, it can also be done for students from other states. Students in Kota can be sent to their home states on the consent of the concerned state govt so that these young boys & girls do not panic or feel depressed," Gehlot wrote on Twitter handle on Friday. The buses have been sanitised and the students departing for hometowns are being thermal screened before boarding them. Food packets, water bottles, masks are also being provided to the students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3000-students-from-kota-en-route-home-in-up-govts-buses-thousands-more-unsure-826964.html
18-04-2020||National||UP's move to transport students from Kota attracts flak||The Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government sending buses to transport stranded students from Rajasthan during lockdown has attracted criticism with Opposition leaders on Saturday questioning why such efforts are not being taken to help migrant workers. BSP chief Mayawati said she welcomed the move to bring back students stranded in Rajasthan's Kota where they had gone for entrance coaching but wanted the government also to show some concern for migrant workers, who are living in pitiable circumstances across the country. "UP government sent a number of buses to Kota to transport around 7,500 youth studying in coaching centres there. This is a welcome move. BSP appreciates it. But the government is also urged to show such concern to the millions of poor migrant labourers families who are still being forced to live hellish lives away from their homes," she tweeted. CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury said the Centre should take initiative to bring back migrant labourers to their villages. "If BJP governments can send luxury buses to get rich pilgrims from Uttarakhand and elsewhere back to Gujarat and UP sends 100 buses for 7,500 students of rich families from Rajasthan, Centre must arrange for stranded starving workers. Not doing so is criminal. 252 buses for free for the rich. Nothing except lathis for starving migrant workers - another brutal reminder of how BJP has all along benefitted rich cronies at the expense of the many who need essentials. They bailed out rich borrowers by Rs 7.76 lakh crores - Rs 0 for the poor," he said in tweets. Yechury had earlier cited the efforts to airlift Indians stranded in foreign countries and similarly, the Centre should take steps to run special trains to transport migrant workers stranded migrant labourers in cities to their villages across India.  On Friday, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, a BJP ally, has criticised the UP move saying the way special buses are being ferried to bring students from Kota was an "injustice with the principles of lockdown". Bihar government has already written to the Ministry of Home Affairs, saying it will "open a Pandora's box" as if students are allowed, "on what grounds can you stop migrant labourers who are also stuck". Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had tweeted, "as the UP govt called back students of UP living in Kota, it can also be done for students from other states. Students in Kota can be sent to their home states on the consent of the concerned state govt so that these young boys and girls do not panic or feel depressed."  In early April, around 1,800 people from Gujarat, who were stranded in Uttarakhand, were brought back to Ahmedabad in 28 buses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ups-move-to-transport-students-from-kota-attracts-flak-826967.html
18-04-2020||National||J&K govt to supply surplus milk to Anganwadi centres||With milk consumption dropping sharply amid COVID-19 lockdown, Jammu and Kashmir government has mooted a proposal to supply milk to Anganwadi centres for its distribution. The demand for milk has declined as hotels, restaurants, sweet shops catering and roadside tea stalls have closed after the nationwide lockdown. The demand for other dairy products like butter, milk, cheese and ghee has gone up, but sales of ice cream and other milk products have fallen. Ever since the lockdown, both milk and poultry items have witnessed a decline in consumption largely due to supply and demand issues. To overcome the crisis, J&K Animal Husbandry Department (AHD) has mooted a proposal to safeguard the interests of the farmers suffering losses due to dip in demand. For this purpose, the department has collaborated with the Social Welfare Department under whose administrative control Anganwadi centres fall.  A senior official told DH that Principal Secretary AHD, Naveen Chowdhary had a discussion with public and private sector milk suppliers in this regard.  “During the meeting it was disclosed that household consumption of milk has not gone down, but there is a decline of four to six lakh litres approximately in consumption due to closure of hotels, restaurants, sweet shops, etc,” he said. “It was decided that the surplus milk would be delivered to Anganwadi centers under mid-day meal and Poshan schemes. Both public and private sector milk processors will supply milk in half litre pouches to the Anganwadi centres for further distribution among the children,” the official added.  The measure will not only mitigate the suffering of milk producers, it will also provide nutritious food to Anganwadi children. The government says that it is difficult to collect exact data of loss in milk and poultry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-govt-to-supply-surplus-milk-to-anganwadi-centres-826969.html
18-04-2020||National||Delhi HC denies interim bail to differently-abled man accused of carrying 3.5 kg charas||The Delhi High Court has dismissed a plea filed by a physically-challenged man seeking interim bail in a drug possession case on the ground that he is suffering from diabetes and high blood pressure, and there is a risk of contracting coronavirus in prison. Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar, who conducted the hearing through video-conferencing, perused the health status report of the accused which showed that his condition and vitals are stable. Regular treatment from jail doctors and the RML Hospital was being provided, and he was being given the prescribed medicines. The differently-abled man, who is facing prosecution for allegedly possessing 3.5 kg charas, sought interim bail for 45 days on the ground that he is suffering from diabetes and high blood pressure, and there is a risk of contracting coronavirus in jail. The court dismissed the plea saying no ground for interim bail was made out. It said accused Basudev failed to qualify the three criteria laid down by a high powered committee for releasing a prisoner on bail during the coronavirus pandemic. As per the high powered committee, the undertrials who are facing trial for offences of rape, gangrape, acid attack, for intermediary/large quantity recovery under the narcotics law, foreign nationals, corruption and terror activities should not be released while de-congesting jails to contain the spread of coronavirus. “Keeping in view the allegations against the petitioner (Basudev), he is not entitled to grant of interim bail as prayed as in the present case, the petitioner was found carrying 3.5 kg of charas which is a commercial quantity, so as per the resolution dated March 28, he is not entitled to the benefit of this,” the high court said. The man claimed in the court that he was not being treated for his medical condition in the jail and looking into the present COVID-19 situation, it was dangerous for him to remain in prison as he was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. The prosecution opposed the bail plea saying the man was arrested when he was carrying 3.5 kg charas and added that he was being treated well for his medical condition by the jail authorities. The court also noted that the man's health status report showed he was being given proper medical attention and he was also taken to RML Hospital, where his 2D Echo Test was carried out which showed his normal valve functions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-denies-interim-bail-to-differently-abled-man-accused-of-carrying-35-kg-charas-826970.html
18-04-2020||National||Pak-migrant Hindu docs ask govt to let them join India’s coronavirus fight||A group of migrated Pakistani Hindu doctors with MBBS degrees from different medical colleges from the neighbouring country have sought permission from the Indian government to join the medical workforce here amid the COVID-19 crisis. These doctors are not allowed to practice in India until they pass a bridge exam by the Medical Council of India (MCI), which is mandatory for all doctors with overseas degrees to pass to practice in India. But considering the spread of the pandemic, these doctors have sought relaxation in this condition and have appealed to the government to grant them the permission to join India's anti-pandemic battle. M L Jangid, who had migrated to India over 20 years ago, has an MBBS degree from Sindh Medical College, Karachi. But in absence of the Medical Council of India’s permission to take the mandatory examination, which is open only for Indian citizens having MBBS degrees from abroad, he and 300-odd others like him are not able to practice in India, he said. “If the government of India, takes up the matter seriously and gives permission to us as qualified medical doctors, we can be of some help in dealing with this COVID-19 pandemic,” Jangid said.  Another doctor, Anila Sharda, who had migrated to India in 2007, has a medical degree from a medical college of Hyderabad in Pakistan. “After coming to India, it takes us at least 11 years to obtain the citizenship of India and after that, we are supposed to appear in an examination by MCI to attain the qualification to practice in India, which is again a herculean task. Most of us could not appear in this exam due to age and other factors,” said Sharda. Hindu Singh Sodha, president of Seemant Lok Sangthan, has also written to the government, drawing its attention to this group of 300-plus MBBS doctors belonging to Pak Hindu refugee families, who reached India after 2000. “We have already taken up the matter with the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Ministry of Law and Justice during the past few years,” said Sodha. But the final step leading to allowing them to practice in India is yet to be taken. Sodha said all the stakeholders are convinced in principle but a final decision on permission to these doctors to practice in India is yet to come out. “If the timely permission is granted to these Pak Hindu refugee doctors in this time of crisis, with the qualification and experience, they could prove to be an asset to their Indian fraternity, waging a relentless battle to save lives” said Sodha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pak-migrant-hindu-docs-ask-govt-to-let-them-join-india-s-coronavirus-fight-826973.html
18-04-2020||National||1,200 bottles of illicit liquor seized from truck in Haryana during lockdown||The Haryana Police seized 1,200 bottles of illicit liquor in Kaithal district on Saturday when the consignment was being smuggled in a truck during the ongoing lockdown to combat the coronavirus outbreak. Police also arrested the driver and the helper of the truck and seized the bottles which were packed in 100 cartons. The arrested accused were identified as Sunil Kumar (driver) and Rajbir alias Pola, a spokesperson of the police department said here. He said that a police team on lockdown duty was present at a check barrier on Dhand road in the district. When the team signalled a truck coming from Kaithal side to stop, its driver accelerated the vehicle and tried to escape. Police team chased the vehicle and intercepted it about 5 km away from the checkpoint and arrested both the accused. The illicit Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) was seized from the truck, he said, adding the accused failed to produce any permit or licence in this regard. A case under relevant sections of IPC and under the Excise Act had been registered against the accused and further investigation is under progress, the spokesperson said. In another incident on Saturday, the spokesperson said Haryana's Special Task Force (STF) has arrested two persons from Rohtak district and seized 2.1 kg heroin from their possession. The arrested accused were identified as Manjit alias Kalia, a resident of village Prem Nagar in district Bhiwani, and Sandesh Kumar alias Golu of village Kanwari, presently residing at Friends Colony, Bhiwani. Both accused were arrested by a team of STF Hisar.  STF had got a tip-off that two persons in a car in the district were on way to deliver heroin to their contacts. The police team nabbed the two accused at a barricade near Kharawar police post, he said. He said the accused were driving the car on the roads in violation of the lockdown rules. A case under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered against the accused at IMT Rohtak Police Station. A detailed probe is on to identify the others involved in this racket of drug-peddling, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1200-bottles-of-illicit-liquor-seized-from-truck-in-haryana-during-lockdown-826977.html
18-04-2020||National||Ensure safe return of UP people stranded outside state, set up control room: Jitin Prasada to CM||Congress leader Jitin Prasada on Saturday urged Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to rescue the people from the state who are stuck in various parts of the country, suggesting that a control room be set up in Lucknow to coordinate such efforts. "In the hour of this crisis, these people, especially in Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru as well as from other parts of the country, are longing to return to their permanent residence.They are looking at the state government for help," the former Union minister said. In his letter, Prasada made four suggestions to the UP government including one that a survey be conducted at the tehsil or block level to find out details like in which part of the country are people with permanent residence in the state stranded and get a rough estimate of the logistics for the help that would be needed. A control room be set up in Lucknow and its number should be widely disseminated so that people stranded outside the state as well as their family members can be reached out to and their needs assessed, said Prasada. "This will also help the government to understand the seriousness of this problem and to raise the required resources for its solution," the Congress leader said. This will also help in keeping close tabs on the problems of migrant labourers who have gone to different parts of the country in search of employment, find solutions for them, as well as to contact the concerned state governments, he said. Prasada urged the chief minister to take appropriate measures to ensure the safe return of the people from the state who are stranded in other parts of the country. There is also a need to arrange for the health checkup and quarantine facilities in the vicinity of the residence of those returning to the state, he said. Prasada said such people would also need financial assistance, ration and other reliefs to sustain them in this time of crisis. He also thanked the chief minister for bringing back students from Kota in Rajasthan. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday, in a letter to Adityanath, had sought the setting up of a task force for economic revival in Uttar Pradesh and providing relief for farmers and labourers in the state suffering due to the crisis created by coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-safe-return-of-up-people-stranded-outside-state-set-up-control-room-jitin-prasada-to-cm-826978.html
18-04-2020||National||Driven by love, powered by grit, many made epic journeys in coronavirus lockdown days||When train, bus and air links snapped and an entire country went into lockdown, they were the men and women who became stars of their own epic odysseys, traversing many hundreds of kilometres to reach their sons, daughters or siblings. Covering yawning distances in cars, a scooter and even a bicycle, the reports of family members, often alone, traversing highways snaking through an eerily quiet, shuttered India stood out like little beacons of cheer and courage in pandemic times. There’s the mother who rode her scooty 1,400 km from Nizamabad to Nellore to pick up her son, the father who drove from Bokaro to Kota to fetch his stranded daughter, the Amritsar-based elderly couple who travelled to Bangalore to attend their son’s funeral, the woman who went from Lucknow to Delhi and back in a day to reach her sister reportedly slipping into depression. Driven by love and powered by grit, their travels and travails gave a sense of the vastness that is India and also defined the extraordinariness of everyday people. Riding her nifty, not-very-sturdy red scooty in her black burqa -- a blue scarf trailing over shoulder adding a splash of colour almost as if making a point -- with her teen son at the back, Razia Begum became the oft-discussed story of online ‘drawing room conversations’. The headmistress of a government school in Nizamabad, about 200 km from Hyderabad, rode nearly 1,400 km on a scooter over three days during the lockdown to bring her stranded 19-year-old son home from Nellore in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. The 48-year-old, whose pictures were circulated widely on social media and national newspapers, set out on her arduous journey on a Monday morning armed with local police permission and rode alone to Nellore. She returned with her son on Wednesday evening, demonstrating an endurance level even seasoned rallyists would find hard to match. "It was a difficult journey on a small two-wheeler for a woman. But the determination to bring my son back overtook all my fears. I packed rotis and they kept me going. It was fearsome in the nights with no traffic movement and no people on roads," Razia Begum told PTI. She lost her husband 15 years ago and lives with her two sons, an engineering graduate, and 19-year old aspiring doctor Nizamuddin. Nizamuddin, who was in Nellore when the lockdown was announced on March 24, was desperate to return home. And the doughty mother did not hesitate to do what was necessary to get him back. Sheelamma Vasan drove in a car through six states from her village in Kottayam, Kerala, to Rajasthan despite strict lockdown restrictions. Accompanied by two relatives, she covered the distance of 2,700 kilometres in just three days to meet her 29-year-old son Arun, who was suffering from myostitis, inflammation of the muscles. And he was thankfully okay. "Due to god’s grace, we reached without any problems anywhere," Vasan said, recounting her journey from Kerala through Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Gujarat to reach Rajasthan. Getting the necessary passes was not easy. It took the intervention of Union Minister V Muraleedharan, the office of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Congress leader Oommen Chandy. For the parents of Col Navjot Singh Bal, the journey from Amritsar in Punjab to Bangalore in southern Karnataka was not to say hello but a final adieu. Their son, who earned a Shaurya Chakra and ran marathons despite battling cancer, died in a hospital in Bengaluru and they had to undertake an over 2,000-km-long road journey by road to attend his funeral. The late officer's brother, Navtez Singh Bal, wrote about the journey undertaken by the family. Some Army veterans expressed sadness after the couple was forced to travel such a long distance by road to perform the last rites of their son. In a tweet, former Army chief Gen (retd) V P Malik, replying to a post by Col. Bal’s brother, wrote, "Deepest condolences! Have a safe journey. Sad GOI did not help. Rules are never written on stone. They are modified or changed in special circumstances." And two days ahead of the lockdown, when India observed a ‘Janta curfew on March 22, a father reportedly undertook a 50-hour journey in his car, from Bokaro in Jharkhand to Kota in Rajasthan to fetch his teen daughter studying in one of the coaching institutes in the town. Equally determined was a Lucknow woman who drove to New Delhi and back in one day to get her sister. With the lockdown extended till May 3, she was reportedly getting depressed and was without essentials such as food and the woman did not want to wait. The two sisters returned the same day, taking only a few breaks in between. And one migrant worker decided to cycle down to his home from a centre in Odisha all the way to Maharashtra, desperate to return home and taking only seven days to make the journey, according to reports. These are just a few stories that made it to the outside world. There are countless more who had no vehicles, so they simply walked, in groups or alone. They are the migrant workers, made homeless in the cities where they worked, with nowhere to go but their home, and no transport other than their feet. Their tales of doggedness and determination are yet to be documented. But they too are superheroes of sorts in a pandemic that may take months to abate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/driven-by-love-powered-by-grit-many-made-epic-journeys-in-coronavirus-lockdown-days-826982.html
18-04-2020||National||Hope and 'khaki' helped me defeat coronavirus: Delhi policeman||He remained hopeful in the midst of all the obstacles and thought of the 'khaki' he had worn all his adult life. The courage his uniform espoused helped him win against an adversary as mysterious as the coronavirus. Assistant Sub-Inspector Jeet Singh returned home on Friday, proud and confident, as his neighbours in Kalkaji showered petals on him. He said he thought of the disease like any other illness and did not submit to it. "My message to those battling with the contagious virus is don't be afraid. Stay positive," said the 49-year-old. "Treat it like any other illness and you will recover soon. Believe in God and only good things will happy to you if you think positive. Don't take it to your heart, because that really helped me" said Singh, the first policeman from Delhi to test positive for COVID-19. He had consulted doctors at AIIMS after he developed fever and was advised to go into quarantine. Later, he was admitted to Safdarjung Hospital. "I was on home quarantine when I received the report on April 7. It was my son who read the report and said 'you had tested positive for coronavirus'. My family was taken aback. But I motivated them and told them to not lose hope," he said. Singh told his family he will be fine and went to the hospital accompanied by his wife and son in a police vehicle.  "I was alone in a room but doctors and nurses visited multiple times a day. I faced the challenges by taking God's name. I didn't bother doctors unless I was under extreme difficulty because they were also attending to other patients," he said. The policeman said he developed a belief that he has to bounce back and resume duty. "I was only thinking about my 'khaki' and eagerly waiting to join duty. I had this willpower that I will recover soon. I felt much better on April 9 (three days after being hospitalised) even though I had throat pain," he said. Doctors had advised him to not of think about the illness. Singh's wife, three sons and a daughter-in-law were also taken to hospital next he was admitted.     "However, all of them tested negative for COVID-19 since we were strictly maintaining social distancing at home," he said. The family nonetheless remained at Rajiv Gandhi Hospital for three days. "Even since I was on home quarantine, I isolated myself in a separate room and did not allow my family members inside the room. They would always keep food and necessary essentials at the doorstep," he said. Even after returning home from the hospital, the family is strictly maintaining a social distance and Singh has isolated himself in a room for another 14 days. Asked about who played the most critical role in his recovery, he said, "Doctors and nurses and the safai karamcharis. They are like God." "They were always there with soap, hand wash, medicines, food and water. They would come in every hour to check on me. They have taken care of us. Today, if I'm healthy, it's only because of them." While he was in hospital, his seniors and colleagues would keep a tab on his health. "Kalkaji SHO Sandeep Ghai would call up daily, motivate me and encourage me. "Farsh Bazar SHO A K Singh has taken care of my family like his own. My colleagues and seniors were always there for me and my children," he said with gratiture||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hope-and-khaki-helped-me-defeat-coronavirus-delhi-policeman-826983.html
18-04-2020||National||Of 14,378 COVID-19 infections, 4,291 cases linked to Markaz event in Delhi: Health ministry||Of the 14,378 coronavirus infections reported in the country so far, 4,291 cases in 23 states and Union Territories are linked to the Markaz event held in Delhi's Nizamuddin area in March, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. Addressing a daily media briefing to give updates on the COVID-19 situation in the country, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said most of the Markaz event-related cases have been found in states with a high burden of the disease, such as Tamil Nadu (84 per cent), Telangana (79 per cent), Delhi (63 per cent), Uttar Pradesh (59 per cent) and Andhra Pradesh (61 per cent). "A total of 4,291 COVID-19 cases or 29.8 per cent of the 14,378 coronavirus infections reported so far are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation," he said. The health ministry official also said that in some states which have reported fewer number of COVID-19 infections, also had cases with links to the Markaz event. For example, the only coronavirus case reported in Arunachal Pradesh till now is related to the Markaz event. Similarly, 32 of the 35 cases reported in Assam and 10 out of 12 cases from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands are linked to the same congregation, he said. According to the Union health ministry, 991 fresh COVID-19 cases and 43 fatalities have been reported in the country in 24 hours since Friday morning, taking the total number of cases to 14,378 and the death toll to 480.  Till now, 1,992, that is around 13.85 per cent of the COVID-19 patients, have been cured of the disease, Agarwal said. The mortality rate in COVID-19 cases in India has been around 3.3 per, he said, adding 14.4 per cent of the deaths are between 0-45 years, 10.3 per cent between 45- 60 years, 33.1 per cent between 60-75 years and 42.2 per cent fatalities among people aged 75 and above. "So, we see that 75.3 per cent deaths have been in among those aged 60 or above and in 83 per cent cases co-morbidities have been found," Agarwal said and reiterated that the elderly and people with co-morbid conditions are at high risk. The joint secretary in the health ministry also said that protocol for using rapid antibody test kits have been shared with the states. "Rapid antibody test kits is to be used in hotspots. It can also be used for surveillance and for epidemiological purposes in such areas where COVID-19 cases have not emerged so far. "RT-PCR test is the gold standard for frontline test and antibody test cannot replace this test. Utility of rapid antibody test is primarily for assessing prevalence of infection in a particular area," he said. PTI PLB AG NSD NSD||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/of-14378-covid-19-infections-4291-cases-linked-to-markaz-event-in-delhi-health-ministry-826989.html
18-04-2020||National||One more tests positive for COVID-19 in Jharkhand, number of cases rises to 33||The man from Hindpiri locality, a 'COVID-19 hotspot' in Ranchi city, was quarantined and is now undergoing treatment at a hospital here, the official said. Of the 93 samples tested on Saturday, report of one came in as positive, Director of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) Dr D K Singh said. Three people, all from Hindpiri locality, have tested positive for the virus on Friday, the official said, adding the number of positive cases in Ranchi now stands at 18 -- all of which are from Hindpiri area. Bokaro district reported nine cases and Hazaribagh two, while one case each has been from Dhanbad, Simdega, Koderma, and Giridih districts. Two persons in the state, one each from Ranchi and Bokaro, have died of the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-more-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-jharkhand-number-of-cases-rises-to-33-826996.html
18-04-2020||National||SC to list cases related to death penalty, family laws for hearing through video-conferencing||Death penalty cases and those related to family laws may be listed for hearing through video-conferencing mode, the Supreme Court said on Saturday. In a notice issued on its website, the apex court said this, however, would be subject to availability of the bench concerned and prior approval of Chief Justice of India S A Bobde. "Take notice that, short category matters, death penalty matters and matters related to family law, which are ready, may be listed for hearing through video-conferencing mode subject to availability of the concerned bench and prior approval of the Chief Justice of India. "The parties desirous of taking up such matters for hearing through video conferencing, may furnish their joint consent along with particulars of the matter(s) at the earliest, latest by April 24 2020, on the email address: consent.list@sci.nic.in," the notice said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday announced the extension of the three-week nationwide lockdown for another 19 days till May 3 to battle the coronavirus pandemic. To prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, the top court, since March 23, has restricted its functioning and only matters considered to be extremely urgent are being taken up by different benches through video-conferencing. The circular had said Chief Justice of India S A Bobde would be constituting the benches during the period of the lockdown for hearing of matters considered extremely urgent in nature. Besides highlighting the several modalities to be adopted by lawyers and litigants during hearings, the Supreme Court had also issued instructions for joining the hearings through its web-based video-conferencing system 'VIDYO'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-list-cases-related-to-death-penalty-family-laws-for-hearing-through-video-conferencing-827006.html
18-04-2020||National||HC dismisses plea against Centre's decision to operate chartered flights to repatriate foreigners||A bench of justices J R Midha and Jyoti Singh was of the view that the Centre and the national carrier have taken measures such as issuing protection kits to the pilots and crew of the flights to protect them from the novel coronavirus. The court also noted that the government has issued guidelines with regard to screening and testing of the pilots and cabin crew when they return to India and the measures to be taken during their home quarantine. "COVID-19 is an unprecedented pandemic and calamity of enormous magnitude and the government is taking all necessary steps to ensure protection of its airline crew, as assured by the Additional Solicitor General, and would continue to do so...," the bench said. It also took note of the work being done by the airline crew and said they should be applauded for serving humanity at this hour of crisis. The observations by the bench came while dismissing a plea challenging the government and Air India's decision to operate chartered flights to repatriate foreign nationals. The court, however, said petitioner Vaibhav Sharma is free to give his suggestions to the government. The petitioner, in his plea, wanted the government to lodge the crew of such flights in hotels, instead of home-quarantining them. The bench said it agrees with the government that at this stage, it is not possible to lodge the airline crew in hotels due to logistic issues and that home quarantine is the best possible measure currently. The petition, filed through advocate H S Nanda, had also claimed that the pilots and cabin crew of these chartered flights were not being provided with personal protection equipment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-dismisses-plea-against-centres-decision-to-operate-chartered-flights-to-repatriate-foreigners-827009.html
18-04-2020||National||Two more die of COVID-19 in West Bengal, toll rises to 12||Two more persons died of coronavirus in West Bengal in the last 24 hours, taking the toll in the state to 12, a top government official said on Saturday. During the same period, 23 fresh coronavirus infections were reported from different parts of the state, taking the number of cases to 233, Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said. The Union health ministry, however, put the total number of cases in the state at 287. At present, there are 178 active cases in the state, Sinha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-more-die-of-covid-19-in-west-bengal-toll-rises-to-12-827010.html
18-04-2020||National||West Bengal Left leaders arrested for ‘token demonstration’ amid lockdown||The West Bengal unit of the CPI(M) and their Left Front allies staged a “token demonstration” on Saturday in central Kolkata during lockdown against the alleged corruption in the PDS system and suppression of information related to the COVID-19 outbreak by the state government. Even as all the Left Front leaders were wearing masks and claimed to maintain social distancing during the protest demonstration, they were arrested for violating the lockdown. A scuffle broke out between the agitators and police when the Left Front leaders were being put in prison vans. CPI(M) state secretary Surjyakanta Mishra said that the state government must provide daily updates regarding the red zones, orange zones and COVID-19 hotspots in Bengal so that people can cooperate even more to enforce the lockdown. The Left leadership further alleged that in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, medical facilities for treatment of other ailments have crumbled in the state.   Interestingly CPI(M) Politburo member Md. Salim said that if anyone present in the “token demonstration” gets infected by COVID-19, Kolkata Police will be responsible for it. “It was Kolkata Police who violated social distancing not us,” said Salim. However, Left Front’s ally in the state Congress did not take part in the demonstration as they have decided not to hold any public demonstration during the lockdown. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury alleged that police violated guidelines while arresting Left Front leaders. “TMC govt must release them. Now. #COVID19 has destroyed lives & livelihoods. State govt must respond to that instead of trying to bully us by arrests while we are strictly following guidelines & precautions. The police violated guidelines, in how they arrested!” tweeted Yechury. Meanwhile, the death toll in West Bengal due to COVID-19 rose to 12 and the number of active cases went up to 178 in the state. The information was provided by Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha during a media briefing at the state secretariat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-left-leaders-arrested-for-token-demonstration-amid-lockdown-827012.html
18-04-2020||National||All states, UTs activated emergency response centres: MHA on lockdown||All states and Union territories have activated 'emergency operation centres' across districts to address issues faced by people due to the ongoing lockdown, a senior official said on Saturday. During a daily briefing, Punya Salila Srivastava, a joint secretary in the Union home ministry, said a control room set up in the MHA is providing round-the-clock assistance to people and helplines 1930 and 1944 are resolving their grievances. She said the availability of essential goods and services in the country was satisfactory. Single emergency response number 112 is operational in all states and UTs, she said. The 112 mobile app tracks the location and provides highly prompt services. This has been extensively used by pregnant women, elderly and specially-abled during the lockdown, the joint secretary said. "We hope that with the help of all these services, we will be able to resolve your issues during the lockdown period," she said. The officer said visas of foreigners who are stranded in India due to the coronavirus lockdown will be extended till the midnight of May 3 upon receiving an online application. Exit to such foreign nationals, if so requested by them during this period, will also be granted up to 14 days beyond May 3 without levy of overstay penalty, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-states-uts-activated-emergency-response-centres-mha-on-lockdown-827018.html
18-04-2020||National||Three CRPF jawans killed, two hurt in Sopore militant attack||Three CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force) personnel were killed while two others were injured when militants attacked a paramilitary party in Sopore area of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Saturday. Reports said the militants opened fire on a joint party of CRPF and police at Noorbagh near Ahad Bab’s crossing in Sopore, 52 km from here, injuring five paramilitary personnel. The injured were evacuated to a nearby hospital, where two among them were declared dead on arrival while the third succumbed later. J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh while confirming the incident said three CRPF jawans were killed and two others injured in the militant attack. He said the militants attacked a CRPF vehicle on duty in Sopore town. Soon after the incident security forces cordoned off the area and launched a search operation to nab the attackers, reports said. On April 8, security forces had killed a Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) commander in an encounter in Sopore. On April 5, five unidentified militants and an equal number of soldiers were killed as the Army foiled an infiltration bid by ultras along the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district. In fact, there are ample signs that after a hiatus of some years, militancy is returning to north Kashmir - a one-time hub of the Valley’s pro-Pakistan militant groups. While most of the encounters in recent months have been happening in southern districts of Kulgam, Shopian, and Pulwama, a senior police officer said, north Kashmir has more battle-hardened militants active on the ground than the South. “Contrary to what is being projected in the media that south Kashmir is a hotbed of militancy, the figures reveal that the north has more active militants. The militants in the north are mostly foreigners,” he told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-crpf-jawans-killed-two-hurt-in-sopore-militant-attack-827023.html
18-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: VP Naidu writes post on life in lockdown and how to make best of it||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday said he had not been confined to one place for a long time except during the Emergency, and described life during the ongoing coronavirus lockdown as a novel experience where he is trying to make the most of it by conditioning his mind to handle the uncertainty with equanimity. In a Facebook post, Naidu said he is trying to use the time in a constructive manner and enhancing his perception by reading good books and sharing thoughts and ideas with near and dear ones. "All this is made possible by making small and significant changes to my daily routine. No doubt my mobility is restricted, but my mind is brimming with new thoughts and ideas," he said. He said he has not done anything special except for "reorienting my mind". "I have never been used to this kind of confinement, except during the Emergency.  This is a novel experience to me and I am striving to make the most of it by conditioning my mind to handle the uncertainty with equanimity," he wrote. Every dark cloud has a silver lining and these testing times too have its advantages, he said. "The first and foremost is the fact that I am able to spend significant time with my wife Ushamma, which was not the case since our marriage in 1970," he said.  His wife, Naidu said, in particular is savouring every moment of their togetherness. "Since our marriage, I did not spend even a week at a stretch at our home," the former union minister wrote. After he is through with his official work, Naidu, who is also the Chairman of Rajya Sabha, uses time to speak with family members living in Nellore, Tamil Nadu and Hyderabad. He said the lockdown has given him to speak with veteran leaders, including former prime ministers Manmohan Singh and HD Deve Gowda, and LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, AK Antony, Ahmed Patel and Motilal Vora. "Such regular interactions, which otherwise are not possible, give great happiness to us," he said. Naidu also shared details of how he spends his day -- waking up at 5 AM and retiring by 9 PM. "Let us walk together on this difficult path with restraint and greater determination.  Let's fight this pandemic head-on. Only a controlled and compassionate mind can achieve anything," he said. Naidu said he wrote the post on request of his friends.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-vp-naidu-writes-post-on-life-in-lockdown-and-how-to-make-best-of-it-827026.html
18-04-2020||National||IRCTC served 10 lakh meals to poor, needy since March 28||From lemon rice in the south to 'khichdi-chokha' in the east and 'kadi chawal' in the north, the railways' catering and tourism arm IRCTC ensured that the meals were according to the taste buds of the region they were catering to. In the Delhi kitchen, veg pulao, poha and khichdi are prepared on a rotational basis. On Saturday, it distributed 9,260 meals in Delhi, 2,000 in Bengaluru, 1,000 in Hubli and 5,400 in Mumbai central, among others. "Since March 28 we have distributed 10 lakh meals and we plan to continue our efforts," IRCTC spokesperson Siddharth Singh said. In Delhi, IRCTC meals are provided to the poor and the needy twice everyday. Kitchens start making food at 6am and lunch is prepared by 11am. Dinner preparation starts at 1 pm and is ready by 6pm. Food is collected from the kitchen and delivered to the poor as well as the Railway Protection Force (RPF), Delhi government officials and Delhi Police staff on coronavirus duty. IRCTC is preparing food for people in all its 28 locations in the country, an official said. Kitchen staff are made to follow the norms strictly and are screened before entering the kitchen every day. The workers also sanitise their hands, wear head masks, gloves and face masks before entering the kitchen, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irctc-served-10-lakh-meals-to-poor-needy-since-march-28-827033.html
18-04-2020||National||2 more recover from COVID-19 in Assam, total rises to 11||Two more COVID-19 patients were discharged from a hospital on Saturday, taking the total number of persons recovered from the disease to 11 in Assam, out of 34 people who have tested positive for novel coronavirus in the state so far, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. The two persons were released from Mahendra Mohan Choudhury Hospital here after results of "their four successive tests came as negative", he said. They will spend the next 14 days under home quarantine as a precautionary measure, the minister. Apart from the two, Golaghat Civil Hospital had discharged four, Goalpara Civil Hospital three and Sonapur District Hospital two. Currently, 22 patients from Assam and another person from Nagaland are undergoing treatment in the state. One person died of the disease in Assam. Of the total 34 cases reported in Assam, 33 are related to the Tablighi Jamaat event at Nizamuddin in New Delhi. Golaghat with nine patients, Morigaon with six and Dhubri, Goalpara and Nalbari with four patients each have been identified as the five hotspot districts of Assam. The other districts with positive patients are two from Silchar and one each from Kamrup (Metro), Kamrup, Hailakandi, Lakhimpur and South Salmara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-more-recover-from-covid-19-in-assam-total-rises-to-11-827035.html
18-04-2020||National||Lockdown 2.0: Second wave of migrant workers hit Uttar Pradesh||Uttar Pradesh was hit by a second wave of migrant workers fleeing mainly from Mumbai and other places in Maharashtra after lockdown 2.0 and hundreds of them, bribing the cops and bypassing the barriers, arrived in the districts in Bundelkhand region of the state in the past two days. According to the sources, hordes of migrant workers have reached Jhansi, Etawah, Lalitpur, Banda, Mahoba and Kanpur in the state in the past couple of days. While a majority of them were stopped from proceeding towards their destinations in the eastern UP region and were quarantined, several of them managed to slip away, sources said. Sources said that these migrants, who mainly hailed from Mumbai and other nearby industrial towns in Maharashtra, 'bribed' the cops to cross the barriers and reached Madhya Pradesh. From MP, they travelled through hills and forested areas to bypass the barriers on the roads and reached the border districts in UP.   The officials said that many of them also travelled by hiding in the trucks. Scores of them were intercepted in UP by the cops. Only recently hundreds of migrant workers had assembled at Bandra railway station in Mumbai after rumours that the Railways had planned to run special trains to UP. Around two lakh migrant workers and their families had arrived in different parts in the state after the first lockdown was declared. Barely a few days back a migrant worker from Bihar, who had been quarantined in state's Bhadohi district, tested positive for Coronavirus setting off alarm bells in the authorities here. The officials said that it was the first case of COVID 19 among the migrant workers and that it was a worrying sign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-20-second-wave-of-migrant-workers-hit-uttar-pradesh-827039.html
18-04-2020||National||HC seeks Centre, Delhi govt stand on plea to safeguard domestic violence victims during lockdown||A bench of justices J R Midha and Jyoti Singh issued a notice to the ministries of Women and Child Development, Health and Information and Broadcasting, as well as the Delhi government and the women commissions here, seeking their stand on the petition by an NGO. The lawyers who appeared for both sides in the proceedings held via video-conferencing said the notice was issued in the matter to the Centre, the Delhi government and the women commissions. However, the detailed order is yet to be made available on the high court website. The NGO, All India Council of Human Rights, Liberties and Social Justice (AICHLS), has claimed that there were increasing number of domestic violence incidents since the nation was put under lockdown and sought an urgent intervention by the court. The bench, in its order, also directed the setting up of a high-level committee to look into the issues raised in the NGO's petition and submit a report by April 24, the next date of hearing. On Friday, the Delhi government and the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) had told the court that there are sufficient measures in place to safeguard the victims of domestic violence and child abuse amidst the COVID-19 lockdown in the country. The Women and Child Development department, represented by Delhi government additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose and advocate Urvi Mohan, told the court that sufficient facilities were available to house victims of domestic violence and children in need of care and protection. The department had also said there were 24x7 helplines in place and when a complaint was received, rescue of victim(s) was carried out immediately. The DCW, represented by advocate Rajshekhar Rao, told the court that the volume of calls on its helpline - 181 - has gone down after April 1. However, there was a spike in the call volume between March 26 and March 31, but it was largely for seeking clarity in relation to the imposition of the lockdown. Normally, on an average, the DCW receives around 1500-1800 calls, it told the court. The DCW also said that an analysis of the calls received on its helpline during the lockdown indicated no rising trend in domestic violence cases. "On the contrary, the number of cases reported to the helpline have decreased. While no definite conclusion can be drawn, this is probably due to the circumspection on the part of victims in reporting such incidents due to the presence of the perpetrators in the house and the fear of further violence if such attempt to report were made known to the perpetrator," the commission said. It also said that the cases of molestation, sexual assault, stalking etc., "have decreased manifold presumably since a large number of these incidents take place outside the domestic setting and by third parties". "The reported cases of rapes have also decreased by 71 per cent (approx.), again presumably due to the perpetrators being third parties and the location of the attacks being outside the household. "Kidnapping cases reported to the helpline have also seen a fall of more than 90 per cent," the commission said. AICHLS, in its plea, has contended that incidents of domestic violence and child abuse have gripped not only India but countries such as Australia, the UK and the USA, and the reports suggest that countries are witnessing a horrific surge in domestic violence cases since the COVID-19 outbreak and lockdowns. The plea has claimed that the helpline numbers across the country have received about 92,000 calls on domestic abuse and violence in the first 11 days of the lockdown alone and sought to appoint nodal officers to attend to such distress calls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-seeks-centre-delhi-govt-stand-on-plea-to-safeguard-domestic-violence-victims-during-lockdown-827044.html
18-04-2020||National||Lockdown: Woman attends husband's funeral through video call||In a heart-wrenching scene, a woman in Maharashtra's Sindhudurg district had to witness her husband's last rites 490 km away through a video call. With lockdown to contain coronavirus in force, there was no way for Vasanti Bandekar, resident of Morle village in Dodamarg tehsil, to travel to Mumbai where her husband Chandrakant died on Thursday. "My father died here of cancer on April 16. There was no way to take the body to our village, nor could we get mother here due to the lockdown," said Amit, the couple's son. "So we had to resort to video call facility to let mother see him for the last time and pay respects," a grief-stricken Amit told PTI.  Chandrakant, who was visiting his son in Mumbai, was diagnosed with last-stage cancer on March 22, a day before the lockdown was announced. "We took him for a check-up as he was not feeling well, and found that he had cancer. We did not tell mother about the diagnosis as she was alone back in the village," Amit said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-woman-attends-husbands-funeral-through-video-call-827046.html
18-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Fresh case detected in HP's Una; district tally now 16||A person, who had earlier recovered from the novel coronavirus, tested positive for the infection again on Saturday, taking the number of active cases in Himachal Pradesh to 23, officials said. One more person tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 40, according to the officials. Recurrence of COVID-19 in one of the patients who had recovered from the infection has been reported from Una district, a health official said. As per the statistics provided by the state health department, one of the three cured patients in Una has again tested positive. However, details of the case were not immediately available. A total of 16 confirmed cases were found in Una and the chart now shows 14 active cases and two cured. After the latest development, 11 patients -- three each from Chamba, Kangra, and Solan districts and two from Una district -- have recovered. The fresh case was identified as a Tablighi Jamaat member who had recently returned from Nizamuddin in Delhi and is a resident of Amb subdivision in Una, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Sandeep Kumar said. The DC told PTI that the man had returned to his home in Jaman Kuali village in Rajpur Jaswan panchayat around March 8-9 after attending a congregation in Nizamuddin last month. "We are surprised that he has been found positive over a month after returning from Nizamuddin Markaz. He may have come in contact with some other positive COVID-19 person. We are trying to find his primary contacts," he added. Four persons were shifted to a private hospital outside the state, while two others have died. The two deceased persons include a 70-year-old woman from Delhi who was staying in Baddi since March 15 and died at PGIMER, Chandigarh on April 2||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-fresh-case-detected-in-hps-una-district-tally-now-16-827048.html
18-04-2020||National||All courts in J&K, Ladakh directed to treat cases of domestic abuse as urgent||The Jammu and Kashmir High Court directed all courts in the Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh on Saturday to treat the cases of domestic abuse as urgent and proceed with those in accordance with the circulars issued regarding the procedure to be followed to ensure social distancing. Taking suo motu (on its own) notice of the negative impact of the ongoing lockdown imposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic on women and girls, a bench of Chief Justice Geeta Mittal and Justice Rajnesh Oswal heard the matter from their respective residences through video-conferencing. The court highlighted the point that globally it has been observed that the adverse social and economic consequences of the pandemic for women and girls are devastating. It issued notices to the social welfare department secretary, the governments of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, and the member-secretary of the Jammu and Kashmir State Legal Services Authority (JKSLSA), asking them to submit a report with regard to the steps taken against domestic or any other kind of violence on women on account of the lockdown. The court directed the officials concerned to examine several remedial measures taken by various countries in this regard and take steps to mitigate the sufferings of the victims of domestic violence in the two Union territories. It directed that a report on the measures in place, steps underway and those being contemplated be placed before it ahead of the next date of hearing. The JKSLSA secretary was directed to call for a list of all cases of domestic violence pending as complaints at the police stations of the Union territories or in the courts and ascertain the safety and well-being of the complainants. The JKSLSA secretary may seek the assistance of police and para-legal volunteers in this regard, the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-courts-in-jk-ladakh-directed-to-treat-cases-of-domestic-abuse-as-urgent-827051.html
18-04-2020||National||Railways transports record foodgrain to help the poor amid coronavirus lockdown||With the Centre and state governments announcing free rations to poor during lockdown period, the Indian Railways have been transporting record foodgrains to different parts of the country to be distributed to poor under Public Distribution System (PDS) for the past three weeks. The Railway transported more than 4.2 million tonnes of foodgrains from March 25 to April 17, 2020. Compared to last year, this year it was almost near double quantity.  Last year the same period, around  2.31 million tonnes of foodgrains transported, said an official from the railways.  These foodgrains have been lifted from Food Corporation Of India (FCI) godowns and sent to various states.  "The Railways is making all efforts to ensure that farm products like foodgrains are picked up on time and also to ensure uninterrupted supply chain," said an official from the Ministry of Railways. The loading, transportation and unloading of these essential commodities have been in progress in full swing during the lockdown period in coordination with Ministry of Food and Consumer Affairs. Besides, a large quantity of pulses also transported by national transporter during lockdown period.   The railways has also been taking several routes for operating Parcel Special Trains since the start of the lockdown transporting perishable commodities including fruits, vegetables, milk and dairy products and seeds for agriculture purposes. Till April 17, total 66 routes have been notified to run parcel train with fixed time table. "These parcel Trains have been given en-route stoppages at all feasible locations, so that maximum possible clearance of parcels can be done," said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-transports-record-foodgrain-to-help-the-poor-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-827052.html
18-04-2020||National||Incorrect to say no health minister in Madhya Pradesh, CM is health minister: Senior official||A senior official in the Madhya Pradesh government Saturday said it is factually incorrect to say that there is no minister of health in the state as the chief minister himself is the health minister. His assertion assumes significance as Congress MP Vivek Tankha had on Friday termed the state of affairs in Madhya Pradesh appalling and had emphasised for an administrative structure in the state's health department, which is working without a dedicated minister. Currently, there is no health minister in Madhya Pradesh as Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who took oath as the chief minister on March 23, is yet to have his council of ministers. "It is factually incorrect to say that I do not have the health minister. I do have a health minister. The chief minister is the health minister as on date. As far as the legality of the issue is concerned it is absolutely clear to me as a government servant that I have a health minister," Additional Chief Secretary (Health), Madhya Pradesh government, Mohammed Suleman said, while interacting with some Delhi-based journalists via video-conferencing. To a question on a large number of officials of the health department being tested positive for the coronavirus, he said the issue has hurt the image of the department but has not affected its working. "It has become a very sensitive issue. I must admit that it has hurt our image. It has been a setback as far as our image is concerned but there has been no effect on our functioning," said Suleman, a 1989-batch IAS officer. He said it is a fact that the infection in the health directorate travelled up. Of around 200 coronavirus positive cases in Bhopal, a large number involves health department officials. Giving details of the possible cause of infections, Suleman said people in the health directorate were in charge of different districts of the state and they were travelling to the areas under them. "The health directorate was functioning in a hyper active mode. They had a control room (to track COVID-19 related matters) and there were 50 people working in that control room. So immediately the virus must have travelled to them. Damage was already done till the time people came to know about it. Total 90 people in the health department including their family members got infected. I am happy to say that all of them are comfortable now. None of them has serious symptoms. None of them is in ICU. Some of them have tested negative," he said. Suleman rejected the reports in some sections of the media against a senior IAS officer, who was heading the state department and reportedly avoided getting admitted to hospital despite being tested positive for coronavirus. "Somebody trying to fight an epidemic of this size and working for a long time, no matter what precautions you take, the challenge remains that you might get infected. If you look at the way the Prime Minister of England got infected, their health minister got infected and many other senior politicians got infected. So whatever you do there are chances of people getting affected," he said. Suleman said the health team was working full time, for 16-18 hours a day, and trying to be active and getting in touch with the people. "So the chance of them getting infected (was there). In hindsight I could say they could have taken better precautions and all of us could have taken better precautions but the fact remains it happened this way," he said. On a photo of the officer concerned that went viral on social media, Suleman said the circulated picture is not about the treatment at all. "That was about (her) sample collection at home and I said that that was our primary task. The guys who are reportedly showing symptoms, we would prefer going to their home to collect the samples. She is in hospital. She is not being treated. She is just there in isolation. That is it. Nothing more. "Coming to office and working hard is a positive sign. In hindsight one can say that you need to be careful but in the last week of March ask yourself, you and me, how aware were we about the real danger (of the pandemic)," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/incorrect-to-say-no-health-minister-in-madhya-pradesh-cm-is-health-minister-senior-official-827053.html
18-04-2020||National||13 more COVID-19 positive cases take J&K total to 341||Thirteen more positive cases on Saturday raised the total number of COVID-19 positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir to 341. “Status Update: No new cases from Jammu Division,  13 from Kashmir;  Total positive cases now 341 (54 Jammu and 287 Kashmir). Further details in daily media bulletin (sic),” J&K government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal, tweeted. There have been five deaths due to the virus in J&K while the number of active positive cases stands at 294. A total of 42 people have been declared recovered from the viral infection. In the last few days, the laboratories in Kashmir have been upscaling their testing capacity. Official data reveals that Chest Diseases Hospital in Srinagar has increased its testing capacity drastically over the past five days. While on 1 April, 68 samples were tested at the lab, it increased to 115 samples on April 8 and 284 samples on April 13. Similarly, at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital, the tests carried out have been increasing gradually. On 5 April, 141 tests were carried out at the lab, which gradually increased to 185 on April 13 and 344 on April 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/13-more-covid-19-positive-cases-take-jk-total-to-341-827054.html
18-04-2020||National||No fresh case of coronavirus in Bhilwara for several days: Rajasthan Health Minister||Massive contact tracing of coronavirus positive patients and screening of people under an aggressive containment model helped authorities check the spread of the disease in Bhilwara district, one of the country’s COVID-19 hotspots. The "Bhilwara model" has come in for praise from several quarters including Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and the Union cabinet secretary. A total of 1,282 people were found infected with coronavirus in the state out of which 183 people have been cured and 93 of them discharged from hospital, the health minister said. Curfew restrictions have been imposed at 49 places in the state as a precautionary measure, Sharma said. Due to high population density in Ramganj in the state capital, the government has built quarantine centres in Nayla and Mahla areas of the city with a combined capacity of up to 15,000 people, the health minister said. More than 1,800 people are currently availing quarantine facilities at the centres. Rapid testing kits have also arrived in the state that would be used to augment existing methods to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection, he added. Sharma assured that medical infrastructure in the state will be strengthened as Chief Minister Gehlot has instructed all district collectors to hold a meeting with medical officers in 10 days and prepare a blueprint for strengthening medical facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-fresh-case-of-coronavirus-in-bhilwara-for-several-days-rajasthan-health-minister-827056.html
18-04-2020||National||Plea in SC challenges order to pay full wages, salary during coronavirus lockdown||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court by a public limited company, questioning the validity of the orders issued by the Centre and the Maharashtra government to pay full salary to employees during the period of lockdown. In a writ petition, Nagreeka Exports Limited contended that the National Disaster Management Authority and National Executive Committee constituted under the National Disaster Management Act have no power to direct the employers to make payment to their workers, without any deduction, during the period of lockdown. It said the orders issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on March 29 and Maharashtra government on March 31 were violative of fundamental rights, besides being "illegal, unethical, improper and illegitimate".   "The orders have taken into consideration only the employee class and have totally ignored the rights of the employer. COVID-19 is adversely impacting both employer and employee class. Therefore, the government ought to have taken a balanced view so that both these classes could overcome this unprecedented situation," the plea said.  The petitioner sought permission to pay wages at the rate of 50 per cent of basic pay plus dearness allowance to its workers or employees.  The company also contended that the workers' absenteeism has led to zero production in this period. In such a scenario, if the employers are forced to make payment to the workers for the entire lockdown period, it may lead to closure of many micro, small and medium scale industries, causing permanent unemployment of many people and detriment to the economy, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-challenges-order-to-pay-full-wages-salary-during-coronavirus-lockdown-827059.html
18-04-2020||National||"Handing over" COVID-19 data to US firm: Kerala IT secy says he is solely responsible for decision||Days after the opposition slammed the LDF government for allegedly handing over data of COVID-19 patients to a US-based company, IT Secretary M Sivashankaran said on Saturday he was solely responsible for taking the decision "for effective handling of the situation." "As per my professional evaluation, it was not necessary to consult the legal department at that time. If my call was wrong, I am ready to rectify it. I took the decision and no one else is responsible. I signed the purchase order. It was my call," he said. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on April 15 justified his government's move, saying the state has complete control of the personal information collected. The Opposition Congress has charged that a US company had been entrusted with collecting data on virus infected patients and that it was a violation of their fundamental rights. Vijayan had said that the application, provided free of cost by the company, is deployed as software as a service (SaaS) model. SaaS is a software distribution model in which a third- party provider hosts applications and makes them available to customers over the Internet. Opposition Congress Leader Ramesh Chennithala has alleged that the data, collected by the government machinery, was being uploaded not in the government server, but in that of the foreign company. Chennithala also termed as a serious issue, "handing over" such secret data considered as "protected health information" by countries, to a foreign private agency. The ward-level committees set up by the government for the COVID-19 fight collects information of those in home isolation, the elderly and those at the risk of contracting the disease using a questionnaire and uploads it on the private agency's server. Congress leaders, including Oommen Chandy, state Congress chief Mullappally Ramachandran and others have also attacked the government over the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/handing-over-covid-19-data-to-us-firm-kerala-it-secy-says-he-is-solely-responsible-for-decision-827064.html
18-04-2020||National||Man tests positive to COVID-19 in Odisha, tally climbs to 61||A man from Odisha's Balasore district tested positive for coronavirus, taking the number of cases in the state to 61, officials said on Saturday. Three people from Bhubaneswar have recovered from COVID-19 and the number of active cases in the state now stands at 36, they said. "A 58-year-old man from Balasore district has tested positive for COVID-19," Health and Family Welfare Secretary N B Dhal said at the daily briefing here. The government has launched contact tracing of the fresh case and follow up action is in progress, he said. With this case, Dhal said, coronavirus cases have been reported from 10 of Odisha's 30 districts. Earlier, cases were reported from Khurda (46), Bhadrak (3), Sundergarh, Kendrapara, Kalahandi and Jajpur (two cases each) and Cuttack, Puri, Dhenkanal (one case each) districts. Meanwhile, the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry said Puri and Bhadrak in Odisha are among 47 COVID-19 affected districts where no fresh case has been reported in the last 14 days. A health department official said three COVID-19 patients hailing from Bhubaneswar have recovered, taking the total number cured people in the state to 24. With the recovery of these three people, the number of active cases in the state has dropped to 36, he said. Odisha has so far tested 8,619 samples of which 61 were found positive, according to the official. The ratio of positive cases in Odisha remains at 0.7 per cent, he said. Of the total 61 cases in Odisha, 46 are from Bhubaneswar, a coronavirus hotspot. Of these, 15 patients have recovered, he said. The official said Odisha did not report any fresh cases on Wednesday and Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-tests-positive-to-covid-19-in-odisha-tally-climbs-to-61-827069.html
18-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Amit Shah reviews lockdown situation, takes stock of supply of essential commodities||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday reviewed the prevailing situation in the country during the ongoing lockdown and took stock of the supply of essential commodities, officials said. During the meeting, he was apprised about the steps taken by the home ministry to provide support to migrant workers who are stranded in different parts of the country. Shah also reviewed the working of a 24x7 control room set up to monitor the coronavirus pandemic and coordinate with states and union territories. "The home minister reviewed the working of MHA control room and reviewed COVID-19 situation in various states in a meeting with officers.  "The control room is operational 24x7 and is coordinating with states as well as with various ministries of the central government," a home ministry spokesperson said. The meeting was attended by his two junior ministers G Kishan Reddy and Nityanand Rai, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla and other senior officers. Earlier, Shah called up Jammu and Kashmir DGP Dilbag Singh and conveyed his deep appreciation for effective lockdown and excellent services rendered by all ranks of J&K Police. Shah also complimented the Jammu and Kashmir Police for good counter-terrorism and law and order management in the union territory. The lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from March 24 for 21 days -- till April 14 -- in a bid to combat the coronavirus pandemic. The lockdown was further extended till May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-amit-shah-reviews-lockdown-situation-takes-stock-of-supply-of-essential-commodities-827071.html
18-04-2020||National||Three lakh more Rapid Antibody Test kits sent to India from China: Envoy||Three lakh more Rapid Antibody Test kits being used for the quick detection of the COVID-19 have been dispatched to India from the Chinese city of Guangzhou, the Indian envoy here said on Saturday, as India ramped up the global hunt to procure more coronavirus testing kits to tackle rising cases of the infection. About three lakh Rapid Antibody Test kits were airlifted to Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu from Guangzhou, Indian Ambassador to China Vikram Misri said. “Nearly 3 Lakh Rapid Antibody Tests have just been airlifted by @airindiain from #Guangzhou | Supplies are headed to Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu. Great work on ground by our team at @cgiguangzhou” Misri tweeted. This is in addition to 6.50 lakh Antibody Tests and RNA Extraction Kits dispatched from China earlier this week. India is procuring the medical supplies from China in recent weeks to ensure availability of adequate supplies. The Rapid Antibody Test Kits deliver results in 15 minutes and work on blood samples instead of nasal swabs to tell whether a patient has ever been exposed to the novel virus. The RNA extraction kit enables the total RNA extraction from tissues. This extracted RNA is a mix of a person's own genetic material and, if present, the coronavirus' RNA. Two major consignments of the medical kits were reported to have been sent to India from China earlier as part of the efforts to step up testing especially in hotspots during the ongoing lockdown in the country. India has been facing severe shortage of Personal Protection Equipments and testing kits in view of rising cases of the coronavirus. By Saturday evening, the death toll due to coronavirus infection in India rose to 488, while the number of cases climbed to 14,792, according to data provided by the Centre. On Tuesday, Misri told the media here that India has placed orders to procure 15 million personal protection gear from China for medical personnel treating COVID-19 patients, besides three million testing kits. The orders are being placed with bona fide firms with the help of the Chinese government. "I think facilitation of our needs and our requirements in a timely manner, in a smooth manner, on a predictable timeline at prices that are stable and orderly, would be the best signal possible to send for the India-China relationship," Misri said. Government sources in New Delhi had said large consignments of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits are being bought from a number of countries to meet their increasing demands by several states battling to stem the spread of the infection. In the wake of adverse reports about the quality of Chinese medical equipment, the Spokesperson in the Chinese embassy in New Delhi, Ji Rong, earlier said China attaches great importance to the export of medical products and that steps have been taken to ensure their quality. As demand for Chinese medical supplies scaled up due to the spread of the virus in several parts of the world, China on Wednesday asked all the countries to import these items through reputed Chinese firms cleared by the government and vowed to punish those involved in counterfeiting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-lakh-more-rapid-antibody-test-kits-sent-to-india-from-china-envoy-827070.html
18-04-2020||National||COVID-19 lockdown effect: J&K sees rise in domestic violence against women||Jammu and Kashmir High Court on Saturday ordered the courts to treat cases of domestic abuse as urgent and proceed with the matters in accordance with the circulars issued regarding the procedure to be followed to ensure social distancing. Taking a suo-moto notice of the negative impact of lockdown imposed due to COVID-19 pandemic on women and girls, a Coram consisting of Chief Justice, Justice Geeta Mittal and Justice Rajnesh Oswal today heard the case from their respective residences through video conferencing. The Court highlighted the point that globally it has been observed that the adverse social and economic consequences of the pandemic for women and girls are devastating. The HC issued notices to J&K government and asked it to submit a report with regard to the steps taken regarding domestic or any other kind of violence being faced by women on account of the implementation of the COVID-19 lockdown.  The Court also directed concerned officials to examine remedial measures taken by various countries in this regard and a view be taken with regard to the requirements and steps to be taken to mitigate the sufferings of the victims of domestic violence in the twin Union Territories. The Court directed that a report of the measures in place, steps underway and those contemplated be placed before it before the next date.  Furthermore, the Secretary, Jammu and Kashmir Legal Services Authority has been directed to call for a list of all cases involving cases of domestic violence which are pending as complaints with the police stations in the Union Territories or in the courts and ascertain the safety and well-being of the complainants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-effect-jk-sees-rise-in-domestic-violence-against-women-827072.html
18-04-2020||National||Parliament panel on finance should meet virtually to take stock of economy: Cong leader||As India grapples to contain the spread of COVID-19, Congress leader Manish Tewari has said the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance should meet to take stock of the country's economic situation and suggest ways to come out of the financial crisis due to the lockdown. In a letter to Jayant Sinha, Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance, Tewari has urged him to explore the feasibility of convening a meeting of the panel virtually to take stock of the situation. He said it is important to call the meeting as businesses and poor people are suffering amid the ongoing nationwide lockdown. Tewari urged Sinha to seek permission from the Lok Sabha speaker for making arrangements for the meeting and making secretarial staff available to facilitate it. He also said the views and suggestions of former prime minister Manmohan Singh are pertinent in this regard, as he is a noted economist known the world over. "With lockdown restrictions set to ease from April 20, may I request you to kindly speak to Speaker and explore the feasibility of Parliament Secretariat facilitating it," the Congress leader wrote in his letter to Sinha.  He said unemployment rates are soaring with some estimates putting the rate of urban unemployment at 30.9 per cent and the overall rate at 23.4 per cent. The former Union minister added that businesses across the board need to be recapitalised to kickstart the economy. The government did announce some relief measures on March 27, amounting to 0.7-0.8 per cent of the GDP, and the Reserve Bank of India followed up with some initiatives on Friday. However, experts say that much more is needed to be done, he noted. "It is in this context, Parliament and especially the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance shoulders a very important responsibility," Tewari told Sinha. He said while Parliament had to be adjourned abruptly on March 23 because of COVID-19, it is still possible for the panel to convene a meeting virtually as it has only 30 members. "Both during World War I and World War II, British Parliament met regularly. The same was true of our Parliament during 1965 and 1971 India-Pakistan wars. "The objective of such a meeting is not to exercise oversight on the government's economic response, though I may dare say that is a legitimate function of Parliament, but to ensure that the 30 members on the committee are able to constructively engage with government functionaries to fine-tune and precision-point the government's response," the Congress leader wrote in the letter. Noting that COVID-19 is undoubtedly the most serious health challenge the world has confronted since the Spanish Flu of 1918, he said, "They did not know a virus then and we do not know the coronavirus now." However, another equally serious dimension to this unfortunate situation is the rapidly deteriorating economic scenario, Tewari said, adding that the last 25 days have demonstrated how fragile our economy is and that poor people are the worst sufferers in this tragedy. Highlighting the plight of the migrants stranded at various places across the country, he said a rough estimate puts the number of such people on the roads or in quarantine camps between eight and 11 crore. They are barely on a subsistence-level diet, which is hardly enough to sustain the levels of immunity required for fighting the disease, the Congress leader said, adding that sporadic reports of suicides because of the economic destitution are trickling in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-panel-on-finance-should-meet-virtually-to-take-stock-of-economy-cong-leader-827075.html
18-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Assam CM appeals to six states to take care of its people||Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Saturday called up his counterparts in six states including Karnataka to take care of its residents stuck there due to the lockdown and fear of coronavirus. Sonowal called up chief ministers of Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Rajasthan and requested them for the ‘safe keeping’ of the people of Assam stranded in their states by providing food, shelter, and security.  “I will be grateful to you if you please direct your respective district administrations for the safekeeping of the people of Assam who for the sake of their professional, academic, medical and other requirements got stranded in your respective states," said an official statement quoting Sonowal. The statement said the state government also sent letters to different state governments requesting them to help the stranded people of Assam. "Chief Minister Sonowal also told them that in Assam the entire government machinery has been alerted to provide ‘safekeeping’ including food, accommodation, and security if people from other states of the country got stuck up in Assam in view of COVID 19 lockdown. The Chief Minister also apprised them of the prevailing situation in Assam especially in view of coronavirus outbreak and the steps taken by Assam government in terms of real-time medical intervention and infrastructural up-gradation for the management of COVID 19 outbreak," it said.  Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told reporters in Guwahati that so far more than 4.32 lakh people from Assam, who remained stranded in other states got in touch with the state government through its helpline number seeking financial assistance. The state government is planning to offer some financial assistance to such people, belonging to the lower and lower-middle-income groups.   Assam has reported 34 COVID-19 positive cases so far of which 12 have already recovered and discharged from hospitals. One person succumbed to the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-assam-cm-appeals-to-six-states-to-take-care-of-its-people-827077.html
18-04-2020||National||Kins of Postal employees to get Rs 10 lakh compensation if they die due to coronavirus||The Centre on Saturday announced to provide a compensation of Rs 10 lakh each to families of all postal employees succumbing to COVID-19 on duty. “In the context of COVID -19 situation, it has been decided to extend compensation of Rs.10 lakh to families of all Postal employees including Gramin Dak Sevaks (GDS) succumbing to the disease while on duty. The guidelines will come into effect immediately and continue for the entire period till the crises of COVID-19 is over.” an order from the Ministry of Communication, said. The government earlier declared the Department of Posts as essential services and asked all post offices to remain open for public services during the lockdown period. The Department of Posts also tied up with different organisations for the speedy delivery of medicines and other hospital equipments and COVID-19 testing kits across the country through special parcel trains or flight or through own vehicles during lockdown period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kins-of-postal-employees-to-get-rs-10-lakh-compensation-if-they-die-due-to-coronavirus-827085.html
18-04-2020||National||10 years after BP spill: Oil drilled deeper; rules relaxed||Ten years after an oil rig explosion killed 11 workers and unleashed an environmental nightmare in the Gulf of Mexico, companies are drilling in deeper and deeper waters, where payoffs can be huge but risks are greater than ever. Industry leaders and government officials say they're determined to prevent a repeat of BP's Deepwater Horizon disaster, which spilt 134 million gallons of oil that fouled beaches from Louisiana to Florida, killed hundreds of thousands of marine animals, and devastated the tourist economy. Yet safety rules adopted in the spill's aftermath have been eased as part of President Donald Trump's drive to boost U.S. oil production. And government data reviewed by the Associated Press shows the number of safety inspection visits has declined in recent years, although officials say checks of electronic records, safety systems and individual oil rig components have increased. Today, companies are increasingly reliant on production from deeper and inherently more dangerous oil reserves, where drill crews can grapple with ultra-high pressures and oil temperatures that can top 350 degrees (177 degrees Celsius). Despite almost $2 billion spent by the industry on equipment to respond to an oil well blowout like BP's, some scientists, former government officials and environmentalists say safety practices appear to be eroding. “I'm concerned that in the industry the lessons aren't fully learned — that we're tending to backslide,” said Donald Boesch, a University of Maryland professor who was on a federal commission that found the BP blowout was preventable. After the spill, oil giants created the Marine Well Containment Co., which has equipment and vessels ready to respond if another major spill occurs. “All of industry wanted to make sure that nothing like it could ever happen again,” said company CEO David Nickerson at the company's complex, near Corpus Christi on the Texas coast. Industry leaders say the administration's rule changes allow companies to deviate from “one-size-fits-all” standards not always suited to water pressure and other conditions at individual wells. Companies also have a financial interest in avoiding a repeat of an accident that has cost BP more than $69 billion in cleanup expenses, fines, fees and legal settlements. The rule changes under Trump, including less frequent safety tests, are projected to save energy companies $1.67 billion over a decade. An AP review found inspection visits by the U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement — created in the 2010 disaster's aftermath — went down more than 20% over the past six years in the Gulf. Bureau spokesman Sandy Day said government inspection data AP gathered reflects visits by inspectors to rigs, platforms and other facilities. But Day said the data doesn't show electronic records reviewed remotely or the increased time spent at each facility and all the inspection tasks performed. Those, he said, have increased from 9,287 in 2017 to 12,489 last year. “While on the facility we did numerous inspections of different items,” Day said, including equipment meant to prevent major accidents. He added that electronic records allow more work to be done from shore, rather than on site.  Industry advocates say the drop reflects greater emphasis on complex systems that influence safety and note that there are fewer, if much bigger, active oil platforms. As wells close to shore run dry, the average drilling depth in deeper waters steadily increased, from about 3,500 feet (1,070 meters) beneath the surface in 1999 to more than 4,600 feet (1,400 meters) in 2019, according to AP analysis of data from the U.S. Interior Department's Bureau of Ocean Energy Management. Drilling deeper makes well sites harder to reach in a blowout or other accident. In the past year, the industry began producing crude from ultra-high pressure reserves in the Gulf, where well pressures can top 20,000 pounds per square inch, much more than Deepwater Horizon. “Higher risk, higher pressure, higher temperatures, more reliance on technology — it's just a tougher environment to operate in,” said Lois Epstein, a Wilderness Society civil engineer who served on a government advisory committee formed to improve drilling safety after the spill. The safety debate has recently centered on rules for keeping wells under control, such as requirements for blowout preventers that failed in the Gulf spill. Under Obama, companies were required to test devices every 14 days. The Trump administration allowed companies upon approval to test every 21 days, saying more frequent testing would risk equipment failure under extreme conditions. Inspection visits by the government's safety bureau fell from 4,712 in 2013 to 3,717 in 2019, according to data reviewed by AP. The decline coincided with increased focus on higher risk facilities, including those with historical problems. Warnings and citations to companies for safety or environmental violations peaked in 2012 and have since fallen faster than inspection visits. The decline accelerated under the current administration. Fewer inspections and citations suggests safety improvements after the spill are unraveling, said Matt Lee-Ashley, formerly of the Interior Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-years-after-bp-spill-oil-drilled-deeper-rules-relaxed-827097.html
18-04-2020||National||COVID-19: ICMR launches study on side effects of hydroxychloroquine||Some health care workers in India who self-medicated themselves with anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine have shown side effects like abdominal pain, nausea and hypoglycemia among others, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Saturday. Head of Epidemiology and Communicable diseases at ICMR Raman R Gangakhedkar said the ICMR has launched a study on side effects of HCQ using data of some health care workers who had started taking it. “The average age of such health workers...is 35 years. The most visible side effect was that of abdominal pain which was reported in ten per cent of all those who consumed the medication while nausea-like symptoms were reported in 6 per cent. "A fewer proportion -- around 1.3 per cent -- had hypoglycaemia," Gangakhedkar said. He said that the study so far has revealed that 22 per cent of these health care workers who consumed HCQ had existing co-morbidities like diabetes or blood pressure problems or vascular-related ailments or respiratory illnesses and they started taking the drug out of fear of contracting the disease. "What has come to fore is that despite they being health care workers, 14 per cent of them did not even got their ECG checked before having it," Gangakhedkar said. He further informed that AIIMS is conducting studies on assessing both prophylactic and therapeutic impact of HCQ on COVID-19, i.e. the ability of the drug for both prevention and healing. "We need to understand that at many places health care workers out of fear are trying to take this medicine and in some places the consumption is not that high so it impacts the study design and collection of data. We are facing difficulty in finding a homogenous population," the scientist said. He underlined that even health care workers should consume the drug after proper consultation with doctors. Gangakhedkar further said that the ICMR has also initiated a separate study to find out the efficacy of hydroxychloroquine as a preventive medicine for COVID-19 in which around 480 patients will be enrolled and studied for eight weeks. The ICMR has earlier recommended the use of drug as a preventive medication to health care workers and household contacts looking after a positive case. Besides, the Union Health Ministry has also recommended use of hydroxychloroquine in combination with Azithromycin on those severely suffering from COVID-19 who require ICU management. "But then one should take it only if prescribed by a physician as the drug has side effects," the official had said. Responding to a question over antiviral medication Remdesivir, Gangakhedkar said the drug which was used during the Ebola outbreak may inhibit the SARS-CoV-2 replication and research on its efficacy in the treatment of COVID-19 is a part of the WHO's 'solidarity trial.' "Recently reported study on use of remdesivir for COVID-19 treatment is not a clinical trial, but an observational study which found that 68 per cent or two out of three patients after treatment with the drug did not require ventilator support or their need for oxygen support reduced, " he said. "However, while the manufacturer Gilead Sciences says that it is likely to be beneficial, data on the interim analysis being done by them is not yet available," Gangakhedkar said. If Remdesivir is found to be effective two three weeks down the line, we can either do patent pooling because its a pandemic or see if some local company can manufacture it, he said adding Remdesivir, developed by Gilead Sciences Inc is not presently available in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-icmr-launches-study-on-side-effects-of-hydroxychloroquine-827114.html
18-04-2020||National||Renewed focus by armed forces to insulate 15 lakh personnel from coronavirus||The outbreak of coronavirus at a key naval facility in Mumbai infecting 26 sailors is a wake-up call for stricter implementation of all laid down norms to insulate around 15 lakh armed forces personnel from the pandemic, military officials said on Saturday. All the three forces have already enforced a "no movement" policy under which almost all their bases have been put under total lockdown barring the wings handling key operational matters and strategic surveillance, they said. Official sources said the top brass in the defence ministry is reviewing the overall preparedness of the armed forces to deal with the pandemic. The Navy has strictly ordered all its bases to not allow any movement of its personnel and assets besides suspending all training activities after the first case of the infection was detected on April 7, a Navy official said. The Navy has suspended all transfers and fresh postings besides ordering people on leave to stay back home. Those onboard various ships and other platforms were told to extend their stay, he said. "We are now restricting the movement of people from one building to another building inside the bases and commands. We are restricting any movement to and from the bases," said another official. Former Navy Spokesperson Capt (retd) D K Sharma said the situation is "very dangerous" and all wings of the armed forces must follow the instructions of the prime minister as well as the service chiefs. "People should follow the guidelines in letter and spirit. If the prime minister and the services chiefs are saying that coronavirus is a hidden enemy, if they are saying that it is a huge challenge, then lets take the challenge head on," he said. "We should not let our guard down. Now the strength is not in being together, the strength is in being isolated," Sharma said  An Indian Air Force official said the Air Headquarters have issued specific guidelines to all the bases and establishments to insulate the personnel as well as platforms from the virus. The IAF has not reported any case of the infection so far. He said the aircraft sent on various evacuation missions to coronavirus-infected countries were too "quarantined" for 14 days besides being "disinfected" thoroughly. An Army official said a "rigorous protocol" is being followed at all the bases and establishments of the force to protect the 15 lakh armymen from the virus. Listing the measures, he said all the establishments are operating with a skeleton staff and people coming back from leave or emergency out-station assignments are being made to stay "separately" for at least a couple of weeks. "We are even extending the distance between the beds in barracks. It is an invisible war we are fighting," the official said. About front-line bases along borders with Pakistan and China, the official said stricter norms are being followed to insulate them and that chances of the virus travelling to the areas were minimum. The official said movement of people in 62 cantonments has also been strictly restricted as part of precautionary measures. All the infected sailors of the Navy were serving at the INS Angre in Mumbai, a shore-based logistics and support establishment, and they are currently undergoing treatment at a Navy hospital. The Navy has launched a large-scale contact tracing operation to track people who may have come in contact with the sailors. Almost all the residents of the building inside INS Angre are being tested, the sources said. The Western Naval Command is considered a strategic establishment as it takes care of India's maritime interests in the the Arabian Sea as well as parts of the Indian Ocean. The Naval dockyard in Mumbai is only few hundred metres away from INS Angre. The outbreak of the coronavirus cases in Western Naval Command comes at a time when a number of navies globally are grappling with the pandemic. Over 660 sailors on board the USS Theodore Roosevelt, an aircraft carrier of the US Navy, reported coronavirus infection. A third of the nearly 2,000 sailors on board French Navy's aircraft carrier Charles-de-Gaulle and its support ships also infected the virus. The Indian Army on Thursday directed all its military establishments, cantonments, formation headquarters and field units to totally restrict movement of forces till April 19 in view of the government's fresh lockdown related guidelines. The order also mentioned that offices in Army headquarters, command headquarters and formation headquarters would start functioning with 50 per cent manpower from April 19 to May 3. It said all training activities and temporary duties will remain suspended till May 3, adding directions on actions to be taken post the lockdown period will be issued on receipt of fresh orders from the government. In a statement, the Navy said the detection of coronavirus cases is a result of meticulous contact tracing and aggressive screening as well as testing of people in a shore-based establishment after one sailor tested positive for the infection on April 7. All the infected sailors were staying at a bachelors' residential block at the INS Angre, a shore-based logistics and support establishment, just few hundred metres away from the main Naval dockyard housing a range of front-line warships and submarines of the force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/renewed-focus-by-armed-forces-to-insulate-15-lakh-personnel-from-coronavirus-827120.html
18-04-2020||National||TMC govt in WB stopping BJP workers from carrying out relief works: J P Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda slammed the Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal, accusing it of stopping his party's workers from carrying out relief works in the state during the COVID-19 crisis for "political reasons". Nadda interacted with the BJP's elected representatives, state unit chiefs and office bearers in Rajasthan, West Bengal, Karnataka and Maharashtra on Saturday, the party said in a statement. Noting that party workers are facing obstacles and trouble in carrying out relief work in Congress-ruled Rajasthan and in West Bengal, Nadda said the state governments should rise above politics. Applauding party workers for doing a "good job" in reaching out to the needy and helping them amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, he said, "It is unfortunate that the TMC government in West Bengal is stopping BJP workers from carrying out relief work in the state during this crisis and doing politics over it." He also asked the BJP workers to make people aware about announcements made by the RBI to boost the economy hit by the lockdown. The Reserve Bank of India on Friday cut the reverse repo rate and announced a slew of measures including re-finance window of Rs 50,000 crore and targeted long-term repo operations of similar amount to deal with the impact of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-govt-in-wb-stopping-bjp-workers-from-carrying-out-relief-works-j-p-nadda-827123.html
18-04-2020||National||COVID-19 mortality rate in India around 3.3%: Health ministry||The Union Health Ministry on Saturday said the mortality rate for COVID-19 cases in India is around 3.3 per cent, while over 13 per cent patients have recovered so far. Addressing a daily media briefing about the novel coronavirus situation in the country, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said data indicates that of the people who died due the infection 14.4 per cent were between 0-45 years, 10.3 per cent between 45-60 years, 33.1 per cent between 60-75 years and 42.2 per cent were aged 75 and above. "We saw that 75.3 per cent deaths were among those aged 60 or above and in 83 per cent cases there were co-morbidities," he said and reiterated that the elderly and those with co-morbid conditions are at high risk. By Saturday evening, the death toll due to coronavirus infection in India rose to 488, while the number of cases climbed to 14,792, according to data provided by the Centre. While the number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 12,289, as many as 2,014 people have been cured of the disease and discharged, and one had migrated, it said. About containment strategies implemented along with the lockdown, Agarwal said field-level actions are fetching positive results in several places.     "A positive trend has been noted in 47 districts of 23 states and Union Territories. Kodagu in Karnataka is a new district added to this list along with Mahe in Puducherry that has not reported any fresh cases during the last 28 days," the official said. Twenty-two new districts in 12 states have not reported any fresh case in the last 14 days. These districts include Lakhisarai, Bhagalpur and Gopalganj in Bihar, Udaipur and Dholpur in Rajasthan, Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir, Rohtak in Haryana and Vishakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, Agarwal said. He, however, stated that Patna in Bihar, Nadia in West Bengal and Panipat in Haryana where there were no COVID-19 positive cases in the first two weeks, have now reported incidents of the infection. Highlighting how continued efforts and cluster containment strategies have yielded positive results in Kerala's Kasargod district, the officer said out of 168 COVID-19 cases there, 113 have already been cured. "Most importantly, due to proper clinical management, not even one infected person died. The remaining 55 active cases are being monitored well." Talking about the challenges the district faced, Agarwal said it had 15.38 per cent of abroad population.  The third case reported in India in February with a travel history from China was contained quickly. After the return of people from West Asia on March 16 there was a sudden spurt in the number cases. Geographic position of the district also posed a challenge, he said. "They did monitored home quarantined people using geo-spatial tracking, and implemented break-the-chain campaign to promote social distancing, used drones and incident commanders. More than 17,300 contacts were traced and quarantined, aggressive and quick testing was done, COVID Care Centres and ICU facilities were set up," Agarwal said. One major intervention was that all primary and secondary contacts and high-risk cases were quarantined in isolation centres, he said. Urging people to follow the lockdown and guidelines of social-distancing to contain the spread of the virus, the joint secretary in the health ministry said, "We have to be on continuous vigil to fight this battle."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-mortality-rate-in-india-around-33-health-ministry-827125.html
18-04-2020||National||Spraying of disinfectant on people 'physically and psychologically harmful': Health ministry||Even if a person is potentially exposed with the COVID-19 virus, spraying the external part of the body does not kill the virus that has entered the body, it said, adding there is no scientific evidence to suggest that they are effective even in disinfecting the outer clothing/body in an effective manner. The ministry said it has received many queries regarding the efficacy (if any) of use disinfectants such as sodium hypochlorite spray used over the individuals to disinfect them. "The strategy seems to have gained of lot of media attention and is also being reportedly used at local levels in certain districts/local bodies," the ministry said. Disinfectants are chemicals that destroy disease-causing pathogens or other harmful microorganisms. It refers to substances applied on inanimate objects owing to their strong chemical properties. Chemical disinfectants are recommended for cleaning and disinfection only of frequently touched areas/surfaces by those who are suspected or confirmed to have COVID-19. Precautionary measures are to be adopted while using disinfectants for cleaning – like wearing gloves during disinfection. "Spraying of individuals or groups is not recommended under any circumstances. Spraying an individual or group with chemical disinfectants is physically and psychologically harmful," it said. Spraying of chlorine on individuals can lead to irritation of eyes and skin and potentially gastrointestinal effects such as nausea and vomiting. Inhalation of sodium hypochlorite can lead to irritation of mucous membranes to the nose, throat, respiratory tract and may also cause bronchospasm, the advisory said. Additionally use of such measures may in fact lead to a false sense of disinfection and safety and actually hamper public observance to hand washing and social distancing measures, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spraying-of-disinfectant-on-people-physically-and-psychologically-harmful-health-ministry-827130.html
18-04-2020||National||26 Navy personnel in Western Naval Command test positive for coronavirus||Ringing alarm bells for the military, 26 Indian Navy personnel have tested positive for coronavirus at the strategically-located Western Naval Command in Mumbai, in the first case of a major outbreak of the deadly infection in the armed forces. All the infected sailors were staying at a bachelors' residential block at the INS Angre, a shore-based logistics and support establishment, just few hundred metres away from the main Naval dockyard housing a range of frontline warships and submarines of the force. "The 26 sailors who were placed in isolation after testing positive for COVID-19 at Mumbai, belong to INS Angre, a shore establishment. There has so far not been a single case of COVID-19 onboard any ship, submarine or air station of the Indian Navy," the Indian Navy said in a statement.  As the outbreak triggered serious concerns, the Navy launched a large-scale contact tracing operation to track people who may have come in touch with the sailors. Coronavirus tests were conducted on all the people of the residential building inside INS Angre, the sources said. Swab samples of 130 people living in the residential block were sent for testing out of which results of only 60 have come. The positive cases were out of the 60 samples, the sources said adding the number of positive cases may go up once results of remaining samples come. The infected sailors are currently undergoing treatment at INHS Ashwini, a naval hospital in Mumbai. "The Indian Navy is committed to containing the spread of the infection to the maximum extent possible and remains operationally prepared as always, to meet any challenges in the maritime domain," the Navy said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and top military brass were briefed about the outbreak and they are keeping a close eye on the situation, the sources said, adding a review is being carried out on ways to insulate the 15 lakh-strong armed forces from the infection. The Western Naval Command is considered a strategic establishment as it takes care of India's maritime interests in the Arabian Sea as well as parts of the Indian Ocean. "Our naval assets continue to be mission-deployed in three dimensions, with all the networks and space assets functioning optimally. The Navy remains combat-ready, mission-capable and is in full readiness to partake in the national mission to fight the pandemic as well as to provide support to our friendly neighbours in the Indian Ocean Region," the Navy said. It said the detection of coronavirus cases was result of its "meticulous" contact tracing and "aggressive" screening as well as testing of people after one sailor tested positive on April 7. "All these sailors continue to remain asymptomatic and are being monitored at INHS Asvini, under the care of the best medical professionals. Since the sailor was tested positive for COVID-19, the entire premises of the unit have been sealed off," it said. It said containment zones and buffer areas have been designated and frequent disinfection continues to be carried out to contain spread by breaking the chain of transmission. "All other areas within naval premises have been under strict lockdown and stringent quarantine and safety protocols have been enforced for personnel and their families, with door to door screening being undertaken for identification of cases, if any," it said. The outbreak of the infection comes at a time when a number of navies globally are grappling with the pandemic. Over 660 sailors onboard the USS Theodore Roosevelt, an aircraft carrier of the US Navy, reported coronavirus infection. A third of the nearly 2,000 sailors onboard French Navy's aircraft carrier Charles-de-Gaulle and its support ships also infected the virus. The sources said the infected personnel were staying in single-room accommodation and barracks within INS Angre complex. In its statement, the Navy said all missions for coastal and offshore security continue as before. "Our assets continue to remain on patrol covering a vast oceanic swath from the Straits of Malacca in the East to Bab-el-Mandeb in the West, including undertaking Operation Sankalp to provide reassurance and protection to our merchant vessels and anti-piracy patrols in the Gulf of Aden," it said. The Navy said operational units are being maintained in readiness by following a 14-day quarantine routine to meet immediate contingencies. Sources said the Navy has ordered all its establishments to maintain the highest precaution to protect the personnel from the virus infection. It is the first case of a sizeable number of military personnel being treated for COVID-19. The Indian Army has reported eight cases of the deadly virus so far. Last week, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh, in a video message, told his personnel that vital operational assets such as ships and submarines must remain free from the virus. "The coronavirus pandemic is unprecedented and it has never been seen before. Its impact has been extraordinary across the globe, including India," he said. The danger posed by this disease is real, imminent and unprecedented, he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/26-navy-personnel-in-western-naval-command-test-positive-for-coronavirus-827132.html
18-04-2020||National||Ensure no pay cut to temporary employees: UP CM to officials||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday directed officials concerned to ensure that temporary and outsourced employees get their honorarium without any cut for the lockdown period. In a meeting with senior officials, the chief minister directed that in case of any temporary or outsourced employee working in educational institutes, hospitals or offices not being able to attend the office due to the lockdown, his honorarium should not be cut, said Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi. Such employees should be paid honorarium without any cut,” he said. The chief minister also directed to release a sum of Rs 1,000 per head for those belonging to weaker sections. In addition, he has also directed to provide Rs1,000 to the leftover families of the urban and rural areas who have not been covered so far in any welfare scheme. So far, the state government has given Rs 236. 98 crore as maintenance allowance to 23.70 lakh labourers from its resources, Awasthi said. The CM has directed officials to ensure delivery of the PPE kits and N95 masks in different areas. Reviewing the arrangement of community kitchens, CM Yogi said one needs to be cautious even in infection-free areas and ensure proper compliance of the lockdown rules. The ACS (Home) said the chief minister has instructed the chief secretary and the nodal officers to establish communication with other states in the context of the problems of state's citizens living there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-no-pay-cut-to-temporary-employees-up-cm-to-officials-827135.html
18-04-2020||National||3 new COVID-19 cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar; sector housing MP Mahesh Sharma's residence sealed||Three more people -- one in Noida and two in Greater Noida -- tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, taking the tally in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar district to 95, officials here said. The district administration has ordered temporary sealing of the areas linked to the new patients, including Noida's posh sector 15A, where Gautam Buddh Nagar MP Mahesh Sharma also resides. The administration has strictly restricted the movement of people into or out of sector 15A till May 3, except for emergency cases, the officials said. Meanwhile, two other patients, who were undergoing treatment for the disease, were discharged after being cured, they said. "Three new cases have been detected on Saturday. A 70-year-old woman from sector 15A in Noida and a 39-year-old man and a 35-year-old woman from Acchar village in Greater Noida have tested positive for the coronavirus," District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said. The elderly woman is a resident of Delhi and was visiting her son in Noida, Dohare said, adding she was tested at a private lab. "Eighty-two reports have been received in the last 24 hours, of which 79 resulted in negative and three positive. Total cumulative positive cases of coronavirus in Gautam Buddh Nagar so far is 95," the surveillance officer said in a statement.  The officer said 34 patients have been cured and discharged from hospitals in the district so far, leaving 61 cases of COVID-19 active. According to the Health Department, 2,005 samples were taken for COVID-19 test till Saturday. Currently, 1,119 people across Noida and Greater Noida are under surveillance, while 500 are in institutional quarantine, the department said. On cluster containment activity, the officials said 4,212 teams were deployed for gathering information and raising awareness in a concerted door-to-door campaign. These teams have visited 4,15,369 houses so far and screened 12,24,278 people. They have identified 1,045 people who had travelled abroad in recent months. All travellers have been put under surveillance, the officials added. Meanwhile, the district administration has temporarily sealed sector 15A in Noida till May 3, in compliance with protocols in a bid to contain the spread of the virus, Deputy Collector Rajiv Rai said. During the period, entering or exiting the sector will remain banned, except in emergency cases, for which residents can inform the Health Department's control room on 8076623612 or 6396776904 or contact the chief medical officer, he said in an order. Similarly, Acchar village and a private firm in Greater Noida's Kasna industrial area -- where one of the two new patients worked -- have been sealed until further orders, Deputy Collector Prasun Dwivedi said.  Violation of sealing orders will invite legal action, the administration warned. Gautam Buddh Nagar, adjoining Delhi, in western UP is among the districts worst-hit by coronavirus in the state but has a better recovery record, according to statistics. Uttar Pradesh has so far recorded 974 positive cases, with Agra (199) and Lucknow (163) on the top two positions, followed by Gautam Buddh Nagar (95), the statistics released by the state government on Saturday showed. PTI K||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-new-covid-19-cases-in-gautam-buddh-nagar-sector-housing-mp-mahesh-sharmas-residence-sealed-827137.html
18-04-2020||National||Not only MGNREGS, Govt to restart building roads, houses in villages too from Monday||The Government will next week restart building houses and roads in the villages across the country, in addition to running the rural job programme again. With the lockdown, which was imposed to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, being relaxed from Monday, the Union Ministry of Rural Development is coordinating with the State Governments to restart the implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana and the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Gramin) along with the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. The move is apparently aimed at speeding up the process of easing the distress on rural economy, caused by the nationwide lockdown.          The Union Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD), however, asked the State governments to ensure strict adherence to the social distancing norms by the workers in order to keep the COVID-19 virus away while implementing the schemes.  Rural Development Minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, on Saturday had a video-conference with the ministers and officials of the state governments.   He conveyed to the State governments that while implementing PMAY (G), priority should be given to complete the 48 lakh dwelling units, where third and fourth installments of fund had already been given to the beneficiaries of the scheme. He stressed on quick award of tenders in sanctioned road projects and starting pending road projects after restarting the implementation of the PMGSY.  Though the challenge posed by the COVID-19 pandemic is very serious, it must be perceived as an opportunity by the governments all the States and the Union Territories to develop and strengthen rural infrastructure, create employment opportunities in rural areas and facilitate diversification of rural livelihoods, Tomar said during the two-hour-long video-conference.  He emphasised that the focus of MGNREGS implementation should be on water conservation, water recharge and irrigation works in convergence with the schemes of Ministry of Jal Shakti and Department of Land Resources of the MoRD.  Soon after the Union Government on March 24 imposed the lockdown as well as travel and transport curbs to contain the pandemic, implementation of the MGNREGS, PMGSY, PMAY (G) and other schemes of the MoRD came to a halt.  The lockdown, which was originally scheduled to end on April 14, has now been extended till May 3. But the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Wednesday issued revised guidelines for the extended period. It also announced certain exemptions that would come into effect next Monday. The works under the MGNREGS has now been included in the list of exemptions from the lockdown.  The Centre later announced that rural construction works would also be exempted from lockdown from Monday till May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-only-mgnregs-govt-to-restart-building-roads-houses-in-villages-too-from-monday-827142.html
18-04-2020||National Politics||Rahul showed how opposition party should behave during crisis: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Saturday praised Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, saying that he has taken a positive stand over the coronavirus pandemic and shown how a responsible opposition party should behave during a crisis. The party, which shares power with Congress and NCP in Maharashtra, said that Gandhi took a stand in public interest and displayed political maturity when he said that he might have differences with Modi, but this is not the time to quarrel as the country needs to give a united fight against the pandemic. In an editorial in the party mouthpiece 'Saamana', the Sena said that Gandhi and Prime Minister Narendra Modi should hold one-on-one talks to discuss the pandemic for the benefit of the country.  "There can be certain opinions about Rahul Gandhi. Well, there are opinions about PM Narendra Modi and Amit Shah as well. Half of the BJP's success is due to tarnishing the image of Rahul Gandhi. This continues even today. "But Gandhi has to be praised for the stand he has taken in the present crisis. He has created a model code of conduct on how an opposition party should behave when the country is faced with a crisis," the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. "Gandhi recognised the coronavirus threat well in advance and continuously warned the government to take necessary steps. When everybody was busy pulling down the (Congress-led) Madhya Pradesh government, Gandhi was trying to wake the government up to tackle the coronavirus crisis," the Sena said. Gandhi repeatedly urged the government to stop the export of medical equipment required in the treatment of coronavirus patients, it added. "On Thursday, Gandhi again said that this is not the time to quarrel. He said, he might have difference with PM Modi, but this is not the time for it. He said that we need to unite in the fight against coronavirus pandemic and if we quarrel, we will not succeed in it," the party said.  "He also said that lockdown was not a remedy, but just a 'pause button' in the coronavirus fight. He said once the lockdown is lifted, the virus will once again spread, which is why tests should be conducted on maximum number of people. His statement that lockdown doesn't kill the virus, but allows the government to create medical facilities is completely true," it added. "We need to have a concrete strategy to come out of the lockdown," the Sena said. It added that the thoughts expressed by Gandhi are like a "chintan shibir" (brainstorming session) for the government and opposition parties, and would benefit the country. "After hearing Gandhi's views, we feel that he and PM Modi should hold direct talks over the coronavirus crisis at least once," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-showed-how-opposition-party-should-behave-during-crisis-shiv-sena-826876.html
18-04-2020||National Politics||Manmohan Singh to lead Congress' consultative group that aims at evolving party||The Congress on Saturday constituted a consultative group with former prime minister Manmohan Singh as its chairman to deliberate on "current concerns" and formulate views and policy of the party on important issues. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi will be a part of the group along with other leaders, while party's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala will be its convener. "The Congress president (Sonia Gandhi) has constituted a consultative group with Manmohan Singh as its chairman. The consultative group will meet virtually, normally every day, to deliberate on matters of current concern and formulate views of the party on various issues," a communique from AICC general secretary said. Besides Venugopal, other members of the panel are ex-finance minister P Chidambaram and former ministers Manish Tewari and Jairam Ramesh. The Congress's other leaders Praveen Chakravarty, Gaurav Vallabh and Supriya Shrinate, and the party's social media head Rohan Gupta are also part of the panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/manmohan-singh-to-lead-congress-consultative-group-that-aims-at-evolving-party-826897.html
18-04-2020||National Politics||Govt's relief packages 'peanuts'; should have been 9% of GDP: Moily||Moily's attack on the government came a day after RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das announced a string of relief measures for the stressed banking and financial sector. "The RBI governor's second package announced is no doubt a welcome move. In the first package both the government and the RBI provided a package which was less than 1% of GDP. In the second package, the financial package is just about 0.7% of GDP," the former Union minister said in a statement. "The conditions in India are harsher than any other country. The government should understand the gravity of the present situation and the multiple dimensions of the present crisis," he said. Moily claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the government have "underestimated" the damage caused to the economy and also the suffering of the people. "There is a big loss of jobs to the extent of 35 to 40 million. There is a direct loss of Rs 15 lakh crore due to the present lockdown. According to Nomura, it is estimated to be 7.7% of GDP," he said. The collection of GST is down by 40 per cent and the state governments which took the mantle of handling the present crisis including the issue of migrant labourers are left to fend for themselves, he claimed. "The government should have ensured at least a package of 9% of GDP which works to Rs 17.5 lakh crore. What the government and RBI has done is only peanuts which will not allow the economy to stabilise forget about taking-off," Moily said. The RBI provided the second package to ease the liquidity, but it forgets that the recent merger of banks has demoralised the staff and officials and the banking machinery appears to have collapsed. "State governments are not in a position to run normal budgetary programmes, forget about meeting the present war-like situation. The rural economy/agriculture has been totally paralysed," he said, adding that the state governments are not in a position to provide for any rescue operations. "The country's economy has been put in a disastrous situation and hunger is haunting 60 per cent of the country's populace," he said. The two packages announced reflect "lack of both seriousness and sensitiveness" of the government towards the plight of the people in the country. The government should also think of taking appropriate measures of tax exemptions for companies, relax regulations and also give up over regulation in the development sectors to ensure that the economy is put back on track, he asserted. Moily also suggested mobilizing funds and restructuring of loans to help needy companies and SMEs. The RBI on Friday further eased bad-loan rules, froze dividend payment by lenders and pushed banks to lend more by cutting the reverse repo rate by 25 basis points, as it unveiled a second set of measures to support the economy hit hard by a coronavirus-led slowdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govts-relief-packages-peanuts-should-have-been-9-of-gdp-moily-826932.html
18-04-2020||National Politics||Govt doing 'injustice' to retailers, seeks level-playing field for them: Congress||The Congress on Saturday highlighted the plight of retail traders during lockdown, alleging the government is doing "injustice" to them by allowing only e-commerce companies to sell non-essential items. Congress senior spokesperson Ajay Maken demanded a level-playing field for retailers and asked the Home Ministry to issue guidelines for online sales. "While their shops are locked down for last one months, their main competitors are open and have been allowed to sell non-essential items online. This is injustice to retailers and the government should not allow this," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-doing-injustice-to-retailers-seeks-level-playing-field-for-them-congress-826938.html
18-04-2020||National Politics||Nitish Kumar paid no heed to migrant labourers stuck outside Bihar, says Prashant Kishor||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor on Saturday took a swipe at Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, saying people from the state were stuck in different parts of the country but the JDU chief instead of raising this issue was giving lessons about "principles of lockdown".  "People from Bihar are stuck across the country, and Nitish Kumar is giving lessons in principles of lockdown. Various state governments may be doing something but Nitish has not spoken to the states concerned. He did not raise the issue during the meeting (of CMs) with the prime minister," Kishor tweeted.  Kishor, once a confidant of the JD(U) president before their differences led to his expulsion, attached a news report about Kumar's objection to the Uttar Pradesh government sending buses to bring back students from Kota in Rajasthan.  The Bihar chief minister has reportedly called it against the principles of lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nitish-kumar-paid-no-heed-to-migrant-labourers-stuck-outside-bihar-says-prashant-kishor-826942.html
18-04-2020||National Politics||Doordarshan not private property of BJP that it does their PR: CPI(M)||CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury on Saturday hit out public broadcaster Doordarshan, saying it is not the ruling BJP's "private property" that "it does their PR" exercise. For the last few days, state-owned Doordarshan (DD) has been broadcasting reports showing people across the country thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi and stating how they have benefitted from different schemes of the government. "The public broadcaster runs on public money and is meant to perform public service. It is not private property of the BJP or Modi, where it does their PR. Those in charge must be held accountable for this deliberate distortion in these critical times of a public health emergency," Yechury said in a tweet. In a tweet, Yechury said, "252 buses for free for the rich: Nothing except lathis for starving migrant workers -- another brutal reminder of how BJP has all along benefitted rich cronies at the expense of the many who need essentials. They bailed out rich borrowers by Rs 7.76 lakh crores – Rs 0 for the poor (sic)." "If BJP govts can send luxury buses to get rich pilgrims from Uttarakhand and elsewhere back to Gujarat and UP sends 100 buses for 7,500 students of rich families from Rajasthan, Centre must arrange for stranded starving workers: Not doing so is criminal," he said. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 480 and the number of cases to 14,378 in the country on Saturday, according to the Union Health Ministry. While the number of active cases of the infection stood at 11,906, as many as 1,991 people have been cured and discharged while one had migrated, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/doordarshan-not-private-property-of-bjp-that-it-does-their-pr-cpim-826962.html
18-04-2020||National Politics||Manmohan Singh to lead Congress consultative group on COVID-19||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh will lead the Congress’ 11-member consultative group on matters related to the Covid-19 outbreak, the party announced on Saturday. The setting up of the consultative group by Congress president Sonia Gandhi also marked Rahul Gandhi’s formal return to the decision making process in party affairs, which he had publicly avoided since his resignation as Congress president in August last year owning responsibility for the Lok Sabha poll debacle. The setting up of the consultative group also comes against the backdrop of a controversy over the Congress president’s suggestion to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about a complete ban on government advertisements to the print and electronic media which was roundly criticised by media Besides Singh and Rahul, the 11-member group comprises senior leaders such as P Chidambaram, Jairam Ramesh, KC Venugopal, Manish Tewari, Randeep Singh Surjewala, Praveen Chakravarty, Gourav Vallabh, Rohan Gupta and Supriya Shrinate. In a press release, Venugopal said the group will meet virtually every day to discuss the current issues and formulate the party’s stand on those. Congress has been critical of the Modi government’s response to tackling the Covid-19 outbreak, flagging issues of testing for the disease, the sudden announcement of the lockdown, the plight of the migrant workers and the farm sector.  Both the Congress president and Rahul have written letters to the prime minister offering suggestions to tackle the Covid-19 outbreak. Addressing a press conference on Thursday, Rahul has said the lockdown was a pause button and not a solution to fight the Covid-19 outbreak and stressed on the need to have a comprehensive exit strategy to ensure that the virus does not spread once the restrictions are lifted on May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/manmohan-singh-to-lead-congress-consultative-group-on-covid-19-827011.html
18-04-2020||National Politics||Congress government's 'help' to Tablighis led to spike in Covid-19 cases in MP: BJP||The COVID-19 cases have exponentially gone up in Madhya Pradesh due to the "help" provided to Tablighi Jamaat activists by the previous Congress government which did not take any steps to check the outbreak in the initial days and was instead busy organising a film awards event, a top BJP leader, who is convenor of state's health task force, claimed. Madhya Pradesh BJP President V D Sharma also said that Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan did not immediately expand his council of ministers because the "topmost priority" for the administration was to tackle the pandemic and not "waste time" on any other issue. Former chief minister and Congress leader Kamal Nath had attacked the BJP over the issue, saying it is fooling the people of the state which does not have a cabinet or even a health minister amid the pandemic. Hitting back, Sharma, who has been made the convenor of the state's health task force, told PTI on phone from Bhopal that the Kamal Nath government had allowed people from Tablighi Jamaat to enter the state and did not get them checked for COVID-19. He said they will investigate this and also if any Rohingyas were allowed to enter the state along with the Jamaat members. A religious congregation in Delhi of the Jamaat in which thousands of people from India and abroad had participated has emerged as the biggest coronavirus hotspot. Many of these people have tested positive for Coronavirus.   "I am making an open charge that due to the fear of the Tablighi Jamaat people you (previous Congress government) helped them unauthorisedly. "You gave them entry (into the state) and allowed them to live and did not subject them to any kind of medical inspection," Sharma, who has been made the convenor of the state's health task force, claimed. The previous Kamal Nath-led Congress government had to quit on March 20 after losing majority in the Assembly. Subsequently, BJP's Chouhan took charge as the chief minister but is yet to expand his ministry. Sharma, the MP from Khajuraho, said Chief Minister Chouhan took things in his hands and decided to prioritize on fighting coronavirus rather than expanding his cabinet.    Madhya Pradesh has 1,360 positive cases and 69 deaths, one of the highest in the country, as per latest data. Out of this, Indore alone has recorded 892 cases and 47 deaths. Apart from the Tablighi Jamaat activists, Sharma alleged, the other reason for the higher number of COVID-19 cases in the central Indian state was that the entire administrative and police machinery of Indore had been directed to ensure smooth conduct of the International Indian Film Academy Awards (IIFA) event by the former chief minister and the then chief secretary, S R Mohanty. "This was the biggest mistake...so IIFA was priority and not coronavirus. The former CM did nothing. It was on his behest that the administration of Indore gave priority to the conduct of the event," Sharma alleged. Indore has been identified as one of the worst coronavirus affected cities in the country. "Till yesterday, Indore had more than 707 positive coronavirus cases and almost 600 are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat," Sharma alleged. The IIFA film awards that was supposed to take place in March in the city with an edition in Bhopal too. "The entire administration and police of Indore were engaged with full vigour to organise IIFA. This was on directions of the former CM and the ex-chief secretary...the administration's priority was not to tackle coronavirus," the BJP leader said. He said the unfortunate result of this is not only being faced by Indore but by entire Madhya Pradesh. "I want to ask Kamal Nath and his government what were you doing then? Tell me one action you took in this context?" he asked. Sharma said similar situation has occurred in capital Bhopal too.      "In Bhopal too, you saw what happened. The doctors were attacked, the police personnel were attacked. What is this? This unauthorised help that Congress administration gave (to Jamaat)... the result was that entire mankind and the life of people of Madhya Pradesh is at risk," he claimed, adding, "we will investigate this". He alleged that the Kamal Nath government did not create any COVID-19 related medical facility in the state, nor did it take any action to create any team to take on the challenge posed by the pandemic that has claimed thousands of lives and infected over 13 lakh people globally. "In fact we suspect that even Rohingya refugees could have entered into Bhopal and Indore with the aid of Tablighi Jamaat members," he said. The task force decided on Friday that this should be investigated, he said. The BJP leader said the situation in the state was "under control" now. "There was no medical facility... there were only two testing labs but we have taken it to nine now" and as "more people are being detected and tested" the numbers are going up, he said. Asked as to how a number of officials in the health and police administration were infected in state capital Bhopal, Sharma said this happened as they were "vigorously" working to trace such suspects and patients. "We are proud of them that they staked their lives to save others. They are like heroes. They are the people who were doing their service with dedication and when they were not helped we saw cases were increasing," Sharma said. "They are our 'corona warriors' and hence we have started honouring them in the public and giving salary incentives," he said. Sharma said the 10-member state COVID-19 task force, headed by Chief Minister Chouhan, has asked the administrative officials to keep looking for suspected cases. Strict action will be taken against those who do not cooperate in this drive, he said. Asked about a news report that a number of doctors sent by the state government have failed to join duty, Sharma said the task force is confident that people who consider service as their duty and mission will go. "We are in touch with many other doctors and experts who will go to help the Indore administration. They need more hands as they have been working continuously for so many days now," he said. Talking about the way forward in Madhya Pradesh, Sharma said the approach is multi-pronged. "We have got in touch with the public representatives in every district of the state and are asking them to ensure that essential supplies of food, medical facilities for non-COVID-19 patients run smoothly. "We have asked our booth level workers in 63,000 such units to step up distribution of food, dry rations and run community kitchens.  "So far, we have provided food to 1.5 crore people and over 35 lakh masks have been distributed in the state with the help of our party workers, government machinery and social service organisations," Sharma said. Over 1.25 lakh people of the state who are out at present have contacted the control room and "the chief minister has begun depositing Rs 1,000 in their bank accounts", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-governments-help-to-tablighis-led-to-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-mp-bjp-827024.html
18-04-2020||National Politics||Rapid COVID-19 tests can't replace RT-PCR: ICMR to states||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has issued a new rapid testing protocol asking states to deploy the tests as a supplementary tool to assess the prevalence of the diseases, including in COVID-19 containment zones and hot spots. The new protocol was issued following requests from states, some of which wanted quicker results from tests in affected areas to speedily put in place aggressive containment measures. In a letter to additional chief secretaries, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava made it clear that the RT-PCR test was the “gold standard frontline test” for diagnosis of COVID-19, aimed at early detection of the virus. “The rapid antibody test cannot replace the frontline test,” Bhargava said adding that the rapid antibody test was a “supplementary tool to assess the prevalence of the diseases within a specific area/perimeter.” According to the new ICMR protocol, only those showing symptoms of influenza-like illness such as fever, cough and cold for seven or more days in hotspot areas should be made to undergo a rapid test. Those who are found positive in the rapid test must be quarantined for at least the next seven days. Those who test negative should also remain under home quarantine for at least seven days as they are in a hot spot area. “The rapid antibody test will only be of utility after a minimum of 7 days of onset of symptoms. Data about these rapid tests are emerging and understanding of their utility for diagnosis is still evolving,” Bhargava said. In case, the state does not have a hotspot, these tests may be used for: any hotspot which may emerge in future or as a surveillance tool for epidemiological purpose in such areas where cases have not emerged so far, the ICMR said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rapid-covid-19-tests-cant-replace-rt-pcr-icmr-to-states-827031.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Two more test positive for coronavirus in Bihar; tally rises to 85||Two more persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in Bihar, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state to 85, a top official said on Saturday. According to Principal Secretary, Health, Sanjay Kumar, one of the patients is a youth aged 17 years from Bihar Sharif, the headquarters of Nalanda district, while the other is a 42-year-old man from Begusarai. Contact-tracing of both the patients, whose test reports came late on Friday night, was on, he said.    According to the state health department, the total number of recovered cases so far was 37. Two patients have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-bihar-tally-rises-to-85-826822.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: No full-time health minister in MP, govt forms panel||Under fire for not having a full-time health minister amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh has constituted an advisory committee, comprising Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi and 12 others, to deal with the crisis. The state does not have a council of ministers ever since senior BJP leader Shivraj Singh Chouhan took over the chief minister on March 23. The coronavirus outbreak and the subsequent lockdown have delayed the cabinet formation and the BJP-led government is drawing flak from the opposition Congress for not having a dedicated health minister at this critical juncture.  "Considering the rise in COVID-19 cases, the government set up an advisory committee, comprising eight doctors, a retired IAS and a retired IPS officer, apart from Satyarthi," an official from the general administration department said on Saturday. Former chief secretary Nirmala Buch, retired IPS officer Sarabjeet Singh, president of MP Nursing Home Association Dr Jitendra Jamdar and state president of the Indian Medical Association Dr Mukul Tiwari are also part of the panel. Apart from the present health crisis, the committee will also advise the government on people welfare and policy matters from time to time, he said. The additional chief secretary of public health and family welfare will be the coordinator of this committee, the official said. As on Saturday, the count of coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh is 1,360 with 69 deaths.  Of the total number of COVID-19 cases, 892 persons have tested in Indore alone, while the tally in Bhopal is 197. According to reports, the virus has expanded its footprint to 25 out of 52 districts of the state. At least 68 patients have recovered from the infection, a health official said, adding that 408 containment areas have been declared across the affected cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-no-full-time-health-minister-in-madhya-pradesh-govt-forms-panel-826823.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Two children killed, parents injured in lightning strike||Two children were killed and their parents seriously injured when lightning struck them in the Bhopa area here, police said on Saturday. The incident took place Friday night when the family was sleeping in a makeshift shelter on the banks of river Ganga in Shukratal village, police said.  They were rushed to a hospital where the children, identified as Nazim (13) and Zishan (11), were declared as brought dead, they said. The couple -- Shahoon (45) and his wife Sajida (40) -- are undergoing treatment at the facility, police said. Rains accompanied by thunderstorm lashed the district during the night, they said. The couple was living in the makeshift shelter to care for their crops, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-children-killed-parents-injured-in-lightning-strike-826834.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||2nd month of restricted movement in Jammu and Kashmir amid coronavirus crisis||Restrictions on the movement and assembly of people in Kashmir to contain the spread of coronavirus entered the second month on Saturday, even as authorities have announced free ration for families living below the poverty line in Srinagar due to the prolonged lockdown, officials said. They said security forces have sealed off main roads in most places in the valley and erected barriers at several other places to check the unwanted movement of the people and to enforce the lockdown. Only persons with valid movement passes were allowed passage, they added. The declared containment or red zones across the valley have been sealed to ensure strict adherence to the standard operating procedure. The officials said there were 80 red zones in the Kashmir valley and all such areas would remain as red zones up to 42 days, unless no new positive case of COVID-19 is detected. If any new case is detected in those areas, then the area will remain a red zone for another 42 days, they added. The markets across the valley were shut and public transport was off the roads with only pharmacies and groceries allowed to open, the officials said. Educational institutions across Kashmir are closed, while all public places, including gymnasiums, parks, clubs and restaurants, were shut down more than a week before the nationwide lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. While the prime minister declared a country-wide lockdown on the evening of March 24, the Union Territory administration on March 22 had announced a lockdown across Jammu and Kashmir as part of its efforts to curb the spread of coronavirus. The administration said the essential services, including healthcare, have been exempted from the restrictions. Restrictions were first imposed in many parts of the valley on March 19 to contain the spread of the deadly disease. The measures were taken after the detection of the first positive case of coronavirus in the valley. The total number of positive cases in the Union Territory has risen to 328. Five patients have died in Jammu and Kashmir and 42 have recovered. More than 59,000 people have been kept under surveillance, including those who are either in government established quarantine facilities or in home isolation. "Till date 59,205 travellers and persons in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance which include 7,631 persons in home quarantine, including facilities operated by government, 260 in hospital quarantine, 281 in hospital isolation and 27,366 under home surveillance. Besides, 23,662 persons have completed their surveillance period of 28 days," the officials said. In view of the prevailing situation and the restrictions, below poverty line (BPL) families in Srinagar will be provided free foodgrains for as long as the situation remains as it is, the officials said. They said the distribution of foodgrains for the current month starts on Saturday and will be completed within two weeks. Under this initiative, around 30,000 quintals of foodgrains will be distributed free of cost to over 1.4 lakh BPL families in the district, the officials said. The initiative will benefit about six lakh people who will be provided five kg rice per person per month, they said. The initiative is a recognition of the need for support and an attempt to reach out to impoverished residents of the district, the officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2nd-month-of-restricted-movement-in-jammu-and-kashmir-amid-coronavirus-crisis-826854.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||From rasogullas to gutka, people make bizarre requests on Uttar Pradesh COVID-19 lockdown helplines||There are panic calls for essentials like medicines but some callers demand rasogullas, samosas, and even pan and gutka, admit officials. The chief minister's helpline number 1076 gets a frantic call from Ram Ratan Pal, who suffers from high blood pressure, that his stock of medicines is exhausted. Officials manning the control room swing into action, arranging their delivery in Lucknow. In Gautam Buddh Nagar district, Shankar Singh dials the number for food essentials. The ration is delivered at his doorstep, officials say.  Ram Ratan and Shankar are among the one lakh beneficiaries so far of the CM’s helpline. Uttar Pradesh’s police helpline recently got a strange call when an elderly person made an "urgent request" for rasogullas. The cop who answered the phone thought it was a prank. But when a volunteer delivered the sweets in Lucknow’s Hazratganj, it was found that the man in his 80s really needed them. He is diabetic and his blood sugar level had dipped sharply. But reports suggest that many demands may not be that urgent. Those answering the police helpline 112 have been baffled by requests for betel leaf, gutka and hot samosas (with chutney). The samosas were indeed delivered. But the man who made the call had to pay the price – he was asked to clean out a drain. Police were also not amused by a demand for pizza in Rampur, where district authorities are punishing those making such calls, reports say. Some callers have even asked for liquor. There have also been reports of house-bound children pleading with the invisible "police uncle" at the other end for chips, cakes, ice cream and pizza. Trained to enforce law and order, personnel deputed with police response vehicles (PRVs) are now also performing a new role during the nationwide lockdown.  Thousands of them are engaged in providing emergency services sought through the 112 helpline, an official said. They fulfil demands for food and medicines and look into complaints about shopkeepers overcharging for essential commodities. There are 35,000 PRVs across the state. "Since the lockdown started, the PRV jawans have been working round the clock to meet the demands of people calling on the helpline number," Additional Director General of Police Asim Arun, who is in charge of police emergency services, told PTI. Around 1,100 police personnel man the helpline phones. "There have also been calls for shifting pregnant women for delivery, and the aged and sick to hospitals. Policemen working with PRVs have helped them by arranging ambulances," Arun says. The department has set up the infrastructure for women personnel on helpline duty to take the calls at their homes, the ADG says. The 112 helpline is also linked to fire and ambulance services and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/from-rasogullas-to-gutka-people-make-bizarre-requests-on-uttar-pradesh-covid-19-lockdown-helplines-826859.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Suspected coronavirus death reported in Shahjahanpur, UP||Government Medical College PRO Puja Tripathi Pandey said the man was initially admitted to Jaitipur health centre after he complained of fever and cough but was then moved to the medical college earlier this week and quarantined. He died late Friday night after vomiting, Pandey said. His samples are being tested for COVID-19 and any confirmation can be given only after the report comes, she said.    The man's brother had returned from Delhi about 15 days ago and the possibility of he carrying the infection is being ascertained. Meanwhile, the family members have been quarantined, Pandey said. The official said the body will be handed over to the family after the test report comes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspected-coronavirus-death-reported-in-shahjahanpur-up-826862.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Contribute one day's salary to PM-CARES: Centre to staff||Several ministries and departments like Labour and Employment and Revenue under Ministry of Finance have issued office memorandum and circulars to employees on Friday even as the move invited criticism from some senior Opposition leaders like CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury.  "It has been decided to appeal to all officers and staff of Department of Revenue to contribute one day's salary every month till March 2021 to the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM-CARES) to aid the government's efforts to fight the COVID-19 pandemic," the circular issued by Department of Revenue said. However, an office memorandum issued by the Ministry of Labour and Employment does not mention about contributing to PM-CARES every month. The appeal comes against the backdrop of the country facing economic troubles in the wake of COVID-19 as economic activities have come to a halt and predictions of slow growth.  Officers also have the option to refuse to join this. While the Ministry of Labour and Employment has set April 21 as the deadline for intimating "unwillingness", the Department of Revenue has set it at April 20. "Officers/Officials of Ministry of Labour and Employment who are not willing to donate may convey his/her unwillingness, clearly mentioning their name, designation and place of posting," the office memorandum said. It also said all organisations under the administrative control of the ministry may also issue similar instructions. The Ministry of Labour also added that if it receives no response by April 21, "it will be assumed as their consent for donation/deduction". The "appeal" is read in many circles as a "threat" to officials and staff to join the programme and many fear that those who do not join could face trouble. "This is atrocious. Such intimidating threats to forcibly collect for a fund that’s not publicly accountable. Transfer this fund to the states which are on the frontline battling this pandemic," Yechury tweeted. The setting up of PM-CARES was criticised by several Opposition parties, questioning the need for such a fund when the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) is already there. The announcement of PM-CARES, a public charitable organisation, came on March 28 and the opposition accuses it of being non-transparent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/contribute-one-days-salary-to-pm-cares-centre-to-staff-826863.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Shops collecting higher prices from consumers for hand sanitisers||Despite the government fixing a price cap on hand sanitisers, shops are collecting higher prices from consumers, says a latest survey. Among those who brought hand sanitisers, 62% paid a higher price than one fixed by the government and 37% bought unknown brands as popular brands were stocked out, says the survey conducted by LocalCirles, a community-based social media platform. A total of 16,000 participated in the survey conducted between April 10 and 17 to find out the availability of hand sanitisers in the market and consumers' experience in buying.  Though the survey revealed that there was 15% improvement in the availability of hand sanitisers in April second week, compared to March last week, 35% consumers were still unable to find them.  To make available hand sanitisers to all and prevent the escalation of prices, the government included it in the essential commodities list and fixed Rs 100 for 200 ml. After the Government request, many liquor manufacturers and beauty product manufacturers started making quality hand sanitisers but found it tough to make it available to the consumers due to logistical constraints, said the survey. The consumers have also reported that many retailers are not giving proper bills for the sanitisers of unknown brands even on request.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-shops-collecting-higher-prices-from-consumers-for-hand-sanitisers-826868.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Coordinate with 20 control room resolve workers issues, says Santosh Gangawar to state||Labour Minister Santosh Gangawar has asked states/UTs to designate nodal officers to coordinate with the 20 control rooms set up by the ministry to mitigate workers' problems amid the coronavirus lockdown. Gangawar shot off a letter to states after it emerged that more than two-thirds of the complaints received by the control rooms pertained to states/union territories. The labour ministry has set up 20 control rooms pan-India to address wage-related grievances and to mitigate problems faced by migrant workers amid the lockdown. These workers grievance redressal centres were set up after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the extension of the nationwide lockdown till May 3, with conditional relaxations from April 20 in some areas. "Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar has requested various State/UT Governments to designate a nodal officer from Labour Department to coordinate with Control Rooms set up by Union Government for addressing issues of the labour/workers in the country in view the lockdown announced to combat COVID-19 pandemic," a ministry statement said. In the letter shot off by Gangwar on Friday to the labour ministers of states/UTs, he said, "The coordinated efforts of Central and State Governments are required in order to resolve the grievances of the workers." Initially, the control rooms were concerned with wage-related grievances related to the central sphere and issues of migrant labour, the ministry said. However, it has been observed that out of a total 2,100 grievances received in the 20 control rooms till Friday, 1,400 pertain to various state/UT governments, it stated. Labour being a concurrent subject, it is important that proper coordination is established with various state/UT governments to resolve the grievances, the minister said. The minister also forwarded the list of 20 Central Control Rooms along with names of officers deputed by the central government for ready reference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coordinate-with-20-control-room-resolve-workers-issues-says-santosh-gangawar-to-state-826869.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Hardcore Naxal gunned down by security forces in Chhattisgarh||A hardcore Naxal, carrying a cash reward of Rs 5 lakh on his head, was gunned down in an encounter with security forces in Sukma district of Chhattisgarh, police said on Saturday. The incident took place on Friday evening, the said. Based on specific intelligence inputs about the presence of some Naxals from Odisha in the jungles of Chitalnar-Mundwal villages under the limits of Puspal police station, a team of District Reserve Guard (DRG) had launched the operation on Friday, Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P said. "When the patrolling team was cordoning off the jungles near the location on Friday evening, an exchange of fire broke out between the two sides," he said. During a search of the spot conducted later, the body of a male Naxal along with a .315 bore firearm, a tiffin bomb, two hand grenades, a couple of detonators, cordex wire, Maoist literature and items of daily use were recovered, he said. The killed ultra has been identified as Podiyam Kama alias Nagesh, who was active as an area committee member in Andhra-Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee of Maoists,he said. Nagesh, a native of Bheji area of Sukma, had been working in Kalimela LOS (local organisation squad) on Andhra Pradesh-Odisha Border since the last six years, the IG said, adding that he was carrying a reward of Rs 5 lakh in Chhattisgarh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hardcore-naxal-gunned-down-by-security-forces-in-chhattisgarh-826874.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Sharjeel Imam charge-sheeted for Jamia riots||Delhi police charged former JNU student Sharjeel Imam with sedition before a court here on Saturday, alleging his speech promoted enmity between people that led to riots in the Jamia Millia Islamia University area. In its supplementary charge sheet, the police said “serious riots had broken out in consequence to the protest march organised by Jamia students" against the amended citizenship law on December 15 last year.  “The mob indulged in large-scale rioting, stone-pelting and arson, and in the process destroyed many public and private properties. Cases of rioting, arson and damage to public property were registered in both the police stations. Many policemen and public persons were injured in the riots,” the agency told in its final report filed before the chief metropolitan magistrate court. The cases were registered in New Friends Colony and Jamia Nagar police stations. In the New Friends Colony case, Imam was arrested for “instigating and abetting the Jamia riots, due to his seditious speech delivered on December 13, 2019. During investigation, on the basis of evidences collected, sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 A IPC (promoting enmity between classes) were invoked in the case," police said. The police previously filed a charge sheet against the rioters arrested by the SIT. Further investigation in the case is under way, they said. Imam was arrested from Bihar's Jehanabad on January 28. He had been involved in organising protests at Shaheen Bagh but came into limelight after a video showed him making controversial comments before a gathering at Aligarh Muslim University, following which he was booked under sedition charges.  Delhi police had also booked him for an "inflammatory" speech on the Jamia campus. Another case was filed against Imam in Assam under the stringent anti-terror law for his remark that Assam could be "severed from India, even if for a few months" as a result of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Police in Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh had also lodged FIRs against the JNU scholar over his speech in which he threatened to "cut off" Assam and the rest of the northeast from the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sharjeel-imam-charge-sheeted-for-jamia-riots-826890.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt orders to shift non-coronavirus patients from dedicated hospitals||The Delhi government has ordered officials to move all non-coronavirus patients from the dedicated hospitals to other facilities by Sunday. Chief Secretary Vijay Dev directed the divisional commissioner and the health secretary to ensure that non-COVID-19 patients receive seamless treatment and are not ignored by healthcare service providers, an official said. "All non-COVID-19 patients should be evacuated from COVID-19 dedicated hospitals by April 19," he said. There are 36 Delhi government hospitals in the national capital and some of them - such as the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital - have been earmarked for coronavirus patients only. Dev said efforts should be made to promote social-distancing measures via community, religious and political leaders in the severely infected areas such as Seelampur, Seemapuri, Chandni Mahal and Khirki Extension. Coronavirus cases in the city rose to 1,707 and the death toll to 42 on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-orders-to-shift-non-coronavirus-patients-from-dedicated-hospitals-826893.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||9-month-old tests positive for COVID-19 in Uttarakhand, father attended Tablighi Jamaat event||A nine-month-old infant who is among the latest coronavirus cases detected in Uttarakhand contracted the infection from his father after he returned from a Tablighi Jamaat congregation, officials said on Saturday. They did not say where the congregation was held or when the infant's father had tested positive. The infant is one of the three new coronavirus cases detected in Uttarakhand on Friday. The number of cases in the state after these fresh infections has risen to 40, a health department spokesperson said. The baby is quarantined at a school in Jakhan area of Dehradun, he said. According to the spokesperson, the infant's father is one of the 10 Tablighi Jamaat members under treatment for COVID-19 in Dehradun. He is admitted to the isolation ward at the Doon Hospital. However, the baby's mother has tested negative for COVID-19, he said. The other two persons who tested positive on Friday were a woman officer posted at a military hospital here and a Tablighi Jamaat member from Nainital district, the spokesperson said. The woman officer had recently returned from training in Lucknow. Contact tracing of the officer is underway, he said. The Tablighi Jamaat member is undergoing treatment at Sushila Tiwari Hospital, Haldwani, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/9-month-old-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-uttarakhand-father-attended-tablighi-jamaat-event-826911.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: UP woman falls sick while standing in queue for ration, dies||A three-hour wait in the queue for ration under the scorching sun after walking for one kilometre proved fatal for a woman in Uttar Pradesh's Badayun district, about 300 kilometres from here. The woman, identified as 35-year old Shamima Bano, a resident of Mohidin Nagar in the district, fainted while standing in the queue. She died even before she could be taken to the hospital. According to the police sources here, the cause of death could be ascertained only after the postmortem examination. The officials in Badayun, however, claimed that the woman died of a heart attack. According to the eye witness accounts, there was a long queue for free ration, situated at Prahladpur village. ''The line moved very slowly and there was no guarantee that one would get ration even after standing for five-six hours,'' said a resident of the village.  The supervisor of the distribution of ration, said that the internet speed was very slow delaying the printing of slips. Shamima, who had two children, made two ends meet by doing household jobs. Her husband worked as a guard at a factory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-up-woman-falls-sick-while-standing-in-queue-for-ration-dies-826913.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Two sanitation workers attacked in Dewas, MP||Two sanitation workers were allegedly attacked with an axe at a minority-dominated area of Khategaon town in Madhya Pradesh's Dewas district and the police have arrested four persons in this regard, an official said on Saturday. As a result, sanitation workers on Saturday struck work at Muslim-dominated areas of Khategaon to protest the attack, rural area additional superintendent of police (ASP) Neeraj Chourasia said. Aadil Khan, a resident of Koyla Mohalla, allegedly attacked two sanitation workers with an axe when they were cleaning the locality on Friday, he said.  One of the workers sustained severe injuries and was admitted to a hospital, he added. "I am heading to Khategaon to hold talks with a few sanitation workers (who have struck work) to ally their fears," the senior official told PTI. Aadil, his father Habib and cleric Gop Khan, who allegedly instigated the attack, were arrested on Friday, while Aadil's brother Arif was nabbed on Saturday, Chourasia said.  During interrogation, Aadil claimed that he indulged in violence as Gop Khan had told them that since the lockdown, namaazees and followers of the Tablighi Jamaat were hounded by government workers, the ASP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-two-sanitation-workers-attacked-in-dewas-mp-826945.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan BJP MLA booked for provocative speech on COVID-19||A BJP MLA in Rajasthan has been booked for allegedly making provocative speech against a particular community and trying to spread confusion on the coronavirus pandemic, police said on Saturday. A case was registered Madan Dilawar, the MLA from Ramganjmandi constituency in Kota district, on Friday under relevant sections of the IPC, the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act, Deputy Superintendent of Police Amrita Duhan said. The case against the MLA has been forwarded to the CID-CB for further investigation. A resident of Teachers' Colony in the city lodged a complaint against the MLA for his provocative message made in a video speech. Dilawar also allegedly issued a press note on April 15 along with the video message and accused the Congress government in the state of favouring a particular community in the coronavirus outbreak for vote bank politics. The MLA is also accused of inviting people to his residence, disregarding socikal distancing norms, for enlisting names for supply of ration material. Two more people died of coronavirus during treatment at a state-run hospital in Jaipur, pushing the death toll due to the virus in Rajasthan to 19 on Saturday, an official said. Also, the total number of cases in the state has risen to 1,270 after 41 more tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-bjp-mla-booked-for-provocative-speech-on-covid-19-826946.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||98-yr-old woman in Punjab's Moga stitches masks for the needy||Gurdev Kaur Dhaliwal, 98, wakes up early every day, offers prayers and then spends hours on her sewing machine, which is almost as old as her, stitching face masks for the poor who can't afford them. The resident of Moga district in Punjab has blurry vision in one eye, but that does not let her energy and vigour down, said her daughter-in-law Amarjit Kaur. The nonagenarian, who takes help of a walker, wakes up early, offers prayers and then starts making masks on the machine which her in-laws got for her from Singapore over 100 years ago. "Several vegetable sellers in our area were not wearing masks. We told them to wear it to protect themselves from coronavirus but they said they could not afford it. Then we decided to stitch masks and give it to them free of cost," Amarjit told PTI over phone. Now, many people have started coming to her house to get free face covers, she said. Dhaliwal's neighbours are coming forward to help her and many of them also giving clothes for making masks, Amarjit said.  The Punjab government has made wearing masks mandatory as at least 202 people have been infected with coronavirus in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/98-yr-old-woman-in-punjabs-moga-stitches-masks-for-the-needy-826957.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Three health workers attacked in Indore amid coronavirus pandemic||A 30-year-old history-sheeter allegedly thrashed three health workers, including a woman, at Vinoba locality of Madhya Pradesh's Indore city on Saturday, police said. Paras Bourasi, a repeat offender, spotted a team of health workers entering the locality and using their mobile phones to record details there, inspector Vinod Dixit of Palasia police station said. The accused, who was in the middle of an altercation with someone, allegedly assumed that the health workers were shooting a video of him fighting, and proceeded to attack them, he said. In fact, the health workers were conducting a survey in the area, when they were attacked, he added. Bourasi snatched the woman health worker's mobile phone and smashed it on the ground, the official said, adding that the accused fled the scene after the attack. The accused has been booked under section 323 (use of criminal force to deter public servant from performing duties) of the Indian Penal Code and a manhunt has been launched to nab him, he said. As many as 892 COVID-19 cases have been reported in Indore and 47 patients have succumbed to the infection there. Health workers have been surveying in different areas in the city to stem the viral spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-health-workers-attacked-in-indore-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-826972.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Doctor commits suicide; AAP MLA booked on abetment charge||A doctor allegedly committed suicide in Durga Vihar in south Delhi on Saturday, holding AAP MLA Prakash Jarwal responsible for it, following which police registered a case against the legislator on charges of extortion and abetment to suicide, officials said. Jarwal, however, said he is innocent and ready to face any investigation. Police said Rajendra Singh (52) allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at the rooftop of his house.  At around 6.15 am, the police received a PCR call about the incident. Singh's son Hemant told the police that his father ran a clinic in Durga Vihar and was also in the business of water supply with the Delhi Jal Board since 2007. The police said a suicide note was recovered from Singh's house, alleging that Jarwal was responsible for his death. A case of extortion, abetment to suicide has been registered against Jarwal, one Kapil Nagar and others at the Neb Sarai Police Station based on a complaint by Hemant, officials said. The body was later sent to AIIMS for post-mortem, he said.   Jarwal said he hadn't met or spoken to Singh in the last 8-10 months. "I have received this information through media that a doctor, who used to have a business in water tankers, has committed suicide and has mentioned my name in his suicide note. I would like to state that I am innocent. I haven't met or spoken to him in the last 8-10 months," Jarwal said in a statement. "I have full faith in the judiciary and I am ready to face any investigation. I would only like to say that there have been attempts to trap me in the past and similar attempts are being made now too. Just like I have proved myself innocent in the past, I will do so now too. I am ready to cooperate with police in any kind of investigation," he added. PTI NIT PR UZ RT RT||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doctor-commits-suicide-aap-mla-booked-on-abetment-charge-826975.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus cases rise to 227 in Haryana, fresh ones found in worst-hit Nuh & Palwal||Coronavirus cases in Haryana rose to 227 on Saturday as worst-hit Nuh and Palwal together reported three fresh cases. The cumulative positive cases in the state include those of 24 infected foreigners. The total active Covid-19 patients in the state were 137, the state health department's daily bulletin said, adding the total positive cases discharged so far are 88. The state has so far recorded two Covid-related deaths. Among the fresh cases, Nuh has reported one and Palwal two. Another case was reported from Panchkula which has seen a surge after nine members of a family earlier tested positive. The worst-affected districts of the state with maximum number of positive cases are Nuh (57), Faridabad (33), Gurugram (32) and Palwal (32). Panchkula district has reported 17 coronavirus cases. As many as 8,971 samples have been tested so far, out of which 7,223 have tested negative. However, test reports for 1,535 samples are awaited. Among the 24 infected foreign nationals, 14 were Italian tourists. Thirteen of them were discharged later while an elderly woman of the group passed away recently despite recovering from the Covid infection.   The ten other infected foreigners are from Sri Lanka, Nepal, Thailand, South Africa and Indonesia. Sixty-four other patients are from other states, as per the bulletin. Health Minister Anil Vij on Saturday praised doctors, nurses and paramedical staff who are in the frontline of battle against coronavirus. “It is heartening to know that majority of the coronavirus patients are making a good recovery and only one has needed oxygen support. The efforts being made by doctors, nurses and paramedical staff are commendable. They are giving their best in these times of crisis,” said Vij.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-cases-rise-to-227-in-haryana-fresh-ones-found-in-worst-hit-nuh-palwal-827000.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan allows family members of prisoners to deposit money online amid coronavirus lockdown||The jail department in Rajasthan has started online payment service for the family members of prisoners to deposit money in their bank accounts in jails due to the coronavirus lockdown. The facility is for registered and verified family members with the jail administration who will be able to deposit money through internet banking, debit or credit card, Paytm and BHIM App directly in the bank accounts from their homes. “About 20,000 prisoners lodged in different jails of the state will be able to get the benefit of the service. We have prepared a database and only registered family members can deposit money,” DIG (Jail) Vikas Kumar told PTI on Saturday. He said the prisoners were facing shortage of funds due to the pandemic crisis following which the service has been initiated. Earlier, family members had to deposit money in prisoners' bank accounts in jail at the time of visiting them, which could be used to call them through a landline phone and make purchase of daily use essential items. Prisoners can talk to their family members for five minutes daily over the phone with the deposited money and purchase necessary items from the canteen worth Rs 2,500 every month. Kumar said that jail canteens are also being computerised completely to end any human intervention in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-allows-family-members-of-prisoners-to-deposit-money-online-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-827001.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh reports 20 fresh COVID-19 cases; many districts see improvement||Uttar Pradesh reported 20 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the total number of such cases in the state to 869, an official said on Saturday. "The number of active coronavirus cases in the state is 869. Some districts in the state have successfully beaten the disease and this is a positive step,” Principal Secretary Health Amit Mohan Prasad said. He said the cases of infection had been reported from 49 districts of the state, adding some districts have successfully flattened the COVID-19 curve. "All cases in Pilibhit, Hathras and Maharajganj have been treated. Similarly, Allahabad and Bareily have also discharged all its infected persons after treatment," the official said. Prasad, however, said six districts--Gautambudh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Lucknow, Meerut, Agra and Saharanpur-are a cause of worry as these are the main centers of the infection. Nevertheless, he asserted that the northern state was showing considerable progress in its fight against the deadly disease. The principal secretary said the districts with few infected persons have been able to control the disease effectively. He said hotspot areas are either shrinking or an entire district is becoming infection-free which is a positive step. Uttar Pradesh has so far recorded 14 deaths -- the maximum five from Agra, two each from Moradabad and Meerut and one each from Lucknow, Kanpur, Basti, Bulanshahr and Varanasi. “As of now, there are 1,025 people in isolation wards, while the number of those in quarantine is 10,814 in the state,” Prasad said. The official also stressed on the need to take proper care of the aged as they are more prone to catching infection.   Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said some districts are gradually turning out to be coronavirus-free. "After Pilibhit, Hathras and Maharajganj, now Allahabad has become coronavirus-free. The district magistrate of Bareilly, which had one hotspot, has declared that the cases there are turning out as negative,” he said.  Awasthi said all of this has been possible only because of the collective efforts of state employees and public cooperation. “The state with such a large population has lesser number of COVID-19 cases. The growth rate and the death rate here is also lesser than the national average,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-reports-20-fresh-covid-19-cases-many-districts-see-improvement-827002.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Slight decrease in number of coronavirus cases in Delhi in last 3 days: CM Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said there had been a slight decrease in the number of COVID-19 cases in Delhi in the last three days and hoped that it would reduce further in the coming days. Addressing an online media briefing on the coronavirus outbreak, Kejriwal said that out of 2,274 samples tested, only 67 people tested positive for the novel virus on Friday. A few days earlier, the daily tally of infections ranged between 180 and 350. The chief minister also appealed to people living in containment areas to follow rules and don't step out of their homes. "Some people have been seen on streets in containment areas. Yesterday, 26 members of one family tested positive for coronavirus in an area in Jahangir Puri which has been declared as containment area," Kejriwal said. He also said that 71 containment areas have so far been identified in the national capital. On Friday, the total number of novel coronavirus cases in Delhi rose to 1,707, with 67 fresh cases and four deaths being reported in a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/slight-decrease-in-number-of-coronavirus-cases-in-delhi-in-last-3-days-cm-kejriwal-827019.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh manufacturing 10,000 PPE kits daily: Official||Madhya Pradesh has started manufacturing 10,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits daily for frontline warriors battling coronavirus, the state's Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Mohammed Suleman said on Saturday. He said the treatment for COVID-19 is free in the state. "PPE kit is a very important thing. We ensured development of the PPE kit locally. We are making 10,000 PPE kits daily in a factory at Pithampur near Indore and providing them to our people. So far we have distributed one lakh PPE kits," he said while interacting with a group of Delhi-based journalists during a video-conference. Suleman said the state government has over 9.5 lakh of hydroxychloroquine tablets and adequate stock of N-95 masks. Twenty-five dedicated COVID 19 hospitals have been set up in Madhya Pradesh, besides 66 dedicated health centres and more than 400 COVID care centres, he said. "We are utilising 28 per cent of the total capacity of isolation beds. We have sufficient spare capacity to treat people in case of any emergency. In the case of ICU beds, we are using 17 per cent of the overall capacity," Suleman said. The official said the state government has received 30,000 rapid diagnostic kits from the central government and they will be made available in Indore and other cities. "COVID treatment is free in Madhya Pradesh. Nobody would be charged a single penny. The Government of Madhya Pradesh will bear all the expenses and provide free of cost treatment to all," Suleman said. After 50 more people tested positive for coronavirus in Indore on Friday night, the number of COVID-19 cases in the state has climbed to 1,360, health officials said. So far, 69 people have died due to the infection in the state, the officials said on Saturday. With this, the number of coronavirus positive cases in Indore has gone up to 892.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-manufacturing-10000-ppe-kits-daily-official-827025.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Jammu Dy Mayor among 3 BJP leaders booked for violating prohibitory orders||Three BJP leaders including Jammu Municipal Corporation (JMC) Deputy Mayor Purnima Sharma and a former MLA were booked on Saturday for allegedly violating prohibitory orders issued as part of the lockdown enforcement in view of the coronavirus pandemic, officials said. The FIR was registered against Sharma, former MLA Rajesh Gupta and JMC Corporator Sandhya Gupta under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in the city police station, the officials said. The action against the BJP leaders was taken after they visited Hari Theatre near Raghunath Bazar to distribute relief materials among several hundred people staying there, they said. The officials said the leaders did not follow the guidelines on social distancing while carrying out the relief work, causing hardships to the policemen to maintain order. When contacted, the deputy mayor expressed surprise over the registration of the First Information Report (FIR) and said she was outside the venue and had no idea what happened inside.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-dy-mayor-among-3-bjp-leaders-booked-for-violating-prohibitory-orders-827032.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||MP: 28 recovered from COVID-19 disease get rousing send off||A total of 28 people who have recovered from COVID-19 disease were on Saturday received a water cannon "salute" and garlands for defeating coronavirus here in Madhya Pradesh, which has seen a surge in infections. As soon as the 28 people were discharged from Chirayu Hospital and Medical College in the state Capital, a jet of water from a water cannon was sprayed on the ambulance moving them out to mark the occasion, a state government official said. The group was welcomed outside the hospital gates by officials who garlanded them for the "triumph" against coronavirus, he said. "The ambulance carrying this group left the hospital premises amid clapping from staff and officials," he said. Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan spoke to six among the 28 people.  "It is a matter of great happiness and enthusiasm that you have successfully defeated corona. I praise you all for your courage. With the help of you all we will certainly defeat this corona totally from the state," a statement quoted the CM as saying. An official said that of the 215 patients admitted in Chirayu Hospital, designated by the state government to treat coronavirus patients, condition of 214 is absolutely alright. He said the CM also congratulated Chirayu Hospital Director Dr Ajay Goenka for his dedicated services. Meanwhile, Chouhan informed through a tweet that all 102 reports received by the state Health department on Saturday have turned negative for coronavirus, "which is a matter of happiness and relief". "Congratulations to you all. I urge people not to get afraid with #COVID-19, instead fight it out with awareness," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-28-recovered-from-covid-19-disease-get-rousing-send-off-827040.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Man dies at COVID-19 ward in UP, test reports awaited||A 26-year-old man with coronavirus symptoms has died at a government hospital's isolation ward in Uttar Pradesh's Fatehpur district, officials said on Saturday. His swab sample for COVID-19 has been sent to Lucknow and the report is awaited, Cheif Medical Officer, Fatehpur, Umakant Pandey said, adding that he had tuberculosis. He was admitted to the district hospital on Thursday and died a day later. The man worked as a labourer in Mumbai and had returned here on February 2. He had mild fever and cough for some time and was undergoing treatment at a hospital in his village here, hospital authorities said. When he did not get any relief, he was brought to the district hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-dies-at-covid-19-ward-in-up-test-reports-awaited-827045.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Lockdown violation lands 34 people behind bars in Noida||Thirty-four people were arrested and 237 vehicle owners penalised across Noida and Greater Noida on Saturday for allegedly defying restrictions imposed due to the COVID-19 lockdown, police said. Gautam Buddh Nagar is among the districts in Uttar Pradesh where coronavirus hotspots (areas that have recorded multiple COVID-19 positive cases) have been completely sealed off, while restrictions under CrPC section 144 are also in place. "Eleven FIRs were registered on Saturday for lockdown violations and 34 people arrested. A total of 776 vehicles were checked across 200 barrier points in the district and challans issued to 237 of them, while 10 others was impounded," the police said in a statement. The FIRs were registered under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) over violation of prohibitory orders put in place under CrPC Section 144, which bars teh assembly of four or more persons, they said. The Gautam Buddh Nagar police has already extended the restrictions imposed under CrPC Section 144 till May 3, covering the duration of the country-wide lockdown as announced by the central government.  All public events, including religious or political congregations, cultural or sports meets, protest marches and processions will remain banned till May 3 and action will be taken against violators under IPC section 188, officials said. According to official figures, around 2,507 people have been arrested for violating lockdown restrictions since March 25 in Gautam Buddh Nagar. Over three dozen localities have been completely sealed off across Noida and Greater Noida due to the COVID-19 outbreak, and so far, 95 positive cases of coronavirus recorded in the district, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-violation-lands-34-people-behind-bars-in-noida-827079.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt to maintain status quo in functioning of departments after April 20: Official||The Delhi government on Saturday decided to maintain status quo in the functioning of its departments after April 20 till further orders, an official said. Departments dealing with non-essential services will remain closed even after April 20 till further orders, the official told PTI, adding the decision was taken following assessment of the COVID-19 situation in the national capital. "It has been decided that the Delhi government will maintain 'status quo' with respect to the functioning of its departments," the official said. On Friday, the total number of novel coronavirus cases in Delhi rose to 1,707, with 67 fresh cases and four deaths being reported in a day. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday that there was a slight decrease in the number of COVID-19 cases in Delhi in the last three days and hoped that it would reduce further in the coming days. Many departments are closed during the ongoing lockdown. A few departments such as health, food and civil supplies and revenue remain open. According to an estimate, there are 70 Delhi government departments, which have around 1,500 branches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-maintain-status-quo-in-functioning-of-departments-after-april-20-official-827084.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||Rahul Gandhi thanks govt for changing FDI norms after his warning||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi thanked the government on Saturday for amending the foreign direct investment (FDI) policy after his warning on the takeover of Indian companies by foreign players during the COVID-19 crisis. "I thank the Government for taking note of my warning and amending the FDI norms to make it mandatory for Government approval in some specific cases," he wrote on Twitter. Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also expressed satisfaction at the development. "Glad that Govt has positively responded to @RahulGandhi's suggestion of protecting our corporates from hostile takeovers. The amendment in FDI Policy is welcome & will plug creeping acquisition of any Indian entity. Hope that this constructive engagement shall continue," he wrote on the microblogging website. Gandhi had, on April 12, flagged the issue of the alleged takeover of some Indian companies after they became vulnerable in the wake of the economic slowdown. "The massive economic slowdown has weakened many Indian corporates making them attractive targets for takeovers. The Government must not allow foreign interests to take control of any Indian corporate at this time of national crisis," he had said in a tweet. The former Congress chief's warning came after the People's Bank of China (PBoC) invested in HDFC and took up a stake in the finance company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-gandhi-thanks-govt-for-changing-fdi-norms-after-his-warning-827129.html
18-04-2020||North and Central||31 of extended family test positive for COVID-19 in Delhi||Thirty-one members of an extended family, including children, residing in north Delhi Jahangirpuri area, have tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Saturday. All of them have been sent to a self-isolation centre in Narela, a senior official said. A woman from the minority community, living in Jahangirpuri died on April 8, and her coronavirus test came positive on April 10, another senior official said. "Twenty-six of the extended family members of the woman tested positive on Friday and rest five tested positive today. All of them are asymptomatic though, and they include children," the official said. The portion of Jahangirpuri, where they lived, was declared a containment zone on April 10 and sealed, officials said. Sixty-four people who had come in contact were traced and tested, and 31 tested positive altogether while rest 33 have tested negative, officials said. "People are violating norms of containment zones, and moving in and out in the neighbourhood, though they are supposed to stay put inside their houses to prevent any spread of coronavirus," he said. Eight new containment zones were added on Saturday, taking their total number in Delhi to 76, officials said. The number of coronavirus cases in Delhi stood at 1,707 till Friday including 42 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/31-of-extended-family-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-delhi-827131.html
18-04-2020||Opinion||In COVID-19 era, govt should prioritise job creation to spur economic demand||Indian economy has not been doing well for the last two years (2018-19, 2019-20), although the Modi government has been reluctant to admit the fact. The economy was not in a good shape before the 2019 general election, and it did not improve much when Prime Minister Narendra Modi returned to power for a second term in the summer of 2019.  After presenting her first budget in July 2019, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman followed it up with supplementary measures to kickstart the economy in various sectors. In the debates on the economic situation in Rajya Sabha during the 2019 Winter Session, and then again in the 2020 Budget Session in February and March, Sitharaman argued that in spite of the slowdown, the growth figures for the last few quarters were better than it was in 2013 when the United Progressive Alliance-II was in power. It was political rhetoric, which has its place in parliamentary debates. International Monetary Fund (IMF) Director General Kristalina Georgieva has declared that the world economy is slipping into a recession. It is not just the Indian economy that has been dragging its feet for the last few years. The global economy was a laggard too. From among the advanced economies, only the United States picked up some momentum, ostensibly due to President Donald Trump’s America First policy thrust. But there has been a fierce trade tussle between the US and China, and it has pushed global markets into shoals of uncertainty.  The unimpressive Indian growth rate of the last two years has mainly been due to the lack of demand. Private investors held themselves back from starting new ventures and the existing players did not expand because of the hunch that there was no demand in the market. The government tried to stimulate demand by prodding the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to ease the interest rate in the hope that a step-up in credit offtake would help bring economic activity to life.  The COVID-19 outbreak has created a problem which is in direct contrast to subdued demand. It has disrupted supply chains. Government largesse may not help much to solve the problem because the lockdown, the only known strategy to contain the pandemic, creates supply shortages.  The importance of creating jobs The government is still reluctant to infuse money which will allow people to spend on their daily necessities. Instead, it has chosen the subsidy route to funnel things in kind rather than in cash. It has directed that eight crore households which were given gas cylinder connections will now get free cylinders for the next three months. And it has infused limited amounts of cash into the Jan Dhan accounts and to farmers, which would not trigger any economic activity. The stranded migrant workers have been provided food and shelter by the state governments and non-governmental organisations. Government is also offering free COVID-19 tests and free hospitalisation. It is indeed the need of the hour. But not much thought is being given to what should be done to create paid work, even if it is work under governmental agencies, which would enable people to buy things they need and restart economic activity of sorts. Governments, including that of Prime Minister Modi, have resorted to targeted direct benefits to sections of people. But when the whole economy has come to a standstill, the government would not be able to turn the country into a hostel where food and roof are offered. It is a challenging situation. The private sector would need a financial stimulus package for no other reason than that they should generate jobs which would restart the economic cycle. The government may not be able to procure the whole of the rabi crop this season. It can buy out only 25 percent to 30 percent of it. Private players must step in, and they would need to spin off the ancillary activities of cold storage, processing food and marketing it. The FMCG segment will have to take up the baton, and the consumer at the end of the chain must have the money to buy things. If private investments do not rise and not enough ventures are spawned this and the next year, the economy will sink further into the slough of despondency. What is needed is economic activity, buying and selling, increased consumption.  Prime Minister Modi and his economic advisors must take a hard look at the past five years and find out why despite record increase in foreign exchange reserves, the economy has failed to get into the fast lane of growth. Global headwinds were a big factor in the sluggishness of the domestic economy, but not enough effort was made to enliven the home market of billion-plus consumers. The cash transfers from the government should have encouraged spending. It has not. The government is not reading the tea leaves correctly. People must spend to make the economy work. Government and the private investors must do all they can to get the people to do it by creating jobs which in turn should create demand. (The writer is a New Delhi-based political commentator) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-covid-19-era-govt-should-prioritise-job-creation-to-spur-economic-demand-826821.html
18-04-2020||Opinion||Ritual desertion to give bad tidings a miss||A short news clip on the television a few days ago was reporting of residents deserting their village and camping at a distance. All the 60 or so families that made up the habitation of a village in Tumakuru district were said to have participated in the ‘exodus’. It was also reported that a person in the village dreamt of an oracle urging them to do so for their survival. The news item reminded me of what I had witnessed nearly 41 years ago. It was in the village Mattha, about five kilometres by foot from Village Gavi Nagamangala in Magadi block, now in Ramanagara district. I was living in Gavi Nagamangala during 1978-80 for my doctoral research, studying social change or the absence of it.   During the months of January to March, dry land farmers then had plenty of leisure time, a time for cattle fairs, festivals, marriages, pilgrimages, etc. I was invited to go to Mattha to witness a peculiar ritual. The occasion was a ritual that involved deserting the village.   By about 9 am on the appointed day, people began assembling in the front yard of the shrine of the village's presiding deity, Maramma. Her decked image was taken out to the accompaniment of customary music, followed by every member of every household in the village. Not one person was left behind. In other words, the whole village was deserted. Exception, if any, was for the elderly, pregnant women and new mothers.   At a distance of about one kilometre or so from the village, people assembled. This was the village’s gomala, the common grazing land. The image of Maramma was placed under a huge tree in a pre-decorated make-shift shrine. Each family proceeded to set up a temporary kitchen, by assembling three corner stones or earthen mounds to serve as a hearth. Only a 'sweet' – meaning vegetarian – meal could be cooked. There was hardly any variation in the menu in each kitchen: Ragi balls, a vegetable stew (sambar), side dishes of cucumber or kosumbari, other other vegetables, buttermilk, and a sweet dish of obbattu. As a rule, everything was cooked there. Around 11 am, there was a main puja of the Goddess and consecration of the food cooked by the house of the traditional leader of the village. Soon after, each family sat in the shade to partake of the food.   Quite a few, especially children and some women, proceeded to the nearby pond. A small crowd had assembled there, waiting for their turn to get their head ritually shaved clean. This was by people who may have taken a vow to offer their hair to the Goddess in return for favours received. Interestingly, the hereditary barber who rendered his services on the occasion would not discriminate against members of different castes. Whoever paid his fee of 25 paise for an adult and 10 paise for a child received his services. A ritual bath in the pond followed the offering of hair. There was widespread inviting of one another for a meal. It was considered rude not to share a meal when so invited. Even after eating with one's own family, men were seen eating elsewhere too. Women were rarely invited. Even if invited, they were too busy catering to guests in their own kitchens. Couples who had been married in the past one year had a difficult time, for all in the extended family customarily invited them.   Eating in one’s own or each other’s kitchen went on till evening. Just as it was sunset time, there was another puja. This marked the end of the ritual of deserting the village. One by one – but not in procession as in the morning – people returned to their village. By then, designated members of the house must have brought back the cattle from the grazing yards. Gradually, the village came back to life, after a break of about eight to nine hours. The ritual was not an annual event, but decided upon once in 10 to 12 years. I couldn't get an answer as to why this was being practised. An elderly gentleman, of over 80 years then, from a neighbouring village offered an explanation. He must have been an indigenous theoretician! According to him, people generally took a break from the routine to ward off ill luck, bad health, poor rains and so on. If there had been untimely deaths for certain people, incidence of any disease, loss of crops, etc., it was customary to attempt to ‘unhook a link in a chain of bad things!’ By not being at the usual site where they occur – the village as a whole – the spirits governing the bad tidings get misled. It was believed that they would go elsewhere in search of people. Another person offered an equally convincing answer. After the dreaded influenza (1918) when entire villages were deserted, it had become almost customary for people in the region to symbolically re-enact desertions. That way, plague and epidemics would not recur. This too seemed like a plausible explanation.   In the years since my research in the village of Gavi Nagamangala, I have observed how actions become practices, and in due course, a ritual. As a young boy, I had watched many performances and devotional narrations of tales from our epics – the Harikatha. As interesting events were being narrated, devotees among the audience used to walk up and perform an aarti (waving of a lit camphor) or broke a coconut. This practice was continued in front of radio or television sets too! Belief in something, sometimes, results in associated actions becoming a ritual. One may also recall people skipping a turn in card games to give their bad luck a miss, or seeking a re-seating arrangement. Good luck may favour some. Perhaps, this is what people of a village in Tumakuru district were doing by deserting the village of their habitation and setting up tents to live outside. Perhaps, we too as people in this century and in this generation should take a break from the kind of life we have led in the past couple of decades!   (G K Karanth headed the sociology unit of the Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bangalore. He was awarded the ICSSR National Fellowship in 2015-2016) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ritual-desertion-to-give-bad-tidings-a-miss-826990.html
18-04-2020||Second Edit||Coronavirus: Indians abroad need govt’s help||It is imperative that India extends strong support to its citizens living, working and studying abroad to tide over the COVID-19 pandemic. Over 13 million Indians are abroad, many of them are in countries that have been hit hard by the pandemic. According to the government, around 3,336 Indians in 53 countries have tested positive for COVID-19 and 25 infected patients have died of it so far.  Many Indians abroad, especially students, have appealed to the government to bring them back home. Their apprehensions are understandable. In several countries, public health systems have crumbled under the pressure of the pandemic. This is the case with the United Kingdom, for instance, where 400,000 Indian nationals, including some 50,000 students, reside. The already weak National Health System cannot take the extra burden of COVID-19. Frantic Indian students are therefore keen to return home. Even more alarming is the plight of Indian nationals in West Asia. Some nine million of them live in the Gulf Co-operation Council (GCC) countries, 80% of whom live and work in conditions that are difficult at the best of times. With the COVID-19 pandemic sweeping through these countries, the situation of these workers has become precarious. Many of them live in overcrowded housing facilities and do not have access to medical treatment. Hundreds of Indian workers in Kuwait, Dubai and Doha among other places are said to have tested positive for COVID-19. Countries in the region do not have affordable public healthcare systems in place. Highly vulnerable to COVID-19 but stuck in a situation where they cannot access affordable medical treatment and unable to exit because of lockdowns in India and their host countries, millions of Indian migrants abroad are in distress. The Ministry of External Affairs has said that bringing Indian nationals home at this point is not feasible and selective repatriation is not an option. Indeed, flying millions back to India would be a logistical nightmare. Indian missions are reportedly providing subsidised food and accommodation to stranded Indian nationals in some countries. However, this is not enough. New Delhi must step up support substantially. India could dispatch medical teams with medicines and other supplies to other countries to support Indian nationals there. Thousands living in the GCC countries need immediate help. India’s relations with these countries have improved in recent years. New Delhi should leverage these ties to work with local governments to support Indian nationals there. This will, no doubt, be a mammoth operation. But India has displayed its capacity to carry out large-scale humanitarian operations in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/coronavirus-indians-abroad-need-govt-s-help-826836.html
18-04-2020||Second Edit||Indians abroad need govt’s help||It is imperative that India extends strong support to its citizens living, working and studying abroad to tide over the Covid-19 pandemic. Over 13 million Indians are abroad, many of them are in countries that have been hit hard by the pandemic. According to the government, around 3,336 Indians in 53 countries have tested positive for Covid-19 and 25 infected patients have died of it so far.  Many Indians abroad, especially students, have appealed to the government to bring them back home. Their apprehensions are understandable. In several countries, public health systems have crumbled under the pressure of the pandemic. This is the case with the United Kingdom, for instance, where 400,000 Indian nationals, including some 50,000 students, reside. The already weak National Health System cannot take the extra burden of Covid-19. Frantic Indian students are therefore keen to return home. Even more alarming is the plight of Indian nationals in West Asia. Some nine million of them live in the Gulf Co-operation Council (GCC) countries, 80% of whom live and work in conditions that are difficult at the best of times. With the Covid-19 pandemic sweeping through these countries, the situation of these workers has become precarious. Many of them live in overcrowded housing facilities and do not have access to medical treatment. Hundreds of Indian workers in Kuwait, Dubai and Doha among other places are said to have tested positive for Covid-19. Countries in the region do not have affordable public healthcare systems in place. Highly vulnerable to Covid-19 but stuck in a situation where they cannot access affordable medical treatment and unable to exit because of lockdowns in India and their host countries, millions of Indian migrants abroad are in distress. The Ministry of External Affairs has said that bringing Indian nationals home at this point is not feasible and selective repatriation is not an option. Indeed, flying millions back to India would be a logistical nightmare. Indian missions are reportedly providing subsidised food and accommodation to stranded Indian nationals in some countries. However, this is not enough. New Delhi must step up support substantially. India could dispatch medical teams with medicines and other supplies to other countries to support Indian nationals there. Thousands living in the GCC countries need immediate help. India’s relations with these countries have improved in recent years. New Delhi should leverage these ties to work with local governments to support Indian nationals there. This will, no doubt, be a mammoth operation. But India has displayed its capacity to carry out large-scale humanitarian operations in the past.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/indians-abroad-need-govt-s-help-826887.html
18-04-2020||South||Gujarat government to use plasma transfusion to treat coronavirus patients||The Gujarat government has decided to carry out plasma transfusion treatment on COVID-19 patients in the state, particularly those in critical condition, to boost their immunity, health officials said. In this treatment, the plasma extracted from the blood of a fully recovered COVID-19 patient is injected into the critical patient to help his body generate antibodies to fight the virus. An antibody is a protein produced mainly by plasma cells that is used by the immune system to neutralize bacteria and viruses. The civil hospital in Ahmedabad and the civic body-run SVP Hospital here have prepared a detailed proposal about the plasma transfusion treatment for coronavirus patients and submitted it to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for approval, Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi, said. "We have learned that the ICMR has given approval to the Kerala government for such plasma transfusion treatment. From Gujarat, Ahmedabad civil hospital and SVP Hospital have sought ICMR's permission to start this treatment for coronavirus patients," she said.    "Both the hospitals are ready to start it. They have already sent their proposals for approval," Ravi added. "An antibody is generated by the human body to fight a virus. Those who are fully recovered have such antibody protein in their blood plasma. We will take it from them and transfuse it into those who are critical and on ventilator support. "That plasma will help the patient to generate antibodies to fight coronavirus," she said. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, which runs SVP Hospital, has already taken consent of some plasma donors.  "SVP Hospital is ready to start plasma treatment once we get permission from ICMR. We have also convinced some donors, who are fully recovered from coroavirus infection, to give their plasma for treatment of others," Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gujarat-government-to-use-plasma-transfusion-to-treat-coronavirus-patients-826818.html
18-04-2020||South||Kerala man recovers from COVID-19, dies of other complications||An 85-year-old coronavirus patient, who was declared cured and was under treatment for kidney and heart-related ailments died early Saturday at a hospital here. The patient was declared cured of the viral infection after his last three samples taken on April 7, 10 and 13 came out negative, Malappuram District Collector Jafar Malik told PTI. K V Nandakumar, Superintendent of the Government Manjeri Medical College hospital, where he was admitted said, "The man was in ICU and was undergoing treatment for coronary artery disease kidney ailment and diabetes."  Noting that the elderly patient was suffering from kidney related ailment and was diabetic, the collector said, "He was under observation in the ICU and in the last two days there were lot of complications. Due to his age and earlier diseases the doctors tried their best but he expired at 4 in the morning." He clarified that it was not a COVID-19 related death. According to the protocol, two samples have to be taken. However, in this case three were taken and all were negative. "It is a normal death," he said. Asked about the funeral protocol, Malik said there would be restrictions due to the lockdown as no more than 20 people could attend it. But, no covid protocol would be followed and the opinion of docotrs in this regard has been taken, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-man-recovers-from-covid-19-dies-of-other-complications-826851.html
18-04-2020||South||Coronavirus cases cross 600 mark in AP, 31 more confirmed||Coronavirus cases surged past the 600 mark in Andhra Pradesh, touching 603 on Saturday as 31 more tested positive to the infection in the last 24 hours, the health department said. The coronavirus toll increased to 15 as one patient died in Krishna district, which also registered 18 fresh cases in the last 24 hours ending 9 am on Saturday, a health bulletin said. Krishna now has an aggregate of 70 cases. Also, 7 more patients got cured and discharged from hospitals, taking the total to 42, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-cases-cross-600-mark-in-ap-31-more-confirmed-826852.html
18-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Telangana launches helpline to address psychological issues during lockdown||Announcing the launch in a tweet on Friday night, Minister for IT and Industries, KT Rama Rao said, "#Telangana Commissionerate of Health & Family Welfare launched helpline 108 to address Mental Health & Psychosocial issues during #Lockdown Citizens emotional well-being is one of our top priorities. 108 Helpline will be working 24/7." According to Telangana Health and Family Welfare Department, as many as 53 people working under an National Health Mission (NHM) programme have been trained at the Indian Institute of Health and Family Welfare here on COVID-19 mental health and counselling aspects for three days.    The call centre would have two experienced psychiatrists to provide necessary support to the counsellors and also address serious psychological behavioural cases, it said. Isolation, social distancing, closure of schools, workplaces and entertainment during the lockdown period are challenges that may affect the people and it is natural to feel stress, anxiety, fear and loneliness at that time, the department said.    The WHO has recommended that governments establish possible online counselling support services for effective handling of the mental health aspects of people during the coronavirus episode. As suggested by the Centre, the state government has explored existing 108 helpline to be utilised for mental health counselling to support the needy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-telangana-launches-helpline-to-address-psychological-issues-during-lockdown-826881.html
18-04-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Kerala govt mulls bringing back NRKs after resumption of air services||The Kerala government was contemplating bringing back in three phases the expatriates, who are stranded in various countries due to COVID-19 lockdown, once the air services resume. Elaborate arrangements would be made for the return of the Non Resident Keralites (NRK)s, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Friday at a high level meeting here, a government press release said.  Adequate facilities for their testing and quarantine would be made close to the four international airports in the state and accommodation and hospital facilities would also be provided to them, the release said. Symptomatic cases would be quarantined and those testing negative would be put under observation in their homes. Adequate number of houses and rooms had been arrranged to host the returnees and efforts were on to identify more such buildings, the CM said. The state government would request the Union Civil Aviation and External Affairs ministeries to bring back the elderly, pregnant women and children those on visiting visas and those suffering from serious illness in the first phase. The expats who have lost jobs, whose visas had expired and people released from prisons could be among those considered in the second phase while the remaining would be brought back later. Officials would hold discussions with airlines and request reduced airfare for the NRKs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-kerala-govt-mulls-bringing-back-nrks-after-resumption-of-air-services-826892.html
18-04-2020||South||DMK demands TN govt to spell out rapid test kits' price from China||Stalin, the leader of opposition in the Assembly cited Chattisgarh Minister T S Singh Deo's twitter post on the price of kits his State has bought and sought a similar disclosure from the AIADMK-led government. The Chattisgarh Minister has transparently announced the number of kits purchased, and its low price, the DMK chief said in a Facebook post. "Similarly, the Tamil Nadu government should transparently announce the number of kits bought and its price. I am urging disclosure as there should be tranparency in government administration," he said. The Dravidian party leader also tagged Deo's post which said: "We are procuring 75,000 high quality rapid testing kits at a benchmark price of Rs 337 + GST from a South Korean company based in India, which has proven to be the lowest bidder.   The rate we have been able to close at is the lowest in India." On April 17, Stalin had hit out at Chief Minister K Palaniswami for his expectation that the number of fresh coronavirus cases will slide to zero and demanded expeditious steps to procure equipment, carry out rapid testing besides measures for treatment, relief and rehabilitation. Palaniswami had said Tamil Nadu has received 24,000 rapid test kits from China. As a precautionary step, the government had already placed orders for 1.25 lakh kits from China and remitted payment for it also, the CM had said adding the 24,000 kits were part of this.  Noting that there was some delay in getting the consignment from China, he assured all measures to quicken the rest of the shipment from the dragon nation. Besides, orders have been issued for procuring four lakh kits and steps were being taken, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-demands-tn-govt-to-spell-out-rapid-test-kits-price-from-china-826900.html
18-04-2020||South||Two men home brew liquor in TN using web tips, arrested||Two men used 'do it yourself' tips on making alcoholic beverages from a popular video-sharing website to produce liquor and were arrested before they could complete the process, police said on Saturday. The two men, belonging to a village near here were arrested when they were engaged in the process of fermenting to get liquor, they said. "They had almost succeeded (in completing the fermenting process), and we arrested the duo on Friday," an official here told PTI adding the two men said they got the "knowhow" of making alcoholic beverages from a popular video-sharing website. Containers and other materials used for the thwarted bid to make liquor in one of their residential premises have been seized, he said. On alleged illicit liquor brewing in the district, the official said stern action was being taken against offenders. Liquor retail outlets run by State-owned Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation are shut since March 24 evening.  The official said days ago a man had prepared "the requisite mix" in a barrel to make country liquor and left it to get fermented. Leaving the barrel in his bathroom to ensure that it is undetected, he "locked his house and left to a nearby place and had planned to return days after so that the mix would have by then fully fermented and be ready for consumption," the official said adding, however, they got a tip-off and destroyed it. "Similarly, we have destroyed illicit liquor brewing in remote places and we thank the villagers for helping us in our endeavour," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-men-home-brew-liquor-in-tn-using-web-tips-arrested-826958.html
18-04-2020||South||Man hailing from Kerala commits suicide in Dubai||A 47-year-old Indian worker has allegedly committed suicide by jumping from the third floor of a building here, according to a media report. Ashokan Purushotaman, a native of Kollam in Kerala, cut the arteries in his legs and jumped from the third floor of a building in the city's Jebel Ali area on Friday, the Gulf News reported. Purushotaman succumbed to his injuries in Rashid Hospital. Meanwhile, Dubai Police has rejected reports that Purushotaman killed himself because he had coronavirus. Personal reasons were cited as the cause for suicide. “His suicide is not related to COVID-19. The building is clean and there are no infection cases there. He committed suicide due to personal reasons,” director of Jebel Ali police station Brigaider Adel Al Suwaidi told the Gulf News. Consul-General of India Vipul confirmed Purushotaman's death. “We are yet to get more information. Considering the death was of unnatural circumstances, authorities will conduct due forensic tests and provide us with more details," Vipul told the daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-hailing-from-kerala-commits-suicide-in-dubai-826965.html
18-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Row over Kerala CM ending 6 pm press meet||Over the last one month lakhs of Malayalis within Kerala and across the globe used to be glued to television channels and online platforms by 6 pm to watch Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's routine press conference. With the Chief Minister touching upon a range of issues affecting people's daily life during the lockdown and even starvation of animals, the CM's press meet's viewership kept on escalating. Apart from TV channels, it also went live on various online platforms like Facebook, Instagram and Helo. The average online viewership was 7.6 lakh and the viewership on some days were even more than 10 lakh, said government sources.  But all on a sudden the Chief Minister said on Thursday that he was stopping the press conference. This had not only caused disappointment among the regular viewers but also triggered a political row. Opposition Congress alleged that the Chief Minister decided to stop the press conference as he had to face queries over alleged irregularities in the government deal with a US-based firm for an online service involving sharing of the health data of nearly 2 lakh people collected as part of COVID surveillance. The allegations being raised over misuse of government funds being raised by the opposition is also said to be a reason for the Chief Minister to call off his daily briefing. However, the Chief Minister's office sources said that the Chief Minister decided to stop the daily review meeting on COVID as the COVID situations in Kerala were now quite under control. Hence the daily press meet was called off. The Chief Minister would be obviously conducting press conferences when a situation arises. The growing popularity of the CM's press meet was also a cause for concern for the Opposition as they felt that the Chief Minister was enhancing his connect with the masses through the press conference, especially since the local body polls and assembly polls are due in around one year time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-row-over-kerala-cm-ending-6-pm-press-meet-826980.html
18-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Writer helps woman deliver a baby under a tree||His celebrated novel “Lock Up” inspired director Vetrimaran to make the critically-acclaimed movie Visaranai and today Chandran, who ekes out a living by driving an autorickshaw in Coimbatore, has emerged as a Corona Warrior by helping a migrant woman from Odisha to deliver a baby boy under a tree. Auto Chandran, as he is known as, is a celebrated writer having penned books like “Lock Up” which was adapted into the movie, Visaranai (Investigation), was distributing food to the needy on April 16 when he came to know the migrant woman had developed labour pain and needed immediate hospitalisation as she was bleeding profusely. As Chandran decided to shift her to the hospital in his autorickshaw, an ambulance also arrived by then. But the woman could not be shifted to the ambulance since she was already in labour. That is when Chandran and his friends decided to take up the task on themselves with help from some women. The men immediately took her under a tree, covered the area using a cloth and carried out the delivery with help from a health care professional who came in the ambulance.     The labour put by Chandran and his friends ended on a sweet note as the woman delivered a baby boy. After the initial first aid, the mother and baby were taken to the Government Medical College and ESIC Hospital in Coimbatore for post-natal care. Though an autorickshaw driver by profession, Chandran is an acclaimed writer in Tamil. His book “Lock Up” based on his experiences in a police station in Andhra Pradesh where he was taken for investigation for his alleged involvement in the robbery. The book served as an inspiration for Vetrimaran to direct the 2015 movie Visaranai, which received rave reviews. Narrating the heart-warming incident, Chandran’s daughter said the health care professional helped to perform the delivery. “The doctor asked dad to hold the placental cord tightly to cut and he clipped it safely. He then took a deep breath and asked people to bring a white cloth. I was asked to hold the baby and suddenly I heard his first cry,” she said.  “The feeling of holding the baby cannot be explained. It all happened under a tree and it looked like nature blessed the newborn,” Jeeva wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-writer-helps-woman-deliver-a-baby-under-a-tree-827038.html
18-04-2020||South||Kerala to start easing lockdown norms; Four more test positive of coronavirus||While four more COVID-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Saturday and two tested negative, the Kerala government was going ahead with relaxing lockdown norms in ten districts from coming days. Among the four found infected, three came down from abroad while one got infected locally. The two tested negative were from Kasargod district. The total COVID-19 infected person in Kerala so far is 399, of which 257 already recovered and two died. Remaining 140 are under treatment. Relaxations in lockdown norms, especially movement of people within district and allowing function of a section of services, were being made by dividing the 14 districts into four categories depending on the number of COVID-19 cases now. Kasargod at three other north Kerala districts, Kannur, Malappuram and Kozhikode, are in the red category where total lockdown would continue till May 3. Relaxations would be given to seven districts after April 20, and three more districts after April 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-start-easing-lockdown-norms-four-more-test-positive-of-coronavirus-827050.html
18-04-2020||South||Marginal dip in COVID-19 cases: 49 reported in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu reported a marginal dip in the number of COVID-19 cases on Saturday, with 49 people testing positive for coronavirus, taking the total number in the state to 1,372, the government said. On Friday, 56 people had tested positive for coronavirus in the state, even as the state recorded nil deaths for the second straight day on Saturday. Health Minister C Vijaya Baskar said the death toll from the virus remained at 15. Briefing reporters, he said there was a spike in the number of persons being discharged, which he said was a good sign. "Over the past two-three days the number of positive cases has been coming down. At the same time due to the good medical attention, the number of those discharged has also been increasing day by day," he added. As many as 82 people were discharged on Saturday, taking the cumulative total to 365. He said of the 49 people who tested positive on Saturday, most hailed from Tirupur district in western Tamil Nadu. Further, the government was adopting a 'multi-pronged' strategy based on instructions of Chief Minister K Palaniswami to tackle the spread of the pandemic, he said. "It includes aggressive testing, good clinical management, awareness campaigns, preventive measures like spraying of disinfectant, implementation of Section 144 of Cr.Pc. among others." Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code is in force in the state to implement the lockdown as part of the fight against the contagion. The section bars the assembly of more than five individuals. The Minister further said the government was also able to find positive cases in containment zones due to the aggressive testing being undertaken. To a query on rapid test kits (RTKs), he said the state has received 24,000 kits from the orders made by it, besides an additional 12,000 allotted by the Centre. The kits have been started to be put in use in Salem, Chennai and Coimbatore for tests, he said. P Umanath, Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation, said the government was procuring the rapid test kits at rates fixed by the Central government. When it was pointed out to the main opposition party DMK's demand that the rates be spelt out like Chattisgarh had done, the official said when Tamil Nadu had placed the order much earlier, there were fewer Chinese companies producing them. He reiterated the kits were procured at rates fixed by the Centre and indicated that if a fresh tender was floated, Tamil Nadu also could ensure lesser prices as compared to the earlier consignment. He said the orders were made for five lakh kits on the very next day of Central government making its order to the company headquartered in China on April 3. Meanwhile, Vijaya Baskar clarified that the RTKs would only be 'indicators' whether an individual was exposed to COVID-19 and said the government would also take up other mandatory tests as per the procedures. "We are conducting tests for ILI (Influenza like illness) cases, SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) cases and persons in containment zones as per the ICMR guidelines," he said, adding the government was on the right path in containing the spread of virus. Baskar said the department was also 'auditing' the number of deaths that have occurred due to coronavirus by forming a committee. "We (the health department) categorise them as high- risk, medium risk and set up high dependency ward. Today the mortality rate (in Tamil Nadu) is less which is at 1.1 per cent", he said. To a query on plasma treatment, he said the government was awaiting two approvals from the ICMR for research, including on plasma related treatment. He said the government also increased the number of testing facilities in the state to 31, 21 of them being state- owned and 10 in private sector. To a question, he confirmed that a Madras High Court staff had tested positive for the virus and all related protocol will be followed. This includes mass disinfection, contract tracing, and quarantine. According to High Court sources, the affected person was present when a special sitting was held on Wednesday and Thursday of the Division bench, attended by law officers among others. Meanwhile, a Health department bulletin said Chennai topped the list with the number of positive cases at 235 (seven cases on Saturday alone) followed by Coimbatore at 128. Tirupur recorded 28 fresh positive cases, taking the tally in the district to 108.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/marginal-dip-in-covid-19-cases-49-reported-in-tamil-nadu-827119.html
18-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu begins coronavirus testing using rapid kits; reports 49 new cases||Tamil Nadu on Saturday began COVID-19 testing using rapid test kits imported from China as it reported 49 fresh cases infected with coronavirus, taking the tally to 1,372. As many as 82 patients were discharged from various hospitals on Saturday alone, taking the number of COVID-19 discharges in the state to 365. The state received the first batch of 24,000 kits from its order on Friday, while it got 12,000 kits on Saturday from the Centre. The testing using rapid test kits was conducted in Salem, the home district of Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, as Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar said the blood test would deliver results in half-an-hour. Since the rapid kits only test for the presence of antibodies, the presence of COVID-19 virus in patients will be confirmed through the RT-PCR test, considered gold standards by doctors and experts. He said Tamil Nadu has been ramping up testing in the past few weeks and it can test up to 6,000 people in a day. “These kits will be used to test those who came in contact with positive patients and frontline workers. They need to have symptoms. Separately, the state has been testing everyone with influenza-like illness (ILI) and those with respiratory problems,” he told the media. Vijayabhaskar said Tamil Nadu was making good progress in treating COVID-19 patients as the number of patients getting discharged every day is much lower than the number of those testing positive every day. As Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singh Deo’s statement saying the state was purchasing rapid test kits at Rs 337 plus GST each led to a debate on pricing, Tamil Nadu government said it purchased the kit at the price decided by the Centre. Though Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) Dr. P Umanath did not mention the price at which the kits were bought, the purchase order shows the price of one kit is Rs 600. Andhra Pradesh had bought kits from South Korean company at Rs 700 each. The government had fielded Umanath to take questions on the procurement of rapid test kits to clear the air over the issue with DMK President and Opposition Leader M K Stalin asking the government to reveal the price. The Health Minister also said, responding to a question, the state has 1.95 lakh RT-PCR kits for testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-begins-coronavirus-testing-using-rapid-kits-reports-49-new-cases-827127.html
18-04-2020||South||Many elephants stuck at various places in Kerala due to lockdown||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi made the lockdown call on March 24, it was not just people who got stuck at various places away from home, but many tuskers in Kerala too. While an elephant rights activist said that at least 150 of the 500 odd captive elephants in Kerala might be stuck at various places away from their owners' place, elephant owners' representatives maintained that only around 50 could be stuck. March and April are peak temple festivals season in Kerala and elephants are an integral part of the festivals. Hence, captive elephants used to have huge demand during this season and many would be on hectic transit from one festival location to the other in trucks. As a result, when the PM's lockdown announcement came, many elephants were away from their owners' place and they are still stuck elsewhere. Animal rights activist V K Venkitachalam said that at least 150 elephants owned by persons in Kottayam, Pathanamthiita, Alappuzha and Ernakulam were held up in Thrissur district alone. They are not getting proper and adequate food. However, Kerala Elephant Owners' Federation secretary K Sasikumar said that only around 50 elephants could be stuck at various places owing to lockdown Are elephants pets or domestic animals? A decision of Kerala government to sanction Rs 5 crore for providing food to domestic animals has been widely welcomed by animal lovers, even as it raised many eyebrows as elephants are mentioned as domestic animals in the order. Animal rights activists pointed out that elephants are wild animals and the elephants possessed by individuals could be considered only as captive ones and not domestic animals or pets. Hence, the government order was a violation of the wildlife norms. Though it was good that elephants would also get food, it seems that the powerful lobby of elephant owners influenced the government to issue such an order as the elephant owners could not generate revenue by parading elephants at temple festivals this time. A government official said that Kerala Forest Minister K Raju would be soon giving a clarification on the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/many-elephants-stuck-at-various-places-in-kerala-due-to-lockdown-827134.html
18-04-2020||State||Lockdown: Funny social media messages lighten people's mood||Amid the Covid-19 crisis and the current lockdown, people have let their creative juices flow and are coming out with humorous messages related to the Coronavirus and circulating them on social media. Such funny messages have gone viral on WhatsApp, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and Tiktok since the lockdown was announced 25 days ago. Some are like this: "I am not Kareena, I am Corona"; "Earlier in history man had to fight wars to save his country. Now we have to stay home to save the country"; "One takeaway from the lockdown is to stock enough liquor at home. Some donor will deliver everything else to your doorstep'; "Earlier Amit Shah was the only home minister, now everyone is a home minister".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lockdown-funny-social-media-messages-lighten-peoples-mood-826994.html
18-04-2020||State||ICMR nod for 16 COVID-19 testings labs in Karnataka||The Indian Council of Medical Research has approved 16 laboratories, comprising 11 government and five private laboratories in Karnataka, for testing the samples of COVID-19 suspected cases, the state government said on Saturday. Meetings and negotiations were held with some private laboratories for conducting COVID-19 sample testing, additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Jawaid Akhtar said in a circular. "Based on the negotiations, the cost per test has been fixed at Rs 2,250," the circular read. These private labs have to abide by the conditions laid down by the state and union governments, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/icmr-nod-for-16-covid-19-testings-labs-in-karnataka-827076.html
18-04-2020||State||Nine of 10 foreigners who visited virus hotspot Nanjangud traced: Karnataka minister||The Karnataka government has managed to get the contact details of nine out of 10 foreign nationals who had visited Jubilant Life Sciences, a pharmaceutical company in Mysuru district's Nanjangud which has been declared a coronavirus hotspot, State minister S Suresh Kumar said on Saturday. As many as 66 people have tested positive for COVID-19 in Nanjangud. While investigating the source of virus in what is now known as 'Nanjangud cluster', the Mysuru administration could get information that 10 foreign nationals had visited this town, Kumar told reporters. Soon the External Affairs Ministry's help was sought which managed to track nine of them, Kumar said, adding that the MEA contacted its embassies in China, Germany, Japan and the USA to track these persons. "Out of 10, they could contact nine and got details. All of them have said that they were all healthy and they did not have any symptoms. Hence, they did not feel the need to undergo COVID-19 tests," the minister said. He opined that many people do not show the symptoms but they could be carriers of the virus. "It all depends on the person's immunity," Kumar explained. A foreign national from Germany who had visited Nanjangud could not be reached as her contact details were not available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nine-of-10-foreigners-who-visited-virus-hotspot-nanjangud-traced-karnataka-minister-827080.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 99 new COVID-19 cases in three days||Karnataka has seen 99 Covid-19 cases — which includes a record 44 on Friday — in the past three days, with a distinct pattern emerging in the surging virus cases in the state. Three clusters are contributing in a major way to the state’s tally, which now stands at 359: Mysuru’s Nanjangud pharma cluster — a mystery that the government has not been able to crack — and large families from Belagavi and Vijayapura districts, who have tested positive. Cases have also soared after contacts of previously diagnosed patients from Bengaluru Urban, which reported 10 new cases, tested positive. Apart from the 44 cases on Friday, the state reported 36 and 19 cases on Thursday and Wednesday respectively. There have been 13 deaths so far.  Asked about the sudden spike in cases, Minister S Suresh Kumar, spokesperson for Covid-19 in Karnataka, said, “We have seen 61 positive cases from Nanjangud’s Jubilant Pharma company alone. As many as 1,705 people from the company have been quarantined. Out of these, 1,225 have already been tested and results of 480 people are awaited.”  Kumar said all cases from Vijayapura are from just two families. “Until a few days ago, it was a corona-free district,” he said.  New measures Outlining new measures to rein in the pandemic, Kumar said “every district will conduct tests on symptomatic individuals even if the district is virus-free”. “Eight districts are disease-free right now. Currently, we are testing 2,000 people per day. Karnataka is coming across one positive patient for every 43.56 tests conducted,” he said.  The minister said since private hospitals were referring patients with symptoms to government hospitals after an average of four days, those with symptoms have been instructed to go to fever clinics. “They must immediately be referred to government hospitals,” he said.   He also said Karnataka will be getting 12,400 kits on Friday night out of the 6.5 lakh rapid antibody testing kits received by the Centre. This apart, 10 new labs will be set up soon across the state and every medical college will have at least one testing facility, Kumar said.  New casesOn Friday, apart from Bengaluru Urban’s 10 cases, Mysuru reported 12, Hosapete seven, Belagavi five, Chikkaballapur and Mandya three cases each. Vijayapura saw two new cases while Dakshina Kannada and Bidar reported one each. In Bengaluru Urban, eight of them are contacts of previously diagnosed patients while two are SARI cases. In Mysuru’s 12 cases, 11 of them were infected by the index patient in the Mysuru Pharma company cluster, P52. One patient is a contact of P273. The three patients in Malavalli, Mandya, contracted the disease from P171. The patient from Dakshina Kannada’s Uppinangadi has a travel history to Delhi on March 28, days after the Tablighi Jamaat congregation ended. The Bidar case has a contact history with someone who had travelled to Delhi recently, while two patients from Vijayapura are contacts of P221. All seven patients from Hosapete, Ballari, are contacts of P141. The three cases from Chikkaballapur are contacts of P250, while five patients from Belagavi are contacts of P127.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-99-new-covid-19-cases-in-three-days-826756.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Retain staff with pay cuts, don't sack them: Karnataka government to IT firms||Karnataka on Friday asked information technology and allied companies to cut salaries instead of laying off employees during the Covid-19 lockdown.  Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan held a video conference with industry leaders, including Biocon CMD Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw and Infosys co-founder Kris Gopalakrishnan, to take stock of the readiness for IT/BT companies to resume operations after April 20.  “It was discussed that there should not be layoffs. Instead, salary cuts can be taken up so that the functioning of a company is not affected, given that there haven’t been many new orders,” Narayan who is the IT/BT minister, told reporters after the video conference.  Bengaluru is hailed as India's Silicon Valley. But in the wake of the lockdown, there have been reports of companies laying off employees to trim costs.  From April 20, IT/BT companies can start operations with 50% strength, Narayan said. "Some concerns were expressed with regard to passes for their employees and vehicles. We told them that probably after April 20 there won’t be any pass system in existence," Narayan said. "Although 50% workforce will be permitted, it will take a couple of weeks for the companies to mobilise this. The percentage will increase gradually and things will head towards normalcy," he said.  The government will facilitate companies to hire BMTC buses on contract to ferry employees to work.   According to Narayan, protocols will be worked out for containment if Covid-19 positive cases are reported at workplaces. "So far, we have been planning for residential areas. If any positive cases are reported in office spaces, should we shut down or should we just screen employees, sanitise the place and continue working? Once relaxations are given, it will become a usual phenomenon where cases will continue to be reported here and there. We discussed how such a scenario should be handled," Narayan said.  Narayan also told the industry representatives that Internet and connectivity services will be ensured. "Customers are complaining of lack of access to recharge. So, we have asked for opening up of retail recharge facilities," Cellular Operators Association of India director-general Rajan S Mahews, who was part of the video conference, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/retain-staff-with-pay-cuts-dont-sack-them-karnataka-government-to-it-firms-826760.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to use tuberculosis testing machine for COVID-19||Now with the central government supplying 4,500 Xpert Xpress COVID SARS-CoV-2 cartridges to the Government in six tranches, the state has a chance in leveraging its existing infrastructure to ramp up testing.   The Xpert Xpress COVID SARS-CoV-2 test can provide rapid detection of the virus in approximately 45 minutes with less than a minute of hands-on time to prepare the sample.  Karnataka has three CBNAAT testing facilities in the city in Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, Victoria Hospital campus, Intermediate Reference Laboratory in State TB Training and Demonstration Centre, and National Tuberculosis Institute. Karnataka is also being supplied 35 Truenat machines, 20 of which will be supplied by May 23 and 15 machines by May 31. As far as the testing chips for the TrueNAT machines are concerned, 28,800 will be supplied by May 23 while 21,600 by May 30.  A state health department official with the Tuberculosis programme said, "While the tests by GeneXpert machines are confirmatory tests, the tests by Truenat machines are screening tests. But the turnaround time in both is one hour to two hours. Training has already begun for those in three of our labs in Bengaluru to use the machines for COVID-19 testing. Since the test cartridges have to come from the United States, we won't be able to start testing till the end of May."  The state was previously in a dilemma about using Truenat machines for COVID-19 testing as it did not have any. States like Andhra Pradesh already had these machines in their community health centres, hence they only had to purchase the cartridges. Now with the Centre making bulk purchases for all states including Karnataka, the state can ramp up its testing capacity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-use-tuberculosis-testing-machine-for-covid-19-826864.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka govt to encourage industries to re-open from April 20||The Karnataka government is keen that industries operating in rural areas reopen from April 20, Major and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar indicated on Saturday. He told PTI that he held discussions with industrialists in the district headquarters town of Dharwad in north Karnataka on Friday and would so with Bengaluru-based ones on April 20. Shettar noted that as per Central government guidelines, industries operating beyond city corporation and municipality areas have been allowed to reopen from Monday with certain norms and safeguards. I n this background, industries in rural areas can restart operations. It will be helpful from economy point of view as well as employment to lakhs of workers, the Minister said. When Industry Ministers from states were consulted by the Centre a few days ago, he had stressed the importance of reopening industries with some restrictions in rural areas. He said the loss to various industries in the state because of the lockdown is yet to be estimated. Certain demands of the industries have been forwarded to the Centre as those issues come under the purview of the Union Government, Shettar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-govt-to-encourage-industries-to-re-open-from-april-20-826901.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Govt warns pvt schools against collecting fee for online classes||Private unaided schools in the state that were demanding fees from parents in the name of online classes and taking online admissions will face action under Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, the Karnataka government has said. The Department of Public Instructions has warned school management of action against such educational institutes if they violate rules. Following complaints from several parents and also from private school management associations, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar discussed the issue with officials from the department during a recent meeting and directed them to initiate action against such academies.  In a guideline issued on Saturday, the department said, "Schools can conduct online classes. But are not permitted to collect the fee from parents until further orders from the department."  The department also warned schools not to start the admission process for the 2020-21 academic year as the government has suspended all such activities in view of the COVID-19 crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-warns-pvt-schools-against-collecting-fee-for-online-classes-826905.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||12 new coronavirus cases in Karnataka, tally goes up to 371||"12 new positive cases have been reported from April 17, 5 pm to April 18, 12 noon," the department said in its daily bulletin. Of the fresh cases, three are from Mysuru, two each from Kalaburagi and Bagalkote and one each from Vijayapura, Hubballi-Dharwad, Hirebagewadi in Belagavi, Gadag and Malavalli in Mandya district, it added. The department has appealed to the doctors who are willing to volunteer in the fight against COVID-19 to reach out to the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/12-new-coronavirus-cases-in-karnataka-tally-goes-up-to-371-826906.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BMTC puts its buses on hire, makes mask compulsory||A day after the state government said that IT and ITeS companies can reopen with 50% of the workforce, the BMTC has opened its doors to provide buses on a contract basis to such firms, along with government departments and companies in the essential sector. The Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) has issued a circular to all its divisional controllers and traffic officers in this regard. Those travelling in such buses have to compulsorily cover their nose and mouth with a face mask and maintain social distancing. Accordingly, state and central government departments, industries and IT sector companies permitted by the government can hire the BMTC buses on a contract basis. The BMTC has not changed the contract rates. Companies can hire the buses for 12 hours (200 km) by paying Rs 9,000 for Pushpak buses, Rs 8,000 for General buses and Rs 7,200 for 'midi' buses. Hiring a bus for 24 hours (250 km), will cost a little more: Pushpak - Rs 10,000,  General - Rs 9,000, and 'Midi' buses - Rs 8,250.  Those hiring the buses have to follow the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on April 15.  "Contractors should not allow people with fever and other diseases to board the bus. Travellers have to clean their hands with sanitiser after boarding the buses," the circular said.  Additionally, the BMTC personnel have to ensure social distancing while travellers board and deboard the bus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bmtc-puts-its-buses-on-hire-makes-mask-compulsory-826917.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM announces post-April 20 coronavirus lockdown relaxations||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday announced a slew of lockdown relaxation measures that will come into effect after April 20, which includes allowing movement of two-wheelers and resumption of industrial activity.  He announced the measures after a meeting with senior ministers and officials where they discussed the way forward. Two-wheelers will be allowed to ply outside areas that are identified as containment zones, Yediyurappa said.  “Where COVID-19 cases are reported will be identified as containment zones. In such containment zones, an incident commander will be given magisterial power and teams comprising the police and health department officials will be formed,” Yediyurappa explained. “Enforcement of the lockdown will be much more stringent in these areas and no one will be allowed to step out. Essential supplies will be delivered home,” he said.  “An important decision we’ve taken is that there will not be any restriction on the movement of two-wheelers outside containment zones,” Yediyurappa said, adding that two-wheelers will not need any pass after April 20.    “Cars for which passes were issued will be valid till May 3 and goods vehicles will be permitted to move,” the CM said.   According to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, there are 32 containment zones in Bengaluru and ‘hotspots’ have been identified in eight districts.  For the IT/BT sector, the government has decided to permit a third of the employees to go to work after April 20. “In the IT/BT sector, 33 per cent of the workforce will be permitted to work from offices,” Yediyurappa said. Earlier, the government was willing to permit 50 per cent of the IT/BT employees to work.  Yediyurappa also announced the resumption of construction and industrial activities. “In urban areas, construction work will be allowed to start wherever construction workers have the facility to stay on site,” he said. “In rural areas, the manufacturing sector and in urban areas, units located in the special economic zones (SEZ) and industrial townships will be allowed to function,” he said.  Clarifying that inter-state travel was prohibited, Yediyurappa said the districts of Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural and Ramnagara will be considered as the only one for the movement of industrial workers.  Making a case for these relaxations, Yediyurappa noted that the number of COVID-19 positive cases reported till Saturday afternoon was just 12. “One satisfactory aspect is that the day before, there were 36 new cases, yesterday there were 44, but today it is 12,” he said.  The CM said that prohibitory orders will be in force till May 3 and wearing masks will be mandatory. “Senior citizens and vulnerable persons should remain indoors for the next three months. Also, spitting in public places is banned,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-announces-post-april-20-coronavirus-lockdown-relaxations-826934.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Camera trap captures prowling poachers around Bannerghatta forest||Poaching incidents in Bannerghatta National Park (BNP) have increased as unscrupulous elements are taking advantage of the lockdown. In the latest incident, at Ragihalli Gram Panchayat's Jaipur Doddi, a CCTV camera on Wednesday night captured two persons moving into the forest with one of them carrying a gun. The image was shared by wildlife activists who expressed concerns over the rising cases of poaching. "Forest officials are busy with measures to check fire incidents in the summer. Poachers are taking advantage of the situation for hunting. They are also killing animals with the snares. In the eco-sensitive forests of Bannerghatta, such incidents are increasing," said Bannerghatta Nature Conservation Trust's Bhanuprakash. Bannerghatta Deputy Conservator of Forests Prashanth said he visited the spot on Thursday. "It is clear that those roaming around in the night with a gun are trying to poach animals. We will find the persons caught on camera," he said. He said forests spread beyond BNP in Ragihalli and Shivanahalli where wildlife activity is high. "Incidents like poaching are high in these areas. Besides poachers, we are also keeping an eye on many people who went to Bengaluru for work are bored sitting at home and trying their hand at hunting," he said. The DCF noted that killing animals listed under schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act will attract a jail term of seven years. There are provisions to penalise those hunting outside the park area, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/camera-trap-captures-prowling-poachers-around-bannerghatta-forest-826950.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19 effect: Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala cancels mass marriages||The mass marriage organised by the Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala on April 29 has been cancelled following the lockdown announced to check the spread pf coronavirus. Sri Kshetra Dharmastala under the aegis of D Veerendra Heggade had been organising mass marriage since 1972. A total of 102 couples had entered into wedlock in the mass marriage held at Dharmasthala in the year 2019. More than 12,000 couples have entered into wedlock in the mass marriage since its inception in 1972.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-effect-sri-kshetra-dharmasthala-cancels-mass-marriages-826974.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||First COVID-19 patient in Belagavi recovers||A 70-year-old person from Belagundi village in Belagavi taluk identified to be the first person from the district to get infected with COVID-19, has recovered and will be discharged from the District Hospital later in the day after the completion of formalities. Identified as P126, he was first to be infected with COVID-19. He had attended a religious gathering of Tablighi Jamaat at New Delhi and had been admitted to the District Hospital for treatment on April 3, after his swab sample had tested positive.  Industries and District Incharge Minister Jagadish Shettar informed here on Saturday that the P126 has recovered and will be discharged from the hospital today. He called primary and secondary contacts of COVID-19 positives to voluntarily come forward and get themselves tested for the virus and prevent their family members and society from getting infected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/first-covid-19-patient-in-belagavi-recovers-826979.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Health Minister draws flak from BJP and Cong for defying lockdown norms||Karnataka Health Minister B Sriramulu drew flak from his own party the BJP as well as the Congress for allegedly letting hundreds of people throng the Rupangudi Road in Ballari to collect food packets from him. Visuals showed that the people came in hordes and fell on each other to collect the packets Sriramulu was distributing to the poor and needy as relief measure in the wake of lockdown. The videos showed the minister standing with his team by the roadside and spreading out tables all along to distribute the food kit to the poor people. Those in the queue had elderly people too. A majority of people who rushed to grab the food packets did not bother to protect themselves with a mask. "Whoever has done he has committed a blunder whether it is Sriramulu in Ballari or Anand Singh in Hospet. All these elected representatives want to show that they are serviing the people in their constitutuency," said Karnataka BJP spokesperson Go Madhusudana. Flaying the leaders of all political parties for defying norms, Madhusudana sad this has become fashionable for the leaders to perform 'cheap shows'. He advised Sriramulu that it should have been done with door-to-door delivery of food packets instead of arranging it at the public place. Congress spokesperson K E Radhakrishna said a case should be registered for defying regulations. "I am all appreciation for Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa who were the first to wake up and do something good for the people. Now I feel sorry for them. I wonder why they cannot control their own partymen. People should file FIR against him (Sriramulu)," Congress spokesperson Prof K E Radhakrishna told PTI. Slamming the alleged VVIP culture in the country, Radhakrishna said when the nation is facing a crisis, lavish marriages and grand birthday parties were organised. In the midst of all this health minister organises a food distribution mela, he added. Attempts to reach the minister went in vain. However, speaking to reporters at Ballari, Sriramulu admitted that the cases suddenly shot up in the state because of disregard to social distancing. "People's support to lockdown is essential. People have to maintain social distancing, without which we cannot control it," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-health-minister-draws-flak-from-bjp-and-cong-for-defying-lockdown-norms-826986.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Continue lockdown restrictions till May 3: Horatti tells to Karnataka govt||MLC Basavaraj Horatti has asked the government to reconsider its decision regarding some relaxations after April 20, like allowing movement of two-wheelers outside containment zones. Restrictions should continue till May 3, as COVID-19 positive cases are increasing day by day. If two-wheelers are allowed to move, there would be no meaning for lockdown and infection may spread to villages also. The government should have thought practically, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/continue-lockdown-restrictions-till-may-3-horatti-tells-to-karnataka-govt-827013.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||7 more test COVID-19 positive in Mysuru, 1 in Mandya||Seven more persons, including a villager in Mysuru taluk, tested positive for Covid-19 while nine recovered persons were discharged in Mysuru on Saturday. Similarly, one person tested positive in Mandya district. With the fresh cases, the active cases are 58 in Mysuru and 12 in Mandya. Out of 80 cases reported in Mysuru, 22 persons have been discharged as on Saturday as per the bulletin released by the Health Department. Out of seven persons tested positive on Saturday, six are secondary contacts of P52, also employees of Nanjangud-based Jubilant Pharma company. Another person is a villager of Mysuru taluk.   Panic gripped the district as the virus is spreading in rural Mysuru with a 65-year-old person of Mosambayanahalli testing positive for Covid-19. He had complained of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). He is the second SARI case in Mysuru. The first SARI case was P 273, a 72-year-old-man, reported on April 15.  Until now, the cases were reported among the employees of Jubilant Pharma Company and among the people with travel history. It has to be recalled that Sollepur, Somnathpur and Hebya villages were declared as containment areas as a few employees of Jubilant are residents of these villages. Mosambayanahalli is adjoining Sollepur.  According to Mysuru Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, contact of the villager is yet to be traced and the officials are doing it. The family members are being tested as they are primary contacts, the DC said. In Mandya, the fresh case is a primary contact of P134 and P138. The victim is a native of Malavalli, where several cases were tested positive. As many as three persons were tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/7-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-mysuru-1-in-mandya-827081.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Facing flak, Karnataka CM rolls back lockdown relaxation for bikers, IT/BT||Hours after announcing that two-wheelers will be allowed to ply and that IT/BT companies can resume operations with 33 per cent strength, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday took a u-turn and rolled them back, citing “public opinion” as the reason.  Earlier in the day, Yediyurappa announced that, after April 20, there will not be any restriction on the movement of two-wheelers in areas that are not COVID-19 containment zones. Yediyurappa also said that a third of IT/BT employees will be allowed to go to the office after April 20.  “In the backdrop of public opinion and after discussions with senior officials, it has been decided that the prohibition on two-wheelers will continue throughout the lockdown period,” a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office said. “And in the IT/BT sector, only essential services will be allowed and the work-from-home policy will continue.”  According to sources, the u-turn came following opposition from Yediyurappa’s Cabinet colleagues. “If I was in the meeting, I’d not have allowed it,” a minister said. Only Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Revenue Minister R Ashoka were in the meeting Yediyurappa held earlier in the day. The Opposition also stemmed from the fact that there was no need to make decisions on the lockdown when the Cabinet was scheduled to meet on April 20, sources said.     The incoordination was apparent on Friday when Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan, the IT/BT minister, said 50 per cent of employees in the sector will be permitted to work while Yediyurappa said this would depend on the number of cases reported in the coming days.  Other announcements made by Yediyurappa remain unchanged. “Places, where COVID-19 cases are reported, will be identified as containment zones. In such containment zones, an incident commander will be appointed and given magisterial power. Teams comprising the police and health department officials will oversee the lockdown,” Yediyurappa said. “Lockdown will be much more stringent in these areas and no one will be allowed to step out. Essential supplies will be delivered home.” According to Bommai, there were 32 containment zones in Bengaluru and ‘hotspots’ have been identified in eight districts. With an eye on restarting economic activities, the government will allow construction work and industries. “In urban areas, construction work will be allowed to start wherever construction workers have the facility to stay on site,” Yediyurappa said. “The manufacturing sector in rural areas and industrial units located in the special economic zones (SEZ) and townships in urban areas will be allowed to function,” he said. Stating that inter-state travel will be prohibited, Yediyurappa said the districts of Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural and Ramnagara will be considered as one only for the movement of industrial workers. Asked about liquor sale, Yediyurappa said a decision will be taken after May 3. The government has already prohibited liquor sale till April 20 midnight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/facing-flak-karnataka-cm-rolls-back-lockdown-relaxation-for-bikers-it/bt-827083.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: 43 hotels in Belagavi converted into quarantine centres||District in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar has said that the doctors treating Covid-19 patients can procure personal protection equipment (PPE) kits directly, if possible. "The doctors can also use the certified PPE kits donated by philanthropists. Tight vigil should be maintained at quarantine centres during night also and social distance should be ensured between those sheltered in such centres," Shettar said. The minister was speaking at a meeting of the officials to discuss measures taken for tackling Covid-19 in the district, here on Saturday. Shettar said that the number of infected persons was rising and hence all steps should be taken to see that it does not graduate into community infection. He said that additional police forces should be summoned, if required, for keeping an eye on quarantine centres.  Deputy Commissioner Dr S B Bommanahalli said that 43 hotels in Belagavi had been converted into quarantine centres. "Primary contacts of the infected persons have been housed in these hotels while secondary contacts are house quarantined," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-43-hotels-in-belagavi-converted-into-quarantine-centres-827103.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Jamaat attendees: Minorities panel seeks dist-wise report||Even as the state government is attempting to track all those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat religious congregation in New Delhi, the Karnataka State Minorities Commission has directed the Wakf Board to prepare a district-level report in this regard. Noting that several attendees of the event were yet to report to the Health department or the Police, Commission chairperson Abdul Azeem directed the Karnataka State Board of Wakf to immediately take steps to identify those who participated in the event. “The Commission had fervently appealed to such persons of the community to come out and report attendance in New Delhi and quarantine themselves if required. Unfortunately, it is reported that some more people are yet to report themselves either before the Police or Health officials,” said an official statement from the Commission.   The Muthavalis of Masjids or Dargahs should notify to the district Wakf officers about persons who visited the Markaz. They should also look into whether such people underwent medical tests and urge those who haven’t undergone tests, to approach health and medical authorities, the official communication further stated. The Commission has asked the district Wakf officers to collect information about such people and report to the Commission and the Wakf Board.   The Commission also requested the community to follow government regulations with regard to Ramzan prayers. The state government had earlier appealed to the religious leaders of the community to ensure that people did not congregate for Ramzan prayers this year, owing to the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jamaat-attendees-minorities-panel-seeks-dist-wise-report-827106.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Teachers’ pep talk on phone to prep kids for life post lockdown||As schools in the state were shut down before imposition of the lockdown, teachers conducting online classes have taken additional responsibility of contacting their students once in two days to boost their morale. The Block Education Officers (BEOs) are monitoring this activity and teachers have been provided with contact numbers of all their students. “Once a week, teachers have to report to us about this activity. In case students need psychological support, we will provide them help through counsellors,” said one of the BEOs.  “I feel so happy while speaking to my students. We teachers really miss them during vacation and this is a big crisis. We are worried about the children’s physical and mental health,” said Netravati S S, a teacher with a government school in Bengaluru south. The department devised the activity mainly to help SSLC students who are preparing for their board exams, which were postponed due to the lockdown. “Students are under stress. They have no idea when the exams will be conducted and have lost interest to prepare for them. One call from a teacher will definitely boost their morale,” said a senior official from the department. “Teachers have to follow up on their calls. In case students have doubts regarding SSLC syllabus, they need to clear the same,” the official said. “It is an unexpected situation and we all need to help our children overcome it,” says Kavya Bhog, another teacher. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar said, “Our teachers are in touch with students and helping them to overcome this situation and also boosting their morale. BEOs are monitoring this activity at block level.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/teachers-pep-talk-on-phone-to-prep-kids-for-life-post-lockdown-827108.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Give Rs 10,000 to workers in unorganised sector: D K Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Saturday demanded the government to pay Rs 10,000 to each member of the unorganised sector this month to help them meet their daily needs during the lockdown.  “A large section of people - barbers, carpenters, garment workers, drivers, helpers and so on - are suffering because of the lockdown. The government should immediately put Rs 10,000 in their bank accounts. In fact, I beg the chief minister to do this,” Shivakumar told reporters.  Shivakumar also lashed out at the government over the problems faced by farmers during the lockdown. “A farmer doesn’t have a salary, no promotion, bribe, pension or retirement. The government should open its eyes and ears. The government should be in the farms. Farmers are stranded. I’ve seen it and all our MLAs have visited farmers. Those who were selling their produce for Rs 100 aren’t finding takers for even Rs 5,” Shivakumar said, asking the government to spell out its plan of action.  The Congress leader said a party delegation will meet Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to submit a memorandum on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/give-rs-10000-to-workers-in-unorganised-sector-d-k-shivakumar-827113.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SWR ships 12 tonne medical supplies||The Indian Railways is operating parcel trains to ensure uninterrupted supply of goods and essential commodities in the wake of Covid-19 crisis. These trains have now moved 1,160 parcels weighing 12,162 kg of medical supplies and medical equipment to different parts of the country ensuring availability of critical care medical items, said a release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/swr-ships-12-tonne-medical-supplies-827117.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: 25 new cases take Karnataka’s tally to 384||Minister S Suresh Kumar, spokesperson for COVID-19 in Karnataka, on Saturday appealed to the public to stay calm in the event of discovering that they are Covid-19 positive. This, after a 42-year-old patient from Vijayapura died of a heart attack on discovering his positive status. “Patient 374 was a 42-year-old man from Vijayapura who passed away on April 14. He had travelled with P306 and P308 to Bengaluru. On seeing the news of these two persons being positive for the virus, on television, he had a heart attack and died. His reports came only today. He was Covid-19 positive. I appeal to the public to stay calm. There is no need to panic if you test positive,” Kumar said. The minister said that P374 had died of shock, that since his co-passengers had contracted the virus he too must have been infected. Twenty-five new cases were reported on Saturday, seven each from Bagalkot and Mysuru (five of which are secondary contacts of P52 in Nanjangud) taking the state’s tally to 384. P349 has been sent to the intensive care unit of a hospital. With Saturday’s death, the toll has mounted to 14. As many as 104 people have been discharged so far. “The Ministry of External Affairs has written a letter to our Chief Secretary that out of the 10 foreign nationals who visited Jubilant Pharma in Nanjangud, Mysuru district, nine have said that they’re asymptomatic and that they don’t find the need to get tested for Covid-19. The MEA has reached out to embassies in China, Japan, and Germany and have managed to contact the nine of them. One woman, a certain Stephanie from Germany, could not be contacted,” he said.   About rapid antibody testing kits, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, said, “We received 11,400 kits yesterday (Friday), which have been sent to Nimhans, Bengaluru, for validation. A committee headed by Dr V Ravi, HoD of Neurovirology, Nimhans, will decide which districts these kits can be sent to, post-validation. We obviously can send it to only to three or four districts. These are kits bought by the Government of India. The kits that Karnataka has ordered should arrive shortly.” On Saturday, two people from Kalaburagi, two people from Vijayapura, one from Hubballi-Dharwad, one from Hirebagewadi, Belagavi, three from Bengaluru, one from Mandya and one from Gadag tested positive. They’re contacts of previously diagnosed patients. One case of SARI was reported from Mysuru and one case of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) from Bagalkot.  All international passengers under home quarantine have completed their period of observation. As many as 516 are in their reporting period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-25-new-cases-take-karnataka-s-tally-to-384-827122.html
18-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bagalkot witnesses spurt in infections, 7 new cases take tally to 21||There is no let up in Covid-19 cases in Bagalkot district. Bagalkot town saw two, including a woman, while Mudhol reported five confirmed cases of Covid-19 on Saturday. The district has now 21 cases, including a death (of 75-year-old man). A 65-year-old man, the primary contact of Patient 186, and his brother’s wife, aged 48, contracted the virus. Both the infected, residents of Bagalkot town, have been admitted to Covid-19 ward in the district hospital. In Mudhol, Patient-263 transmitted virus to five of his contacts, including a watchman of ATM kiosk and another man who had helped him draw money, the Health department sources said. So far, a total of 222 throat swab samples from the district have returned negative. The results of further 190 samples are awaited, said Deputy Commissioner Capt Dr Rajendra. Meanwhile, the Ranganwadi area in Gadag town on Saturday saw its third confirmed case of Covid-19. A 42-year-old man, contact of the 59-year-old woman (Patient 304), tested positive for the virus. Patient 304, a small-time cloth vendor who was into a door-to-door sales, was the contact of the first Covid-19 case in the town (P 166), a 80-year-old woman who died of heart attack at the district hospital on April 8. Dharwad district recorded its seventh Covid-19 positive case on Saturday. A 63-year-old man (P-363), a secondary contact of P-236, has turned positive. He is a resident of Karaadi Oni in old Hubballi and a graveyard guard by profession. He was shifted to the isolation ward at KIMS, Hubballi, on Friday night. Sources said that he was housed at government quarantine facility since April 14, after medical reports P-236, of Mulla Oni in Old Hubballi turned positive. While the P-363 says that he had no direct contact with P-236, the both are said to have met at Thoravi Hakkala Khabrastan during a funeral on March 27. In Kalaburagi district, two people, including a 16-year-old boy, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Total count of the positive patients touched 22 in the district. According to a source, the boy worked at an egg distribution centre owned by a Shahbad-based family, in which two of its members - a woman and her daughter-in-law tested positive a few days back.  Throat swab sample of a 34-year-old man from Kalaburagi also returned positive for virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bagalkot-witnesses-spurt-in-infections-7-new-cases-take-tally-to-21-827126.html
18-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Police Sub-Inspector killed in mishap in Belagavi||Deceased has been identified as Manohar Ganachari (59) resident of Yellur road in Vadgaon.  Ganachari was attached to Khade Bazaar police station here and was on his way to enforce lockdown. At about 6.30 am, while he was on his way towards duty posted area, his bike skid and he suffered severe injuries and died. Traffic South police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/police-sub-inspector-killed-in-mishap-in-belagavi-826798.html
18-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Coronavirus lockdown: Two more areas declared containment zones in Belagavi||A total of five persons who had come in contact with P127 tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday.  Since both are residents of Aman Nagar and Sangmeshwar Nagar, the areas have been announced as containment zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/coronavirus-lockdown-two-more-areas-declared-containment-zones-in-belagavi-826802.html
18-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Jagadish Shettar to review COVID-19 situation in Belagavi||In Belagavi, the number of COVID-19 positive cases has been increasing and more number of suspects are being kept in quarantine over the fear of the spread of coronavirus.  In the wake of COVID-19 positive cases, Shettar will review the situation and precautionary measures taken to prevent the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/jagadish-shettar-to-review-covid-19-situation-in-belagavi-826835.html
18-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Coronavirus lockdown: Woman delivers infant on road in Belagavi||A woman in labour delivered her baby on road with the help of women from the area at Shahapur suburb in Belagavi on Saturday. The woman from Vadgaon was brought to a hospital in Shahapur suburb after the maternity hospital she had to go was closed. Since, it was a children's hospital, she was asked to go to a hospital with a facility for delivery.  As she was being taken to another hospital, she had severe labour pain in the auto-rickshaw she was in. Family members with the help of local women at Hattiholi Galli in Shahapur got the infant delivered. Later the infant was admitted in the private hospital. Identity of the woman is yet to be known.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/coronavirus-lockdown-woman-delivers-infant-on-road-in-belagavi-826872.html
18-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||COVID-19 positive cases in Belagavi rise to 42||P364 from Hirebagewadi had been in contact with P128. His swab samples were sent for test and it came out positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/covid-19-positive-cases-in-belagavi-rise-to-42-826889.html
18-04-2020||West||Conditional resumption of some activities from Apr 20: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said some industrial and commercial activities will be restarted from April 20 based on compliance with norms which are in place to combat coronavirus. The decision had been taken to ensure that the economic cycle moves on, he said in a statement. However, the decision to restart businesses will not be applicable to coronavirus containment areas, he said. There would be no relaxation in rules which make use of face masks, social distancing and hygiene compulsory, the chief minister added. People will get essential supplies but crowding for shopping will not be allowed, he added. As per the revised guidelines to mitigate the hardship caused by lockdown, select activities have been allowed subject to strict compliance of existing guidelines, he said.  Educational, training and coaching institutions shall remain closed, but they can resort to online teaching, Thackeray said. MNREGA works will be allowed with social distancing and use of face masks, and priority will be given for irrigation and water conservation works, the chief minister said Activities related to supply chain of essential goods, whether in manufacturing, wholesale or retail trade of essential goods through local stores, large brick and motor stores or e-commerce companies, will be allowed, except in containment areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/conditional-resumption-of-some-activities-from-apr-20-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-826778.html
18-04-2020||West||Coronavirus hits Indian Navy shore establishment||A total of 26  Indian Navy sailors at INS Angre, a shore establishment in Mumbai,  have tested positive for COVID-19. There had so far not been a single case of COVID-19 on board any ship, submarine or air station of the Indian Navy. All the positive patients are from INS Angre, a key establishment of the Western Naval Command,  the sword arm of the Indian Navy. Most of these are "asymptomatic" and have been traced to a single sailor who was tested positive on April 7. They all reside in the same accommodation block at INS Angre.  All primary contacts - though " asymptomatic" were tested for COVID-19. Entire living block was immediately put under quarantine - containment zone and INS Angre too is under lockdown.  All actions as per established COVID-19 protocol are being taken. All these sailors continue to remain asymptomatic and are being monitored at INHS Asvini, the Navy's command hospital in Mumbai. "Our naval assets continue to be mission-deployed in three dimensions, with all the networks and space assets functioning optimally.  The Navy remains combat-ready, mission-capable and is in full readiness to partake in the national mission to fight the pandemic as well as to provide support to our friendly neighbours in the Indian Ocean Region," the spokesperson added. "Indian Navy assets continue to remain on patrol covering a vast oceanic swath from the Straits of Malacca in the East to  Bab-el-Mandeb in the West, including undertaking Op Sankalp to provide reassurance and protection to our merchant vessels and anti-piracy patrols in Gulf of Aden," he added. The detection of these COVID-19 cases is a result of meticulous contact tracing and aggressive screening/testing carried out by Western Naval Command after one sailor tested positive on April 7. As far as the precautions in Mumbai are s concerned, since the sailor was tested positive for COVID-19, the entire premises of the Unit have been sealed off. Containment zones and buffer areas have been designated and frequent disinfection continues to be carried out as per protocol to contain spread by breaking the chain of transmission.   "All missions for coastal and offshore security continue as before," the spokesperson said. Operational units are being maintained in readiness by following a 14-day quarantine routine to meet immediate contingencies, including assistance to civil authorities and friendly maritime neighbours. Several quarantine facilities have been set up in naval premises at Mumbai, Goa, Kochi and Visakhapatnam for use by our countrymen. Last week, a batch of 44 ex-Iran  pilgrims from the Union Territories of Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir who were quarantined at the naval  facility in Mumbai, returned to their homes fully satisfied at the care and comfort they received from the Indian Navy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-hits-indian-navy-shore-establishment-826797.html
18-04-2020||West||Rajasthan reports 2 more deaths of coronavirus, total 19||Also, the total number of cases in the state has risen to 1,270 after 41 more tested positive for COVID-19. "Two deaths have been reported in Jaipur. Both the patients had additional health problems. As many as 41 new cases have come up today, including 27 in Bharatpur," Additional Chief Secretary Rohit Kumar Singh said. Officials said the two deaths were of a 76-year-old resident of Subhash Nagar and a 47-year-old from Shastri Nagar in Jaipur. They suffered from chronic kidney disease and acute diabetes, respectively.    Of the 41 fresh cases, 27 are in Bharatpur, five in Kota, two each in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Ajmer and one each in Banswara, Nagaur and Jaisalmer. Singh said 93 people have been discharged after treatment by Friday.    The total number of COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan include two Italian citizens, 60 people who were brought from Iran and sent to army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer.  The maximum nine deaths have been reported from Jaipur with an overall 496 cases.  The entire state is under lockdown from March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to trace the people carrying the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-reports-2-more-deaths-of-coronavirus-total-19-826839.html
18-04-2020||West||Maha: Three labourers die while cleaning septic tank||Three labourers died of suffocation while cleaning the septic tank of a bungalow in Virar town of Maharashtra's Palghar district, police said on Saturday. The Arnala police arrested Hemant Gharat after three out of four labourers he had hired to clean the septic tank of his bungalow on Friday, died of suffocation because of the toxic gases, an official said. Gharat himself rescued the labourers from the tank and rushed them to a nearby hospital, where three of them were declared dead on arrival and one was undergoing treatment, he said. The men were not given proper protective gear and the accused did not ensure their safety by making them work in an enclosed tank, the official said. The deceased have been identifyed as Narayan Boye, Jayendra Mukne and Tejas Bhate, who were all in their 20s, he said, adding that Nitesh Mukne survived the mishap because he was at the entrance of the chamber. The accused has been charged under sections 304A (causing death by negligence) and other relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-three-labourers-die-while-cleaning-septic-tank-826841.html
18-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: Elderly woman dies of COVID-19 in Aurangabad||A 65-year-old COVID-19 patient died at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Maharashtra's Aurangabad city in the early hours of Saturday, an official said. This is the third coronavirus-related death in Aurangabad district, he said.  The woman was referred to the GMCH from a private hospital on April 13 and her swab samples were sent for testing, following which she was reported positive three days later, GMCH nodal officer Dr Arvind Gaikwad said. "The patient had a medical history of co-morbid conditions, including high blood pressure, diabetes and pneumonia," he said. Meanwhile, a 15-year-old boy tested positive for COVID-19 late on Friday night. With this, the count of cases in the district has gone up to 29, a health official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-elderly-woman-dies-of-covid-19-in-aurangabad-826848.html
18-04-2020||West||Coronavirus kills 7 more in Gujarat, state sees biggest spike in fresh cases||Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi said that majority of the new cases are being reported from the hotspot areas in Ahmedabad, which alone registered 143 cases, that has spiked the total figure of the city to 765 cases. It includes 25 deaths and 24 patients getting discharged. Other cities such as Vadodara and Surat reported 13 cases each.   She said that the number of cases is rising with intense testing undertaken by the government. The data reveals that in the past 24 hours, 2,802 samples were examined out of which 251 were found positive, which is almost 9% of total samples. Until today, the state has tested 24,614 samples out of which 1,272 cases tested positive which is nearly 5% that is said to be close to the national average. Ravi said that among the seven dead, six are women who were aged between 36 years old and 72 years old. The first case of COVID-19 in Aravalli district, a 70 years old woman from a farmer family succumbed to the virus at UN Mehta hospital in Ahmedabad. Ravi said that woman had heart ailments. The only male patient, who died in Vadodara, didn't have any medical history.  Apart from major cities, the infection of the virus is also being reported from villages of the state. In Banaskantha district, north Gujarat, eight persons have been found positive and the source of their infection has been traced. District Collector Sandip Sangle said that all cases are interlinked and five surrounding villages have been put under cluster quarantined that include buffer zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-kills-7-more-in-gujarat-state-sees-biggest-spike-in-fresh-cases-826850.html
18-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: 32-year-old crosses ranges, streams and rivers to reach destination||For 32-year-old Ajay Satorkar, it was not an easy journey at all. He walked on the roads, crossed the Sahyadri ranges, streams and rivers to reach his destination. "It was a challenge," says Ajay, who started his journey on April 2 and reached his village on April 16. He has now been moved to a quarantine centre in Chandrapur.  "I walked all along except for 150 km when I got a lift," he said. Ajay works as a computer operator in Panvel and used to stay in a room with other labourers.  After they left, one by one, he also decided to leave Panvel. "I just had Rs 300 in my pocket...there was no option left," he said. He preferred to walk through villages to avoid the police. He took bath in rivers and mostly survived on packets of biscuits and water.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-32-year-old-crosses-ranges-streams-and-rivers-to-reach-destination-826856.html
18-04-2020||West||One more coronavirus patient discharged in Puducherry; total recovery 3||Another patient, hailing from neighbouring Ariyankuppam village, was on Saturday discharged from a hospital here after recovering from coronavirus, taking the total number of discharges to three in the Union Territory. The 49-year-old man was among those who had returned from the religious congregation in Delhi last month and was admitted to Indira Gandhi Government Medical college hospital and Research Institute (IGGMCRI) on March 31. Director of Health and Family Welfare Services S Mohan Kumar told PTI that following the discharge of the patient the total number of patients discharged has risen to three including the one in Mahe. Consequently,there are now four active COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment in the hospital including a woman who has contact history. Puducherry had eight active patients. While three patients have been discharged, one hailing from Mahe succumbed to the infection in a hospital in Kerala some days ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/one-more-coronavirus-patient-discharged-in-puducherry-total-recovery-3-826875.html
18-04-2020||West||PM Narendra Modi delayed coronavirus lockdown to oust Kamal Nath govt in MP: Goa Congress Chief||The Goa unit of the Congress on Saturday claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi delayed the announcement of lockdown to facilitate toppling of the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh. In his tweet, state Congress chief Girish Chodankar, quoted a news that appeared in a Marathi newspaper, which claimed that had the lockdown been imposed earlier, the country would not have faced the current situation. "Delay in lockdown decision by @narendramodi to facilitate toppling of @OfficeofKNath Govt in Madhya Pradesh exploded #Coronavirus in India. @BJP4India is responsible for rising graph of #Covid19India," he said in the tweet. Kamal Nath stepped down as MP chief minister on March 20 after resignations by 22 rebel Congress MLAs pushed his government to the brink. On March 24, Modi had announced a three-week-long national lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus, which has now been extended till May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-narendra-modi-delayed-coronavirus-lockdown-to-oust-kamal-nath-govt-in-mp-goa-congress-chief-826891.html
18-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: Tiger mauls woman to death in Gondia forest||In the third tiger attack reported in a week's time, a 32-year-old woman was killed by a big cat at Mouza Mangejhari in Tirora forest range in Gondia district of Maharashtra in the early hours of Saturday, a forest official said. The incident took place at around 6.30 am, when a group of people from Mangejhari ventured into the forest to collect fallen branches, range forest officer S K Aakre said. The tiger attacked the victim Anita Tumhare and dragged her for 400 metres and fled the scene, he said. Forest officials rushed to the spot and the victim body was recovered and sent for post-mortem, he said, adding that an immediate relief of Rs 1 lakh was provided to the deceased's family. Earlier in the week, a 40-year-old man was killed by a tiger at Aramori forest range in Gadchiroli, while a 56-year- old man died in an attack at Pench Tiger Reserve.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-tiger-mauls-woman-to-death-in-gondia-forest-826925.html
18-04-2020||West||2 die in Bhandara hospital's COVID-19 isolation ward||Both the men, aged 70 years and 50 years, were reportedly suffering from ailments like diabetes and cancer. "We have collected throat swabs of the deceased duo and awaiting results to determine the exact cause behind their death," said Dr Pramod Khandate, Civil Surgeon, Bhandara civil hospital. The duo were admitted in the isolation ward for COVID-19 patients in the new building of the hospital on April 16 for symptoms like cough and cold, he said, adding that there are 19 people in the isolation ward. One of the deceased was referred to the government facility from a private hospital, he said. While one of them died at 10.30 pm on Friday, another breathed his last at 12.30 am on Saturday. No COVID-19 case is reported from Bhandara district in east Maharashtra so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2-die-in-bhandara-hospitals-covid-19-isolation-ward-826937.html
18-04-2020||West||PIPFPD writes to India, Pak govts demanding release of fishermen||The Pakistan-India Peoples’ Forum for Peace and Democracy (PIPFPD) has written a joint letter to both the governments demanding immediate repatriation of fishermen, women prisoners and others not charged in serious cases, in the wake of pandemic Covid-19 sweeping the world. The letter was addressed to India's Minister for External Affairs S Jaishankar and Pakistan's Minister for Foreign Affairs Shah Mahmood Qureshi. "We are all going through a difficult time. The challenge before all of us, like other nations, is to save our citizens, but also the world, from the Covid-19. We are pleased to know that both our governments are taking significant steps to save the people. This is also a time that we should think of human beings beyond national borders. As you will agree, humanity, beyond national interests, must come first," said the joint statement signed by Dr IA Rehman, Mohammed Tahseen, Dr Syeda Hamid, Tapan K Bose and Jatin Desai. They said it is necessary to activate the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) to fight Covid-19 in a coordinated and comprehensive way. In this context, the meeting of Saarc leaders called by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the video was significant and is yielding results.  "We urge that India and Pakistan must prioritise each other and Saarc at this time, and not make much required Saarc processes victim of existing governmental hostilities. Towards this, we urge both governments to hold the dialogue at the highest level and step back from border skirmishes and violence in land and water," they said. The letter stated that keeping in mind the overcrowded prisons and the possibility of infection, the Supreme Court and the central and state governments in India, as well as government of Pakistan, have taken steps to release certain kind of prisoners from its prisons on parole or furlough. Such kinds of steps are absolutely necessary to fight this deadly infection. We request that such relief measures be made applicable in the case of prisoners from each other’s countries too.  "The family members of arrested fishermen, women and other prisoners languishing in each other’s prisons are deeply concerned for their loved ones. Communication between the families and prisoners does not take place even during normal times and these are difficult times," it said. The family members are tense and are desperate to see their jailed relatives back with them. The fact is, prisons in both countries are overcrowded. To fight coronavirus one need to keep ‘physical distance’. It is necessary that both countries release the prisoners and facilitate their transportation back through the Wagah/Attari border. It requested the Governments of India and Pakistan - to release and repatriate all fishermen languishing in each other country’s prisons as they entered each other’s water ‘inadvertently’ (charges against them are non-serious in nature), release and repatriate all women prisoners from the custody of each other, and release and repatriate all other prisoners who are not charged in serious cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pipfpd-writes-to-india-pak-govts-demanding-release-of-fishermen-826954.html
18-04-2020||West||Coronavirus positive woman delivers girl at civil hospital in Maharashtra||A 30-year-old woman, who is undergoing treatment for COVID-19 disease at the civil hospital here in Maharashtra, delivered a girl through surgery on Saturday, doctors said. Gynaecologist Dr Kamlakar Mudkhedkar, who was part of a team of doctors who conducted Cesarean Section (CS) procedure on the woman at the COVID care facility, claimed that it was first such case in the state. Dr. Mudkhedkar, Head of Department, Gynaecology, said that he and his colleagues wore Personal Protection Suites during the procedure which lasted for 30 minutes. He said they decided to go for the CS as the woman couldn't deliver even five days after her due date. "We first tried to go for a natural delivery, but as that didn't work, we opted for the CS procedure. This is the first such case in Maharashtra," said Dr. Mudkhedkar. He said the doctors found it tough to operate wearing the suits, but anyway completed the procedure with 30 minutes around 12 noon. "Working with the personal protective gear was a little tough as it restricts the normal movements," he said. He said the newborn girl weighs 3.2 kg and healthy. "Her swab sample has been taken to ascertain whether she has contracted coronavirus infection. Its results are awaited," the gynaecologist said, adding that the woman will remain in isolation for the stipulated period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-positive-woman-delivers-girl-at-civil-hospital-in-maharashtra-826985.html
18-04-2020||West||37 cops in Maha test coronavirus positive since outbreak||These police personnel, including 29 constables, possibly came contact with the COVID-19 patients while performing their duty during the lockdown. Most of these patients are from Mumbai, the official said. "Ever since the lockdown came into force, the police are working round the clock to ensure that people are following the prohibitory orders. While performing their duty in crowded areas and some vulnerable places, these police personnel must have come in contact with the infected persons," the official said. "Till Saturday, 37 police personnel across the state have tested positive for coronavirus," he added. Meanwhile, as many as 52,625 offences have been registered against those found violating the prohibitory orders during the lockdown, in which 10,729 people have been arrested so far, another official said. At least 102 cases of assault on police were registered, in which 162 accused have been held, he said. Police also apprehended 563 persons, who were found moving out despite the instructions to remain home- quarantined, he said. Police have seized 33,984 vehicles, which were brought on to the streets illegally during the lockdown, and a fine of Rs 1.91 crore has been collected from the violators, he said. At least 1,047 cases of illegal transportation have been reported in state so far, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/37-cops-in-maha-test-coronavirus-positive-since-outbreak-826992.html
18-04-2020||West||Over 12 lakh construction workers to get Rs 2,000 each in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government on Saturday decided to pay Rs 2,000 each to over 12 lakh registered construction workers in the state who have lost their livelihoods due to the ongoing coronavirus lockdown. The curbs, which were imposed on March 24, were later extended till May 3. State Labour Minister Dilip Walse Patil observed that workers were reeling under hardships and finding it difficult to take care of their daily needs, as construction activities had come to a halt due to the lockdown. "Given the situation, Rs 2,000 each will be deposited through direct benefit transfer in the bank accounts of workers who are registered with the Maharashtra Building and Other Construction Workers' Welfare Board," the minister said in an official statement. More than 12 lakh workers registered with the board will benefit from this, he added. The decision was taken in a meeting of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, his deputy Ajit Pawar, Walse-Patil and senior bureaucrats, the statement said. Thackeray on Friday said some industrial and commercial activities will be restarted from April 20 based on compliance with norms which are in place to combat coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-12-lakh-construction-workers-to-get-rs-2000-each-in-maharashtra-826997.html
18-04-2020||West||Recovered COVID-19 man held for posting false information on Facebook||Inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar of Tehsil police station identified the accused as Jamirul Jafirul Mohammad (32), a resident of Takia in Diwanshaha here. "He had gone to Delhi on March 13 and returned here after two days. Based on his travel history, he was placed in quarantine on April 2, and tested positive for coronavirus on April 3. He was discharged on Friday after his samples tested negative post treatment," Bhandarkar said. "However, he put up discharge papers on Facebook claiming he was never infected with coronavirus and that officials had unnecessarily placed him in quarantine. After Nagpur Municipal Corporation officials filed a complaint, we arrested him and place him in quarantine," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/recovered-covid-19-man-held-for-posting-false-information-on-facebook-827061.html
18-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Gujarat announces Rs 1000 aid per 66L ration card-holding families||The Gujarat government will deposit Rs 1,000 into bank accounts of each of 66 lakh families holding ration cards under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) in view of the coronavirus lockdown, a senior official said on Saturday. The state government has set aside Rs 660 crore for this purpose, the official said. "An amount of Rs 1,000 will be transferred directly into the bank accounts of each of the 66 lakh ration card holding families under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). The money will help the NFSA card-holding poor and middle class families who are affected by the lockdown," he told reporters. These families will start receiving assistance from April 20. "Starting Monday, NFSA card-holding families will get Rs 1000 assistance for the month of April. The distribution will be done on the basis of the database available with the state government. These families need not do any formalities," said Ashwani Kumar, Secretary to Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. Earlier, about 60 lakh families holding APL-1 (Above Poverty Line) cards were offered food grains, of which 45 lakh families have availed the facility, he said. The state government will continue to provide food to the needy persons, irrespective of whether they are among the beneficiaries under a government scheme or not, Kumar added.  "Those who still need food can avail it from fair price shops in the coming days," he said. Kumar also informed that 63 market yards have become operational in the state to help farmers sell their produce. "A total of 38,873 quintal produce had arrived in yards and being sold at a good price," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-gujarat-announces-rs-1000-aid-per-66l-ration-card-holding-families-827074.html
18-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Gujarat is third worst-affected state in India||With nearly 280 fresh coronavirus positive cases in the state and a dozen deaths recorded in the past 24 hours, Gujarat has become the third-worst affected state in the country by late Saturday evening. According to health officers, the total cases surged to 1,376, which is third highest in the country after Maharashtra and Delhi. With 12 deaths in the past 24 hours, the death toll also rose to 53 in the state. According to senior officials, out of 1,376 cases in the state, Ahmedabad alone recorded 876, which is the second-highest hotspots in the country after Mumbai. A senior officer involved in the containment planning told DH, "The numbers may go up and down elsewhere in the country but we are apprehending more cases in coming days in the state, especially in Ahmedabad. It is worse than what we had anticipated." While briefing the media on Saturday evening, Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi said that majority of cases are being detected from the areas which are part of hotspots in all cities including Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara among others. She claimed that "there is no need to panic as state government is equipped with handling the situation."  According to the latest data prepared by the health department, 2,664 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, of which 277 were found positive that is more than 10 % of the total samples. Officials said that the number is much higher than the national average.  However, he said, the overall hit rate is a little over 5 per cent which is close to the national average. Till Saturday evening, Gujarat had tested 26,102 samples, of which 1,376 have been tested positive, with a hit rate of 5.4%. So far, 93 persons have been cured in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-gujarat-is-third-worst-affected-state-in-india-827115.html
18-04-2020||West||Newspaper stall sales as usual, avoid home delivery: Maha CMO||The sale of newspapers, magazines and productions is allowed at stalls and shops established for the purpose but the print media sector has been asked to avoid home deliveries, the Maharashtra Chief Minister's Office said in a series of tweets on Saturday. "We urge the media to refrain from home deliveries. We wholeheartedly support the media and look up to it for suggestions and objections. However, in times of such a pandemic, where we genuinely are in need to reduce footfalls and increase safety, most economic operations are facing tough times," the CMO statement said. "Media has withstood the test of time. Truth can never be stifled. We request its cooperation for the same," an official statement quoted the CM as saying. It said the state government wants to ensure safety for the people from a virus that has engulfed the world, adding that media has been extremely supportive of the efforts to contain the outbreak Referring to criticism of the notification prohibiting door-to-door deliveries, it said clarity on unnecessary confusion is needed. "Both print and electronic media are allowed to operate with basic operational number of staff in these times of fighting coronavirus," it said. The CM has spoken to newspaper owners and editors and they have agreed to cooperate, a statement from Thackeray's aide Harshal Pradhan said. Earlier in the day, the state government decided to stop door-to-door delivery of newspapers and magazines to contain the spread of coronavirus infection in the state, which is worst-affected by the pandemic. The government had also issuedconsolidated guidelines to control the spread of the pandemic and gave details about the services which will be partially resumed from April 20. In view of the guidelines, senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis asked the Shiv Sena-led state government to revisit its decision to prohibit the door-to-door delivery of newspapers and magazines during the ongoing lockdown period. In his letter to the Chief Minister, the Leader of Opposition said the government's decision will defeat the very purpose of printing newspapers. "The World Health Organization (WHO) has made it clear that newspapers are safe from coronavirus," the former chief minister said, adding that newspapers must reach people in the time of proliferation of fake news. Condemning the state government's order, Mumbai Press Clubsaid the order to stop door to door delivery of newspapers is uncalled for, especially when reports say that newspapers don't causeinfection. "We appeal to the state government to rethink on its decision and not bleed the media industry to death," the statement said. The Mantralaya and Vidhimandal VartaharSangh said the notification prohibiting door to door delivery of newspapers and magazines was "injustice" to the print media, and demanded its withdrawal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/newspaper-stall-sales-as-usual-avoid-home-delivery-maha-cmo-827116.html
