19-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Criminal case if drugs are sold without prescription: DC||Deputy Commissioner K Rakesh Kumar has cautioned pharmacists that criminal cases will be booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897 against those who sell medication to people without doctors' prescriptions.  He said that even selling common drugs like Paracetamol and analgesics should be done against doctors' prescriptions. He pointed out it becomes difficult for doctors to diagnose Covid-19 in patients with symptoms if such drugs have been taken priorly without prescription.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/criminal-case-if-drugs-are-sold-without-prescription-dc-827341.html
19-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sira's Begum Mohalla sealed down on government order||Begum Mohalla, a locality in Sira city where a senior citizen succumbed to Covid-19, has been sealed down on the orders of the government. A 100-metre radius from the deceased's house was sealed down Saturday night.  When the 63-year-old man died of Covid-19, a 3-km radius from his house was declared a 'red zone' and a 7-km radius there was declared a 'buffer zone'. Great care was taken to ensure no one leaves or enters the red zone. Later it so happened that the deceased's 13-year-old son also tested positive for the virus and was treated at the Rajiv Gandhi Institute for Chest Diseases in Bengaluru and later discharged when he recovered completely. Others who had come into primary contact with the boy and his father were also discharged when all of them, including the boy, tested negative after treatment.  Meanwhile, fearing the spread of coronavirus from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, despite the lockdown, villagers of Bargur have 'self-imposed' a seal down to prevent people from entering or leaving the village. Except for pharmacies, milk shops and hospitals all other establishments have been shut down and no one is allowed to get out their houses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/siras-begum-mohalla-sealed-down-on-government-order-827392.html
19-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Wash hands 20 times a day: Revenue Minister R Ashoka||Revenue Minister R Ashoka launched an initiative to distribute food packets and masks to poor families in Uradigere near Tumakuru on Sunday. The donations were made by former MLA B Suresh Gowda.  Speaking on the occasion, Ashoka told the gathering to wash their hands at least 20 times a day and said that senior citizens should not venture out of the house. He asked the younger people in families to take great care of the elders. He said that if Covid-19 symptoms are detected in a person, his or her family members should not delay in getting the person seen by a doctor. "If you call the Health Department, doctors will come to your doorstep and examine you," he assured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/wash-hands-20-times-a-day-revenue-minister-r-ashoka-827411.html
19-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysureans worry over steep rise in number of Covid-19 cases||With four more fresh cases testing positive for Covid-19 in Mysuru on Sunday, the total number of cases has increased to 84, and is very close to Bengaluru, which tops the list. Four people were tested positive on Sunday, as per the health bulletin. This includes two people, connected with the Jubilant Generics Company, of Nanjangud and two others, with a travel history of Delhi, in connection with the religious gathering in Nizamuddin, Delhi. However, two people, Patient 104 and P139, were discharged on Sunday. While 24 have been discharged so far, 60 are under treatment. Seven positive cases were reported on Saturday. The rising number of cases has created anxiety among the people of Mysuru, that it may even cross the Bengaluru's Covid-19 tally. However, nine people were discharged on Saturday, which has still left hope among the Mysureans, that the pandemic would be controlled soon. P385 aged 45 years and P 386, 20 years, both male, have a travel history to Delhi. While P387 is a 39-year-old male, secondary contact of P52, Nanjangud, Mysuru, P 388 is a 23-year-old female, contact of P 319, Nanjangud. All are being treated at the designated hospital in Mysuru. In all, 66 people have been affected by the P52 of Nanjangud Pharma company, so far. With the rapid tests being conducted, there is a fear that positive cases connected with Nanjangud pharma would rise. According to reports, eight out of 10 Tablighi Jamaat connected cases were tested positive earlier. The remaining two, who were under quarantine, have tested positive on Sunday. The South Western Railways, which has taken several measures to combat the spread of coronavirus, has started production of masks and sanitisers, at its workshop, for the benefit of the public.  The Railway Central Workshop at Ashokapuram has already produced 6,000 masks and 500 litres of sanitiser. It may be mentioned that 96 sleeper coaches have been converted into isolation wards, as directed by the Department of Railways. If necessary, the Covid-19 patients can be kept under isolation at these coaches and treatment provided. The protective gears worn by the medical team treating the Covid-19 patients here are being produced at the Railway Hospital. Every day, 40 protective equipment are being created. It would create around 500 protective equipment by the end of this month, according to a press release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysureans-worry-over-steep-rise-in-number-of-covid-19-cases-827428.html
19-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||MLA avails bank loan to distribute food kits||MLA Sa Ra Mahesh, under Sa Ra Sneha Balaga, distributed kits containing essential items to the residents of the town on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, Mahesh said, “We have purchased foodgrains and vegetables worth Rs 5.5 crore, to be distributed among the BPL ration cardholders and others. I have sought loan pledging my property at the Navanagar Bank, to distribute the needy items among the poor.” The vegetables and fruits that were purchased directly from the farmers, have been distributed to around 72,000 families, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mla-avails-bank-loan-to-distribute-food-kits-827430.html
19-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Man, sister die after consuming alcohol-based hand sanitiser||A man and his sister, both habitual drinkers from Kalghatagi taluk in the district, died on Sunday after they consumed alcohol-based hand sanitiser as an alternative foralcohol.  Deceased are: Basavaraj Venkappa Kurvinkoppa (45), a daily wager, his sister Jambavva (47) of Gambyapur village. The siblings were depressed after they could not find liquor for the past one month due to the lockdown clamped to mitigate the virus spread.   However, on learning that sanitiser had alcohol content, they started consuming it for the past four days and breathed their last on Sunday at KIMS,Hubballi.  Doctors said that Basavaraj and Jambavva developed acute stomach pain on Saturday evening and were immediately brought to Civil Hospital in Dharwad for treatment. The doctors at Civil Hospital advised his family members to shift them to KIMS on Sunday as their health condition started to deteriorate.  Basavaraj died on Sunday afternoon after failing to respond to medical treatment. A while later, his sister breathed her last. According to police,  Basavaraj, a habitual drinker, had brought sanitiser bottles and mixed it with hooch which he got from Shigigatti tanda on outskirts of Kalghatagi. He consumed this mixture, along with his sister, for four days before both developed acute stomach pain and breathlessness on Saturday. Meanwhile, the Health department has cautioned people against consuming sanitiser. Drinking sanitiser leads to multi-organ failure and there are less chances of survival, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-sister-die-after-consuming-alcohol-based-hand-sanitiser-827455.html
19-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||FIRs against six for unauthorised resort stay||FIRs have been registered against five tourists for staying at a resort in Vatekadu, Hodduru village, by obtaining medical passes after furnishing false information, in violation of the lockdown regulations. An FIR has also been filed against the owner of the resort. The Madikeri rural police have registered the cases. Resort owner Vinod Chinnappa, tourists Benaka Kumar, Sandeep, Vinay, Padmashree and Rakshina have been taken into custody by the police. A car used by them has also been seized. Chinnappa had provided wrong information about the health of his mother and availed pass on April 14, to call the others to Kodagu. The tourists are from Bengaluru and Tumakuru. The incident came to light during a joint raid conducted by the Madikeri rural police and the Kodagu CCB police. Earlier, another resort was temporarily sealed by the district administration, for accommodating tourists during the lockdown. District Superintendent of Police Suman D Pennekar said that some people from outside the district have been trying to go to the resorts and homestays in Kodagu, violating the orders. Stern action will be initiated against such people and also against owners of the resorts, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/firs-against-six-for-unauthorised-resort-stay-827458.html
19-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Overworked, but underpaid, Karnataka's epidemiologists seek better deal||Union health secretary Preethi Sudan has directed all states to fill posts of epidemiologists immediately. But Karnataka’s advertisement for epidemiologists offers a paltry Rs 33,600 per month, which public health experts say is too low. The state lacks a public health cadre unlike Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Once the epidemic comes to an end, they will be forgotten, say epidemiologists. The industry standard for epidemiologists is Rs 80,000 to Rs 1 lakh. According to the state health department’s eligibility criteria for the post, one has to have three years experience in public health or have a postgraduate degree in epidemiology or in life sciences. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, told DH that applications have been invited from the eligible for filling four out of six vacant posts of epidemiologists’ posts in the state, four were advertised for. When asked the below par remuneration, especially in the times of pandemic, and that too when three epidemiologists are a part of the committee to analyse the Covid-19 data, he said, “I have asked the department to offer the maximum remuneration. The recruitment is happening under the National Health Mission.” R Ramachandran, Director, National Health Mission, Karnataka, said, “The basic salary offered is Rs 33,600. There will be a 5% hike in the coming year and thereafter a 10% hike. We cannot hike the salary of only epidemiologists. The rest of our staff will also demand a hike then. Right now, all four vacant posts have been filled.” A public health researcher with two decades experience in the field, told DH on the condition of anonymity, that a junior epidemiologist in an academic setup earns Rs 80,000 to Rs 1 lakh per month. “If you compare it with those in the hospitals or management, public health community gets underpaid. But the skillset is same or even more complex. The number of hours they spend is more and they do not have many holidays either. Their work conditions are tough. At the national-level one can work with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the WHO and there are a lot more avenues,” he said. “At the state and district levels, one wouldn’t get anything comparable. Whenever there is a crisis like H1N1 or dengue they need epidemiologists to look at the data and tell them what to do. There is no public health cadre in Karnataka. Whatever they want is a short-term or a stop gap arrangement. Once pandemic goes, nobody will care about epidemiologists until another crisis hits,” he rued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/overworked-but-underpaid-karnatakas-epidemiologists-seek-better-deal-827460.html
19-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Advisory on Hydroxychloroquine drug for high-risk people||Anti-malarial drug Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) can be given as prophylaxis to people in the high-risk category, as per the recommendations of the Indian Council of Medical Research, a government circular has said. The circular, by Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, says HCQ tablets can be given on priority to people who work in hospitals, those who do door-to-door survey, direct contacts of positive patients, people working in containment zones, health department staff and those working for the care of Covid-19 patients. However, senior citizens and those with heart-related ailments should take it as prophylaxis (prevention of disease) only after consulting doctors. Asymptomatic health workers working in containment zones or in close contact with suspected cases and confirmed positive cases can take on the first day, 400 mg (twice). For the next seven weeks, the dosage is 400 mg once every week, with food. Those in home quarantine, but asymptomatic after being in close contact with confirmed cases can take on the first day, 400 mg (twice). For the next three weeks, the dosage is 400 mg once a week, with food.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/advisory-on-hydroxychloroquine-drug-for-high-risk-people-827461.html
19-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Government won’t allow anyone to cut wages’||Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar said here on Sunday that state government will not allow anyone to cut wages of any labourers. Speaking to reporters after interacting with construction labourers employed at several sites in the city, he directed their employers to ensure the supply of adequate gloves and sanitisers for the workers. “The government will not allow anyone to reduce the wages of construction labourers or other employees,” he said while responding to a question. During his visits, several construction labourers urged the minister to provide transport facilities to them to return to their villages. At a construction site near Hebbal, the labourers complained that though they were forced to buy their own food as the construction company refused to provide the food during the lockdown. The minister said grocery kits will be supplied to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/government-won-t-allow-anyone-to-cut-wages-827464.html
19-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus lockdown violation: Rowdy-sheet against 118 people in Kalaburagi||District police on Sunday opened rowdy-sheet against 118 people for loitering in the district and defying the COVID-19-driven lockdown norms, said Superintendent of Police Iada Martin Marbaniang. This decision comes in the wake of repeated violation of the lockdown clamped to stem the spread of COVID-19, said a press release.  Except for the Kalaburagi police commissionerate limits,  a total of 38 cases have been filed in various police stations of the district for flouting the lockdown rules. A total of 122 persons have been taken into custody in this connection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-violation-rowdy-sheet-against-118-people-in-kalaburagi-827470.html
19-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Declare Covid-19 pandemic a national disaster, Cong demands||A Congress delegation, led by Opposition leader Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D K Shivakumar, on Sunday urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to pressure the Centre to declare the Covid-19 pandemic a ‘national disaster’. The delegation also sought the state government to provide a minimum assistance of Rs 10,000 each to skilled labourers and small traders left without an income during the lockdown period. “The state should demand the Centre to declare Covid-19 as a national disaster and to extend all financial and other assistance to the population affected by the lockdown,” the memorandum submitted to the CM read. Carpenters, blacksmiths, cooks, small traders, drivers, cleaners, priests among others have been severely affected due to the lockdown. “A special package should be announced to provide minimum assistance of Rs 10,000 per month during the lockdown period,” Congress demanded. Raising concerns over provocative messages on social media targeting a community for the spread of the virus, the delegation complained about similar statements by a few BJP legislators. Despite assurances by the CM, the government has failed to act against those making such remarks, the memorandum read. Awareness should be created at gram panchayat and ward levels against communalising the pandemic.  The government should also arrange transport facilities to migrant labourers from different parts of the country and state, the memorandum read, adding that they should be allowed to travel after testing. Other demands by Congress included ramping up testing in the state by setting up Covid-19 labs at every district, setting up a task force of experts to revive the financial condition of the state, restarting NREGA works in rural areas and providing clarity to students on exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/declare-covid-19-pandemic-a-national-disaster-cong-demands-827453.html
19-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||‘Check price rise of cattle food’ ||Members of Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene submitted a memorandum seeking action for increasing prices of They submitted the memorandum to deputy director of the Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Servic food for livestock.es Dr N Jagadish Kumar accusing owners of some shops of hiking the prices of the food offered to the livestock. They said that the farmers were facing distress due to lockdown. Considering non-availability of transportation facilities, the prices of food offered to the livestock had been increased. “Dairy farming is the secondary occupation of farmers in the district. The dairy farming is the lifeline of farmers in the district. Farming activities have come to a standstill in rural areas. Despite these odds, farmers are managing to run the show,” the Association’s state vice-president K Narayan Gowda said. Gowda alleged that some people have created artificial shortage of fodder. The production of milk had come down due to summer. The department officials had failed to handle the situation. They requested the department to take measures to display prices of food and fodder outside stalls, free distribution of food from Karnataka Milk Federation to be offered to cattle and cancellation of licenses given to owners to operation outlets for the sales of fodder and other food materials. The Association’s district unit convener K Srinivas Gowda, member Bhargav and women’s wing president A Nalini were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/check-price-rise-of-cattle-food-827409.html
19-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Rs 10,000 fine imposed for selling beef||The City Municipal Council officials imposed Rs 10,000 penalty on a person selling beef illegally in the city on Sunday. The CMC team led by commissioner Srikanth conducted surprise checks at Ammvaripet, clock tower and Karanjikatte main road in the wake of complaints that meat merchants had increased meat prices exorbitantly after the lockdown. The owner of an outlet who had stored the beef did not open the door. The officials waited for two hours and then used poura karmikas and got the door opened. Situation turned tense for a while as the officials and the workers exchanged heated words. The police rushed to the police and controlled the situation. The officials levied a fine of Rs 10,000 and said that a criminal case would be registered against him. There are no slaughterhouses in the district. However, some people were illegally slaughtering cattle for money, according to sources. One kg mutton was sold for Rs 750, while one kg chicken was priced Rs 200. The officials directed the merchants to sell the mutton for Rs 600 and chicken for Rs 70. They directed the merchants to maintain hygiene and social distancing norm. Srikanth said that criminal cases would be registered against those selling the beef. The CMC member Ambarsih, health inspectors Mariya and Puneeth were present||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/rs-10000-fine-imposed-for-selling-beef-827413.html
19-04-2020||Mysuru||Coronavirus: Four more test positive in Mysuru||While two are connected to the cases of Jubilant Pharma company, two others have travel history to Delhi and have been linked to the Tablighi Jamaat.    All are being treated at the designated COVID-19 hospital in Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/coronavirus-four-more-test-positive-in-mysuru-827266.html
19-04-2020||National||Some relief for non-containment zones||As the government moves to make life easier for people living under a 40-day lockdown, a number of restrictions have been eased and activities allowed from Monday. Tweeting a list of what will remain open across India from April 20, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad sought to make it clear that this will not be applicable in containment zones. Prasad’s tweet came on a day a high-powered Group of Minsters headed by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh discussed with 15 Union ministers ways to mitigate problems faced by people.  According to Prasad’s tweet, in non-hotspot zones, the government has decided to allow commercial and private establishments to operate with social distancing norms.  Both government, private industries and industrial establishments will also be functional, as also construction activities. Works have been allowed under MGNREGA but with social distancing norms and wearing face masks made a must. All health services including Ayush will remain functional. So will agricultural and horticultural activities, besides fishing and aquaculture. Plantation activities such as tea, coffee and rubber will remain functional but with a maximum 50% workforce.  Private vehicles for emergency services including medical and veterinary care and for procuring essential commodities as well as for all personnel travelling to work in exempted categories are also allowed. From Sunday, Union and state government offices will remain open. Animal husbandry, financial sector and social sector departments will remain functional as will all public utilities. The government has also allowed movement, loading and unloading of goods/cargo both within and between states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-relief-for-non-containment-zones-827146.html
19-04-2020||National||In see-saw coronavirus battle, no new cases in 47 districts||Is the COVID-19 tide turning in some places? The Health Ministry on Saturday said a positive trend had emerged in 47 districts across 23 states as not even a single case of Covid-19 was reported in the past 14 days. However, the fleeting nature of the disease-free status was evident in the districts of Patna in Bihar, Panipat in Haryana and Nadia in Bengal. Panipat and Patna had not reported virus infection for the last 14 days, while Nadia was in the list of “disease-free’ districts. But all three reported fresh cases of the virus that has claimed 518 lives across the country and infected over 15,000 people.  “It is a day-to-day battle. We have to maintain continuous vigil,” said Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry. He said the field-level action taken by health authorities was yielding positive results. “Along with Mahe in Puducherry, Kodagu in Karnataka has not registered any new case in the last 28 days. Besides this, 45 other districts in 23 states have not registered any new case in the last 14 days,” he said. According to Agarwal, the overall Covid-19 mortality rate in India was 3.3%. However, an age-wise analysis of those who have succumbed to the disease showed that the elderly with co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, heart ailments were more susceptible to the illness.  “More than 75% of the mortalities were in the age group of 60 years and above,” he said. The highest mortality rate of 42.2% was in the 75 years and above age group, followed by 33.1% in the 60-75 years age group, 14.4% from the population up to 45 years of age and 10.3% from the 45-60 years age group. Agarwal said 83% of the total fatalities also had co-morbid conditions. Of the total confirmed cases in India, 4,291 infections were linked to Nizamuddin Markaz cluster, which roughly amounts to 30% of the patients across the country. In Tamil Nadu, 84% cases of Covid-19 were linked to the Markaz followed by Telangana (79%), Delhi (63%), Andhra Pradesh (61%) and Uttar Pradesh (59%).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-see-saw-coronavirus-battle-no-new-cases-in-47-districts-827148.html
19-04-2020||National||Coronavirus outbreak: 11 crore lack food security, 41 lakh in Karnataka, say Economists||Around 41 lakh people in Karnataka are among 10.84 crore in the country who may be excluded from the protection of the National Food Security Scheme, thanks to the Centre insisting on using 2011 Census figures to calculate the state public distribution system (PDS) coverage. The figures calculated by economists Jean Dreze and Reetika Khera put Uttar Pradesh on top of the list with 2.85 crore people followed by Bihar with 1.77 crore people possibly out of the PDS coverage. Under the National Food Security Act, PDS is supposed to cover 75% of the population in rural areas and 50% in urban areas, which comes to 67% of the total population based on the 2011 rural/urban ratios. Applying the 67% ratio to a projected population of 137.2 crore for 2020, the PDS coverage at present should be 92.2 crore instead of around 81.35 crore, according to the calculations by Dreze and Khera. “More than 10 crore people are excluded because the Centre insists on using the outdated 2011 Census data to determine the coverage,” they said. Taking the 2011 Census when Karnataka’s population was 6.1 crore, the state was to cover 4.02 crore. If one takes into account the projected population in 2020 of 6.7 crore, Karnataka has to cover 4.43 crore, which could mean that 41 lakh are out of the PDS ambit. A note prepared by the economists argue that it was natural to use the 2011 Census figures for the NFSA, which came into force in 2013 but the numbers should have been updated from time to time using projected population figures.  "This would have enabled state governments to issue new ration cards over time. Instead, the number of persons to be covered in each state has remained frozen. Since state governments tend to be very reluctant to issue ration cards beyond what is provided for by the central government, this means that new ration cards are rarely issued. That, in turn, has made it very difficult to reduce exclusion errors in the PDS," they said. Among the southern states, Karnataka has the highest number of people possibly who are not covered by NFSA. Kerala has the least gap among the southern states with just ten lakh out of the ambit, while the gap in Tamil Nadu and Telangana is 21 lakh each and Andhra Pradesh 24 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-outbreak-11-crore-lack-food-security-41-lakh-in-karnataka-say-economists-827150.html
19-04-2020||National||DH Toon: RBI's coronavirus aid announcements, the periscopic view||Reserve Bank of India governor Shaktikanta Das addressed the media on Friday amidst the steep fall in the rupee and the continuing volatility in other segments of the financial markets due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-rbis-coronavirus-aid-announcements-the-periscopic-view-827176.html
19-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 19, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-19-2020-edition-827177.html
19-04-2020||National||DH Toon: Yet again, Pakistan boycotts India's coronavirus training programme for SAARC nation's healthcare professionals||Pakistan has stayed away from yet another initiative by India to train the healthcare professionals of the SAARC nations in managing the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-yet-again-pakistan-boycotts-indias-coronavirus-training-programme-for-saarc-nations-healthcare-professionals-827178.html
19-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 19||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 16,980 as of April 19.  States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 551   Andhra Pradesh: 15 Assam: 1 Bihar: 2 Delhi: 45 Gujarat: 63 Haryana: 3 Himachal Pradesh: 2 Jammu and Kashmir: 5 Jharkhand: 2 Karnataka: 16 Kerala: 2 Madhya Pradesh: 70 Maharashtra: 223 Meghalaya: 1 Odisha: 1 Punjab: 13 Rajasthan: 22 Tamil Nadu: 15 Telangana: 21 Uttar Pradesh: 17 West Bengal: 12 Coronavirus in India: States/UTs with confirmed positive cases (Details are updated as we receive information) Maharashtra: 4,200 Delhi: 2,003 Tamil Nadu: 1,477 Rajasthan: 1,431 Madhya Pradesh: 1,407 Gujarat: 1,743 Uttar Pradesh: 974 Telangana: 858 Andhra Pradesh: 603 Kerala: 400 Karnataka: 384 Jammu and Kashmir: 341 West Bengal: 310 Haryana: 227 Punjab: 202 Bihar: 87 Odisha: 61 Uttarakhand: 42 Himachal Pradesh: 39 Chhattisgarh: 36 Assam: 34 Jharkhand: 34 Chandigarh: 23 Ladakh: 18 Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 14 Puducherry: 7 Goa: 7 Meghalaya: 11 Manipur: 2 Tripura: 2 Mizoram: 1 Arunachal Pradesh: 1 Nagaland: 1 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 1515 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-19-827186.html
19-04-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Mental health crisis under the coronavirus lockdown||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, Dr Pratima Murthy, head of psychiatry at NIMHANS talks on the psychological effects of the lockdown. Deccan Herald's editor Sitaraman Shankar talks on The Power of Good. A conversation with musicians Aravind Murali, Jaishankar Iyer, Shankar Sundaram and Palakkad Sriram to fill music into your quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-mental-health-crisis-under-the-coronavirus-lockdown-827225.html
19-04-2020||National||India sends hydroxychloroquine to UAE for coronavirus patients||India has agreed to send hydroxychloroquine tablets to the United Arab Emirates to be used for treating COVID-19 patients, the Gulf Arab state's embassy in New Delhi said. India last month put a ban on exports as sales soared to secure supplies for itself as U.S. President Donald Trump touted the drug as a potential effective treatment for the deadly virus. It said this month it would send supplies to some countries. "The first shipment of medicine, currently on its way to the UAE, includes 5.5 million pills for treatment of patients with COVID-19," the embassy tweeted late on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sends-hydroxychloroquine-to-uae-for-coronavirus-patients-827244.html
19-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Drugs with less than 60% shelf life allowed to be imported on condition of usage||Keeping in mind the coronavirus situation, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has allowed import of drugs with less than 60 per cent residual shelf life on the condition that importers give an undertaking that the drug would be utilised or consumed before the expiry date. According to rules, the import of such drugs may be permitted after taking an undertaking from the importers by the port officers of CDSCO that the drug will be utilised or consumed before the expiry date and no part of it will be available for sale and distribution after its expiry, a circular issued to all port offices of CDSCO said.  "In the light of the present situation due to the COVID-19 outbreak, the health ministry has instructed to take various steps in order to ensure availability of a sufficient quantity of drugs in the domestic retail market, besides ensuring that the product conform to be of the prescribed specification. One of the steps is issuing immediate approvals to applications for registration, manufacture and import of pharmaceuticals. "Further, we have received a representation from the industry association that there are challenges in the clearance at port offices due to the COVID-19 outbreak and many products are losing their shelf life and getting below the threshold of 60 per cent," the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) said in a circular. Therefore, it has been requested to relax the requirement of minimum 60 per cent residual shelf life of all drugs, including vaccines and biological products, at the time of import for a period of three months until normal supply resumes, the circular added.  According to rule 31 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945, "No drug shall be imported unless it complies with the standard of strength, quality and purity," provided that the licensing authority shall not allow the import of a drug with a less than 60 per cent residual shelf life as on the date of import. However, in exceptional cases, the licensing authority may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, allow the import of any drug with a lesser shelf life, but before its expiry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-drugs-with-less-than-60-shelf-life-allowed-to-be-imported-on-condition-of-usage-827254.html
19-04-2020||National||Press freedom can't be unfettered: Mumbai Court on bail to journalist Rahul Kulkarni||Press enjoys freedom of speech and expression but it cannot be "unfettered", and reasonable restrictions are required to be followed in the interest of public order, a Mumbai court observed in its recent order while granting bail to television journalist Rahul Kulkarni. The journalist was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly 'spreading misinformation' through his report that the government was thinking of starting train services to ferry migrants, which allegedly led to a crowd gathering in Bandra area of Mumbai on Tuesday. A metropolitan magistrate court of P B Yerlekar granted him bail on Thursday. The court in its order said, "There can be no doubt that the press enjoys freedom of speech and expression. However, the said freedom cannot be said to be unfettered." Reasonable restrictions are required to be followed while enjoying the freedom, in the interest of public order, the court said. "The accused should have borne those restrictions in mind while reporting the news item," the court said. The media has tremendous influence on general public. Thus, it is necessary that news reports should be made more sensibly and in a more responsible manner with the anticipation of consequences of the said report," it noted. The court said the news report of the accused posed a law and order situation. Thus, action taken by police holding accused responsible for the situation "seems to be justified". Kulkarni was booked by police under Indian Penal Code Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 505(b) (intent to cause fear or alarm among public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the state or against public tranquility), and provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act. According to police, Kulkarni allegedly gave a "false" story, saying the Railways was going to start special trains to ferry migrant workers stranded in Maharashtra back to their native states. Hundreds of migrant workers gathered at the Bandra station on Tuesday after watching the news, and they were later dispersed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/press-freedom-cant-be-unfettered-mumbai-court-on-bail-to-journalist-rahul-kulkarni-827260.html
19-04-2020||National||Govt denies reduction of pension rumours amid coronavirus crisis||There is no proposal for reduction of pension and no action is being contemplated by the government in this respect, the Centre said on Sunday. The assertion assumes significance as rumours are afloat that the government is contemplating reduction or stoppage of pension. “It has come to the notice of the Department of Pensions and Pensioners' Welfare (DoPPW) that, in the wake of the current pandemic COVID-19 and the ensuing economic scenario, many rumours are afloat that the government is contemplating a reduction or stoppage of pension which has become a source of worry for the pensioners,” the government said in a communique. "As clarified earlier, it is being reiterated that there is no such proposal for reduction of pension and no action is contemplated by the government in this respect. Instead, the government is committed for the welfare and well being of the pensioners," the communique issued by the DoPPW said. There are 65.26 lakh central government pensioners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-denies-reduction-of-pension-rumours-amid-coronavirus-crisis-827265.html
19-04-2020||National||Important to stay united, says Javed Akhtar on growing communal tensions amid coronavirus crisis||It is important to stay united and have faith in each other to fight the coronavirus pandemic, veteran lyricist-screenwriter Javed Akhtar said on Sunday, expressing concerns over the attack on healthcare workers and cases of communal tension in the country. In a video shared by Akhtar's wife, veteran actor Shabana Azmi on Twitter, the writer urged people to stand together in this time of crisis. "The country is undergoing a crisis at this point of time. To fight this crisis called coronavirus, it is important for us to be united. If we will keep suspecting each other or won't understand each other's intentions, there will be no unity, then how will we fight it? "You must salute these doctors who are endangering their lives to test you. Unless you get tested, you will not know whether you have the disease or not. You can be treated only after that. It's a matter of stupidity that, I've heard, people are pelting stones on those doctors. This should not be done," Akhtar said in the 2 minute-long clip. The 75-year-old lyricist also said that targeting a particular community defeats the goal of unity. "I also hear that shops of a particular community are being shut, 'thelas' are being overturned or people are hit so that they can flee. This is not how unity works. We will have to believe each other. We all are citizens of this country," he said. Akhtar appealed to the Muslim community to offer prayers from home in the holy month of Ramzan, which will begin from April 24 or April 25. "I request all the Muslim brothers that now that Ramzan is coming, please say your prayers but make sure that this doesn't cause problems to anyone else. The prayers that you do in the mosque, you can do that at home. According to you, the house, the ground, this all has been made by Him. Then you can do your prayers anywhere," he said. "Ensure that your speech, slogans and deeds don't create any suspicion in the minds of others. And to all the other citizens of the country, I'd say please have faith in each other, practice unity, don't resort to hatred. Only with the help of love and trust, we will be able to fight with the coronavirus," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/important-to-stay-united-says-javed-akhtar-on-growing-communal-tensions-amid-coronavirus-crisis-827271.html
19-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: NDMC to slap Rs 1,000 fine for spitting, urinating in public places||People found spitting or urinating in public places will be penalised with a fine of Rs 1000, in keeping with the measures to contain the coronavirus outbreak, civic authorities said on Sunday. All three municipal corporations and the New Delhi Municipal Council have prohibited spitting and urinating by any person with immediate effect. The move by the civic bodies comes in compliance with a recent directive issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for COVID-19 management, which made spitting in public spaces a punishable offence. "With a view to ensure strict compliance of directives to contain the spread of coronavirus, it is directed that there shall be no spitting or urinating in public places. Persons responsible for any such violation shall be punished with a fine of Rs 1000," Council's Secretary Amit Singla said. The MHA order had also said that there should be a strict ban on sale of liquor and tobacco during the lockdown period, and spitting should be strictly prohibited and punishable with a fine.  The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), in a statement, said it has strictly banned spitting and urinating in public spaces. The south body has decided to impose a fine of Rs 1,000 for any such violation. The powers conferred upon the commissioner to impose and collect the fines from the violators have also been delegated to all licensing inspectors, public health inspectors, sanitary inspectors and malaria inspectors, it said. All the officials are instructed to ensure strict compliance of these directives in all the four zones of the SDMC, authorities said. The violators will be issued challans and fine will be collected on the spot. In case the violator does not have money to pay the fine, then the municipal officer shall ensure to obtain the parentage of violators like proper address from the identity card (driving licence, Aadhaar card, or any other identity document) being carried by the person. In case the violator does not have any identity card with him, his or her photo will be taken on a mobile phone along with the parentage disclosed by him, they said. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation also issued a public notice on Saturday telling that spitting or urinating in public places has been prohibited with immediate effect. Any violation shall lead to imposition of fine of Rs 1,000 on the person.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-ndmc-to-slap-rs-1000-fine-for-spitting-urinating-in-public-places-827272.html
19-04-2020||National||Maharashtra: 44 new COVID-19 cases in Thane; tally at 364 in district||The number of coronavirus cases in Maharashtra's Thane district rose to 364 after 44 more people tested positive for the disease, authorities said on Sunday. One more person died of the viral infection, taking the toll in the district to 12, they said. So far, 130 COVID-19 cases have been reported from areas under Thane Municipal Corporation, 73 from Kalyan- Dombivali, 69 from Mira-Bhayander, 60 from Navi Mumbai, 14 from Badlapur township, 10 from Thane rural, four from Ambernath township, three from Bhiwandi-Nizampur municipal limits and one from Ulhasnagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-44-new-covid-19-cases-in-thane-tally-at-364-in-district-827285.html
19-04-2020||National||CAPFs direct units to take care of families of slain troops, retd personnel during COVID-19 lockdown||The Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) have directed their field units to ensure that families of personnel killed in action, specially-abled and retired officials should be taken care of during the lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19, officials said. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) has publicised a mobile helpline no 9560070212 for all such personnel. "I believe that ITBP way of life has helped you become a fighter under any circumstance and a helper of society at large. Your commitment to the nation has been unparalleled. "...during this world-wide pandemic if you and your family need any type of help, you may call the nearest ITBP unit or formation," ITBP Director General (DG) S S Deswal said in an official message sent to veterans of the force. Deswal is also holding the additional charge of the Border Security Force (BSF) DG and has issued a similar message. "I would like to assure all of you that in case of any requirement, BSF is always more than willing to extend the helping hand for which you can contact any of the nearest BSF establishments."  "You are very much part of BSF parivaar (family) and kindly feel free for seeking any kind of support during this difficult time," the BSF message said. The force that guards Indian frontiers with Pakistan and Bangladesh have asked its field units to also take special care of the needs of the family of their "martyrs, divyangs (specially-abled troops who lost limbs in the line of duty) and the border population" in their jurisdiction. The Central Reserve Police Force issued similar directives to its field offices with a separate instruction to create WhatsApp groups for its retired personnel.  "We would be honoured to serve our elders. Should the need arise, please look for the nearest CRPF setup for any support," CRPF DG A P Maheshwari said in his message to the retired personnel. These CAPFs, also known as paramilitary forces, are deployed to render a variety of roles in the internal security domain of the country like conducting anti-Naxal and counter-terrorist operations and assisting states in rendering law and order duties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/capfs-direct-units-to-take-care-of-families-of-slain-troops-retd-personnel-during-covid-19-lockdown-827292.html
19-04-2020||National||Priyanka Gandhi urges UP govt to evolve plan to bring back migrant workers||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday called upon the Uttar Pradesh government to evolve a plan to help migrant workers from the state reach their home. In a video appeal, she urged the state government to set up a helpline and control room to reach out to all those migrant workers from UP who are stranded at various places. "These workers are our own. It is the responsibility of all of us to help them. We cannot leave them like this. We have to find a way out," she said. "I urge the Uttar Pradesh government to set up a helpline and a control room of 1,000 persons so that these stranded workers can be reached out. You have to evolve a plan to bring them back,” she said. Gandhi said she has talked to the migrant workers from the northern state who are stuck in different places and are finding it difficult to survive as they are now huddled together in one room. She said the migrants are scared and want to come back to their homes in UP, as they have no ration or cash left. The Congress general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh also lauded the state government for bringing back stranded students from Kota in Rajasthan. "… these migrant workers are also our own. They do not have anything to eat. Helping them is also the responsibility of the state government," she said in her appeal. Thousands of migrant workers have been stranded at state borders and in various large towns due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus. Metropolitan cities like Delhi and Mumbai had recently witnessed law and order issues when thousands of migrant workers swarmed local bus stations and railway stations, in their bid to reach their native places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-gandhi-urges-up-govt-to-evolve-plan-to-bring-back-migrant-workers-827295.html
19-04-2020||National||NHAI turns lockdown into opportunity to redress disputes, review projects on war footing||Turning the COVID-19 lockdown into an "opportunity", highways regulator NHAI is working on a war footing to resolve disputes worth a staggering Rs 80,000 crore, besides reviewing projects to expedite work. "During this lockdown period, we are holding five to seven video conferences every day to find a resolution to disputes through reconciliation to be ready with all the ground work. "Normally what would take months together has been done during the lockdown," NHAI Chairman S S Sandhu, who was on an inspection of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway project when PTI contacted him, said. Sandhu and other top brass of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) have been on an inspection spree of projects, taking the benefit of no traffic on otherwise congested highways. NHAI, an official said, has at least 180 cases in arbitration involving a sum of about Rs 80,000 crore. Sandhu told PTI that as a result of intensive meetings, NHAI is in a position to place all matters before the reconciliation committees for speedy disposal of disputes. "Next week we are likely to take up the matters, work on which have been done, with the conciliation committees for final dispute redressal processes," Sandhu said. He said the exact number of cases for which work has been done cannot be assessed at the moment as multiple officials are working on different projects and the compilation will be done soon. Out of the 180 cases involving about Rs 80,000 crore, the officials are currently working on 86 cases worth about Rs 31,000 crore, a source said. "Work is almost complete on 33 cases with a solid ground ready for disposal of these by the reconciliation committees. These involve a sum of Rs 12,356 crore," the source added. Work is going on a war footing in other 43 cases involving a sum of Rs 20,000 crore, he added.  The projects under arbitration include Delhi-Agra highway section, Kishangarh-Udaipur road and Chenani-Nashri project, the official said. The highways builders involved in these projects include ILFS Transportation, Madhucon, Gammon, HCC and Gayatri Projects, among others. The official said once the conciliation happens, the NHAI payout will be much lesser than the amount projected now as arbitration is a long-drawn process where payout is about 25 per cent but in conciliation, whatever amount is finalised is paid immediately. Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari has asked the ministry and NHAI officials to convert the coronavirus "crisis into opportunity". Preparations are afoot to re-start work on highway projects expeditiously in association with the states, while following the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Gadkari told PTI: "I have asked NHAI to resolve all cases in three months span." The NHAI has achieved record 3,979 kms of highways construction in 2019-20. The feat was achieved on the back of ambitious highways development programmes like Bharatmala Pariyojna. The construction pace has seen a steady growth, with 3,380 kms construction in FY 2018-19||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhai-turns-lockdown-into-opportunity-to-redress-disputes-review-projects-on-war-footing-827297.html
19-04-2020||National||More relaxations in offing if country continues to manage COVID-19 well: Javadekar||A day before a host of relaxations to boost economic activities kick in amid the nationwide lockdown, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said on Sunday that more relief measures are bound to come if India continues to manage the coronavirus crisis well, asserting that "you cannot (have) lockdown permanently". In an interview to PTI, the Information and Broadcasting minister also called for fully observing Prime Minister Narendra Modi's request to people to stay wherever they are amid a row over the UP government's decision to send buses to Kota in Rajasthan to bring back students stuck there. "I will not go into any particular incident but let me make it clear that the Prime Minister has spoken about people facing hardship when they are away from home. He has advised them to stay wherever you are. That is the real point," he said when asked about the incident. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has objected to the development, saying it was against the spirit of lockdown, and some opposition leaders have questioned as to why then the central government is not making provisions for stranded migrant labourers to return to their homes. "Our policy is stay wherever you are and help each other," Javadekar said, adding that Modi's appeal in this regard should be observed 100 per cent. A member of the group of ministers to oversee the measures to combat the pandemic, he said unlike leaders in some other countries, who are "confused" between the choices of shutdown and letting economic activities pick up, PM Modi is "not in two minds" about the way forward and knows what needed to be done and when. "He gave the call of lockdown at the right time and is now partially allowing economic activity while the lockdown continues. With such a (huge) population we have managed well, if this continues we will get more relief," he said. While the relaxations starting from April 20 are primarily aimed at boosting the rural economy, Javadekar expressed confidence that economic activities will start in cities as well "sooner than later". "The lockdown has been very successfully conducted. The world is praising it because this is the way to fight the coronavirus. But even after this you cannot (have) lockdown permanently. It was needed to start economic activity. "The world has seen that in such a pandemic the country which saves lives actually then gets better... We have saved lives and at the same time we must start economic activity. To that end Prime Minister has partially opened economic activities," he said. To a question about Rahul Gandhi's claim that the lockdown is not a solution to the pandemic, he took a dig at him, saying that the Congress leader must be "more knowledgable" about COVID-19 than others. "The world is praising India for timely lockdown and its good implementation. Compared to what we are witnessing in western countries, we are doing much better," the senior BJP leader said, in an apparent reference to thousands of deaths in developed countries like the US, France and Italy. The toll due to COVID-19 in India was at 507 and the number of cases at 15,712 on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry. The Prime Minister, Javadekar said, kept a keen eye on the COVID spread outside India even when there was not a single case here and would tell his cabinet colleagues about its potential danger and seriousness. India now has 700 COVID-19 hospitals, over one lakh isolation beds, more than 11,000 ICUs for coronavirus patients and has begun manufacturing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), rapid test kits and masks that it did not no earlier, he added. The Union minister said the partial resumption of economic activities, including all agriculture-related work, fishery and dairy works besides industries active in rural areas, under the prescribed guidelines will be a good relief to the rural economy. The work under MNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) will also start, he noted, adding that over 13 crore families will benefit. PTI KR SMN SMN||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-relaxations-in-offing-if-country-continues-to-manage-covid-19-well-javadekar-827303.html
19-04-2020||National||Coronavirus crisis 'biggest invisible war'; Armed forces and military assets adequately protected: Rajnath||India has put in place a robust mechanism to insulate the three services and their strategic assets from the coronavirus infection, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday, assuring that the military is fully prepared to defend the country from "adversarial forces" though it was fighting the pandemic. In an exclusive interview to PTI, Singh said the fight against the pandemic is the "biggest invisible war" in last several decades and India is acting on a war footing with proper coordination among all agencies concerned and support of people. He said the Army, Navy and the Indian Air Force are strictly adhering to instructions issued by the Prime Minister's Office, the Health Ministry and their own medical bodies for protection against COVID-19. "The fight against COVID-19 is possibly the biggest invisible war in our lifetime. A war against humanity and having a various impact on health and economic security of the nation," he said. "We as a nation are fighting the COVID-19 crisis on a war footing and all agencies of the government are working in close coordination. The armed forces are assisting the nation in its fight against coronavirus," Singh said. Asked whether the pandemic has impacted operational aspects of the military, Singh said they are prepared for all contingencies and ready to defend India's sovereignty from adversarial forces in all scenarios. Referring to the situation along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir, the defence minister said India is dominating the enemy through targeted intelligence-based strikes on their launch pads.  "The Indian armed forces are prepared for all contingencies and I can assure you that we are prepared to defend our sovereignty from adversarial forces in all scenarios," he said. His assertion comes amid apprehension about possible impact of the pandemic on the armed forces, particularly after 26 Indian Navy sailors were infected by the virus in the first such large-scale case of infection in the Indian military. "As you would have gathered from the operations along the LoC (Line of Control) in the last two weeks, we are dominating the enemy through targeted intelligence based strikes on their launch pads and eliminating them before they set foot on Indian soil," the defence minister said. Pakistan has been resorting to widespread ceasefire violations along the LoC at a time when India has been leading efforts to help the SAARC member nations in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic. The Army has been adequately responding to Pakistani "misadventures" under its policy of "hot pursuit", a military official said. On the role of armed forces in containing coronavirus pandemic, the defence minister said expertise of armed forces in communications, supply chain management, medical support and engineering are being used to combat it. He also said that the government has directed leading defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) to produce medical equipment like ventilators, masks, PPEs and other equipment to address the problem of shortages. Singh said armed forces are taking measures like curtailing movement of troops, restricting leave and enforcing work from home to prevent spread of infection. A mandatory 14-day quarantine period is being enforced for all personnel coming from outside any station, irrespective of rank, he added. He said special precautions are being taken on ships and submarines where it is difficult to strictly follow social distances norms. Soldiers deployed along borders, especially in remotest regions, are safest as they are cut-off from all likely carriers of disease, he said, adding the government is ensuring their safety by deploying fresh troops who have been medically validated as having no symptoms of the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-crisis-biggest-invisible-war-armed-forces-and-military-assets-adequately-protected-rajnath-827305.html
19-04-2020||National||Plea in SC seeking action against landlords pressuring students, labourers for rent during lockdown||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking action against the "arbitrary and unlawful action" of landlords demanding rent from students and labourers during the lockdown despite a government order to the contrary. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had issued an order on March 29 which stops landlords from demanding rent from students, workers and migrant labourers for a month. Those landlords who force people to vacate their houses will face action, the MHA statement warns. The order, issued under the Disaster Management Act, had said employers will pay their workers' wages on due dates without any deduction. The petition filed by advocate Pawan Prakash Pathak and others, has sought implementation of the home ministry's March 29 order that no landlord will collect rent from the labour class and students for a month during COVID-19 period and those who violate it would be punished. "Petition is being filed against the arbitrary and unlawful action of landlords in the state of Delhi amid COVID-19 where there is clear instruction issued by the Ministry of Home affairs that in order to maintain the lockdown situation and law and order during COVID-19, order dated March 29, 2020 'restraining all landlord to forcing labours and students to vacate their premises', in case they fail to pay rent during this period," the plea said. The PIL said irrespective of the MHA order, various landlords were forcing tenant students to pay full rent, failing which they will be thrown out of premises.  "Many landlords are continuously putting pressure on students to pay their rent and the students are living in constant fear and depressions. They are feeling helpless in this situation as they can't demand money from their parents because their parents are also suffering from a financial crisis due to the lockdown. In such a situation one is left with one option i.e opportunity cost of money, either one can pay rent out of the same amount or one can buy essential ration and food for the family during this period," the plea said. The petition said that in a situation like this, the students who are staying in rented accommodations have limited resources at their disposal. "Most of the students stuck are from a humble background and they supplement their expenses by working part-time -- for instance by taking up tuition. But in situations like this, they are struck in dire straits. If they will not be helped by the government concerned then they have to live in constant fear and depression caused by the financial crisis," the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-seeking-action-against-landlords-pressuring-students-labourers-for-rent-during-lockdown-827311.html
19-04-2020||National||Skill mapping, screening before moving migrants to workplaces: MHA SOP||With economic activities set to resume with restrictions outside COVID-19 containment zones, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Sunday issued guidelines for the movement of migrant labourers to workplaces within states but banned any inter-state travel. The Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), signed by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, came a day before the relaxations provided from April 20, are to set in and it wants authorities to only move workers who are screened and found to be without any symptoms of COVID-19 after a "skill mapping" exercise. "Due to the spread of COVID-19 virus, workers employed in industry, agriculture, construction and other sectors have moved from their respective places of work, and are housed in relief/shelter camps being run by state/UT governments. Since additional new activities, outside the containment zones, have been permitted in the consolidated revised guidelines with effect from April 20, these workers could be engaged in industrial, manufacturing, construction, farming and MNREGA works," Bhalla said in his order.  Before moving workers out, the SOP said, the state administration will have to first register the migrant labourers currently residing in shelter camps with the concerned local authority. Their "skill mapping" should be carried out to find out their suitability for various kinds of works. "In the event, that a group of migrants wish to return to their places of work, within the state where they are presently located, they would be screened and those who are asymptomatic would be transported to their respective places of work. It may be noted that there shall be no movement of labour outside the State/UT from where they are currently located," it said. During the journey by bus, the authorities should also ensure that safe social distancing norms are followed and the buses used for transport are sanitised as per the guidelines of the Health authorities. The local authorities shall also provide for food and water, etc. for the duration of their journey. On April 15, the MHA had issued revised guidelines for opening up several economic sectors but with "limited exemptions" to provide a leg up specially to the rural economy. Construction, plantation, MSME, MNREGA and IT sectors among others were given exemptions but industry and experts have raised concerns about the availability of labour following the continuing lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/skill-mapping-screening-before-moving-migrants-to-workplaces-mha-sop-827319.html
19-04-2020||National||Here are MHA's conditions for stranded labourers' movement within state during coronavirus lockdown||Labourers, who are stranded in different parts of India due to the ongoing lockdown, will be allowed to go to their respective places of work within a state with certain conditions, the Union Home Ministry said. Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, however, made it clear that there will be no inter-state movement of workers during the lockdown, which has been extended till May 3. The order issued by Bhalla said that due to the spread of coronavirus, workers employed in industry, agriculture, construction and other sectors have moved from their respective places of work and are housed in relief and shelter camps being run by state and UT governments. Since additional activities, outside the containment zones, have been permitted in the consolidated revised guidelines with effect from April 20, these workers could be engaged in industrial, manufacturing, construction, farming and MNREGA works. To facilitate their movement within the state or UT, the following guidelines may be followed: The migrant labourers currently residing in relief and shelter camps in states and UTs should be registered with the concerned local authority and their skill mapping be carried out to find out their suitability for various kinds of works. The SoP said in the event that a group of migrants wish to return to their places of work within the state where they are presently located, they would be screened and those who are asymptomatic would be transported to their respective places of work. It may be noted that there shall be no movement of labour outside the state and UT from where they are currently located. During the journey by bus, it would be ensured that safe social-distancing norms are followed and the buses used for transport are sanitized as per the guidelines of the health authorities. The local authorities shall also provide for food and water etc., for the duration of their journey, the SOP said. The lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to combat the coronavirus endemic. While extending the lockdown till May 3, the prime minister declared that select activities will open up from April 20 in identified areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/here-are-mhas-conditions-for-stranded-labourers-movement-within-state-during-coronavirus-lockdown-827324.html
19-04-2020||National||India asks Pakistan to look into reasons behind collapse of domes of Kartarpur Gurudwara||India has asked Pakistan to fix the construction deficiencies in the Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib after the domes of the shrine collapsed during a brief spell of rain and thunderstorm on Friday. Sources in New Delhi said that India had taken up the issue with Pakistan. New Delhi conveyed to Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government that the damage to the structures in the shrine had caused “great consternation” to the Sikhs. The Gurdwara by the River Ravi at Kartarpur, Pakistan, is revered as among the holiest for the Sikhs as it marks the place where Guru Nanak lived for 18 years and finally breathed his last in 1539. The governments of the two countries last year built a corridor to facilitate travel by the pilgrims from India to the shrine in Pakistan. The corridor was inaugurated in November 2019. Though Pakistan government spruced up the historic shrine on the occasion of the 550th birth anniversary of the founder of Sikhism, two domes of a newly-constructed structure could not withstand the stormy winds on Friday. New Delhi conveyed to Islamabad through the diplomatic channel on Sunday that the “strong sense of faith and devotion” of the Sikhs to the holy shrine must be fully understood and appreciated by the government of Pakistan. India has urged Pakistan that in deference to the sentiments of the Sikh community, the deficiencies which led to the damage to the newly constructed structures be urgently rectified and remedied, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asks-pakistan-to-look-into-reasons-behind-collapse-of-domes-of-kartarpur-gurudwara-827328.html
19-04-2020||National||Chicken biryani to hot samosas: quirky requests give Delhi officials a headache in containment zones||Delhi district officials deployed in coronavirus containment zones and quarantine centres say a number of residents have flooded them with odd demands, like chicken biryani, mutton, pizza, sweets and hot samosas, keeping them on their toes during the lockdown. In a containment zone, people are not allowed to step out of their houses and government ensures delivery of essential items at their doorstep. Once an area is declared a containment zone, administration and police officials create a WhatsApp group where people place requests for essential items and authorities ensure their delivery at the doorstep. Requesting anonymity, an official deployed at the government-run quarantine facility in Outer Delhi's Narela told PTI that several residents there have asked officials to provide them chicken biryani and mutton. In South Delhi, which has nine containment zones, some people demanded pizza and hot samosa, another official said.     The officials said in some containment zones in East, Central and Central Delhi, there received demands for sweets. "We don't fulfil frivolous demands. At a time when an area is sealed and declared containment zone in such a crisis, our duty is to ensure delivery of only essential items like vegetables, water and milk. We have told our field officials to ignore unusual demands ," a senior official said. The Delhi government has identified 76 containment zones in the wake of coronavirus spread. The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital has climbed to 1,893 and of the 43 fatalities reported, 24 were aged above 60.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chicken-biryani-to-hot-samosas-quirky-requests-give-delhi-officials-a-headache-in-containment-zones-827329.html
19-04-2020||National||No active COVID-19 case in Goa, all 7 patients discharged||All seven COVID-19 patients in Goa have recovered from the infection and have been discharged, state health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Sunday. The last of the seven cases in the coastal state was detected on April 3, and since then all have been discharged after their samples tested negative post-treatment. "We are proud to announce that all the patients that were reported positive in the state of Goa have recovered from the COVID-19. The active number of cases in Goa now stands at zero," he tweeted. "While we currently do not have any active case in the state, it is our responsibility to keep in mind the importance of lockdown, maintain social distance, increase the scope of testing and adhere to norms and guidelines issued by both Central and state government," he added. He thanked the doctors in the frontline to combat the outbreak, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, Chief Secretary Parimal Rai and Health Secretary Neela Mohanan. As per government data, 758 people were tested for the virus in the coastal state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-active-covid-19-case-in-goa-all-7-patients-discharged-827331.html
19-04-2020||National||Lockdown: CBSE to assess loss of time for students, rationalise syllabus for classes 9-12||The board is presently in the process of assessing the situation as well as the loss and a call in this regard will be taken accordingly.   The National Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT) had last week announced an alternative academic calendar for students enrolled in classes 1 to 5 to be followed as they study at home due to the lockdown.The council is in the process of developing similar plans for higher classes as well. "NCERT has come out with revised activities calender for classes 1-8 , the CBSE is assessing the situation and loss time to rationalise syllabus for classes 9-12 and inform in due course of time," a senior board official said. On April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the 21-day nationwide lockdown till May 3. All schools were closed and exams postponed at least a week before the lockdown on March 25 was announced. The annual academic schedule has been thrown out of gear due to the COVID-19 outbreak. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) as well as many other state boards had to either postpone or cancel board exams. Several schools were conducting teaching and learning activities online but there were no uniform guidelines for the purpose before the calendar was announced. "The alternate calendar contains week-wise plan consisting of interesting and challenging activities, with reference to theme or chapter taken from syllabus or textbook. "Most importantly, it maps the themes with the learning outcomes. The purpose of mapping of themes with learning outcomes is to facilitate teachers and parents to assess the progress in the learning of children and also to go beyond textbooks," a NCERT official said. The board had earlier announced that it would conduct pending board examination only for 29 subjects, which are crucial for promotion and admission to higher educational institutions. The board had also announced that it will not conduct pending class 10 and 12 examinations in foreign countries due to the coronavirus pandemic. "It is difficult to decide as of now about when exams will be held but students will be given at least 10 days of prior notice before the exams are conducted," the CBSE official said. According to Human Resource Development Ministry officials, competitive exams, including the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), are likely to be conducted in June end but no decision has been taken in this regard yet. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 507 and the number of cases to 15,712 in the country on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry. The total number of cases includes 77 foreign nationals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-cbse-to-assess-loss-of-time-for-students-rationalise-syllabus-for-classes-9-12-827335.html
19-04-2020||National||Coronavirus cases in UP cross 1,000-mark, death toll mounts to 17||The virus has claimed 17 lives in the state so far. During a daily briefing on COVID-19, Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said the state has 959 active cases. At least 1,084 people in 49 districts of the state are infected, he said, adding that 108 of them have been cured and discharged. Around 18.5 per cent of the patients are in the age group of 0-20 years, 47.3 per cent 21-40 years, 24.7 per cent 41-60 years and 9 per cent are aged above 60 years, Prasad said. Males account for 78 per cent of the total cases, while females 22 per cent, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-cases-in-up-cross-1000-mark-death-toll-mounts-to-17-827336.html
19-04-2020||National||India carrying out targeted strikes on terror launch pads along LoC: Defence Minister||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said the Indian Army is carrying out "targeted strikes" on terror launch pads along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir and eliminating the Pakistani infiltrators before they cross over to the Indian side. Singh, in an interview to PTI, said the armed forces are not lowering their guard at all while playing a significant role in the country's overall fight to defeat the coronavirus pandemic. "The Indian armed forces are prepared for all contingencies and I can assure the country that we are prepared to defend our sovereignty from adversarial forces in all scenarios," he said. Notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic in the region, Pakistan has been resorting to unprovoked ceasefire violations along the Line of Control and making concerted efforts to push militants into Kashmir in the last several weeks. "As you would have gathered from the operations along the LoC (Line of Control) in the last two weeks, we are dominating the enemy through targeted intelligence-based strikes on their launch pads and eliminating them before they set foot on Indian soil," Singh said. Army Chief Gen Gen M M Naravane visited various forward locations along the LoC on Thursday and Friday to take stock of the situation along the frontiers and directed the Army to maintain maximum vigil to foil any attempt by Pakistan to push terrorists into the Indian side. Military sources said a number of terror launch pads along the Pakistani side of the LoC were destroyed by the Indian Army in the last few days. India has been retaliating strongly to the Pakistani "misadventure" by targeting terror launch pads and ammunition storage across the LoC. Recently, Keran sector was the scene of a deadly operation in which five elite army commandos laid down their lives while eliminating a group of infiltrating militants. There have been frequent incidents of ceasefire violation by Pakistani side since India announced its decision to withdraw the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcate the state into two union territories in August last year. Pakistan often resorts to ceasefire violations to push militants into the Indian side. Indian troops have also been retaliating to Pakistani actions under its policy of hot pursuit. According to official figure, Pakistani troops resorted to 3,200 instances of ceasefire violations in Jammu and Kashmir in 2019, which was highest in the last 16 years. Of these, 1,565 ceasefire violations took place since between August and December after India reorganised Jammu and Kashmir. In 2018, Jammu and Kashmir recorded 2,936 instances of ceasefire violations by Pakistan. A top Army official said India has not lowered its guard at all in strategically sensitive areas though it has been engaged in fighting the coronavirus pandemic. India went under a total shutdown of 21 days from March 25 to April 14 to fight the coronavirus pandemic. On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced extending the lockdown till May 3. The Indian Army on Thursday directed all its military establishments, cantonments, formation headquarters and field units to totally restrict movement of forces in view of the government's fresh lockdown related guidelines. Last month, Army Chief Naravane issued instructions to insulate the 13 lakh strong Army from the coronavirus pandemic. Gen Naravane also conveyed to the families of the soldiers guarding India's borders with Pakistan and China that the Army is taking care of its personnel serving the country in this difficult time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-carrying-out-targeted-strikes-on-terror-launch-pads-along-loc-defence-minister-827337.html
19-04-2020||National||Govt launches iGOT portal to train doctors, health care workers to combat coronavirus||The government has launched a special digital platform iGOT for training and capacity building of healthcare staff including doctors, nurses, paramedics, hygiene workers and technicians, stepping up efforts to fight the coronavirus pandemic.  Some of the training courses on this integrated government online training (iGOT) portal include basics of COVID, infection prevention and control, use of PPE, quarantine and isolation, management of COVID-19 cases, laboratory sample collection and testing, ICU care and ventilation management.  In a letter to chief secretaries of all states and union territories, Chairman of the Empowered Group-4 Arun Kumar Panda has asked state governments, district administrations and municipal bodies to ensure training of the identified resources as per the job requirement through the portal on an urgent basis.  A master database of healthcare professionals and volunteers has also been made operational which provides state and district wise availability of human resources from various groups along with the contact details of nodal officers.  Data regarding a large pool of doctors including AYUSH doctors, nurses, other healthcare professionals and volunteer workforce has been shared on the dashboard and more information will progressively be made available, Panda said in the letter. The dashboard can be used by state governments and district administrations or municipal bodies to prepare their crisis management/contingency plans based on the available manpower in coordination with the nodal officers from each group.  The master database can also be used to utilise the services of volunteers for various activities including enforcement of social distancing at banks, ration shops, mandi and providing help to the elderly, divyang and orphanages.  It will also help the states and union territories to mobilise human resources from one location to another for their utilisation.  The portal provides anytime onsite delivery of training material/ module through any device including mobile phone, laptop and desktop. The Centre has constituted 11 Empowered Groups to formulate plans and provide effective solutions to address the challenges emanating from the COVID 19 outbreak in the country.  Of these, the Empowered Group-4 has been mandated with the identification of human resources for various COVID 19 related activities along with the necessary capacity building for them||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-launches-igot-portal-to-train-doctors-health-care-workers-to-combat-coronavirus-827342.html
19-04-2020||National||Rs 36,659 cr transferred to 16 cr beneficiaries using DBT during COVID-19 lockdown||More than Rs 36,659 crore has been transferred to the bank accounts of 16.01 crore beneficiaries using direct benefit transfer (DBT) between March 24 and April 17 during the lockdown, the finance ministry said on Sunday. The cash amount has been transferred by using Controller General of Accounts' (CGA) digital payments technology Public Financial Management System (PFMS) under Central Schemes (CS) and Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS). DBT ensures that the cash benefit is directly credited into the account of the beneficiary, eliminates leakage and improves efficiency. "More than Rs 36,659 crore has been transferred by using Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) through the Public Financial Management System (PFMS) in the bank accounts of 16.01 crore beneficiaries by the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) office during COVID-19 lockdown," the ministry said in a statement. Of the Rs 36,659 crore, Rs 27,442 crore has been transferred under CSS and CS and Rs 9,717 by various state governments for its welfare schemes. Between March 24 and April 17, the DBT payments under all the central sector/centrally sponsored schemes through PFMS amounted to Rs 27,442.08 crore in the accounts of 11.42 crore beneficiaries through schemes like PM-KISAN, Mahatma Gandhi National Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), National Social Assistance Program (NSAP), Prime Minster's Matru Vandana Yojana (PMMVY), National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM), National Health Mission (NHM), scholarship schemes of various ministries through the National Scholarship Portal (NSP). Besides, states like UP, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Maharashtra, Jammu & Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh have used DBT to transfer cash in the bank accounts. Through 180 welfare schemes, the state governments using PFMS have disbursed to 4.59 crore beneficiaries, an amount of Rs 9,217.22 crore between March 24 and April 17. Apart from above-mentioned schemes, payments were also made under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana, Rs 500 was credited in the women account holder of Jan Dhan accounts. Till April 13, the total number of women beneficiaries stood at 19.86 crore, which resulted in the disbursement of Rs 9,930 crore. A total of Rs 17,733 crore has been paid under PM-KISAN to 8.43 crore beneficiaries, while Rs 5,406 crore has been disbursed under MGNREGA to over 1.55 crore bank accounts. The ministry said PFMS usage for DBT payments increased over the last three financial years with total amount disbursed through DBT increasing from 22 per cent in 2018-19 to 45 per cent in 2019-20. With effect from April 1, 2015, the finance ministry had made it mandatory to use PFMS for payment, accounting and reporting under DBT and directed all implementing ministries or departments to ensure that no payments under DBT schemes were processed unless the electronic payment files for such payments were received through PFMS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-36659-cr-transferred-to-16-cr-beneficiaries-using-dbt-during-covid-19-lockdown-827347.html
19-04-2020||National||Plea in SC seeks military deployment for proper implementation of lockdown||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the authorities to deploy armed forces to ensure proper implementation of the nationwide lockdown to combat the coronavirus outbreak. The plea, which said that health care workers and police officials have been attacked by mobs in some states while they were discharging their duties during the lockdown, has also sought a direction to the authorities for laying down guidelines and devise a strategy to protect the fundamental rights of citizens. It has said that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or the National Investigation Agency (NIA) should be directed to probe into matters related to assembly of people in various parts of the country during the lockdown, which has been extended till May 3. "In order to control the spread of coronavirus, proper lockdown is very necessary and in order to keep the lockdown...deployment of military force in each state of India is very necessary. Therefore, the military force should be deployed as soon as possible for the benefit of the citizens of India," petitioner K R Shenoy has said in the plea. The petition has claimed that despite action taken by various states, people engaged in the health sector and police officials were still being attacked and this was causing the problem in controlling the novel coronavirus. "It is also pertinent to note that people who are quarantined or under treatment are continuously trying to run away from the quarantine centre, hospitals etc which is again increasing the chance of spread of coronavirus, therefore more security needs to be increased at these places," the plea said. It has also raised the issue of the gathering of people in some states, where COVID-19 cases have increased rapidly, on the pretext of wanting to go back to their native places. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 507 and the number of cases to 15,712 in the country on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-seeks-military-deployment-for-proper-implementation-of-lockdown-827348.html
19-04-2020||National||Allowing sale of non-essential items might impact lockdown, situation extremely dynamic: MHA||Underlining that the lockdown situation was "extremely dynamic", the Home Ministry said on Sunday the decision to allow sale of non-essential items through e-commerce platforms was withdrawn after it was felt that the list of goods was extensive and may impact the curbs imposed to fight COVID-19. Addressing a press conference, MHA Joint Secretary Punya Salila Srivastava said the situation was "extremely dynamic" and decisions are being reviewed "almost on daily basis". "As you realise, some restrictions are necessary in our campaign against coronavirus. When the list of non-essential goods and overall situation was reviewed, it was felt that the list was pretty extensive. If we permit all goods, it may impact lockdown. Accordingly, the decision was reviewed," she said. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla issued an order excluding non-essential items from sale by e-commerce companies from the consolidated revised guidelines, which listed the exemption given to the services and people from the purview of the lockdown. The order said the clause --'E-commerce companies. Vehicles used by e-commerce operators will be allowed to ply with necessary permissions' -- is excluded from the guidelines. The previous order had said such items were allowed for sale through e-commerce platforms from April 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allowing-sale-of-non-essential-items-might-impact-lockdown-situation-extremely-dynamic-mha-827350.html
19-04-2020||National||Home has become the new office, internet the new meeting room during coronavirus lockdown: PM Modi||"I have also been adapting to these changes. Most meetings, be it with ministerial colleagues, officials and world leaders, are now via video conferencing," Modi wrote on LinkedIn. The need of the hour is to think of business and lifestyle models that are easily adaptable. "Doing so would mean that even in a time of crisis, our offices, businesses and commerce could get moving faster, ensuring loss of life does not occur," he said. Today, the world is in pursuit of new business models, he said adding that India, a youthful nation known for its innovative zeal, can take the lead in providing a new work culture.  India, with the right blend of the physical and the virtual, can emerge as the global nerve centre of complex modern multinational supply chains in the post COVID-19 world. "Let us rise to that occasion and seize this opportunity," he said. The work place is getting "Digital First", he said. "And, why not? After all, the most transformational impact of technology often happens in the lives of the poor," he said. It is technology that demolishes bureaucratic hierarchies, eliminates middlemen and accelerates welfare measures, the prime minister opined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-has-become-the-new-office-internet-the-new-meeting-room-during-coronavirus-lockdown-pm-modi-827351.html
19-04-2020||National||Indian Railways earning to take a hit due to COVID-19||With passengers carrying trains operation suspended due to lockdown, Indian Railway is likely to lose its revenue target in the current financial year. The railways, which operates over 13,500 trains carrying 23 million passengers daily, halted all its passengers' trains since lockdown announced on March 24 and operates only goods trains transporting essential commodities and other goods. In 2019-20 is a tough year for national transporter due to slow down in freight movement, a major revenue earner, because of the economic slowdown. Even in March, the month of last fiscal, railways faced severe slow down in passengers ticket booking due to coronavirus. In last fiscal, the railway kept its earning target of Rs 56,000 crore from passengers booking segment while Rs 1.43 lakh crore from freight. However, national transporter failed to meet the target due to Covid-19 crisis. In 2020-21 fiscal, it is targetted to earn Rs 61,000 crore from passengers booking and Rs 1.46 lakh crore from freight. However, achieving the target is tough as there is no earning from passenger bookings in April. The railways refunded Rs 1,490 crore as it cancelled 94 lakh tickets booked for travel from March 24 to May 3. Besides, railways also assured full refund if any passenger wants to cancel their ticket booked till July 31. The current fiscal will be a tough year for railways as the earning from both passengers as well as freight will take a hit due to Covid-19. If economic slowdown will hit freight movement, passengers will be hesitant to travel till they get confidence that there will be no coronavirus spread any more.  Though during lockdown period, the railways transporting maximum freight to make utilise empty track due to absence of passengers train, coming days the demand for wagons will slow down due to lack of demand in steel, cement or coal following possible poor economic activities. The CAG in a report revealed that the Indian Railways had scored its worst-ever performance in a decade with an operating ratio of 98.44% in 2017-18. This basically means to earn Rs 100, Railways spent Rs 98.44 — leaving it with a profit of Rs 1.56 for every Rs 100 it earned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-earning-to-take-a-hit-due-to-covid-19-827352.html
19-04-2020||National||Urge the centre to declare COVID-19 as National Calamity: Congress||Congress in Karnataka on Sunday urged the state government to prevail upon the Centre to declare COVID-19 as a 'National Calamity' and provide economic and logistical support to contain spread of the virus. Highlighting concerns over what it termed was lack of testing, dearth of rapid test kits, shortage of equipment, medicine and facilities, the principal opposition party said the government, without limiting itself to mere statements, should make arrangements on a "war-footing" to address the issues to protect the citizens. At the same time the government should ensure the people are provided basic requirements for subsistence, they said. A delegation of Congress leaders under the leadership of party state unit chief D K Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition and CLP leader Siddaramaiah met Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and submitted a memorandum. "We put forth our demands before him concerning health, farmers, unorganised labourers, food supply, farmers not getting market and price for their produce, among other things. Also, on mental anguish caused to the minority community, social boycott that is happening.... we brought it to his notice," Shivakumar said. Speaking to reporters after the meeting,he said the party has assured the government of all cooperation in the fight against the pandemic. Given the fact that COVID-19 has spread across the globe, the state government should urge the centre to declare it as a National Calamity and provide all help to contain it like economic and logistic support, the memorandum, signed by Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah said. To contain the spread of coronavirus, the WHO protocol, which mandates testing at least 10,000 cases per 10 lakh population, should be done on a war footing, it said. In its pursuit, labs should be opened in every district equipped with quality Rapid Test Kits, Personal Protective Equipment gear, gloves, sanitizers, medicine and sufficient number of doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff,it added. Calling for release of the balance salary of doctors, nurses, para-medical staff, Anganavadi staff and ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activists) workers along with a special allowance of minimum one month's salary, Congress said insurance and other social security benefits are given only to Doctors and the same should be extended to others. Opening of all the private hospitals and clinics that are closed, ensuring that Red-Zone areas are sealed and the social distancing is maintained scrupulously were among the other measures suggested by the party. Highlighting the plight of farmers and urban dwellers who are suffering owing to non-supply of essentials due to the lockdown, the memorandum said the loss incrurred by farmers should be made good by the government from out of the National Calamity Fund. Noting that Congress MLAs have complained against "widespread discrimination" in distribution of grants and relief given by the government and asking it to shun such things and treat all of them on an equal footing, it demanded that immediate arrangements be made to ensure that stranded migrant workers get back to their homes, if they so desired. Demanding action against those targetting a particular community, including some BJP leaders, Congress also cautioned against alleged misuse of government relief measures "to appease voters for personal gain by some ruling party leaders. It demanded a compensation of Rs 10,000 a month for subsistence of working class who have been rendered jobless, broadband facility in rural areas for online teaching to students, were among the other suggestions by the party. The Congress also suggested that an all-party delegation may be taken to the Delhi to persuade the Central government "to set right the injustice like in providing flood relief, GST share, aid to fight coronavirus".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/urge-the-centre-to-declare-covid-19-as-national-calamity-congress-827353.html
19-04-2020||National||Selective relaxation in non-containment areas from April 20: Health ministry||Selective relaxation will be given in non-containment areas from April 20, but strict restrictions will continue in districts declared COVID-19 hotspots, the government said on Sunday. Addressing a daily media briefing to give updates on the novel coronavirus situation in the country, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said some activities in the agricultural sector and the rural economy would be permitted as part of ensuring "Jaan bhi hai jahan bhi hai (life and wellbeing)". He also said a high-level task force to work on frontiers of science related to vaccines and drug testing was formed on Sunday. "The co-chair of the task force are a member of the Niti Aayog and the principal scientific advisor to the government. Besides them, AYUSH, ICMR, Department of Science and Technology, Biotechnology, CSIR, DRDO, DG Health Services and Drug Controller are also its members," Agarwal said. He said 1,334 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported since Saturday with 27 deaths in the last 24 hours. Total cases stand at 15,712 and deaths at 507. As many as 2,231 COVID-19 patients, which is around 14.19 per cent, have been cured, Agarwal said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced that from April 20 selective relaxation will be given in some areas. In accordance to that, there will be some relaxations in non-containment zones from midnight, Agarwal said. The joint secretary in the health ministry, however, said that containment areas in coronavirus hotspots will not get the relaxations. States and Union Territories may impose measures which are even more stringent than Centre's guidelines, according to local requirements, he said. Hotspots or red zones are those areas where either there are a large number of COVID-19 cases or the doubling rate of infection is less than four days, Agarwal explained. "In these hotspots, local administrations delineate containment zones and buffer zones to control the spread of the disease. No relaxations are permitted in these containment zones," he said, adding strict perimeter control will be continued and nothing except essential services will be allowed there. "We will give selective relaxation in non-containment zones, but states and districts have to ensure that existing lockdown measures are strictly complied with." "Activities to be prohibited till May 3, even in cases of relaxation, are primarily passenger traffic movement by air, rail and road, educational institutions, industrial commercial activities and hospitality services unless they are specifically exempted," the health ministry official said. Along with these, cinema halls, malls, shopping complexes, entertainment parks will be closed while social, political, cultural, religious or academic and sports gatherings continue to remain prohibited, he said. Relaxation will be there for agricultural activities, daily-wage earners and employment opportunities for some to be monitored, health services to be functional and supply of essential goods to continue, Agarwal said. An ICMR official said 3,86,791 tests for coronavirus tests have been conducted so far with 37,173 tests done on Saturday. Agarwal also said that 755 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals and 1,389 dedicated healthcare centres have been set up in country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/selective-relaxation-in-non-containment-areas-from-april-20-health-ministry-827358.html
19-04-2020||National||Three more test positive for coronavirus in Andaman and Nicobar Islands||Three more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, taking the total number of cases in the Union Territory on Sunday to 15, officials here said. All three are family members of a government employee, who was found to have contracted the disease two days ago, said Avijit Roy, the nodal officer for COVID-19 in the UT. A resident of Bambooflat area in South Andaman, the 49-year-old man had been keeping unwell since April 10. One of the three people who tested positive on Sunday is the government employee's wife. They are all undergoing treatment at the GB Pant Hospital here, officials said. Of the 15 cases reported in the UT, 11 have recovered. The administration in the islands has adopted the "pool testing" method using less number of kits. The new method involves testing multiple samples at one go, the officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-andaman-and-nicobar-islands-827359.html
19-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Pregnant women battle anxiety & restlessness, many seek help through helplines, apps||Sadhna, a 28-week pregnant woman, is having sleepless nights and terrified to visit a hospital. Pooja, who is set to deliver her baby in June, at times suffers from anxiety and restlessness. Like them, many expecting mothers feel extraordinarily pressured by the uncertainty the coronavirus pandemic has brought in its wake. And the lockdown has augmented the troubles as visiting a doctor for even the periodic consultancy or being with family and relatives is not the same as it were before the outbreak. Also, stepping out of the home to visit a hospital raises the risks manifold for not only the expecting mother but also for the one who is yet to born. "I am away from my parents who live in Bangalore. I was supposed to be with my husband in Mumbai but my flight was cancelled. I am alone here and trying to keep myself calm through meditation," said Pooja. Emerging evidence suggests, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research, that transmission of coronavirus from mother to baby before birth or during delivery is possible although the proportion of pregnancies affected and the significance to the neonate is yet to be determined. Sadhna said she is not sure how bad the situation will get before it starts to improve. “I have been depressed and anxious... I am scared for my child.” Under these circumstances, several expecting mothers have turned to apps and helplines for guidance. Imumz is one such app providing assistance to pregnant women. Its co-founder Ravi Teja said they observed that pregnant women were missing their antenatal visits and scans and this was making them anxious and nervous. "Several of them then turned to our app which has been seeing a rise in 2,500 users every week since the lockdown began on March 25," he said, adding the company has started a live 'Ask Me Anything' session with senior doctors, dieticians, and psychologists every day to address the concerns of pregnant women. "We are also conducting live relaxing yoga and meditation sessions. These live sessions are relieving the to-be-mothers from lockdown anxiety and helping them to connect with their babies." A few helplines have also been started to help expecting mothers during the lockdown. ARMMAN, a Mumbai-based NGO, has launched atoll-free number (1-800-212-1425) for pregnant women and new mothers. The Aligarh Muslim University's Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology has launched helpline numbers 9719287391 and 9887430520 to help such women. "The pregnant women who are anxious and have questions about their pregnancy can contact us through the numbers. It reduces their exposure and also saves the pain they would take to travel to hospitals," said Tamkin Khan, chairperson of the department.  "We have been discharging them within 24 hours instead of 72 hours so these helplines help us in following up with them," Khan said. The helpline can be used by mothers who have questions about their newly born children. Jaideep Malhotra, a gynaecologist and co-founder of Pruoo Health Tech, said the mantra for pregnant women to stay calm at such a time is to keep communicating with someone who can listen to them and guide them. "Pregnancy is a journey, which needs to be enjoyed and dealt holistically. The health and personality of the baby depends on how the mother and family care about the pregnancy. Lockdown is a blessing in disguise to put on track our fastrack lives in the right gear. However there is no fear as emergency services are all accessible," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-pregnant-women-battle-anxiety-restlessness-many-seek-help-through-helplines-apps-827367.html
19-04-2020||National||Delhi Police constable tests positive for coronavirus||A Delhi Police constable has tested positive for coronavirus, a senior officer said on Sunday. A resident of Delhi, the constable was immediately quarantined and asked not to visit his home, the officer said. He was posted at Tilak Vihar police post under Tilak Nagar Police Station in west district of the national capital. "His test was conducted on April 17 at the DDU dispensary in Tilak Vihar and he tested positive on April 18," the officer said. His family members and his colleagues who came in contact with him have been asked to isolate themselves at home, he said, adding that the constable was "fine and doing well". So far, at least eight police personnel have tested positive for COVID-19 and one of them has recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-constable-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-827368.html
19-04-2020||National||Ensure only 'genuine' exemptions are given by states: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah has directed officials to ensure that only "genuine exemptions" are given by states when they relax the Covid-19 lockdown from Monday. His direction came during a review meeting on Saturday in which senior Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) officials attended. He said the MHA officials should discuss with states on the relaxations they are planning to provide following the Centre allowing opening up of economic sectors, predominantly in rural areas. "Applicable lockdown restrictions, as well as national directives, should be followed scrupulously. Certain activities are being permitted in those areas which do not fall within containment zones. Due caution has to be exercised to ensure that only genuine exemptions or relaxations are given," Shah told officers. He said District Magistrates in collaboration with industries should make arrangements to transfer labourers to their place of work within the state. "Modi government believes that on one hand, this will give a fillip to economic activity and on the other, provide employment to the labourers," he said. Shah also said the states should give attention to operationalise big industrial units, industrial estates and industrial complexes, especially where the labourers can be accommodated within the complex. "Such activities can help to trigger economic revival while ensuring that the labourers are provided gainful employment. District Magistrates should also explore the possibility of providing labourers employment through agriculture as well as MGNREGA activities," he said.  He also directed officials to give "greater attention" to the welfare, including quality of meals, of the migrant labourers who are presently in relief camps. States also should provide special security to healthcare professionals, as the country is going ahead with community-based testing. "Before the team goes for testing in the community, the groundwork in the community can be done by activating the peace committee and involving responsible community leaders, who can assuage the fear and confusion amongst the people with respect to testing, treatment and other aspects of Covid-19," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-only-genuine-exemptions-are-given-by-states-amit-shah-827371.html
19-04-2020||National||COVID-19 doesn't see race or religion before striking, we are in this together: PM Modi||In a LinkedIn post, the PM shared his view on the world as it is during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic and how it has shaped many decisions, including work culture and how people are adapting to it. Speaking on the disease and the world's actions to stem its spread, PM Modi said that "our response and conduct thereafter should attach primacy to unity and brotherhood," adding that "we are in this together". He said that the world is facing a common challenge today, and that the future will be about togetherness and resilience. Modi stated that India should come up with ideas that find global relevance and should be able to drive positive change for all of humankind. He also said that every crisis brings an opportunity, and the COVID-19 has presented to India the change to become the nerve centre of global supply chains. He also said that we should rise to the occassion, and rather than playing catch-up, India must be ahead of the curve in the post-COVID world. Modi also spoke about how mother nature has shown her magnificence during the pandemic by flourishing during the lower human activity. Ths, he said, presents a future in developing technologies and practices to reduce human impact on the planet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-doesnt-see-race-or-religion-before-striking-we-are-in-this-together-pm-modi-827376.html
19-04-2020||National||One killed, 180 houses damaged as rain accompanied by hailstorm hits Mizoram||A four-month-old infant has been killed and over 180 houses damaged when heavy rains accompanied by hailstorm and gusty wind hit Mizoram, an official said on Sunday. The official of the state Disaster Management and Rehabilitation department said that about 35 houses were completely damaged and another 148 partially damaged in Aizawl, Saitual and Mamit districts in the rain and storm which hit the state on Saturday evening. However, the figure could go up as reports from other districts are yet to come, he said. Official sources said that more than 50 houses were either completely or partially damaged by heavy rains accompanied by gusty wind in several villages or localities within Aizawl East-I assembly constituency. Chief Minister Zoramthanga, who was elected from Aizawl East-I seat, on Sunday visited the affected villages within his constituency and condoled the victim families. The official also said that the four-month-old infant was killed in Sairang Village about 21 km from Aizawl and four others were reportedly injured when their houses collapsed in Sesawng and Seling villages respectively. Sairang Village Council president Vanlalrammawia told PTI that the 4-month-old infant died when a fallen tree hit a house belonging to Bishnu Herman in Sairang's Dinthar locality. The incident occurred on Saturday evening when the infant's mother was outside the house. The infant was rushed to Sairang Community Health Centre where he succumbed to his injury, he said. Vanlalrammawia also said that at least 14 houses were damaged by heavy rains accompanied by violent wind in Sairang and one of them has been completely damaged. At least 6 houses were completely damaged and 10 others partially damaged at Dampui village in west Mizorams Mamit district on the Mizoram-Tripura-Bangladesh border, Mamit deputy commissioner Dr Lalrozama told PTI. He said that two families have been evacuated to safer places. The deputy commissioner said the figure could increase as reports from other villages are yet to come. Sesawng, a village in Aizawl district about 40 km from the state capital was the hardest hit of Saturday storm. Sesawng village council president Ralthansanga told PTI that at least 21 houses were completely damaged and 63 others partially damaged when heavy rain accompanied by hailstorm hit the village on Saturday evening. He said that two person received minor injuries when their houses were destroyed by strong wind. Sources said that two houses collapsed and five others heavily damaged in Seling village in Saitual district. Eleven houses were also damaged in heavy rains and hailstorm at Tuikhurhlu and Thingsul-Tlangnual near Aizawl. State assembly speaker and Chalfilh constituency MLA Lalrinliana Sailo and Mamit constituency MLA H. Lalzirliana also visited Sesawng and Dampui villages respectively on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-killed-180-houses-damaged-as-rain-accompanied-by-hailstorm-hits-mizoram-827378.html
19-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Dehradun, Haridwar & Nainital districts designated as red zones in Uttarakhand||Dehradun, Haridwar and Nainital in Uttarakhand have been kept in the red zone with 80 per cent of positive COVID-19 cases in the state reported from these districts. According to a strategy devised by the health department for effective implementation of the extended lockdown, the state has been divided into three zones on the basis of the rate of spread of the pandemic, Health Secretary Yugal Kishore Pant said on Sunday. Dehradun, Haridwar and Nainital districts which account for 80 per cent of the confirmed novel coronavirus cases have been kept in the red zone while Almora, Udham Singh Nagar and Pauri districts have been kept in the orange zone. The remaining seven districts of the state which have not yet reported any positive case have been kept in the green zone, Pant said. A total of 42 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in Uttarakhand so far including 20 in Dehradun, nine in Nainital, seven in Haridwar, four in Udham Singh Nagar and one each in Pauri and Almora districts, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-dehradun-haridwar-nainital-districts-designated-as-red-zones-in-uttarakhand-827387.html
19-04-2020||National||Lok Sabha Secretariat to resume work from Monday||The Lok Sabha Secretariat will resume work from Monday after it was shut in the last week of March in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, according to an official order. The Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha were shut on March 24 after both houses were adjourned sine die following the passage of the Finance Bill for 2020-21, bringing a premature end to the budget session of Parliament, which was slated to conclude on April 3. According to the order issued by the Lok Sabha Secretariat, it will resume work from Monday and all officers of the joint secretary rank and above will join office. Besides them, the other staff will work on a rotational basis. The order further said while working, the secretariat staff will ensure that social distancing norms are observed. File movement shall only be through electronic mode in e-office. The only exception could be urgent files for the consideration of the Lok Sabha speaker.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-secretariat-to-resume-work-from-monday-827388.html
19-04-2020||National||Transported 1,150 tonnes of medical items during coronavirus lockdown: Railways||It said the items were being ferried through its timetabled parcel services to strengthen government's efforts in managing the challenges and adverse impact of the coronavirus outbreak in the country. At almost 400 tonnes, the Northern Railway ferried the maximum items followed by Western Railway (328.84 tonnes) and Central Railway (136 tonnes). While the railways has played a significant role in transporting essential commodities across the country, it has also been helping people with medical aid when necessary. Recently, it transported medicines from Ahmedabad to Ajmer for an autistic boy and in a similar case, sent post surgery medicines for a 16-year-old from Ahmedabad to Ratlam in parcel trains. "Indian Railways is touching human lives during the hour of crisis. Recently, for an autistic child, skimmed camel milk was transported by a parcel train from Ajmer to Mumbai when the parents resorted for help on social media platform," the railways said in a statement. "Similarly, another autistic child in Ajmer suffering from serious ailments, had his stock of medicines run out, his relatives approached Railway officials and medicines were transported by a parcel train from Ahmedabad to Ajmer," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/transported-1150-tonnes-of-medical-items-during-coronavirus-lockdown-railways-827390.html
19-04-2020||National||COVID-19 crisis: Chemists asked to keep record of people seeking medicines for fever, cough||Advisories have been issued in this regard to chemists in states like Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha and parts of Bihar. While in some states the officials have been clear that the information will be shared with authorities to ensure that people are not hiding symptoms of coronavirus, others said it was just a precautionary measure. In a memo to all municipal commissioners and additional collectors of districts, Telangana's Principal Secretary (Municipal Administration and Urban Development)Arvind Kumar said it has been observed that due to "hesitation and perceived social stigma", people suffering from fever or cold symptoms which might be similar to coronavirus are approaching the medical shops directly on their own and asking for fever medicines. "It is imperative that in a proactive manner we follow up on these cases which are having fever and other such symptoms which might be similar to those of coronavirus. "We should be able to contact these patients and get a test conducted depending upon the symptoms," it said. Kumar instructed the officials to convene a meeting with all medical shops and pharmacists including respective associations and instruct them to necessarily take the contact address and phone numbers of customers who approach them to buy these medicines. He asked the officials to get the list from the pharmacies and maintain a directory of all such cases and get the tests done if the symptoms are similar to COVID-19. In Maharashtra, which has reported the highest coronavirus cases, the state Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has asked the pharmacists to keep detailed records of medicines, including Hydroxychloroquine, used for treating various types of fevers and coughs. The pharmacists are also asked to report to state authorities if any patient demands such medicine frequently so as to track down such people who might be trying to suppress symptoms of the infection. Several people were buying medicines without prescriptions from doctors and a record of those who have been doing so for coronavirus symptoms will help authorities combat the outbreak better, an official said in Pune. Health advisories have been issued to medicine shops in Odisha to keep a record of people purchasing flu medicines as authorities suspect they could be used to suppress symptoms of coronavirus with an intent to skip testing. The Drug Controller Administration under the Health and Family Welfare department of Odisha has asked pharmacists to note the address or at least telephone number of the persons buying medicines for cold, cough and sneezing. "We have been collecting data in order to ascertain the ratio of population vulnerable to cold and fever. There is no reason to be worried about. The data may be used in extreme case in future," M Patnaik, the Drugs Controller of Odisha, told PTI. In Bihar, though the health department denied issuing any such directive, but district administration of Bhojpur and Rohtas have sent a note to the chemists to this effect. Reports suggest that a large number of people are buying medicines like paracetamol. In Bihar, Rohtas and Bhojpur, district administrations have issued a directive to pharmacies to submit records of people buying medicines for fever, cough and cold, probably to keep track of those having symptoms akin to COVID-19. According to the order, the medicine shops have been told to submit information to the authorities concerned in their respective areas. Assistant Drug Inspector, Rohtas in a notice asked medical shops to maintain personal details of people buying medicines for fever, cough and cold in a proper format and the same (details of buyers) should be sent to the Drug Inspector on their whatsapp numbers on a daily basis for perusal of the District Magistrate. In Bhojpur, the district administration has directed the medical shops to write down name and mobile phone numbers of people buying crocin and other paracetamol tablets. They have been instructed to furnish the details to the concerned government hospitals incharge or Medical Officer. It also said that even private clinics and hospitals will provide information about such patients coming to them with symptoms of fever, cold and cough to the concerned government hospital. Odisha Drug Controller said chemists outlets are sending the required data to different area Drug Inspectors. "We know fever, cold and cough are seasonal disease. The people should cooperate and open up," she said adding urban local bodies' help is also taken to make medicine shops aware about coronavirus. A chemist outlet owner in IRC village in Bhubaneswar said, "Yes we have been sending address and phone numbers of the people purchasing medicines for cold and cough to the department. People have no hesitation in sharing their phone numbers." This apart, Patnaik said the Drug Controller Administration has already restricted sale of certain medicines like Hydroxychloroquine and Azithromycin. The chemist outlets are directed not to sell such medicines without doctors prescription, she said. Anti-malarial drug Hydroxychloroquine is in much demand for management of COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-chemists-asked-to-keep-record-of-people-seeking-medicines-for-fever-cough-827391.html
19-04-2020||National||IRDAI asks health insurers to decide on settling claims within 2 hours as COVID-19 scare spreads||In light of prevailing conditions owing to COVID-19 as also taking into consideration the need for alleviating the pressure on the healthcare infrastructure, all the insurers shall decide health insurance claims expeditiously, it said in a circular. In order to ensure that all health insurance claims are responded to quickly, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has directed insurers to "comply" with certain timelines. "Decision on authorisation for cashless treatment shall be communicated to the network provider (hospital) within two hours from the time of receipt of authorisation request and last necessary requirement from the hospital either to the insurer or to the TPA whichever is earlier," the circular said. Further, decision on final discharge should be communicated to the network provider within two hours from the time of receipt of final bill and last necessary requirement from the hospital either to the insurer or to the Third Party Administrator (TPA), whichever is earlier. Irdai has also asked all general and health insurers (except ECGC and AIC) to issue appropriate guidelines to their respective TPA. Regulation 27 of the IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, 2016, specifies norms on settlement/ rejection of claim by insurers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irdai-asks-health-insurers-to-decide-on-settling-claims-within-2-hours-as-covid-19-scare-spreads-827393.html
19-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Centre strongly advises against spraying of disinfectants on people||As sanitisation tunnels came up at several places as a response to combat COVID-19, the Health Ministry has strongly advised against spraying of chemical disinfectants on individuals or groups as it could cause physical and mental harm. The advisory said methods such as spraying of disinfectants could lead to a false sense of safety and actually hamper public observance to hand washing and social distancing measures. The advisory was necessitated as a lot of local bodies and district authorities set up sanitisation tunnels to spray sodium hypochlorite on individuals to disinfect them. The advisory pointed out that solutions such as sodium hypochlorite were to be used on inanimate objects and for cleaning and disinfecting frequently touched areas/surfaces by those who are suspected or confirmed to have COVID-19.    “Even if a person is potentially exposed with the COVID-19 virus, spraying the external part of the body does not kill the virus that has entered your body. Also there is no scientific evidence to suggest that they are effective even in disinfecting the outer clothing/body in an effective manner,” the advisory said It added that spraying of chlorine on individuals can lead to irritation of eyes and skin and potentially gastrointestinal effects such as nausea and vomiting. Inhalation of sodium hypochlorite can lead to irritation of mucous membranes to the nose, throat, respiratory tract and may also cause bronchospasm. Local authorities from Jammu and Kashmir to Tamil Nadu had set up disinfectant tunnels at places frequented by people in huge numbers such as vegetable markets, and government offices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-centre-strongly-advises-against-spraying-of-disinfectants-on-people-827399.html
19-04-2020||National||Health ministry sets up task force to work on vaccines, drug testing related to COVID-19||Addressing a media briefing here, Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, health ministry, said NITI Aayog member and principal scientific advisor to the government will be co-chair of the task force. "Besides AYUSH, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Department of Science and Technology, Biotechnology, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), DG Health Services and Drug Controller will also be the members of the task force,” he said. The senior official asserted that the task force aims to enable and speed up the industry and international efforts being made to fight COVID-19. "The objective of this task force is academia, and to enable and speed up industry and international efforts for COVID-19,” he said. "The Department of Biotechnology has been made a central coordination agency to identify pathways for vaccine development. We will make a dynamic list of national and international efforts for vaccine development and monitor the progress and provide required facilitation at government level," Agarwal said. The ministry also said that the task force will work on clinical cohorts, which will be focusing on long-term follow up of people for having better understanding of the disease and its management. "We will also collect bio-specimens for further vaccine and drug trials. This will be separate from sample testing work," Agarwal added. The health ministry said 1,334 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported since Saturday with 27 deaths in the last 24 hours. “The total COVID-19 cases in the country stand at 15,712 and deaths at 507. As many as 2,231 COVID-19 patients, which is around 14.19 per cent, have been cured,” Agarwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-sets-up-task-force-to-work-on-vaccines-drug-testing-related-to-covid-19-827400.html
19-04-2020||National||Feluda to crack the COVID-19 mystery, Jatayu in tow||An indigenous paper-strip test, named after one of India’s most famous fictional private investigators, has shown promise in detecting COVID-19 in an hour’s time using sophisticated gene-editing technology. Buoyed by the success in the laboratory, its developers from the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, here – one of the CSIR laboratories - are in talks with companies for establishing a supply chain to scale up the production and technology transfer. IGIB scientists Debojyoti Chakraborty and Souvik Maiti named the test after Feluda alias Prodosh C Mitter  – the character created by legendary Satyajit Ray, who wrote 35 Feluda stories and made two films. After the maestro’s death, his son Sandip Ray also made Feluda films and television serials. Just like the book, Feluda is accompanied by his long term companion Jatayu in the IGIB laboratory as well. The IGIB duo created a web tool required for the test and named it after the popular crime thriller writer (Jatayu alias Lal Mohan Ganguly) who accompanied Feluda in most of his adventures. On a prosaic note, both Feluda and Jatayu are scientific acronyms. But like the Ray titles, Feluda with a tad bit of help from Jatayu is capable of cracking the Covid-19 mystery from the saliva samples of suspected patients. The scientists prefer saliva over blood because it was easy to collect even from elderly patients or babies. “Our paper strip test is something similar to do-it-yourself pregnancy tests. However, ours is not a home test as a basic laboratory set up is required,” Chakraborty told DH. The team was originally developing such a test for the sickle cell disease. When the pandemic struck, they decided to repurpose the technology for Covid-19. The indigenous test senses the unique genetic material of the coronavirus. Unlike the antibody-based rapid test currently being used by the government for surveillance in hotspots and containment zones, the IGIB diagnostic kit relies on DNA-protein interaction for successful diagnosis. “In the laboratory, one test cost Rs 500-600. It takes about an hour out of which nearly 45 minutes are needed for sample preparations. We have already done 50 tests and carrying out more tests after obtaining samples from different recognised testing centres,” he said.  For comparison, private diagnostic laboratories offer the RT-PCR test for Covid-19 at a price of Rs 4,500 and it takes more than a day to get the results. Another factor behind the diagnosis’s unique nomenclature is two other competitive tests being developed at MIT and the University of California, Berkley. The first one has been named Sherlock after the world-famous investigator while the second one is called Detector. Chakraborty claimed that specificity and sensitivity of the IGIB test were at par with similar diagnostics. However, he refused to disclose the figures.“The main step is to work out a supply chain for scale-up in view of the difficulties in import. In view of the urgency, we are going straight to major companies to explore the option of indigenous production,” said IGIB director Anurag Agarwal. The researchers are yet to publish the findings in a peer-reviewed journal. But a paper with some of the technical details is available for the peers in the open domain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/feluda-to-crack-the-covid-19-mystery-jatayu-in-tow-827403.html
19-04-2020||National||Five more COVID-19 cases in Jharkhand, count rises to 38||Three people have tested positive in Ranchi district while one person each tested positive in Dhanbad and Simdega districts, they said. According to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Ranchi, Director D K Singh four samples have tested positive. The officials said that while three people are from different places in Ranchi district, one hails from Simdega district. A news report quoting Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Amit Kumar said the samples of a railway trackman working with the East Central Railways tested positive for the disease on Saturday. The man, a resident of a Railway Colony in Hirapur area, was being treated at the Divisional Railway Hospital here for fever, he said. He had visited his in-laws' house at Chas in neighbouring Bokaro district to meet his pregnant wife and returned to Dhanbad on a bicycle on March 26. He complained of fever the next day, health officials said. The first positive case in Dhanbad district was reported in Kumardhubi in Gyarahkhund block near the West Bengal border on April 8. The total number of cases in the state was 38, which includes two deaths, one each in Ranchi and Bokaro districts, an official said. Ranchi district has the maximum number of COVID-19 cases at 21, followed by Bokaro (9), Hazaribagh, Simdega and Dhanbad (two each) and one each in Koderma and Giridih districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-more-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand-count-rises-to-38-827407.html
19-04-2020||National||Continue testing asymptomatic persons: Fadnavis to Maharashtra CM||Fadnavis, leader of opposition in the state Assembly and former chief minister, wrote to Thackeray and expressed concern over the way the state was tackling the outbreak. "Despite the fact that 63 per cent COVID-19 patients are asymptomatic, the BMC, on April 15, decided to discontinue testing those who are asymptomatic," he said. "Of the people who are admitted in hospitals, 79 per cent have shown no symptoms. It could be very dangerous not to conduct tests on people showing no symptoms. ICMR guidelines also lay down that tests be conducted on people falling in the high risk group even if he or she is not showing symptoms," he said. He also pointed out to the discrepancy in COVID-19 figures being released by the state government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. "The state government's report says Mumbai has 183 COVID-19 patients while the BMC claims it is 87. The numbers shown in the report's footnote are not reflected anywhere. Such errors must be rectified," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/continue-testing-asymptomatic-persons-fadnavis-to-maharashtra-cm-827410.html
19-04-2020||National||Chhattisgarh effectively controlled coronavirus outbreak: CM Baghel||In a video address, Baghel said Chhattisgarh had set an example for the country by effectively controlling the COVID-19 pandemic, and thanked the people for their support. "We are considering to start several economic activities in the state from April 20. MNREGA works have started in the villages. The complete information about which works can be taken up in the districts and directions in this regard are being provided to people. It is important for everyone to follow these guidelines," he said. "The discipline, strength and grit shown by people over the last one month to tackle the coronavirus outbreak is unique. Chhattisgarh has set an example before the entire nation for effectively controlling the pandemic, which was possible due to dedication shown by people," he said. He also thanked doctors, health workers, district and police administration and other departments and agencies in the frontline in the fight, adding that villages played a key role in stopping the spread of the virus. "If you all follow physical distancing, maintain personal hygiene and avoid creating congestion, there will be no chance for further spread of the infection," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-effectively-controlled-coronavirus-outbreak-cm-baghel-827414.html
19-04-2020||National||MP: NSA detainee COVID-19 patient escapes from hospital||He escaped when he and other patients were being shifted to a super-specialty facility in the medical college and hospital, District Collector Bharat Yadav said. This person and three others had been detained under the NSA for attacking health workers and police in Indore. They had been shifted from a jail in Indore to Jabalpur, he said. The detainee had tested coronavirus positive on April 11, Yadav said. Jabalpur Superintendent S P Amit Singh said that following his escape, a search has been launched and a cash reward of Rs 10,000 announced for any information leading to his arrest. "All the check posts have been informed about the escaped detainee," he said. Another police official said that they have circulated his photo on social media so that people can easily identify him and alert the authorities. Yadav appealed to the people to inform the police as soon as they spot the patient.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-nsa-detainee-covid-19-patient-escapes-from-hospital-827416.html
19-04-2020||National||List of services allowed and banned from April 20||Relaxations in the COVID-19 will set in from Monday except for containment zones. However, all states are not providing for relaxations. The Centre has already said states cannot dilute its directions on lockdown but can make it more stringent if the situation warrants. Delhi has decided not to provide any relaxation but will review on April 27 while Kerala has announced a graded withdrawal. Here is what the Centre permits from April 20 WHAT'S ON Cargo Services -- Transportation of cargo (inter and intra state) by air, rail, land and sea routes -- Carrier vehicles with two drivers and one helper; empty vehicles for delivery/pick-up of goods Essential services -- Supply chain of essential goods like manufacturing, wholesale, retail, shops/carts for essential goods - Large brick and mortar stores, dhabas and truck repair shops on highway, movement of staff and labourers for essential services Movement of People -- Private vehicles for medical emergency services and for procuring essential commodities -- In four-wheelers, one passenger in back seat besides driver permitted -- No pillion rider allowed in two-wheelers -- All personnel travelling to workplace as exempted by state authorities   Public utilities -- Online educational services -- MNREGA work -- Oil and Gas, power, postal services, water, sanitation, waste management, telecom and internet services Agriculture services -- Farming operations, procurement of agricultural products -- Machinery shops, Custom Hiring Centres, services related to fertilizers and seeds -- Operation of fishing like processing and sale; hatcheries, commercial aquaria -- Plantations of tea, coffee, rubber, coconut, arecanut, bamboo, cocoa, spices etc -- Distribution and sale of milk and milk products, animal shelter homes, cow shelters etc -- Collection, harvesting and processing of minor forest produce, non-timber forest produce by tribals and other forest dwellers Financial Sector -- RBI and RBI regulated financial markets and entities, Banks, ATMs, IT vendors for banking operations -- SEBI and capital and debt market services, IRDAI and Insurance companies -- Non-Banking Financial Institutions including Housing Finance Companies and Micro Finance Institutions -- Cooperative Credit Societies Social Sector -- homes for children, disabled, elderly etc -- Disbursement of social security pensions, Provident Fund, operations of anganwadi Commercial services -- Media, IT services with up to 50% strength -- Data and call centres for govt activities -- Delivery of essential services by e-com companies, courier services, cold storage, ware housing -- Private security and facilities management services, hotels and homestays accommodating stranded tourists, medical professionals etc -- Self-employed services like electricians, plumbers etc Industrial establishments -- Industries in rural areas, SEZs, Export Oriented Units, industrial estates, industrial townships -- Manufacturing units of essential goods, IT hardware, food processing units, jute industries -- Coal and mineral production, oil and gas refinery, brick kilns in rural areas -- Construction of roads, irrigation projects, renewable energy projects, construction projects in urban area where workers are already available in sites -- Laying power transmission lines, laying telecom optical fibre AT PUBLIC PLACE -- Wear masks/face covers, practice social distancing -- Gathering of over five persons not allowed -- Marriages, funerals to be regulated -- Spitting prohibited -- Ban on sale of liquor, gutka, tobacco etc AT WORK PLACE Ensure -- adequate arrangements for thermal screening and sanitisers, social distancing norms -- One hour gap between shifts -- Persons above 65 years and parents of children below five years encouraged to work from home -- Sanitisation between shifts, no large meetings WHAT'S CLOSED -- Domestic and international air travel, passenger trains, buses, Metro, taxis, inter-state transport except for security and medical purposes -- Industrial and commercial activities, hospitality services, educational, training, coaching institutions -- Cinema halls, malls, gymnasium bars, pools, entertainment parks, assembly halls etc -- All social, political, entertainment, sports complexes, religious places and other gatherings||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/list-of-services-allowed-and-banned-from-april-20-827420.html
19-04-2020||National||Armed forces and military assets adequately protected from coronavirus: Rajnath Singh||The fight against coronavirus pandemic is the "biggest invisible war" facing the humanity and India is confronting it with excellent synergy among all key organs of the nation, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday. In an interview to PTI, Singh said a wide spectrum of measures has been put in place to insulate the three services and their strategic assets from the deadly infection while keeping them fully prepared to deal with any possible threats including along the borders. Singh, who is also heading a Group of Ministers on COVID-19, said well-thought-out protocols are being implemented aggressively to keep the forces "fighting fit" across all three domains – air, land and sea -- besides helping the country dealing with the pandemic. "The fight against COVID-19 is possibly the biggest invisible war in our lifetime; a war against humanity and having various impact on health and economic security of the nation. We as a nation are fighting the crisis on a war footing," he said. The defence minister also dispelled apprehensions that the pandemic may have impacted India's operational preparedness, adding there was no reason to worry about the health and overall well-being of the forces. His assertion came amid calls for putting in place stricter safety norms to insulate the 15 lakh-strong armed forces from coronavirus after 26 sailors at the strategically crucial Western Naval Command tested positive, in first case of major outbreak of the infection in the military. "The Indian armed forces are prepared for all contingencies and I can assure you that we are prepared to defend our sovereignty from adversarial forces in all scenarios in land, air and sea," he said. To emphasise operational preparedness of the military, Singh said the Indian Army is carrying out "targeted strikes" on terror launch pads along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir and eliminating Pakistani infiltrators. The defence minister said the expertise of armed forces in communications, supply chain management, medical support and engineering are being used to combat the pandemic in the country besides extending a helping hand to several friendly nations. "There is an excellent synergy between all organs of the government and the services are geared to deal with any challenge arising out of the current situation," the minister said. Singh said armed forces are taking a series of measures like curtailing the movement of troops, restricting leave, enforcing work from home, maintaining social distancing and decontamination of barracks as preventive measures. "A mandatory 14-day quarantine period is being enforced for all personnel, if coming from outside their stations, irrespective of rank. In case of ships, strict monitoring of all sailors is being done and disembarkation at foreign ports is being authorised only in emergencies," he added. He said special precautions are being followed at ships and submarines where it is difficult to strictly follow social distancing norms.  "Every rank has been told to maintain a contact diary on a daily basis. All collective training has been stopped. Barring a few essential branches such as operations and intelligence, personnel from all other branches have been directed to work from home," he said. Soldiers deployed along borders, especially in remotest regions, are safest as they are cut-off from all likely carriers of disease, he said adding the government is ensuring their safety by deploying fresh troops in the areas who have been medically validated as having no symptoms of the infection. "In my opinion, with the kind of discipline within the forces, the risk of spread of infection is very low. However, we are prepared for all contingencies," Singh said. "In battling such an outbreak, the forces primarily have to be fighting fit. Services are strictly adhering to all instructions and guidelines being disseminated by PMO, Ministry of Health and our own medical authorities," he added. The minister also said that the government has directed leading Defence public sector undertakings to produce medical equipment like ventilators, masks, Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) and other equipment to address the problem of their shortages. "The activities undertaken to fight the COVID-19 pandemic are part of ministry level coordinated action plan. All three services are working in sync under the common guidelines and directions promulgated by the Chief of Defence Staff," said Singh. "The latent medical capacity of the armed forces as also the geographical disposition of medical manpower and resources has facilitated in rendering prompt assistance to civil authority and to check the virus spread in the armed forces fraternity," he said. The defence minister said the armed forces are also focusing on creating additional quarantine zones and establishing new medical facilities as well as laboratories as part of overall efforts to deal with the situation. "The medical authorities within the armed forces have already dedicated 19 hospitals and 4,182 ICU beds for COVID-19 patients both for personnel as well as civilians. Additional 31 hospitals and 4,856 ICU beds are ready to be converted for taking on more cases," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/armed-forces-and-military-assets-adequately-protected-from-coronavirus-rajnath-singh-827429.html
19-04-2020||National||J P Nadda reviews BJP's coronavirus relief work in parts of country||BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday asked party workers to take the central government's relief measures to the masses for their maximum benefit and urge people to download Arogya Setu app, which tracks COVID-19 cases and provides information on the pandemic. Interacting with party leaders from Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Telangana though video-conference, Nadda noted that the BJP recently completed its 40 years and said each worker should persuade 40 people, who will convince another 10 each, to contribute to the PM-CARES Fund to fight COVID-19. The party workers have set a high standard of public service, he said at a meeting to oversee BJP's relief measures to help the poor during the nationwide lockdown.   "Wherever migrant labourers and the poor are, we have to help them," the BJP president said, adding that people should be encouraged to download Arogya Setu app. BJP workers have done a commendable job by providing food and ration to the poor and distributing face covers among the needy, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/j-p-nadda-reviews-bjps-coronavirus-relief-work-in-parts-of-country-827440.html
19-04-2020||National||India asks Pakistan to repair damaged domes of shrine in Kartarpur||India has asked Pakistan to fix the construction deficiencies in the Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib after the domes of the shrine collapsed during a brief spell of rain and thunderstorm on Friday. Sources in New Delhi said that India has taken up the issue of the collapse of domes of the Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib with Pakistan. New Delhi conveyed to Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad that the damage to the structures in the shrine has caused “great consternation” to the Sikhs. The Gurdwara by the river Ravi at Kartarpur in Pakistan is revered as among the holiest for the Sikhs as it marks the place where Guru Nanak lived for 18 years and finally breathed his last in 1539. The governments of the two countries last year built a corridor to facilitate travel by the pilgrims from India to the shrine in Pakistan. The corridor was inaugurated in November 2019. Though Pakistan Government spruced up the historic shrine on the occasion of the 550th birth anniversary of the founder of Sikhism, two domes of a newly-constructed structure could not withstand the stormy winds on Friday.   New Delhi conveyed to Islamabad through a diplomatic channel on Sunday that the “strong sense of faith and devotion” of the Sikhs to the holy shrine must be fully understood and appreciated by the Government of Pakistan. India has urged Pakistan that in deference to the sentiments of the Sikh community, the deficiencies which led to the damage to the newly constructed structures be urgently rectified and remedied, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asks-pakistan-to-repair-damaged-domes-of-shrine-in-kartarpur-827442.html
19-04-2020||National||At G20 meet, Harsh Vardhan highlights India's 'pre-emptive, proactive' approach to deal with COVID-19||Speaking at a meeting of G20 ministers organised by the grouping's chair Saudi Arabia via video-conferencing, Vardhan said India has completed 25 days of the lockdown which will further extend till May 3 and its positive results were evident. "The results of the same were realised when our case doubling rate which was about 3.4 days on March 17, dropped to 4.4 days by March 25, and is currently about 7.4 days," he told the G-20 health ministers. India has successfully tackled public health emergencies of international concern and pandemic in the past as well, Vardhan asserted. "This time the hallmark of our approach has been fivefold -- maintaining a continuous situation awareness; pre-emptive and proactive approach; graded response as per continuously evolving scenario; inter-sectoral coordination at all levels, and lastly but most importantly creating a people's movement to combat this disease," he said. Vardhan's participation at the virtual meeting of the grouping comes after the March 26 emergency G-20 Summit in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi participated through video-conferencing and pitched for developing a new crisis management protocol to deal with the global health crisis. In his address, Modi had also urged the grouping to come out with a concrete action plan to fight the pandemic and said human beings rather than economic targets should be put at the centre of its vision for global prosperity and cooperation. The G-20 grouping shares 80 per cent of world GDP and 60 per cent of world population. Vardhan, in his remarks at the meeting, said India started surveillance of flights from COVID-affected countries twelve days before the first case in India on January 30. By March 22, with less than 400 cases India banned all international flights to and from India, and by March 25 implemented a nationwide lockdown, he pointed out. "In the past, we as a global community have faced and successfully tackled threats to the health of our people, by a collective sense of purpose, supporting and collaborating with each other. I look forward to similar cooperation and mutually respectful & useful collaborations to deal with coronavirus," Vardhan was quoted as saying in an official statement. While some of the countries particularly Japan, Singapore, South Korea have fared well, others are still struggling with COVID-19, he noted. The scale of impact is unprecedented and therefore calls for cooperation between nations to attain normalcy, he said. "In the absence of any specific drug or vaccine, India has also relied on various non-pharmacological interventions. Particular focus was on measures like social distancing and risk communication to the masses on simple public health interventions like hand hygiene and respiratory etiquettes," he said. Since the onset of this pandemic, India has taken leadership and assisted neighbouring countries in multitude of ways, Vardhan said. "During medical evacuation undertaken by India from Wuhan, China as well as from COVID-19 affected Diamond Princess Cruise ship, we evacuated foreign nationals from Maldives, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Maldives, South Africa, USA, Madagascar, Sri Lanka, Nepal, South Africa and Peru," he said. India as a global leader in pharmaceutical has stepped up production to make sure supplies of drugs like hydroxychloroquine to countries around the world, Vardhan said. India is working with global partners to ensure that effective drugs and vaccines can be developed, he said. Much before the outbreak was declared a public health emergency of international concern by the World Health Organization, India was ahead in implementing actions targeting core capacities as mandated under the international health regulations, he said. The Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), which is a nation-wide surveillance system for epidemic prone diseases has been activated towards the COVID response, and is being further strengthened with substantive digital inputs, he said. "India has made the conscious decision to focus on building exclusive infrastructure for management of COVID patients so that there is no intermingling of COVID patients," the minister said. "All the people who are tested positive are treated in one of three types of dedicated COVID management centers: COVID care centers for mild symptomatic cases, COVID health centers for moderate cases and COVID hospitals for severe cases," he said. "While the traditional ways and means to tackle the disease were being implemented, our scientists and doctors are exploring new and innovative measures to maximize our reach," he said. Cutting edge technology is being used to not only maintain inventory and patient level information, direct to citizen apps are being used for communicating geospatial risk and best practices to be followed, Vardhan said. G-20 is an international grouping for the governments of 19 countries and the European Union (EU). The 19-member countries of G20 are Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, France, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Russian Federation, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, South Korea, Turkey, United Kingdom, USA and India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-g20-meet-harsh-vardhan-highlights-indias-pre-emptive-proactive-approach-to-deal-with-covid-19-827445.html
19-04-2020||National||India, Kazakhstan strategic partners; solidarity during challenging times strengthens bond: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said India and Kazakhstan are strategic partners and a demonstration of solidarity during challenging times like the COVID-19 pandemic further strengthens the bonds between the two countries. He was responding to a tweet by Kazakhstan President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, who thanked India for sending medical supplies to help it counter coronavirus. "Thank you President Tokayev @TokayevKZ for your warm words. India and Kazakhstan are strategic partners and cooperation and demonstration of solidarity during such challenging times further strengthens the bond of friendship between the two countries," Modi wrote on Twitter. Earlier, thanking Modi for the medical supplies, Tokayev tweeted, "This high mark of friendship & solidarity is made even at a time when India banned export of drugs abroad."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-kazakhstan-strategic-partners-solidarity-during-challenging-times-strengthens-bond-modi-827449.html
19-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Army takes over day-time management of quarantine facility in Narela in Delhi||A team of doctors and paramedics from the army has "taken over the day-time management" of a quarantine facility in Delhi's Narela which is currently housing 932 Tablighi Jamaat members who attended a congregation in Nizamuddin last month. Narela quarantine centre is among the largest centres in the country for managing COVID-19 suspects in Delhi. It was established by the Delhi government in mid-March. A team of army doctors and nursing staff has been assisting the civil administration at this facility since April 1. "From April 16, the army has taken the initiative to manage the facility from 8 am to 8 pm relieving the Delhi government doctors and medical staff to manage the facility only during the night," the army said in a statement on Sunday. The army team comprises 40 personnel, who include six medical officers along with 18 paramedical staff, and have volunteered to stay on the premises only, it said. Initially, 250 foreign nationals who arrived from abroad were kept at this centre, and later an additional strength of approximately 1,000 more were brought here from Nizamuddin Markaz. "Presently, 932 members from Markaz are being taken care in the facility and 367 out of them have been tested positive for COVID-19," it said. The professional approach of the army medical team has "won the hearts of inmates" who have been very cooperative and positive to the team, thereby, facilitating smooth handling of all medical procedures, the statement said.  There has been a "tremendous synergy" of the army with civil administration to run this entire facility. The army will continue to fight with resolve and determination to contribute wholeheartedly to the national efforts against the coronavirus pandemic for safety of all our citizens,it added. The number of coronavirus cases in Delhi till Sunday was 1,893, including 43 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-army-takes-over-day-time-management-of-quarantine-facility-in-narela-in-delhi-827468.html
19-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: PM Narendra Modi thanks shopkeepers, traders for ensuring daily essentials reach people||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday took to Twitter to thank small shopkeepers and traders for ensuring people get essential supplies during the coronavirus lockdown. "Imagine what would have happened if these small traders and shopkeepers did not risk their lives and deliver everyday essentials?" Modi said in a series of tweets in Hindi. छोटे-छोटे दुकानदारों ने पूरी सामाजिक व्यवस्था को सुचारू बनाए रखने में महत्वपूर्ण योगदान दिया है। समाज और देश इनके इस योगदान को हमेशा याद रखेगा। मैं जानता हूं कि खुद सोशल डिस्टेंसिंग का पालन करना और दूसरों से इसका पालन करवाना चुनौतीपूर्ण है। In this time of crisis, people are able to follow the lockdown, for which many sections of society have played a positive role, he said. "Small shopkeepers have contributed significantly in maintaining the entire social system. The society and the country will always remember their contribution," he said. He said he realises how challenging it is to follow social distancing and get others to follow it. भविष्य में भी दुकानें सोशल डिस्टेंसिंग का पालन करते हुए चलें, हमें यह सुनिश्चित करना है। संकट की घड़ी में इस योगदान के लिए सभी दुकानदार और व्यापारी बधाई के पात्र हैं। "In future also, shops should follow social distancing, we have to ensure this.All shopkeepers and traders deserve congratulations for their contribution in the hour of crisis," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-pm-narendra-modi-thanks-shopkeepers-traders-for-ensuring-daily-essentials-reach-people-827475.html
19-04-2020||National||Mahindra asks if physical retailers could be allowed to home-deliver non-essentials||Mahindra was responding to a tweet by Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush  Goyal who thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for "the clarification that e-commerce companies can only supply essential goods during the lockdown. This will create a level playing field for small retailers."  Reacting to the minister's tweet, Mahindra tweeted, "Appreciate the sentiment. But it's about sharing misfortune instead of opening up opportunities for good fortune."  He further said, "Could physical retailers be permitted to home-deliver 'non-essentials?' I'd trust my small neighbourhood stores more than e-comm cos to deliver reliably & speedily."  He also agreed with suggestion that if technology companies can help physical neighbourhood stores to get online, it would help them in doing home deliveries that could help in restarting manufacturing and supply chain. "...Especially that this will help us get the supply chain back on its feet earlier rather than later. But my local stores don't even need to be online...we usually order by phone...," Mahindra said in a another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mahindra-asks-if-physical-retailers-could-be-allowed-to-home-deliver-non-essentials-827478.html
19-04-2020||National||Policeman shot dead in Kashmir's Anantnag||Suspected militants shot dead a policeman in Kokernag area of South Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Sunday evening. Reports said head constable Manzoor Ahmad Dar of Hiller Bahai, Anantnag was at home when gunmen opened fire on him, leaving him critically injured. A police official while confirming the incident said the injured constable was immediately shifted to a nearby hospital where he succumbed to his injury. He said the area has been cordoned off to nab the attackers. The killing comes a day after three paramilitary CRPF personnel were killed and two injured in a militant attack in Sopore town of north Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/policeman-shot-dead-in-kashmirs-anantnag-827480.html
19-04-2020||National Politics||Only a heartless govt will do nothing: P Chidambaram asks Centre 2 questions over poor's status amid coronavirus lockdown||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday urged the government to transfer cash and distribute free foodgrains to the poor, saying only a heartless government will not do anything. He said more and more people have run out of cash and are standing in queues for free cooked food. "There is overwhelming evidence that more and more people have run out of cash and are forced to stand in lines to collect free cooked food. Only a heartless government will stand by and do nothing," he said. There is overwhelming evidence that more and more people have run out of cash and are forced to stand in lines to collect free cooked food. Only a heartless government will stand by and do nothing. "Why cannot government save them from hunger and protect their dignity by transferring cash to every poor family," he asked. "Why can't government distribute, free of cost, a small part of the 77 million tonnes of grain with FCI to families who need the grain to feed themselves," he also asked. "These two questions are both economic and moral questions. Narendra Modi and Nirmala Sitharaman have failed to answer both questions, as the nation watches helplessly," the former Finance Minister said on Twitter. Chidambaram has been seeking transfer of cash to the poor who are finding it difficult to survive without employment amid the countrywide lockdown.   Thousands of migrant workers have been stranded at various State borders in the country while seeking to reach their homes in villages, creating law and order situations at some places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/only-a-heartless-govt-will-do-nothing-p-chidambaram-asks-centre-2-questions-over-poors-status-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-827222.html
19-04-2020||National Politics||Shiv Sena expresses displeasure over Governor delaying Uddhav Thackeray's nomination||Peeved over the delay in Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's nomination to Maharashtra Legislative Council, the Shiv Sena on Sunday targetted Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. Raj Bhavan should not become a centre of political conspiracy,  said senior Shiv Sena leader and spokesperson Sanjay Raut, who is a close aide of Thackeray. Without naming Koshyari, Raut in two tweets - one in English and another in Marathi- made the ruling party's displeasure known. The Sena Rajya Sabha MP said: "...somehow reminded of the ‘shameless’ governor, the late (Thakur) Ram Lal, who served in the Raj Bhavan in Andhra Pradesh in the early 1980s.....Remember! History doesn’t spare those who behave unconstitutionally. Samajhne walon ko ishaar kaafi hai!” said Raut, the executive editor of Saamana, the party mouthpiece. With all elections postponed in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government had on April 9, passed a resolution for Koshyari to nominate Thackeray as a member Council. The meeting of state Cabinet was presided over by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. The Governor's office,  however, so far, has not taken any decision.Thackeray was sworn in the Maharashtra chief minister on November 28, 2018. Uddhav,  who is the unanimous leader of the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi government, is not a legislator, and needs to get elected by May 28, 2020, a period of six months. From the beginning, 59-year-old Thackeray had two options - either be a member of Assembly or Council. Thackeray  had preferred the route to Upper House. But,  now, there is a peculiar situation.  Because of COVID-19 outbreak and need for social distancing, the Election Commission of India has deferred elections to nine seats of the Maharashtra Legislative Council. Nine members of the Council, for which the electoral college is Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, are retiring on April 24, 2020. Two Council seats from the Governor's quota are vacant - as Ramrao Wadkute and Rahul Narvekar had resigned. There were speculations that  Thackeray may have to resign ahead of May 28 and sworn in again as the chief minister.  But, it is a tricky process, as in the event of the resignation of the head of government,  the council-of-ministers is dissolved automatically. This has to be a smooth 24-hour operation, as BJP will leave no stones unturned to topple the government. As per Article 164 (4) of the Constitution, a minister,  who is not a member of either Houses, will cease to be a minister, on expiry of six months. However, there are various interpretation and judgements in the article.  The MVA does not want to take any chances of legal wrangles and Constitutional crisis and decided to get Thackeray elected from governor's quota.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-expresses-displeasure-over-governor-delaying-uddhav-thackerays-nomination-827354.html
19-04-2020||National Politics||Kerala left-front government in tight spot over coronavirus data deal with US firm||While Kerala managed to contain the spread of COVID-19 to a large extent and lockdown norms are being relaxed in a phased manner from this week, the focus is now shifting to a quiet shady deal of the left-front government with a US firm for an online application for COVID-19 data analysis. With the local body elections in the state due this year and the Assembly elections due in hardly one year's time, the Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala was quite concerned over the applause that the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government in Kerala was gaining even at the international levels.  Though the Congress tried to flay the activities of the government in fighting COVID-19, it had a boomerang effect with many flaying the opposition for politicising the fight against COVID-19. But the present row over Kerala Government's deal with US-based firm Sprinklr, allegedly by flouting the normal procedures and risking privacy of basic health data collected from nearly two lakhs persons in Kerala as part of COIVD-19, has come as a blessing for the Opposition.   While Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala initially came out with the allegations, now all senior Congress leaders, including former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and Kerala PCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, have also taken up the issue and demanded a CBI probe. In order to personally attack Pinarayi Viajayan, some Congress leaders have also raised suspicions over links of Vijayan's daughter's IT firm in Bengaluru in the deal with the US firm. Vijayan, who is in the defensive, said that it was just another attempt by the Opposition to tarnish the image of the state government, especially since the activities to contain COVID-19 attained international attention. He also said that it was not the time for the government to change its focus to such allegations. The people would realise the demerits of the allegations, he said. What makes the deal still shady? A week after the Opposition raised the allegations, the government made all documents public, including the non-disclosure agreement, pertaining to the deal with Sprinklr for availing their Software as a Service (SAAS) application for COVID-19 data analysis. But the opposition alleged that the state law department's opinion was not sought.  Chief Minister tried to justify that since the US firm headed by a Malayali, Ragy Thomas, offered the service free of cost, a nod of the finance department and law department might not be mandatory. However, IT principal secretary M. Sivasankar, who is also principal secretary at CMO, later said that it was his decision not to take the state law department's opinion and if there was an oversight it could be rectified. Moreover, the documents made public included two letters of affirmation on data rights and confidentiality obligations. The two letters were issued by the American firm on April 11 and 12, both after Opposition raised the allegations of compromising with data privacy on April 10. Hence, the ruling left front is in the defensive and the opposition is stepping up the attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kerala-left-front-government-in-tight-spot-over-coronavirus-data-deal-with-us-firm-827385.html
19-04-2020||National Politics||Govt to take decision on resuming train, airline services, any discussion futile: Union Minister Prakash Javadekar||Union minister Prakash Javadekar made it clear on Sunday that the central government has so far not taken any decision on starting train or airline services for passengers, asserting that any discussion on the issue is futile. Asked if the government is looking at any timeline to start passenger transport services like trains or airlines, he told PTI, "It has to start one day but which is that one day you don't know at this moment. Discussion about it is futile because we are examining the situation every day and drawing new lessons." Some airlines, Javadekar said, decided on their own to start bookings from May 4, and noted that Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri has already clarified that the government has not taken any decision in this regard. A final decision on the issue will be taken by the government, he said, advising against any speculation over the matter. The ongoing nation-wide lockdown, which had started from March 24 midnight, to combat the coronavirus pandemic is scheduled to end on May 3. Some airlines, including Air India, had opened bookings on select domestic routes from May 4, prompting Puri to advise them to open bookings only after the government takes a decision on starting domestic and international commercial passenger flight services. "The Ministry of Civil Aviation clarifies that so far no decision has been taken to open domestic or international operations... Airlines are advised to open their bookings only after a decision in this regard has been taken by the government," he had said on Saturday. The Indian Railways had stopped booking passenger tickets since Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address to the nation on April 14 in which he extended the lockdown to May 3.  While the government-run Air India has stopped taking bookings on its flights following Puri's statement, private airlines have continued with booking tickets, saying they have not received any notice from the Aviation Ministry in this regard. An AirAsia India spokesperson told PTI that the lockdown issued by the government is till May 3 and hence, flights are available for bookings May 4 onwards. "We shall await the ministry's notice in this regard. We have suspended operations and sales until May 3, following the last circular," a Vistara spokesperson said. "Once there is clarity on steps to be taken beyond that date, we will comply accordingly," the spokesperson added. Air India officials, however, said they have stopped all forward bookings now, and any passenger who has booked tickets on a flight, which has been cancelled, will be getting a credit voucher for future travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-to-take-decision-on-resuming-train-airline-services-any-discussion-futile-union-minister-prakash-javadekar-827421.html
19-04-2020||National Politics||Politics goes full throttle even in the time of coronavirus pandemic||Congress MLA Rajendra Bhiduri in Rajasthan stoked controversy when a video of him went viral on social media in which he was seen discriminating while distributing ration by asking the people who were better PM Modi or CM Ashok Gehlot. The MLA denied giving ration to a woman when she said PM Modi was better than CM Gehlot. "Leave the ration here and go and light earthen lamps at home, " he said. BJP accused Gehlot government of indulging in politics and practising discrimination while distributing ration in areas affected by Covid-19. Meanwhile, BJP President J P Nadda, who held a video conference with state chiefs of Karnataka, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Maharashtra, accused Mamata Banerjee of doing politics even during the time pandemic by harassing BJP workers and obstructing their corona relief work. Nadda asked party workers to keep up their good work “despite obstructions created by West Bengal and Rajasthan governments. He later held a video conference with state chiefs of Chhattisgarh and Uttarakhand.  Nadda praised the work done by BJP workers in the party-ruled Karnataka. “Discussed and reviewed the efforts been put in by MPs and office bearers of Karnataka BJP to feed and help those in need in these difficult times of Covid-19. Glad to know how our teams are leaving no stone unturned in offering selfless service,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/politics-goes-full-throttle-even-in-the-time-of-coronavirus-pandemic-827487.html
19-04-2020||National Politics||Shed politics, let's help together: Congress tells Uttar Pradesh govt over coronavirus crisis in Amethi||The Congress on Sunday said it was unfortunate that politics was being played in Amethi over coronavirus and everyone should help people together while shedding politics. Chief spokesperson of the party Randeep Surjewala alleged that authorities reached the Congress office in Gauriganj district of Uttar Pradesh to raid without a reason or warrant. "It is unfortunate that politics is being played in Amethi over coronavirus. Authorities reached the Congress office in Gauriganj district to raid without any reason or warrant. "Probably, the Yogi government is unable to digest the help being provided by Shri Rahul Gandhi and Congress workers to the people of Amethi. Shed politics and let us help together," he said in a tweet in Hindi.  Surjewala also posted a photograph along with his tweet, in which policemen could be seen standing outside the Gauriganj district office of the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shed-politics-lets-help-together-congress-tells-uttar-pradesh-govt-over-coronavirus-crisis-in-amethi-827492.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||186 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, 55% of those died above 60 years||Delhi on Saturday reported 186 fresh cases and one death due to Covid-19 while 134 people were discharged from various hospitals. With this, the total number of cases rose to 1,893 and death toll to 43. An analysis of patients who died showed that 55.81% or 24 out of 43 people belonged to the age group of above 60 years. Nine persons (20.93%) belonged to the age group of 50-60 years while ten people (23.26%) were below 50 years. Saturday also saw 134 people discharged from hospitals after recovering from Covid-19, taking the total to 207. Delhi government declared eight more localities as containment zones, taking the total to 76. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to people to make sure that they do not step out of homes in containment zones.  “We have created various containment zones in Delhi. In these containment zones, nobody can go inside or come outside. The government officials take care of all the needs of essential services for the people. We are restricting the entry and exit of these areas but my appeal to all those people within these containment zones should not visit each other’s house or come out of their own house. I am worried because people within some containment zones or not properly following the guidelines of social distance," he said. "In Jahangirpuri within a containment zone, 26 people related to one family have found to be positive. This means that they have not followed the orders of social distancing and visited each other’s houses. My appeal to all that you should not be in this illusion that you will not be affected by Covid-19 because the source of the virus is difficult to find out. This virus is above any religion, caste, gender and it can happen to anyone and everybody has the same kind of vulnerability towards Coronavirus infection,” Kejriwal said. He also announced extending the Rs one crore compensation announced for the families of healthcare personnel who die while treating Covid-19 patients. "We have decided that this scheme will be extended...There are other people too who are involved in Covid-19 related operations like police, Civil Defence volunteers and teachers. If anyone contracts Covid-19 and dies due to it, then it will be extended to all such people," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/186-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-55-of-those-died-above-60-years-827157.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Youth cycles 850 km for wedding amid lockdown; lands into quarantine||When Sonu Kumar Chauhan set out homewards on his bicycle from Ludhiana in Punjab, it was to somehow reach in time for his wedding slated for April 15 in a UP district bordering Nepal. Cycling day and night for almost a week, the 24-year-old along with his three friends covered a distance of 850 km but landed in a quarantine centre here on Sunday last. His home was still 150 km away in Pipra Rasulpur in Maharajganj distirct. Chauhan, who works in a tiles factory in Ludhiana, and three of his friends set out on bicycles as all other means of transportation were closed down because of the coronavirus lockdown and he had to reach home for his wedding. The four covered a distance of 850 km, cycling day and night for a week, but on Sunday they were caught by the authorities here while entering the district and placed in quarantine. "Had I reached home, about 150 km from here, there were chances that the wedding would have taken place without any fanfare but the authorities did not allow me to go home despite requests," Chauhan told PTI. However, he quickly adds that health is most important and the wedding can take place later. SP, Balrampur, Devranjan Verma said that Chauhan and his friends were stopped when they were entering into the district and were sent to a quarantine centre. If their reports come out negative in 14 days time, they will be allowed to go, the SP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/youth-cycles-850-km-for-wedding-amid-lockdown-lands-into-quarantine-827207.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||One more tests positive for COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli; total number of cases rises to 17||One more person tested positive for coronavirus in Shamli in Uttar Pradesh, raising the tally in the district to 17, officials said on Sunday. Reports of 65 persons were received from a medical college in Meerut on Saturday, District Magistrate, Shamli, Jasjit Kaur said. One among them has tested positive for COVID-19, while the reports of the rest 64 came negative, she said. The positive case had come in contact with a Tablighi Jamaat member in Nanupura locality, Kaur said, adding he has been shifted to a hospital in Jhinjhaha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-more-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-uttar-pradeshs-shamli-total-number-of-cases-rises-to-17-827208.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Villages in Madhya Pradesh block public movement during coronavirus lockdown by laying trees||In a bid to contain the spread of coronavirus, residents of several villages in Madhya Pradesh's tribal-dominated Alirajpur district have blocked public movement by laying trees and thick branches on the key approach roads. Residents hit upon the idea of imposing 'self lockdown' by blocking roads after two people from Udaygarh- Kanas village, located around 50 km from the district headquarters, tested positive for coronavirus recently. One more COVID-19 patient was reported from Chandra Shekhar Nagar of Alirajour city Saturday, according to government officials. Borjhad village sarpanch (head) Tara Bai Katarias son Sumeet Kataria told PTI that they have laid a tree on the main road leading to their village to ensure people from Udaygarh, which is around 15 km away, do not enter their area. "Similarly, we dont want any one of our village resident to visit Udaygarh. We have to keep our village safe from the viral infection," he said. Alirajpur has around 526 villages. Out of these, people in around 250 villages have blocked their key approach roads by laying trees and branches, Mahesh Patel, head of Bhilala tribe, claimed. Alirajpur Superintendent of Police Vipul Shrivastava said they do not have the exact number of villages where roads have been blocked (by trees). "But, we know that roads to several villages have been blocked," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/villages-in-madhya-pradesh-block-public-movement-during-coronavirus-lockdown-by-laying-trees-827209.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Two dead in house collapse in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri||Two persons were killed on Sunday when an under-construction house collapsed in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. The house collapsed around 2 am in remote Dharamshal village, trapping two persons who were asleep in one of the rooms, a police official said. He said the local residents immediately launched a rescue operation. The two trapped persons – Mohammad Pervaiz (30) and Manzoor Hussain (28) – were found dead under the debris, he added. The bodies were removed by police and further details are awaited, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-dead-in-house-collapse-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-rajouri-827216.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Cop, woman die of coronavirus in Indore; district toll 49||A 41-year-old police inspector and a 70-year-old woman succumbed to coronavirus in Indore city, taking the death toll in the Madhya Pradesh district to 49, officials said on Sunday. This is the first case of a police officer dying of COVID-19 in the state, they said. "The police officer died at a private hospital late Saturday night. He was struggling with the disease since hospitalisation about 20 days back," Superintendent of Police Maheshchandra Jain told PTI. Doctors tried their best, but could not save him, Jain said, adding that the victim is survived by wife and two daughters. The Indore police department mourned the death of the officer, while many residents took to social media to pay tributes to him and hailed him as the "COVID-19 warrior". Besides, a 70-year-old woman also died of coronavirus in another private hospital on Friday, Chief Medical and Health Officer Praveen Jadia said. The district, one of the worst affected by coronavirus in the country, has so far reported 890 COVID-19 cases, according to official figures. According to an analysis, the death rate due to coronavirus in Indore is 5.5 per cent, much higher than that at the national level since the last several days. The district administration has imposed curfew in the urban limits since March 25 after the coronavirus cases first came to light.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cop-woman-die-of-coronavirus-in-indore-district-toll-49-827233.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||2nd Chief Medical Officer of Noida removed within fortnight amid coronavirus crisis||The Uttar Pradesh government has removed a second chief medical officer in Gautam Buddh Nagar, a hotspot of coronavirus, within a fortnight, the health department said. A P Chaturvedi was shunted out late on Saturday and D K Ohri, the principal of Agra's Regional Family Planning Training Centre, was appointed the additional CMO, the department said in an order. Ohri has been asked to take the additional charge with immediate effect. The development comes barely a fortnight after Gautam Buddh Nagar CMO Anurag Bhargava was replaced by Chaturvedi. It also comes within a week of a 32-year-old man, who was under quarantine for suspected coronavirus, allegedly jumped to his death in Greater Noida. His test result later turned out negative, officials said. Gautam Buddh Nagar adjoining Delhi has recorded 95 cases of coronavirus, but 34 of them have been cured and discharged from hospitals, according to official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2nd-chief-medical-officer-of-noida-removed-within-fortnight-amid-coronavirus-crisis-827241.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Railway trackman tests positive for COVID-19 in Jharkhand, count rises to 34||A railway trackman has tested positive for coronavirus in Jharkhand's Dhanbad district, taking the total count in the state to 34, an official said on Sunday. The total number of confirmed cases in the state includes two deaths, one each in Ranchi and Bokaro districts, he said.  The sample of the person working with the East Central Railways tested positive for the disease on Saturday, Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Amit Kumar said. The man, a resident of Railway Colony in Hirapur area, was being treated at the Divisional Railway Hospital here for fever, Kumar said. He had visited his in-laws' residence at Chas in the neighbouring Bokaro district to meet his pregnant wife and returned to Dhanbad on a bicycle on March 26. He complained of fever the next day, health department officials said.  The first positive case in Dhanbad district was reported in Kumardhubi in Gyarahkhund block near the West Bengal border on April 8. The highest number of coronavirus cases has been reported in Ranchi city at 18, followed by nine in Bokaro district, two each in Hazaribagh and Dhanbad and one each in Simdega, Koderma and Giridih districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/railway-trackman-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-jharkhand-count-rises-to-34-827248.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus spreading in Delhi, won't relax lockdown just yet, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||With a surge in the number of coronavirus cases in the national capital, the Delhi Government on Sunday said that there will not be any relaxation of the lockdown "as of now". Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's announcement came as the Centre had said states could allow relaxations from lockdown norms from April 20 after assessing the situation. The Delhi government will review the situation after a week to decide whether there will be any relaxations. "In the last few days, there has been an increase in the number of cases...All those cases which tested positive on Saturday were asymptomatic and no one knows who all they came in contact with and spread the virus...COVID-19 is spreading in the capital but the situation is under control and there is no need to panic. After assessing the prevailing situation in Delhi, we have decided not to permit any relaxation of the lockdown, as of now," Kejriwal said in a video address. Highlighting the challenges Delhi faces, he said the capital has 2% of the country's population but accounts for 12% of the country's COVID-19 cases. He said 1,893 coronavirus cases have been reported in the city so far.  "Delhi, being the national capital, is fighting the toughest battle against COVID-19. A majority of people who flew down from abroad landed in Delhi. Then we had the Tablighi Jamaat episode. The question before was to whether relax the lockdown. I know people are facing hardships. I myself want to allow some relaxations. It is easy to do so but if the situation worsens, then I cannot forgive myself," he said.    While extending the lockdown till May 3, the Centre had allowed states to open up certain economic activities but with restrictions and left it to states to decide on how to go about it. They also allowed states to impose stricter provisions than those prescribed in the central guidelines. Kejriwal said all the 11 districts in the capital are hotspots and the number of containment zones in the capital are increasing each day. He said the government has now ramped up its testing. Referring to testings done on Saturday, he said all those who tested positive did not show any symptoms of COVID-19 and were in touch with several people.    "We spoke to one of those tested positive. What he told us is that he was involved in food distribution in a government food distribution centre. This is disturbing news. Many people who have good immunity may not show symptoms. We don't know how many people have got in contact with him. So we have decided to do rapid test on all those who came to that centre," he said. Delhi government has also decided to do rapid test on all officials and volunteers involved in food distribution in its centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-spreading-in-delhi-wont-relax-lockdown-just-yet-says-cm-arvind-kejriwal-827252.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh minister tries his hand at hairdressing children amid lockdown||With India under a total lockdown and salons out of bounds, an Uttar Pradesh minister is trying his hands on a pair of scissors to hairdress his children. But is that an easy skill to develop? Satish Dwivedi, the minister of state for basic education, said the hair of his son and daughter had grown long and messy. "And I decided to do hairdress them. It did not go well for my four-and-a-half-year-old daughter, Sukriti."  "However, by the time I was gearing up for my eight-year-old son, Kartikeya, my hands were fairly set," Dwivedi said. A video of him doing the hair cut of the children has gone viral on the social media, drawing a number of reactions. "The video was made by my wife to show this act to my family members and relatives when I was busy cutting the hair. Later, when I saw the video, I shared it," the minister said. Asked how the children reacted to the new skill he has developed but not yet perfected, the minister said they were happy. "I was apprehensive but the children were happy. In fact, my daughter said 'no problem father'. The son did not want his hair to look weird but now he tells everyone he got a haircut from his father." About his daily routine at home, Dwivedi said it begins with yoga and watching Ramayan on TV. "After this, I speak to workers of my assembly constituency Itwa. Since March 24, I have been connecting with people daily from 11 am to 12 noon on Facebook Live. Then it is time for Mahabharat."  Then again from 1 pm to 6 pm, he remains in touch with the people of the district. "People of Siddharthanagar, especially the labourers who are in Ludhiana, Pune, Mumbai, Bangalore, Hyderabad and other places, call up and narrate their problems. The location and phone number of a person among the callers is noted and shared with the nodal officer appointed for the respective state by the UP government and their problems are redressed," the minister said. Towards night, Dwivedi, also the in-charge of Sonbhadra district, seeks the day's report and feedback from officials and party-office bearers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-minister-tries-his-hand-at-hairdressing-children-amid-lockdown-827256.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Artistes release statement against 'witch-hunt' of students by Delhi Police||Over 20 film personalities, including Anurag Kashyap, Vishal Bhardwaj, Mahesh Bhatt, Ratna Pathak Shah, on Sunday released a statement raising their voice against the arrest of students and activists by Delhi Police for protesting against CAA and also demanded their release. A Delhi court on Wednesday sent a student of Jamia Millia Islamia, arrested for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to incite communal riots in northeast Delhi, to judicial custody for 14 days.  Another student, who was arrested by the local police last week in connection with protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in Delhi's Jaffrabad in February, was sent to two-day police custody. In a statement released on Twitter, the signatories said they are "shocked" to know that even as the country battles though a grave crisis of the coronavirus, the Delhi Police has arrested two students and several activists "who had participated in peaceful protests against the CAA". "To fight this pandemic the citizens and authorities need to stand by each other. By targeting activists taking advantage of the lockdown, when there is hardly even any media coverage of its actions, the Delhi Police is betraying the civic rights of the citizens. "We urge the Delhi Police to stop abusing the lockdown, respect the human rights of our fellow citizens and put an end to this witch-hunt. We demand the release of these students and activists," the statement read. The signatories said many more students and activists are being called for questioning and interrogation by the police on daily basis and dubbed the action a "twisted fairy tale". "These activists are now being implicated in cases related to the communal violence in Delhi that took place in February. A riot in which the minorities suffered the maximum damage, both in terms of lives and livelihoods, has now become a pretext for the Delhi Police to further witch-hunt activists. Most of whom also come from the minority community," they further said in a statement.  Calling the actions of Delhi Police as "inhuman", the personalities said the lockdown "cannot be a lockdown of the rights of citizens" and must not be "abused by the authorities in this manner". "These actions of the Delhi Police are utterly inhuman and undemocratic. Making several people travel to police stations every day and then throwing some of them to jails also defeats the purpose of the lockdown and makes a mockery of social distancing. "At a time when various governments are releasing under-trials from jail to relieve the pressure from the prisons and restrict chances of contamination. The Delhi Police is pushing students and activists into jail." The signatories include directors Aparna Sen, Hansal Mehta, Ashwini Chaudhary, Onir, Vinta Nanda, Neeraj Ghaywan, actor-directors Nandita Das, Konkona Sen Sharma, actors Sushant Singh, Zeeshan Ayyub, Sandhya Mridul, music composer Vishal Dadlani, among others. "In a democratic country such as ours, the Constitution gives us the right to protest and express our views against the government and its policies. Many people in the country and the world had condemned the draconian Citizenship Amendment Act. "Our opposition to the CAA continues, as we see it as a bigoted law that strikes at the secular fabric of our country. We condemn this witch-hunt of students and activists because they exercised their constitutional right to protest against CAA/NRC/NPR," the statement read. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between the citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/artistes-release-statement-against-witch-hunt-of-students-by-delhi-police-827267.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Over 26,000 drug addicts join Punjab de-addiction programme during coronavirus curfew||A break in supply of drugs in curfew-bound Punjab has given an impetus to the state's de-addiction measures, with over 26,000 drug addicts joining the government-run de-addiction programme. Punjab has been reeling under the drug menace for years and the recent lockdown due to coronavirus and the subsequent curfew in the state has broken the supply chain of narcotics to the state. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that on the directives of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, a special campaign is being launched to register new patients under the de-addiction rogramme in the state.   "During the curfew period, more than 26,000 patients have been registered," he said. As per the data available with the state health department, 4.14 lakh addicts were registered with it. These included 1.55 lakh at Out Patient Opioid Assisted Treatment (OOAT) centres, 2.15 lakh in de-addiction centres and more than 30,000 in rehabilitation centres before the lockdown. Now the figure is 4.40 lakh, an increase of 26,000 patients in OOAT centres, the data reveals.  The highest increase is in Ludhiana 2,600, followed by Moga 2,200, Mohali 1,800, Patiala 1,600 and Sangrur 1,300.  Giving relief to those fighting addiction, 198 OOAT clinics, 35 Government De-Addiction Centers and 108 Licensed private De-addiction centers have been allowed to give the dose of buprenorphine and naloxone drugs to registered patients after being evaluated by a psychiatrist. Sidhu said that in case of non-availability of therapeutic services, the patient is likely to leave treatment which can be fatal for the patient.  "Considering the circumstances, the take home dose is now extended for 21 days. The medicine is being released to the patient only after the advice of the psychiatrist," he said. These centres have been strictly instructed to maintain social distancing while providing the treatment.      Patients are being sensitized that coronavirus is dangerous and if they have high fever, dry cough and difficulty in breathing, they should contact the nearest health centre. He said that during this time of curfew and lockdown, the government has taken special initiative for the treatment and care of patients suffering from drug addiction so that maximum number of young people can get help. He said panchayats, social service organizations and youth welfare clubs were being approached to encourage such patients to come to their respective centres and clinics so that the misguided youth could be cured. Officials said the positive effect of the curfew-cum-lockdown in Punjab is that every day 1200 new drug addicts are joining the OutPatient Opioid Assisted Treatment (OOAT) centres across the state. They said scarce availability of illicit drugs due to the coronavirus lockdown has forced drug addicts to get enrolled for treatment at government and private-run centres.  Additional DGP-cum-Chief of Special Task Force on Drugs, Harpreet Singh Sidhu said, "Owing to curfew as well as lockdown, the supply chain of drugs has been further constricted. Due to non-availability addicts are visiting drug de-addiction centres resulting in a significant increase in the number of patients."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-26000-drug-addicts-join-punjab-de-addiction-programme-during-coronavirus-curfew-827275.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Cop dies, MP CM announces Rs 50 lakh compensation||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday mourned the death of a 41- year-old police officer from the coronavirus infection and announced a compensation of Rs 50 lakh to his kin and the post of sub-inspector for his wife. Chouhan tweeted that the inspector sacrificed his life in the battle against the outbreak. "He was undergoing treatment at the Aurobindo Hospital in Indore and recently (after the treatment of COVID-19) he tested negative and this was good news for us. But at 2 am late last night, the sad news of his death was received suddenly," Chouhan said in a tweet. Announcing a compensation of Rs 50 lakh, Chouhan also tweeted that "the inspector's wife is being appointed as a sub-inspector in the department". Superintendent of Police Maheshchandra Jain told PTI the deceased officer was on duty in Juni Indore police station before he got infected with the virus. "Despite all the efforts of doctors, the life of the police inspector could not be saved. He is survived by his wife and two daughters," Jain added. Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Praveen Jadia said the officer tested postive and was admitted in hospital about 20 days back, and then post-treatment, tested negative two times and was discharged as per protocol. "The doctors at the private hospital suspect the cause of death may have been pulmonary embolism (a problem associated with arterial blood clotting). But there is also a possibility that pulmonary embolism might have been caused due to coronavirus infection," Jadia added. A 70-year-old woman also died of COVID-19, taking the number of deaths in Indore from the infection to 49. Jadia said, as per revised data, the number of COVID- 19 patients now stands at 890 here. "We have also received information about the death of a former city corporator. We are confirming if the death was due to coronavirus infection," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cop-dies-mp-cm-announces-rs-50-lakh-compensation-827282.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Bihar minister’s aide arrested for his bid to ‘fish in troubled waters’||At a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar have been asking everyone in the state to strictly abide by the lockdown rules, some officials in Bihar did not give two hoots for such suggestions. One such official, Pintu Yadav, the private secretary of Bihar’s Education Minister Krishnandan Verma, put his best ‘food’ forward when he threw a lavish party at his residence in Jehanabad district. The Sub Divisional Police Officer (SDPO), Block Development Officer (BDO), Block Education Officer (BEO) and the Circle Officer (CO) were among those ‘35 distinguished guests’ who attended the fish-rice party at the minister’s aide's house.  Taking cognizance of the matter at a time when lockdown has been extended till May 3, the Bihar Police arrested the minister’s aide. Besides, the Nitish regime suspended the SDPO, BDO, BEO and the CO till further orders.  “An FIR (Case No: 129/2000) has been registered against the accused in which they have been charged under various Sections of the National Disaster Act, besides booking them under Sections 188, 269, 270, 271 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” said a senior police official, aware of the developments. Meanwhile, there has been no respite from coronavirus in Bihar as one more person from Biharsharif tested positive on Sunday, thereby taking the tally of COVID-19 patients to 87.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-bihar-minister-s-aide-arrested-for-his-bid-to-fish-in-troubled-waters-827304.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 spreading fast in Delhi, Arvind Kejriwal decides not to provide lockdown relaxation||With Covid-19 "spreading fast" and the number of cases increasing in the national capital, the Delhi government on Sunday said that it will not be providing any relaxation of lockdown "as of now". Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's announcement came as the Centre had allowed states to provide relaxations from lockdown norms from April 20 after assessing the situation. The Delhi government will review the situation after a week to decide on whether to provide any relaxation. "In the last few days, there has been an increase in the number of cases... All those cases which tested positive on Saturday where asymptomatic and no one knows who all they came in contact and spread the virus... The Covid-19 is spreading in the capital but the situation is under control and there is no need to panic... After assessing the prevailing situation in Delhi, we have decided not to permit any relaxation of the lockdown, as of now," Kejriwal said in a video address. Highlighting the challenges that Delhi faces, he said that it has 2% of the country's population but accounts for 12% of the Covid-19 cases. "Delhi, being the national capital, is fighting the toughest battle against Covid-19. Majority of people who flew down from abroad landed in Delhi. Then we had the Tablighi Jamaat episode. The question before was to whether to relax the lockdown. I know people are facing hardship. I myself want to provide some relaxation. It is easy to do so but if the situation worsens, then I cannot forgive myself," he said. While extending the lockdown till May 3, the Centre had allowed states to open up certain economic activities but with restrictions and left it to states to decide on how to go about it. They also allowed states to impose stricter provisions than those prescribed in the central guidelines.  Kejriwal said all the 11 districts in the capital are hotspots and the number of containment zones in the capital is increasing day by day. He said the government has now increased testing of people. Referring to testings done on Saturday, he said all those who tested positive did not show any symptoms of Covid-19 and were in touch with several people.  "We spoke to one of those tested positive. What he told us is that he was involved in food distribution in a government food distribution centre. This is disturbing news. Many people who have good immunity may not show symptoms. We don't know how many people have got in contact with him. So we have decided to do rapid test on all those who came to that centre," he said. Delhi government has also decided to do rapid test on all officials and volunteers involved in food distribution in its centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-spreading-fast-in-delhi-arvind-kejriwal-decides-not-to-provide-lockdown-relaxation-827316.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Outbreak: 32 more prisoners released in Jammu and Kashmir, tally reaches 236||Thirty-two prisoners, including 16 arrested under the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA), were released to decongest jails across Jammu and Kashmir in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, officials said on Sunday. A total of 236 prisoners have been released this month by the Jammu and Kashmir administration on the directions of the Supreme Court. “Thirty-two more prisoners were released from various jails between April 14 and 17. They included 16 who were held under PSA and six under trial prisoners besides two who were released on parole,” a senior government official told PTI. He said the highest number of 11 prisoners including 10 PSA detainees were released from the Central Jail Kot Bhalwal in Jammu followed by eight from Central Jail Srinagar. Those released from Central Jail Srinagar included three PSA detainees and an equal number of undertrials besides one who was set free on parole. Three PSA detainees were released from sub-jail Hiranagar, district jail Anantnag and district jail Bhaderwah, while two undertrial prisoners were released from district jail Jammu and another undertrial from sub-jail Hiranagar, the official said. He said another prisoner was released on parole from district jail Bhaderwah, while six other prisoners were released from special jail (correction home) Pulwama (two), district Jail Anantnag (two) and district jail Baramulla and district jail Udhampur (one each). Earlier, 204 prisoners were released from various jails between April 1 and 13. They included 45 prisoners arrested under the PSA, 78 undertrials through the undertrial review committee, 9 undertrials falling under section 107, 109, 151 of the CrPC besides 16 prisoners who were released on parole. On April 1, a three-member high powered committee headed by Executive Chairman J-K State Legal Services Authority (SLSA), Justice Rajesh Bindal along with Principal Secretary, Home Department, Shaleen Kabra and DGP (Prisons), V K Singh as its members, passed directions for the release of jail inmates except those involved in militancy-related cases to decongest the prisons in the Union Territory. The committee was constituted by the Jammu and Kashmir government following an order by the Supreme Court on March 23, directing the states and the UTs to decongest jails to ensure social distancing among the prisoners, while observing that overcrowding of prisons is a matter of serious concern in the wake of coronavirus outbreak.  The official said 132 prisoners were released from seven jails across Jammu region, 104 were set free from five jails in the valley including a special jail (correction home).             The highest number of 47 jail inmates were released from central Jail in Srinagar followed by 39 from Kot Bhalwal, 28 from district jail in Rajouri, 27 from district jail in Anantnag, 20 each from district jail in Udhampur and Jammu and 17 from sub-jail Hiranagar. As many as 16 prisoners were released from district jail in Kupwara, 12 from special jail (correction home) in Pulwama, four each from district jail in Bhaderwah and Kathua and two from district jail in Baramulla, he said. In addition, the official said the process for the release of 41 more prisoners from Kashmir, who are under detention in different jails outside Jammu and Kashmir since August last year, was also set into motion with the Home department revoking their PSA last week. The prisoners included 15 from Baramulla, eight from Pulwama, seven from Anantnag, three from Kupwara, two each from Ganderbal, Bandipora and Budgam and one each from Kulgam and Srinagar, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-outbreak-32-more-prisoners-released-in-jammu-and-kashmir-tally-reaches-236-827317.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi govt begins using rapid antibody test kits in hotspots||Soon after procuring rapid antibody test kits, the Delhi government on Sunday began testing people for coronavirus in various containment zones spread across the city, officials said. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said the AAP government has acquired 42,000 such kits. The rapid antibody tests were initiated in Delhi on Sunday for all the containment zones across the national capital, the officials said. The number of containment zones in Delhi on Saturday had increased to 76, with eight new zones being added in various areas in one day. The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital on Saturday climbed to 1893, with 186 fresh cases and one death being reported in a day, according to the Delhi government authorities. Two kinds of diagnostic tests are being currently prescribed for use in India -- the RT-PCR test and rapid antibody test -- as per global health norms. A reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test is a laboratory technique combining reverse transcription of RNA into DNA that detects the virus while the antibody tests, which use blood, detect the body's response to the virus. In a rapid antibody test, the result will be positive only if the antibodies have been generated. So, even if a person is infected but the antibodies are not generated, the result will come negative.  RT-PCR test takes time and is a costly affair, because of its elaborate kit. On the other hand, the rapid antibody test is less expensive and the result can come in 20-30 minutes, experts said. Rapid antibody tests are generally used in hotspots where the infection is found concentrated in a given area. A hotspot is a zone from where a large number of positive cases are reported. Of the total number of 43 fatalities reported in Delhi till Saturday, 24 of the deceased were above 60 years, making over 55 per cent of the total death cases, the authorities said. Nine of them were aged between 50 and 60 years, and 10 were aged less than 50 years, officials said.  Meanwhile, 31 members of an extended family, including children, residing in north Delhi’s Jahangirpuri area, a portion of which has been declared a containment zone, have tested positive for COVID-19, the officials said. The civic authorities have carried out mass sanitisation and disinfection drive in hotspot areas in the past several days using drones and other measures. Door-to-Door surveillance activities are being carried out in identified cluster containment zones, and a total of 1,047 samples have been collected from different clusters and sent for testing, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-govt-begins-using-rapid-antibody-test-kits-in-hotspots-827330.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||UP hospital bans admission of Muslim patients without coronavirus negative test report||Close on the heels of reports of segregation of Hindu-Muslim Coronavirus positive patients by a Gujarat hospital, which the authorities denied, a private hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut town, about 500 kilometres from here, banned the admission of Muslim patients unless they furnished COVID-19 negative test reports for them and their attendants. According to the sources, the health department and the police were investigating the matter. The hospital, which is specialised in treatment of cancer, has put out an advertisement in a leading Hindi daily explaining in detail about the reasons that prompted it to do so.  The reasons cited by the hospital included the alleged misbehaviour of the members of the 'Tableegh-e-Jamaat' (TJ), who, the ad said, had contributed to the spread of coronavirus infection in the country.    ''Some members of TJ have also attacked and misbehaved with the doctors, paramedical staff and nurses during their treatment...such incidents have been rising,'' it said. ''In our hospital also, some Muslim patients have not been following the rules and misbehaving with the staff...therefore we request the new Muslim patients wanting to get treatment and admission in the hospital must bring COVID 19 negative test report for themselves and their attendants,'' the ad went on to state. It clarified that the new rules would not apply to Muslim doctors, judges, police personnel, officers, paramedical staff if they did not live in the ''densely populated Muslim localities''. The ad rued that the affluent Hindu/Jain families were 'misers' and did not contribute generously to the 'PM Cares Fund'. As the ad triggered a backlash, especially among the Hindu'Jain communities, the hospital came out with another advertisement aplogising to them for terming them 'misers'. Though the hospital in its clarification said that it did not intend to hurt the feelings of any community, including the Muslim, it did not state if the new rules with regard to admission of Muslim patients had been withdrawn.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-hospital-bans-admission-of-muslim-patients-without-coronavirus-negative-test-report-827339.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||One-and-a-half-month-old baby dies of COVID-19 infection in Delhi hospital||A one-and-a-half-month-old baby has died of coronavirus infection at a hospital in Delhi, officials said on Sunday, in perhaps the first fatality of an infant due to COVID-19 in the national capital. The baby died at Kalawati Saran Children's Hospital attached to the Centre-run Lady Hardinge Medical College. "The baby was brought to the hospital a few days ago. He tested positive for COVID-19. The child was admitted to SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Illness) ward and died yesterday," a doctor at the hospital said on the condition of anonymity. The surveillance team has been informed for contact tracing, he said. The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital has climbed to 1,893, according to the Delhi government. As per the age profile of COVID-19 victims in Delhi shared by the health department, of the total 43 fatalities, 24 were above 60 years. Nine were aged between 50-60 and 10 were aged below 50, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-and-a-half-month-old-baby-dies-of-covid-19-infection-in-delhi-hospital-827340.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||UP: Five-member panel to create employment for labourers||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath gave directions in this regard while reviewing the lockdown situation at his official residence here, a statement issued by the government said. He, however, said those coming from outside state should be quarantined to check the coronavirus spread. The committee will be headed by the agriculture production commissioner and include the prinicpal secretaries of the departments of rural development; panchayati raj; micro, small and medium enterprises; and skill development. "Following the imposition of the nationwide lockdown since March 25, there has been a problem of unemployment for rickshaw-pullers, e-rickshaw operators, cart pullers, railway coolies and daily wage labourers. The UP government is extremely sensitive to this aspect and is making every effort to extend help to them," the CM said in the statement. "The committee should ensure the creation of employment under the One District, One Product (ODOP) scheme of the UP government and also organise loan melas,” he added. The chief minister said the products made by women self-help groups should be marketed through the ODOP scheme. “The increase in the revolving fund of the Government of India should be used to encourage activities of women self-help groups to create employment," he added. He also issued orders for a compulsory testing of COVID-19 suspects by keeping them in shelter homes. The CM instructed Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad to ensure that the areas with over 10 COVID-19 cases are not be opened. The emergency services will be started only in those hospitals where personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and N-95 masks are available in adequate numbers. Apart from this, instructions were issued to ensure that N-95 masks, PPE kits and other medical equipment are available to the health staff involved in the treatment of COVID-19 patients in every district of the state. Adityanath also directed the district magistrates to make a concrete plan to restart industrial units in the state from April 20 with certain conditions. Efforts should be made to ensure that nutritious food is delivered to pregnant women, young girls and children, he said. Instructions were also issued to ensure that all shelter homes are regularly sanitised and precautions taken while operating the community kitchen, the statement said. Adityanath directed that fodder be made available to various 'gaushalas' (cow sheds) in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-five-member-panel-to-create-employment-for-labourers-827345.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Coronavirus cases rise to 1,407; death toll reaches 72||The number of coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh rose to 1,407 with five more people testing positive for the disease on Sunday, authorities said. The state also reported three more deaths due to the disease, taking the toll to 72, according to the latest health bulletin. Of these total deaths, 50 have been reported from Indore, the state's industrial hub. The viral disease expanded its footprint to Rajgarh district, which reported one case in last 24 hours. So far, 26 out of the total 52 districts in the state have reported COVID-19 cases. Indore, which has till now reported 890 cases, has been the state's worst hit district. Bhopal reported one more case since Saturday night, taking the total number of cases in the state capital to 214, the state bulletin said. So far, 131 people, including 71 from Indore and 31 from Bhopal, have been discharged after recovery. Total 442 containment zones have been made across the coronavirus-affected districts in the state to contain the spread of the deadly infection. Out of the total 1,204 active cases, the condition of 29 patients was serious while 1,175 were stable, the health bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-coronavirus-cases-rise-to-1407-death-toll-reaches-72-827356.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Sanitation worker dies in Uttar Pradesh after youths force disinfectant into his mouth||In a shocking incident, a sanitation worker died allegedly after some youths forcibly sprayed disinfectant into his mouth following an altercation in Uttar Pradesh's Rampur district, about 325 kilometres from here. According to the reports, the sanitation worker, identified as Kunwar Pal was sent to Pempur village for spraying disinfectant in the village. It was alleged that while spraying, a few droplets accidentally fell on the feet of one Indra Pal, a resident of the village, and his friends, who stood there.  An angry Indra Pal and his acquaintances assaulted the sanitation worker and allegedly forcibly put the nozzle of the sanitising machine into his mouth and sprayed the disinfectant.   Kunwar Pal was rushed to a hospital in the neighbouring Moradabad district after his condition worsened at the district hospital. He, however, died on Friday night. Police said that the body of Kunwar Pal has been sent for postmortem examination to ascertain the cause of death.  A case has been registered in this regard against four persons, including Indra Pal. A hunt has been launched to nab the culprits, who have been absconding, police sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sanitation-worker-dies-in-uttar-pradesh-after-youths-force-disinfectant-into-his-mouth-827364.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: 12-day-old girl tests positive in Bhopal||A 12-day-old girl has tested positive for the coronavirus in Bhopal on Sunday, with health officials stating that she may be the youngest COVID-19 patient in Madhya Pradesh. She was born on April 7 and her father said it was possible she got the infection from a woman health worker who was on duty during the birth and tested positive later. "The mother and the infant tested positive on Sunday," Bhopal's Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Dr Prabhakar Tiwari told PTI. The girl's father said, "She was born in government- run Sultania Janana Hospital on April 7 and it was a caesarean delivery. Mother and child were discharged and came home on April 11. I read in the papers the next day that a woman health worker who was on duty during my wife's stay and delivery had tested positive." "Suspecting that my daughter and wife had been infected due to this woman health worker, I contacted the hospital and doctors there but got no response. My child was examined at a health camp in Barkhedi area and doctors sent her samples for testing, and reports returned positive today," he told PTI. As on Sunday, Bhopal's COVID-19 count is 214, of which six have died and 31 have recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-12-day-old-girl-tests-positive-in-bhopal-827369.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Delhi lawyer offers property to be used for quarantine centre for doctors, nurses||A noted lawyer of the Delhi High Court has offered his property in the posh Nizamuddin area to be used as a quarantine centre for doctors and medical professionals in the forefront of the COVID-19 fight. Advocate M Sufian Siddiqui offered his entire property in Nizamuddin West area having over 15 rooms, all fitted with modern amenities and attached bathrooms, for one month for free of cost. "Considerably, I am albeit cognizant of the fact that this humble offer of contribution in our nation's fight against the global pandemic may be a drop in the ocean. However, I am also conscious of the fact that at this climacteric, humanity needs solidarity," he said in identical letters addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. The lawyer, who is known for giving pro bono services to the weak and marginalised sections of the society in the Delhi High Court, said this mammoth fight against the COVID-19 pandemic could only be countenanced to be won, if "we all stand united as one and act in solidarity" lest the entire humanity might have to pay an unfathomable price. "However, owing to the ubiquitous consternation looming across the globe including our country, I being a solicitous citizen am profoundly concerned about the frontline warriors viz. doctors, paramedics, nurses, health care workers, support staff who are selflessly and relentlessly working...by putting their lives in danger," he said. Siddiqui said the property, situated outside containment zones, has comfortable access for ambulance and is at a stone's throw away from the Hazrat Nizamuddin Police Station. It is also in close proximity to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in case the need arises to ambulate any quarantined person.  "Consequently, at this crucial juncture, I earnestly feel that showing solidarity by strictly adhering to the instructions of the Government is sacrosanct to the very substratum of humanity. Hence, as a concerned citizen, I wholeheartedly feel that when the entire humanity is at peril then the service to the humanity being the greatest service indeed becomes indispensable, which would indubitably not only be in the national interest but also in the interest of the whole of humanity," he said. Thanking the Prime Minister and the Delhi Chief Minister for perspicacious leadership and all the frontline warriors for their selfless, relentless indefatigable hardwork for taking head on the overwhelming challenge of battling Global Pandemic COVID-19, he said it would be expedient that the premises may kindly be got evaluated on an exigent basis for the purpose of establishing a quarantine centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-delhi-lawyer-offers-property-to-be-used-for-quarantine-centre-for-doctors-nurses-827372.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Recovered COVID-19 patient tests positive again in Himachal Pradesh||A man who had recovered from coronavirus was again found suffering from the infection in Himachal Pradesh, officials said. The man, a Tablighi Jamaat member, tested positive for the infection at Tanda's Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC) in Kangra on Saturday, within a week of his two reports coming out negative, they said. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) RD Dhiman said the state Health Department was aware of reports of recurrence of the virus in some patients in some countries. So, it was already decided to re-conduct tests despite negative reports, he added. The man has once again been admitted to the the Tanda hospital, he said. From now onwards, the persons testing positive for COVID-19 will be retested after 14 days and if they test negative twice, they will be kept in a quarantine centre for the next 14 days for monitoring to increase their immunity, he added. Residents of different places in Mandi district, the man along with two other Jamaatis, had been staying in a mosque of Nakroh village in Una's Amb tehsil, and all tested positive for the infection on April 2. They were admitted to the RPGMC on April 3. As per the available information, they tested negative for the virus for the first time on April 10 and they were declared as cured as per protocol after they tested negative for the second time on April 12. Subsequently, they were discharged from the RPGMC and kept in an institutional quarantine at the Regional Health and Family Welfare Training Centre at Cheb in Kangra district. With the man again testing positive for the infection, the total number of active cases in the hill state has increased to 23 out of the total 40 positive cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/recovered-covid-19-patient-tests-positive-again-in-himachal-pradesh-827424.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Punjab govt will not relax coronavirus lockdown till May 3: CM Amarinder Singh||The government's U-turn on home delivery of non-essential items will leave consumers disappointed, the world's largest online retailer Amazon said, but the decision was welcomed by local kirana store body CAIT that called it the "most pragmatic". Four days after allowing e-commerce firms to also deliver non-essential items such as electronic goods and readymade garments, the government on Sunday said non-essential items will continue to be prohibited during the lockdown period. Commenting on the decision, Amazon India said the new guidelines will disappoint consumers whose list of essentials has expanded to 'work from home' and 'study from home' products, as well as small businesses, sellers and manufacturers. The company said it will continue to follow the guidelines and deliver essential products and work with authorities for expedited processes to make safe deliveries of priority products possible. "The new guideline will disappoint not only the consumers whose list of essentials had expanded to work from home and study from home products but also the thousands of small businesses, sellers and manufacturers across the country, who had geared up in the last 48 hours to provide millions of people with safe access to products," Amazon India spokesperson said. Amazon India further said the company hopes that "this situation is rectified soon so that the urgent need of consumers is met and that there is revival of economic activity". The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), which had been campaigning hard against allowing e-commerce firms to also commence non-essential deliveries during the lockdown period, "lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah for the most pragmatic decision" of "valuing the sentiments of Indian traders and protecting their business interests". Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal on his part said the move will "help in creating a level-playing field for small retailers". Separately, the Retailers Association of India (RAI) said the government's home delivery permissions need to be broad based and all types of retailers, including neighbourhood stores, should be allowed to operate. The retailers' body said allowing neighbourhood stores and large essential products' chain retailers to do home delivery will help fulfil consumer needs in these trying times and play a part in enhancing social distancing. Soon after the government had on April 16 announced graded plan to lift the lockdown by allowing all e-commerce deliveries and movement of trucks, some states such as Maharashtra, Odisha and Rajasthan issued notifications allowing non-essential deliveries alongside essential ones. CAIT had resented the move and said that the state governments were against Indian traders and "prefer to destroy the businesses of Indian traders at the hands of foreign e-commerce players". "Multinational e-commerce players have been trying to disrupt the businesses of small Indian traders by adopting unfair business practices such as deep discounting and predatory pricing by controlling inventory. Even in the lockdown period, they would have adopted their vitiated business model and promote all kinds of malpractices to damage the foundation of Indian retail," CAIT said in a statement on Sunday. The home ministry on Sunday issued an order saying the following clause -- "E-commerce companies. Vehicles used by e-commerce operators will be allowed to ply with necessary permissions" -- is excluded from the guidelines issues.  Players like Paytm Mall have urged the government to expand the ambit of essential goods to include products like laptops and mobile phones to facilitate people working from home. "Safety of fellow Indians is of utmost importance to us and, therefore, we support the government's decision in spirit to limiting e-commerce operations to essentials. However, we believe that the ambit of essential goods should be increased," Paytm Mall Senior Vice-President Srinivas Mothey said. He added that people in the country are mostly working from home at the moment but many are finding it difficult as they are running low on certain items necessary to effectively operate under lockdown. "Laptops, mobile phones, and accessories, computer hardware, webcams, all these things should be allowed to be part of essential goods. If the lockdown continues, lack of proper technical support would hinder the efficiency of employees which in turn would affect a company's operations," he said. Sanjay Sethi, CEO and co-founder of ShopClues, echoed similar sentiments. "It is imperative to expand the definition of 'essential goods'. In fact, not doing so could be counterproductive at this time," he said. He added that while the entire nation is forced indoors and working from home for extended period, it is important that besides products like food, groceries and medicine, one also ensures supply of other critical items like small kitchen appliances, personal hygiene items, work from home essentials like phones, laptops and accessories. Under the first phase of the nationwide lockdown between March 24-April 14, the government had only allowed delivery of essential goods through e-commerce platforms. On April 16, the Ministry of Home Affairs issued fresh guidelines for the current lockdown allowing e-commerce companies to sell non-essential items as well. A Snapdeal spokesperson said the company will continue to operate in complete compliance with the guidelines issued by the government in this regard. Nasscom President Debjani Ghosh tweeted that the decision could have been "better thought through". "This could have been better thought through... a lot of the eCommerce cos have invested in planning for the 20th. And most don't have deep pockets to handle these kinds of reversal in decisions. The focus, I feel, should have been on ensuring adequate safety protocols," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-will-not-relax-coronavirus-lockdown-till-may-3-cm-amarinder-singh-827426.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||1-month-old among 10 new COVID-19 cases in Punjab, tally now 244||The family members from Mohali are all contacts of a person who had earlier tested positive for the virus, according to the medical bulletin issued here on Sunday. The remaining six new cases belong to Jalandhar. Of the total confirmed cases, Mohali district tops the list with 61 in Punjab, followed by Jalandhar which has so far reported 47 cases. Twenty-six cases were in Patiala, 24 four in Pathankot, 19 in Nawanshahr, 16 in Ludhiana,  11 each in Mansa and Amritsar, seven in Hoshiarpur, four in Moga, three each in Rupnagar, Sangrur and Faridkot, two each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Kapurthala, and Barnala, and one each in Muktsar, Gurdsapur and Ferozepur, the medical bulletin said. One patient is on oxygen support, it added. Sixteen COVID-19 patients have died while 37 have been discharged from hospital. A total of 6,607 samples have been taken so far in the state and 5,949 of them are negative and reports of 414 samples are still awaited. There are 191 active cases in the state, according to the medical bulletin. In Chandigarh, three more people tested positive, taking the total count of confirmed COVID-19 cases to 26 in the Union Territory. A 56-year-old man, his 25-year-old son and one-and-half-year-old granddaughter were infected with the virus. All of them were the family contacts of a coronavirus patient, the bulletin said. A total of 430 samples have been taken so far and 388 of them were negative while results of 15 cases were awaited. Thirteen patients have been discharged from hospital after being cured, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/1-month-old-among-10-new-covid-19-cases-in-punjab-tally-now-244-827435.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Jammu-Srinagar national highway reopens after two days||The 270-km Jammu-Srinagar national highway was reopened on Sunday after remaining closed for two days, paving the way for the resumption of traffic movement, mostly trucks carrying essential commodities to the Valley, Traffic Department officials said. However, they said traffic movement was slow during the day due to inclement weather and falling rocks from the hillocks overlooking the highway at various places in Ramban district. The traffic on the highway, the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with the rest of the country, was suspended on Friday after heavy rains triggered landslides at a number of places between Ramban and Ramsu, leaving hundreds of trucks carrying essential commodities to the Valley stranded. The road clearance agencies managed to clear the debris late Saturday but the road was again blocked by fresh landslides, delaying its opening, the officials said, adding that the road was thrown open for traffic on Sunday afternoon. The highway is currently open to trucks carrying essential supplies in view of the nationwide lockdown to combat the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-srinagar-national-highway-reopens-after-two-days-827438.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Punjab not to deploy cops over 55 years on frontline jobs||A day after a 52-year-old police officer died due to COVID-19, the Punjab Police on Sunday decided not to deploy policemen who are over 55 years of age or those with pre-existing medical risk on the frontline jobs. Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta ordered strict compliance of his orders on weekly off or rest days of all policemen on frontline duties. "Police personnel over 55 years of age or those with pre-existing and enhanced medical risk factors, such as hypertension issues, cardiac history, asthma or a compromised/suppressed immune system for any reason, should not be deployed on the frontline, as far as possible," he said in an official release here. An assistant commissioner of police succumbed to coronavirus infection in Ludhiana on Saturday. The DGP directed all the police commissioners and SSPs to follow a rotational system of providing a weekly off/rest to the frontline personnel, with efforts to organise the deployment in such a manner that two days of rest can be provided to all the policemen after every 10 days. To ensure protection of police personnel, the DGP has requested the chief secretary to direct the state health department to provide a minimum of 4,050 PPE kits/suits and 18,000 N-95 masks on immediate basis. At present, Gupta said some PPE suits are already available with the police department, which are being used during sensitive tasks. The DGP, however, said that the police officers deployed at coronavirus hotspots, containment zones, clusters and isolation wards, need PPE suits, which are certified by the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare. Police personnel who have to come in close contact with either confirmed or suspect cases of coronavirus, while carrying out the debriefing, contact tracing and tracking of Tablighi Jamaat cases, etc. also need such PPE kits, he added. The police force currently has 2.5 lakh face masks, 81,000 gloves, 1,36,000 hand sanitisers and 20,100 soap/hand wash, the DGP said, adding that all efforts are being made to ensure total protection of the police personnel. Listing the welfare measures for police personnel discharging their duties amid the coronavirus outbreak, the DGP said to boost their immunity, about 1.36 lakh tablets of multivitamins have been distributed among the policemen. The police personnel are also being provided with nutritious, rich and adequate diet to minimise the risk to those exposed to coronavirus, and also facing the threat of lowered immunity due to lack of sleep and rest. Around 43,000 to 48,000 Punjab police personnel have been deployed in various districts of the state to enforce the curfew in the state, ensure distribution of food, essential supplies and medicines, besides operating DIAL 112 helpline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-punjab-not-to-deploy-cops-over-55-years-on-frontline-jobs-827452.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Indore: COVID-19 lab doctor tests positive for coronavirus||A doctor working in a COVID-19 laboratory of the Madhya Pradesh government in Indore on Sunday tested positive for the coronavirus infection, a senior official said. The doctor is responsible for maintaining details of the samples being tested for the coronavirus infection. Indore, which has till now reported 890 cases, has been the state's worst hit district with 50 deaths so far. "A doctor, who was working as a demonstrator in the Physiology Department, was posted in virology laboratory to maintain details related to COVID-19 sample testing. He was found positive for coronavirus," said Dr Jyoti Bindal, Dean, Government Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College (MGMMC). Dr Bindal clarified that the concerned doctor had nothing to do with the scientific work of examining the samples of patients in the virology laboratory. "The condition of the doctor is fine. He has been directed to get admitted in hospital," the dean told PTI. The college staff and others who came in contact with the infected doctor are being quarantined. A large number of people have been tested for COVID-19 in the virology laboratory. These include the samples of patients from Indore as well as other districts from western Madhya Pradesh. In the past, coronavirus infection was also found in a female resident doctor, nurse and some other employees of the Maharaja Yashwantrao Hospital (MYH) which is attached with the MGM Medical College.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indore-covid-19-lab-doctor-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-827456.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||Six foreigners staying in Uttarakhand cave amid coronavirus lockdown, sent to quarantine||Six foreigners were picked up on Sunday from a cave across the Ganga river in Rishikesh on way to the famous Neelkanth temple and later quarantined in a ‘dharamshala’. The foreigners, including two women, were staying at a hotel in Muni Ki Reti area here. They shifted to the cave after running out of money, a police official said. They have been identified as Oleh Sandetski and Oksana Kravchuk from Ukraine who came to India on December 7. Other members of the group are Marve Turhan from Turkey, Michael Raffaele Falcone from the United States, Ladislas Lucas from France and Vishnu Giri from Nepal, he said. The foreign nationals moved into the cave on March 24, the day a countrywide lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of novel coronavirus pandemic. “These foreigners are from Ukraine, Turkey, the US, France and Nepal. They were staying at a hotel in Muni Ki Reti area here on rent till March 24 when the countrywide lockdown was imposed,” Inspector in-charge of Lakshman Jhoola police station, R S Kathait said. They were picked up from the cave following a tip-off that some foreigners seemed to be residing in a cave about one km from a place called Dobata en route to the Neelkanth temple. A police team rushed to the cave and the foreign nationals were picked up, the official said. They were sanitised and quarantined at a dharmashala run by the Sawargashram Trust, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-foreigners-staying-in-uttarakhand-cave-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-sent-to-quarantine-827462.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||35 more people test positive for COVID-19 in Delhi's Tughlakabad Extension containment zone||Earlier, three coronavirus cases were reported from this neighbourhood, prompting authorities to declare the area a containment zone. "After 35 new positive coronavirus cases were found, some more lanes in Tughlakabad area have been sealed," Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East) R P Meena said. Some houses from lane number 24 to 28 have been sealed completely, he said. Police will ensure that no one comes out of the containment zone and only authorised people will be allowed to go inside, he added. According to officials, the area was declared a containment zone after the initial three cases were detected. Later, 93 more people were tested, out of which 35 have tested positive for COVID-19. The number of containment zones in Delhi on Sunday increased to 78 as two new zones were added to the list. As of Saturday, the number of coronavirus cases in Delhi stood at 1,893, according to Delhi government authorities. According to global health norms, two kinds of diagnostic tests are currently being prescribed for use in India -- RT-PCR test and rapid antibody test. The reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test is a laboratory technique combining reverse transcription of RNA into DNA that detects the virus. The antibody tests, which use blood, detect the body's response to the virus. Rapid antibody tests are used for hotspots areas. The Delhi government has acquired 42,000 such kits and trail was conducted on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/35-more-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-delhis-tughlakabad-extension-containment-zone-827476.html
19-04-2020||North and Central||BJP govt in Uttar Pradesh completely failed in tackling coronavirus crisis: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said on Sunday the BJP government has "completely failed" in tackling the situation arising out of the novel coronavirus crisis. He also alleged the government was trying to divert people's attention by "selling golden dreams" to different sections of the society. "The BJP government has completely failed in tackling the situation arising out of the COVID-19 outbreak. Despite verbal orders from the government, people are facing livelihood problem. The BJP government is trying to sell golden dreams to different sections of the society and divert them. They are unable to evaluate the situation and also not able to find the correct way to solve this problem," the SP chief said in a statement. He also said, "The BJP government is indulging in discrimination over bringing back labourers stranded in other states. Nobody is talking about the poorest of the poor. They are facing starvation. Afraid of public anger, BJP workers are hiding in their homes. People have understood that the BJP does not stand with poor and the weaker sections of the society." Yadav alleged that the Team-11 of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath "does not have the correct statistics" pertaining to unemployed persons. Adityanath has set up 'Team-11' comprising as many inter-departmental committees to fight the coronavirus spread and its multi-lateral fallouts on multiple fronts ranging from ensuring medicare to victims to the supply of essentials and tackle long marches of jobless workers back home. "They don't even know how many youth are under-employed ('ardh berozgaar'). From where will they give employment to the youth?" he posed, adding, "The BJP will have to explain in how many years crores will get jobs, as the party is in power in the state for just one-and-half years more."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-govt-in-uttar-pradesh-completely-failed-in-tackling-coronavirus-crisis-akhilesh-yadav-827495.html
19-04-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus: Firefighting without prevention||Nipah virus, Kyasanur forest disease, scrub typhus, Japanese encephalitis, even the more common rabies: all of these share a commonality with the COVID-19 virus, SARS-CoV-2. These are all zoonotic diseases, created when viruses, bacteria or fungi cross over from animals to humans. Over 60% of recent emerging infectious diseases are zoonotic. The vast majority of these can be traced to crossovers between wild animals and humans. Such crossovers are most likely to take place when encounters between humans and wild animals increase. When people cut down forests and destroy wildlife habitats -- for instance, by cutting down trees where bats roost, as misguided people did in Mysuru recently -- then the animals that once lived undisturbed in these areas are forced to move out, and into areas where there is a greater density of people. Keeping undisturbed stretches of forests removed from human disturbance is an important part of future planning, to prevent the emergence and spread of new zoonotic diseases like the COVID-19. In other parts of India, we see an increase in “empty forests” -- forests with trees, but where activities such as hunting, mining, industrial expansion and logging have led to the loss of all large mammals. This disrupts the ecological balance between disease pathogens and their natural hosts, causing zoonotic microbes to jump from one animal to another, eventually encountering human beings as they make their way deeper and deeper into forest areas.  A recent study by Stanford University in Uganda, for instance, found that the clearing of tropical forests increased encounters between people and primates, leading to an increased danger of zoonotic viruses crossing over from wild primates to humans. It is no surprise that scientists recommend that the few remaining large forest areas we have should be left undisturbed, and protected by encouraging tree farms and reforestation projects around these forests, to act as a buffer against interaction with people.  India is one of the richest countries in the world in terms of its naturally endowed forest cover. India contains some of the world’s biodiversity hotspots, including the Western Ghats and eastern Himalayas. Our commitment to the Paris accord for climate mitigation includes large-scale reforestation across India. Activities such as these, if well-planned, could be the way to limit the chances of future life and economy-threatening outbreaks like the one underway. This seems eminently sensible. What are we doing, though? Just the opposite. Let’s take some recent examples. The Forest Advisory Committee has recommended the automatic extension of a number of forest clearance permissions for government-owned mines whose leases were due to expire, categorising mining as an essential service. Not just this -- all previous environmental clearances that were due to expire have been automatically extended until the end of June. The new draft of the Environmental Impact Assessment rules proposes to dilute a number of existing environmental safeguards, permitting many projects that are in violation of rules to ‘regularise’ violations. The mandatory process of public consultation, an important protection that helps activists prevent the indiscriminate industrial exploitation of forests, has also been weakened. Our response to the economic crisis brought about by coronavirus has been to push through industrial expansion and development activity in forests. On April 7, the National Board for Wildlife approved wildlife clearance for developmental projects submitted by 11 states. Closer home, the Karnataka State Wildlife Board approved the Ankola-Hubballi railway line project on March 20. This project will destroy close to 600 acres of rich biodiverse Western Ghats forest cover, and uproot over five lakh trees. Pandemics do not just happen, without warning. We create the conditions for them to occur when we fray the interconnections that keep ecosystems stable. To persist and scale up our ongoing destruction of forests at a time when we can see the terrifying consequences of a pandemic on the loose, is willful blindness. While we fight the fire that surrounds our homes today, we need a plan to fire-proof our future as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-firefighting-without-prevention-827226.html
19-04-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus Lockdown: Tech, tap, toe the line||What crazy old days those were, remember? We shook hands with strangers, hugged friends, travelled, went out to dinner. We left the house for no reason at all. We ran our hands along public bannisters. We talked to people without thinking, “Back up, you germy vector.” Back then, we thought that cricket and war brought the country together. But it turns out that nothing brings a country together like a pandemic. In a pandemic, everybody—literally everybody—has skin in the game, and only the government can respond at scale. It rankles us to stay indoors, but fear of our lives makes us cooperative. We need the government to keep us alive, to figure out survival systems to slalom around the pandemic until it ends. Fearful people are quite capable of pushing mummy down the stairs in order to take her place on the lifeboat. We will let the government lead. That puts an awful lot of power and blind trust in the hands of people who aren’t necessarily worthy of either. Not just the government—the police is humiliating and beating lockdown violators instead of a warning, fining or arresting people. Even RWA administrators are strutting around like tiny tinpot dictators, enforcing arbitrary rules as if a printout stuck on a gate equals the law of the land. So, it is good to chafe against the withdrawal of normality and normal rights, to remind us of what we are giving up, and why. We must bear with uncomfortable measures, but no more than absolutely necessary, and not for one second longer than necessary. And we must insist that less privileged citizens are cared for. When a government solution begins to look less like a health crisis fix, and more like a power trip, it needs to be called out. Governments that are willingly granted special powers in times of crisis don’t always feel like giving them up when the crisis ends; so, it’s best not to agree, in a blind panic, to all their conditions. And politicians who can make you feel good about suffering also get used to making you suffer pointlessly for their own benefit. So, before you download the Aarogya Setu app, which everyone from the Prime Minister to your potted plant is trying to get you to do, consider its functionality and privacy. Should you be bamboozled into needing it to get a job, or travel, or get an e-pass? Should it link to your health records? Will data end up in private hands? Would this government or a future one be able to control, profile, surveil, frame, or disappear you? The app depends on half the country downloading it—does its usefulness warrant the pressure? Oh, and is there maybe another app that will help feed stranded migrants? As for PM-CARES—why yet another fund, with outside auditors, exempt from regulations on foreign contributions? Why are doctors and government personnel and CSR departments being leaned on to donate to it? Finally, special powers do not revoke the people’s right to an accounting—they sharpen it. The government needs to hold a media briefing every day on more than just coronavirus numbers, and the Prime Minister needs to answer questions. He’s never done it before, but he could get some tips from Rahul Gandhi--that guy is braver and takes unscripted questions from the press all the time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-lockdown-tech-tap-toe-the-line-827227.html
19-04-2020||Opinion||Ode to balance||Balance is an elusive quality to put into words. I know because I have tried writing about this in the past and come out so confused that I still don’t know what I was trying to say, despite, er, knowing the mind of the writer, so to speak. I hope, dear reader, you will be indulgent towards this lockdown-induced spell of deep thinking. I know your sense of balance will allow for it.   And that’s precisely the point, isn’t it? It’s easier to identify a lack of balance in any given situation than to say what balance is. It’s like trying to say what health is. You know it best by its absence (yes, we’ll leave this touchy subject alone for the moment…it definitely suggests a lack of balance and tact on the part of the author).   You will, of course, be well within your rights to ask why I have been thinking about the subject of balance, or more precisely, inner balance, in the first place. One way of answering this is that because, well, I had to write this column. I need subjects that I can tackle in 600 words or so and they have to be relevant. And in times like these when the whole world, as we know it, is upside down or off-balance, I thought, why not?  But the real answer is that I decided to write this column, because I was thinking so much about the subject. In fact, I was, to put the facts in their right order, so struck by how important a quality it is on one of these lockdown mornings – I swear there is no way of knowing one from another – that I knew I would end up writing about it.  But to return to the tale of my illumination – as I was clutching at metaphorical straws, trying to figure out how to improve my mood after days of trawling the depths of crankiness one fine nameless, formless hour a few days ago, I finally hit upon a brilliant scheme. All I had to do was achieve that imperceptible-but-somehow-real state called ‘balance’ and it would magically sort out my inchoate existence. As simple as that.  Having reached this grand conclusion (just the idea was good enough to lift my mood for a good hour or two), I gave myself to wondering for a while each day then onwards, what exactly this creature is and how to domesticate the furry thing.  Now, I must admit that had I not the time and luxury for contemplation, I would probably not have gone down this hole. I am sure you understand what I mean. See how introspection and self-observation seem like uninspired fare compared to the latest political slugfest or an opportunity to rant about how certain people’s narrow-minded actions are just unbelievable. But with not much of that exalting fare on open display for now, I was forced to dwell on the stuff playing out in my inner theatre.  Here is what I found on better examination. Balance seems to me to be something that is always in motion. Yes, they called these paradoxical things ‘figures of speech’ in our middle school grammar textbooks (I still have a poetic bone or two intact after all these years). But to revert to balance, it is clearly not a fixed entity towards which you or I can move. And there is no one fixed prescription that will fit all occasions and persons.  Balance is more like adjusting the taste of rasam – we must do whatever it takes to make it taste right. Add a little extra salt, a touch of jaggery, perhaps, or just throw in a handful of coriander leaves to ramp up the whole experience. Maybe do all of it and more. But the point is, we have to be present to adjust, to make sure that we see and notice what is off-balance. Without that, all is lost. And so, I concluded that without that vital ingredient, i.e., my own awareness of what needs to be added (or more likely removed) from a given situation, chasing after the mythical animal named balance is useless. Balance is not out there, trite as it may sound, but in here. And lockdown or no, that’s the one thing that is always going to be accessible. The creature we’re after could well be us. After all, it’s wholly possible we’re making ourselves up. Why not make it well-balanced?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ode-to-balance-827228.html
19-04-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus Lockdown: ‘Herd’ today - A Nazi idea is making a comeback||You don’t like to be quarantined and find the minimum 6-foot ‘social distancing’ requirement a huge burden. Guess what, you have had a lot of practice doing both, long before the coronavirus swept the globe. How so, you ask. The answer lies in the many viruses, some of them very old, that have been infecting you. A dangerous new one is coming to your area, but more on that later in the article. Through incessant texting, playing online games and watching endless movies being streamed on the tiny screen of your smartphone, you knew how to self-quarantine. The walled community you live in has allowed you to practice social distancing quite successfully. The wall can be a physical one (Berlin or Trump models instantly come to mind), but mostly it is a virtual one, constructed by bricks drawn from just one pile or a mix-and-match of several piles of highly infectious material -- race, religion, caste, wealth, nationality, ignorance, greed, power, ideologies, etc. The same material, the same age-old fault lines responsible for numerous internecine conflicts, especially wars.  While scientists are still not sure whether the new coronavirus has more than one strain, the viruses I am talking about are all non-biological in nature and have many strains. Here is an incomplete list – viral-inequality, viral-bigotry, viral-censorship, viral-misinformation, viral-missing information, viral-surveillance, and viral-authoritarianism. Have you heard of the newest virus that is starting to propagate? Labelled ‘herd immunity,’ it is predicated on opening up the economy as quickly as possible. This viral idea has a biological component and several non-biological components. The herd immunity approach to combating the coronavirus, as proposed in the US and the UK, involves the following steps. Test a subset of some population and break it down into two groups – uninfected and infected. Immunise the uninfected group and issue them ‘immunity passports’ allowing unrestricted movement. Track every member of the infected group to establish who they come in contact with through cellphone records, facial recognition, CCTV, shopping details, social media postings, protected health records and government databases. Analyse the data down to the minutest detail so as to track the spread of the virus, track people violating quarantine orders, build better pandemic models, and notify people who might possibly get infected due to being in the proximity of infected individuals.  It is the non-biological components of the virus that I find interesting, and troubling -- troubling because it is rooted in Nazi ideology, and interesting because it involves almost every aspect of information technology and biotechnology. You may want to learn more about programmes and tools such as ‘Data for Good’ and ‘Social Connectedness Index’. You may also wish to look upon the rich literature on notions of genetic purity and apartheid as practised in South Africa, America’s Deep South and elsewhere.  The immunity passport-holders will be the new ‘chosen’ people with many privileges conferred upon them, and those without such passports will pay the price. Unlike the old ‘chosen’ people, whose passports were merely tattoos which guaranteed them one-way passages to concentration camps and places beyond. The immunity passport that is being contemplated has much in common with the ‘yellow card’, an international certification of vaccination and prophylaxis required for travel to certain parts of the world. There is a major difference though – the former is intended for travel within a country. War, technology and viruses have been in bed together for a long time. Missiles in exchange for HCQ to fight the pandemic? A far better deal if a handful of H1-B visas had been thrown in, perhaps? It would have made some people very happy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-lockdown-herd-today-a-nazi-idea-is-making-a-comeback-827229.html
19-04-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus: So far so good, now let’s think post-lockdown||India’s early precautions and restrictions on the movement of people have greatly benefitted the country, albeit at a heavy economic cost. But the economy can be revived, lives lost are forever. The lockdown seems to be the only way to slow the spread of the virus as no effective antidote has yet been found for it. So far, only symptoms are being treated and isolation of the patient helps in recovery as well as prevents contamination and spread. Medical experts fear that the deadly coronavirus could start to spread post-lockdown. Still, we can be reasonably confident that even at its peak, it may not be as virulent in India as it was in other countries, provided everybody maintains social distancing, wear masks and practice hygiene in the months to come. The pandemic has brought countries with excellent and state-of-the-art healthcare infrastructures to their knees. India cannot boast of world-class public healthcare infrastructure. Perhaps it is an inherent high level of immunity (due to various factors), our lifestyle and the indomitable spirit to endure hardships during crises that offers some explanation for India faring better so far. This, no doubt, may be only temporary respite and we can abandon caution only at peril of being drawn inextricably into the vortex of the pandemic. It is in this context that the Prime Minister has warned that areas that may be granted exemption from complete lockdown post-April 20 will still be under watch and any signs of the infection spreading will be strictly monitored. Again, there are thousands of camps housing migrant workers, with no roadmap for them. The Prime Minister mentioned their woes and sought to reassure them when he said the country had enough food stocks. It would make sense for the government to release some part of this stock for free distribution as the migrant workers and BPL cardholders are cash-starved and cannot afford to buy food grains even at the minimum price. Migrant workers can also be provided point-to-point transportation to reach their villages, with adequate precautions.    The government has appealed to non-governmental organisations to assist it in tackling the present crisis in a big way. In fact, slum clearance and redevelopment are some of the areas where NGOs can build bridges with stakeholders. In the past several years, many NGOs that were fly-by-night operators have been identified and their registrations withdrawn. Such black sheep had sullied the image of genuine NGOs, making them suspect in the eyes of the government and the public. It is now for the government to go the extra mile and facilitate the smooth functioning of genuine NGOs without bias or prejudice. Many corporate houses funnel their CSR funds into government projects. The government can consider schemes and tax benefits to divert such CSR funds to registered NGOs so as to strengthen their activities. The Prime Minister has called on the younger generation, especially those in the scientific community, to come out with solutions that could help tackle the pandemic. For its part, the government should come out with a long-term plan to facilitate researchers, innovators, MSME sector manufacturers, the health sector, infrastructure developers and technocrats to devote more time productively, instead of getting entangled in the regular bureaucratic rigmarole and working capital crunch. It is unfortunate that the Niti Aayog and other such institutions entrusted with these responsibilities are yet to come up to the expectations of the stakeholders, to say the least.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-so-far-so-good-now-let-s-think-post-lockdown-827230.html
19-04-2020||South||43 fresh COVID-19 cases in Telangana; active cases now 605||Forty-three fresh cases of COVID-19 have been reported in Telangana on Saturday, taking the number of active cases in the state to 605. No death occurred on Saturday and the number of people who succumbed to the virus stood at 18, it said. With the addition of the fresh cases, the total number of infections reported in the state rose to 809, a media bulletin issued by the state government said. It said 186 people have been cured/discharged till date from hospitals after recovery. Out of the 43 cases detected on Saturday, 31 are from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area. The Telangana cabinet would meet on Sunday to discuss the virus containment measures and whether to continue lockdown in the state strictly, as it is being implemented now, till May 3 or to give some concessions in line with the Centre's thinking. An official release said Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who held a meeting with ministers and officials today, directed that the measures to check the spread of virus be implemented effectively. It should be ensured that no one remains without food due to the lockdown, Rao said. He asked the officials to adopt an effective approach to contain the spread of the virus in the GHMCwhere majority of the cases are reported. Rao suggested that those in containment zones should not be allowed to come out under any circumstances. Effective strategies should be prepared to check the virus spread in other places in the state where positive cases have been detected, he added. Suggesting that tests should be conducted, by making an accurate assessment on who might get infected from the COVID-19 patients, he said the government is ready to test and treat any number of people. The state government has issued instructions to municipal commissioners and additional collectors of districts to ensure that all medical shops and pharmacists collect phone numbers of customers who buy medicines for fever, cough and cold, symptoms similar to COVID-19. In a memo on Friday, Principal Secretary (Municipal Administration and Urban Development) Arvind Kumar saidit has been observed that due to "hesitation and perceived social stigma", people suffering from fever orcold symptoms which might be similar to coronavirus are approaching medical shops directly on their own and asking for fever medicines. "It is imperative that in a proactive manner we follow up on these cases which are having fever and other such symptoms which might be similar to those of coronavirus. We should be able to contact these patients and get a test conducted depending upon the symptoms," the memo said. Health minister E Rajender, who inaugurated a blood donation camp, referred to recent attacks on doctors, treating COVID-19 patients, and said the government would take tough action against those who indulged in such attacks. Meanwhile, Telangana IT and Industries minister K T Rama Rao appealed to corporates and business houses in the statenot to resort to layoff of employees. Addressing the CII Telangana members over a video conference, Rama Rao said government is putting in efforts to contain and flatten the COVID-19 pandemic curve and that the state is well prepared with sufficient quantities of PPEs, masks, testing kits and ventilators. The state government has launched a helpline to address mental health and psychological problems that may arise during the COVID-19 lockdown period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/43-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-telangana-active-cases-now-605-827166.html
19-04-2020||South||105 new COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu; Chennai continues to be on top||After a lull, Tamil Nadu reported another massive spike in the number of positive Covid-19 patients with swab samples of 105 persons rendering positive on Sunday alone. As many as 50 persons tested positive for Coronavirus in Chennai alone, in a major cause of worry for this metropolis that now has 285 confirmed Covid-19 patients. In another concern for the state, three doctors – all working at the Rajiv Gandhi Government Hospital (RGGH) here – have tested positive for Covid-19 even as the Tamil Nadu government maintains it has provided enough PPEs, masks, and gloves to frontline health care professionals and workers. There have been complaints from doctors working in government hospitals that they have not received PPEs and other medical gear needed to protect them from infection. For the second time in a week, Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh refrained from holding the regular press briefing on Sunday during which she hands out the day’s statistics on Covid-19 to the media. Out of the 50 people tested positive in Chennai on Sunday, only 10 are primary patients and the remaining 40 are contacts. With this, Chennai has the maximum number of Covid-19 patients in the state at 285, making it the major hotspot of the disease in Tamil Nadu.  A 10-year-old student and just born baby are among the 105 persons who tested positive on Sunday in the state. The only consolation is that no death was reported in the past three days and 46 patients left home from hospitals on Sunday after recovering. The state had reported less than 40 cases for three days last week prompting Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to claim that the state would see “zero” cases in the next three to four days on Thursday -- a statement that came under attack from various quarters. However, the state has been witnessing a spike in cases since then – 49 on Friday, Saturday (57) and Sunday (105). This is the first time after a week that the state reported more than 100 cases in a day. Sunday’s tally takes the total number of cases in the state to 1,477, including 411 discharges and 15 deaths. The health bulletin said two deaths have been cross-notified to other states, while one patient died after turning negative for infection. The state currently has 21,381 passengers under home quarantine for 28 days and 20 asymptomatic passengers from highly affected countries are being quarantined in quarantine facilities near airport and 1,987 are under hospital isolation. “Till now 40,876 samples have been taken from the passengers. 1,477 persons are tested positive to date, while 2,411 samples are under process. 5,135 samples are repeat samples of the same persons,” an update from the Health Department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/105-new-covid-19-cases-in-tamil-nadu-chennai-continues-to-be-on-top-827243.html
19-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM to take call on easing coronavirus lockdown for select sectors after panel submits report on Monday: Govt||As the revised guidelines for extended lockdown come into force from Monday, Tamil Nadu government is expected to take a decision on easing curbs on specified industries in the state after perusing a report of an expert committee to be submitted to it. The report was expected on Monday and the existing curbs will continue till a decision was taken, the state government said. The panel was set up after the Centre while issuing the revised guidelines on April 15 for the second phase of the lockdown had asked the states to decide on the industries and other services that could operate, it said on Sunday. The committee, which held a meeting, will submit on Monday its report to Chief Minister K Palaniswami who will take a decision on relaxing the curbs after scrutinising the recommendations, an official release here said. "The curbs in force will continue to be on till such time the government issues orders," the release said. Agriculture, construction, Information Technology and industrial units in the SEZs and rural areas are among some sectors where the lockdown restrictions will be eased with safeguards from April 20, according to Union Home Ministry. The guidelines were issued a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement on April 14 extending the three- week lockdown for another 19 days till May 3 to battle the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-to-take-call-on-easing-coronavirus-lockdown-for-select-sectors-after-panel-submits-report-on-monday-govt-827262.html
19-04-2020||South||A birthday celebration in a Chennai lockdown relief center||Shrishti Kumari was pleasantly surprised on Saturday when the staff at a relief centre where she and her family members are living for the past few weeks asked her to come to the dining hall at an "odd" time. The surprise was waiting on a table with all her family members in attendance -- a birthday cake for the 5th standard student who was upset that she could not celebrate her 11th birthday in her house among her friends. The cake was arranged by the staff of the Greater Chennai Corporation's Community Centre, now turned into a relief shelter for migrant workers and those stranded due to COVID-19 lockdown, who came to know Saturday was Shrishti Kumar's birthday. In the company of those manning the relief centre and her family members, the little girl cut her birthday cake and gave the first slice to her grandfather. The simple gesture of making the inmates of the relief centre happy in times of gloom by the GCC staff has won over the internet. The pictures of the simple birthday celebration posted by Alby John, Regional Deputy Commissioner, South Zone, GGC, has gone viral on Twitter with many sharing them on various other social media platforms. Hailing from Bihar's capital Patna, Kumari and her family had come to Tamil Nadu on March 15 for a temple tour and were to take a train from Chennai on March 23. After visiting temples in Tirupati, Kanyakumari and Rameswaram, the group of 97 people came back to Chennai on March 21 and are stranded here since then. With trains being cancelled and hotels also closing, over 20 people of the group sought refuge in the relief centre. "I was upset that I could not celebrate my 11th birthday among my friends in our house. But the birthday celebrations in Chennai was a surprise. This was a new kind of experience and I feel happy cutting the cake," Kumari told DH. With the quintessential childish innocence, Kumari adds, "Though the cake was nice, I missed home food on my birthday. My mother makes special food every birthday. I missed it this year." Ajay Kumar Gupta, one of the organisers of the tour, told DH that the arrangements at the relief centre were good and they are satisfied with the efforts taken to keep them happy during the lockdown period. "Most of us are diabetic and we are being provided with the food that we need. We feel blessed because some of the members of our group are still lodged in hotels and are complaining that they do not get food. We are happy we get everything on time," he said. An official attached with the relief center says the occupants are provided with breakfast, lunch, dinner and tea and snacks twice in the day, besides staff helping them to buy medicines as most of them take tablets regularly. John, the Coroporation official, told DH the decision to celebrate the birthday was taken by the local staff. "It was a nice gesture from the staff. The idea is that when all of them are going through hardships, there should be an occasion to smile. The birthday was one such occasion and we are happy the staff took the decision to celebrate and made the girl and her family happy," he said.     Meghanath Reddy, Deputy Commissioner(Revenue&Finance), GCC, wrote on Twitter: "They are not just stranded ppl. They are not just inmates at our Relief Centres. They are one among us. @chennaicorp staff celebrating birthday of a young girl at one of our Relief Centres. Heartening to see this."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-birthday-celebration-in-a-chennai-lockdown-relief-center-827293.html
19-04-2020||South||Two journalists test positive for coronavirus in Tamil Nadu||Two journalists, including one who attended a press briefing by Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh last week, have tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, prompting authorities to immediately quarantine those who were living with them. Swab samples of a 25-year-old reporter with a leading Tamil daily and a 23-year-old sub-editor with a television news channel rendered positive on Sunday.     While the reporter was staying with his five of his journalist friends in a mansion in the Triplicane area, the sub-editor was staying with his family in the police quarters in Vyasarpadi area. All roommates of the reporter and family members of the sub-editor have been quarantined at various facilities. With a reporter attending the daily press briefing by the Health Secretary, the government is planning to conduct tests on all journalists who came in direct or indirect contact with him. With this, the number of journalists infected with Covid-19 has gone up to 3 -- a scribe who is working in New Delhi has tested positive on his return from the national capital. Sunday's incident also led to journalists' bodies asking the government to switch to digital press conferences and put social media to maximum use to disseminate information. In a statement, Chennai Press Club asked the government and politicians to avoid conducting press conferences as it might lead to spread of Covid-19 while asking journalists who go on field reporting to get tested voluntarily. The reporter, who was covering the Chennai Corporation beat, was assigned to cover Health beat after the outbreak of Covid-19 in March and had come to the DMS complex on Tuesday where Beela Rajesh addresses the media every day to give statistics about the day's development vis-a-vis Coronavirus. "The journalist had attended the press briefing on Tuesday, though he has not been reporting from the field due to Covid-19 restrictions," a scribe who attended the briefing told DH. The reporter's colleagues told DH that the 25-year-old did not display major symptoms of Covid-19 but got tested on Thursday after he developed cold. "He complained of fever and cold a week and went to a doctor. He said it was a normal fever and my colleague was recovering. But he decided to give a swab test on Thursday and the results came back positive ob Sunday morning," a colleague said. They also said the reporter had only visited his office now and then besides working from home. Since he was staying in a mansion, all inmates of the facility will also be tested, officials said, adding that the entire area has already been barricaded and influx and outflux are being regulated. The sub-editor, who also tested positive, works for a private Tamil news television channel. His colleagues have also been quarantined and will be tested. While the reporter and his roommates have been quarantined at the Rajiv Gandhi Government Hospital, the sub-editor and his immediate contacts are isolated at the Stanley Medical College Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-journalists-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-tamil-nadu-827323.html
19-04-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh has second highest average of coronavirus tests per million population||Andhra Pradesh has conducted a record 5,508 Covid-19 tests on Saturday, making it the state with the second-highest average number of tests per a million population. With the use of the rapid test kits imported from South Korea, the state’s health machinery is planning to scale up the daily tests to 17,500 per day in about 10 days. The Focus would be on the red zones and Kurnool, Guntur, Krishna and Nellore districts where the virus cases are widespread. The state with about 5.3 core population has, as of Sunday morning, 565 active cases, 65 recoveries and 17 deaths. According to health officials, the state, on Thursday 16 April, was at fourth place nationwide in the number of average tests conducted, after Rajasthan, Kerala and Maharashtra. “But now, we are at second place with 539 tests per 10 lakh people. Rajasthan is at 685 tests per million,” officials informed Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy during a review meeting on Covid-19 situation in the state on Sunday. Over 4,000 tests were conducted on Friday, in the state’s seven virus research diagnostic labs using the TreuNat TB testing machines. Five more such labs would come into use in a few days, according to the Chief Minister Office. A consignment of one lakh rapid test kits from Seoul reached AP on Friday. Reddy underwent the Covid-19 test using the Korean kit which showed him as negative for the virus.    Officials expect that the tests on the 32,000 people identified with symptoms and contacts with Covid-19 patients would provide them a clearer picture of virus spread in the state. 339 quarantine centres are set up with 34,926 isolation rooms across the state’s 13 districts, with a total bed strength of 72,835. At present, 5,876 people are in quarantine centres. The cumulative number of positive cases are at present 647, with most of them connected to the Markaz event of the Tablighi Jamaat. Kurnool with 158 and Guntur with 129 cases are the top districts with Covid-19. Out of the 44 cases recorded between Saturday and Sunday morning, 26 are from Kurnool, a district adjoining Telangana and Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-has-second-highest-average-of-coronavirus-tests-per-million-population-827362.html
19-04-2020||South||2 COVID-19 cases reported in Kerala: 13 recover||Two new cases of coronavirus, were reported in Kerala on Sunday, taking the total number to 401, while 13 people recovered, the health department said. Health Minister K K Shailaja said as of now 270 people have recovered from the deadly virus in the state. "One infected person is from Kannur and another from Kasaragod. They came from Abu Dhabi and Dubai respectively. As of now 129 peopleare under treatment in the state," Shailaja said in a release. At least 55,590 people are under observation in the state while 416 are in isolation wards at various hospitals. The state has till now sent 19,351 samples for testing. Kannur has 48 positive cases while neighbouring Kasaragod has 42 and Kozhikode, 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/2-covid-19-cases-reported-in-kerala-13-recover-827380.html
19-04-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown extended till May 7 in Telangana||The lockdown to control the COVID-19 spread is extended till May 7 in Telangana, announced chief minister Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday. “There would not be any relaxations allowed in Telangana,” Rao said after a special state cabinet meeting to review the situation in the state vis-à-vis the nation.   As declared by Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier, the entire nation is under lockdown till May 3.  Telangana became the first state to extend the line by another four days, as COVID-19 positive cases continue to surge in the state.  The state recorded 858 cases till now, with 49 added on Sunday. Around half of these cases are from the capital Hyderabad area.  Rao appealed to people, especially those intending to fly in by domestic aircrafts from May 3, to avoid coming to Hyderabad till May 7, “as everything would remain shut.”      A May 5 cabinet meeting would decide on further action depending on the situation then, Rao said adding that the public opinion he gathered from various sections of society was in support of extension of the lockdown.  Mentioning the Delhi incident of a pizza delivery boy testing positive compelling the authorities to send several families for tests and quarantine, the chief minister said that Swiggy, Zomato like food delivery services would not be allowed from Monday. “While the foreign returnee and their contact cases are all 100 percent recovered and discharged, the Nizamuddin connection cases continuing,” Rao said opining that cases could reduce in Telangana after May 1.  While appealing the public to show restraint till then, the Chief Minister cautioned that about 50,000 vehicles are seized in the state till now for violating lockdown rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-extended-till-may-7-in-telangana-827494.html
19-04-2020||State||Two more coronavirus deaths reported in Karnataka, death toll rises to 16||Two new COVID-19 related fatalities have been reported in Karnataka, taking the death toll in the state due to the coronavirus infection to 16, the health department said on Sunday. A 65-year old woman, who is a resident of Bengaluru, and a 50-year old woman, who is a resident of Uppinangadi in Dakshina Kannada, with case of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), have died on April 19 at designated hospitals in their respective districts, the department said in its bulletin. Six new cases of COVID-19 have been confirmed in the state. Cumulatively, 390 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in Karnataka so far, it includes 16 deaths and 111 discharges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-more-coronavirus-deaths-reported-in-karnataka-death-toll-rises-to-16-827363.html
19-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: In Karnataka's Belagavi, child reunited with ‘nurse’ mother after 21 days||A three-year-old girl and her mother, a nurse, were reunited after 21 days in Karnataka's Belagavi district on Saturday.  The city witnessed an emotional reunification of mother and child at Bhadkal Galli where the family resides. A jubilant Aishwarya ran to embrace her teary-eyed mother Sugandha Korpur, who had missed her just as much.   The district until Saturday witnessed 42 positive COVID-19 cases including 1 death and 1 recovery. Doctors and paramedical staff are posted on duty at the district hospital, designated for the treatment of COVID-19 cases, for a week and later kept in quarantine for 14 days at a hotel near the hospital and sent home after their samples test negative. This is to prevent their family from being infected. Sugandha was posted on COVID-19 duty in the last week of March after which she was in quarantine in the hotel opposite the hospital. Aishwarya, not used to living away from her mother, had been crying for glimpse of her. Her father, Santosh, and grandmother, Vimal, were taking care of her, but could not meet her demands to stay with the mother.  In the previous week, Aishwarya and Sugandha, along with Sugandha's mother, saw each other from a distance and wept. They were unable to come closer to keep up with the COVID-19 quarantine protocols. Santosh Korpur, father of the child and Sugandha’s husband, had brought Aishwarya on a motorcycle to the hotel to ensure she sees the mother to make her stop crying. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa who had seen the mother and child cry on television channels had spoken to Sugandha over phone and instilled confidence. After spending 14 days in quarantine, Sugandha returned home on Saturday. After their teary reunion, the child consoled the mother by wiping her tears and flashing her innocent.  Sugandha told DH that she felt relieved on being reunited with Aishwarya as she had been missing the child and it was first instance she had been away from her daughter and family for such a long period. She said her pain had been eased. She said that she was again being posted for duty in the hospital from April 21, but hoped that it was some other ward so she could come home everyday. She added that despite rotation there was a possibility of being posted in the Covid-19 ward again, but now she would be more mentally prepared for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-in-karnatakas-belagavi-child-reunited-with-nurse-mother-after-21-days-827237.html
19-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Indian coast guard ramps up surveillance along Karnataka coastline||To boost the Coast Guard's (CG) surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities on the country's west coast in Karnataka, CG OPV Varaha and CG Dornier 785 ex Kochi were pressed to service to undertake extensive surveillance. "Both seawards and aerial surveillance of Karnataka coast line will be undertaken from Sunday," said S Babu Venkatesh, Commander, Coast Guard, Karnataka. The surveillance will be an air-sea coordinated operation. The Coast Guard ships and aircraft maintained extensive search in the area for intercepting any suspect vessel. Indian Coast Guard ships classified various contacts in the area and kept them under constant surveillance. In addition, the fast Interceptor Boats C 448, C 420 and C 155 have been extensively deployed for near to coast patrol to monitor all fishing boats and act as deterrence to prevent any nefarious activities from Karwar up to Kasaragod to cover the 320-km coastline.Coast Guard Karnataka has been also been maintaining constant surveillance using the Remoting Operating Stations (ROS) in Surathkal and Bhatkal using electronic means, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-indian-coast-guard-ramps-up-surveillance-along-karnataka-coastline-827277.html
19-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka technical education department directs colleges against use of Zoom for virtual classes||The state technical education department following the Union Home Ministry’s guidelines, has directed all its colleges not to use the Zoom app to conduct online classes during the ongoing lockdown period. Considering the Union goverment advisory that Zoom is not safe, the department has taken the decision and issued a circular asking all government, aided and unaided engineering, polytechnic (Diploma) colleges to stop using the app immediately. The department recommended the use of  a free app developed by TCS: "TCS iON Digital class room" or any other Apps recommended by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) to conduct online classes from now on. "Colleges were using Zoom since March 28th and as it is opined that the App is not safe we have directed for suspension of the App" said HU Talwar, Director, Technical Education Department.  However this was also the opinion of some of the vice chancellors during the recent video conference conducted by higher education minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan where some VCs said that the app was not safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-technical-education-department-directs-colleges-against-use-of-zoom-for-virtual-classes-827291.html
19-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kumaraswamy thanks CM Yediyurappa for backing family on son's wedding||Asserting that social distancing was maintained during the wedding, the JD(S) leader in a series of tweets hit out at those accusing his family of violating lockdown norms, by stating that they were doing it out of "political hate". "Despite maintaining social distancing and following rules during Nikhil's marriage, there are discussion that norms were not followed. Because of political hate, poisonous comments are being made about an auspicious event, but Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa by rejecting all this is standing by the truth," Kumaraswamy said in a tweet in Kannada. He said, "heartfelt thanks to Yediyurappa for his statement that a big political family in the state has conducted the marriage ceremony in a simple way." Nikhil, the grandson of former prime minister H D Deve Gowda, entered wedlock on Friday at a Bidadi farmhouse with Revathi, the grandniece of former Congress minister M Krishnappa. On the day of the marriage several posts on social media, also media reports had criticised the Gowda family for violating locdown norms and social distancing during the event. Coming to the defence of Gowda family, Yediyurappa in response to a question on Saturday told reporters "They (family) had all the permissions and the event was held in a simple fashion. There's no need to discuss this. "Despite having many relatives, they stuck to the limitations. For this, I congratulate them," he had said. Stating that lockdown rules were followed during Nikhil's marriage, Kumaraswamy said, "By looking for politics in Nikhil's marriage, certain faulty minds on social media are spewing venom that is in their mind." Gowda family had scaled down Nikhil's wedding, which was earlier planned in a 95-acre land near Ramanagara with a lavish set, with lakhs of party workers and well-wishers in attendance, followed by a grand reception in Bengaluru. Nikhil has acted in couple of Kannada films in the lead role. He had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from the party bastion of Mandya and had lost against multilingual actress Sumalatha Ambareesh, an independent candidate supported by BJP, in a bitterly contested polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kumaraswamy-thanks-cm-yediyurappa-for-backing-family-on-sons-wedding-827314.html
19-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Isolation ward medical teams home quarantined for 14 days||The district hospital has been converted into a designated hospital for Coronavirus isolation and treatment. The doctors and medical staff who work in the isolation ward, are being kept under home quarantine for 14 days before coming back to work.  A fever clinic has been opened at the entrance of the hospital to examine patients coming in closely for fever, headache, cold, respiratory problems, cough and itching in the throat.  In case the symptoms are evident, the patients are admitted to the isolation ward their throat swabs and blood are being sent to the laboratory for tests. In each shift, there is a physician, anaesthetist and child specialist. These teams are camping at the nursing hostel near the hospital and do not go home for a week. The medical staff has been given personal protective equipment to wear at work. 'We are taking special care of the patients in isolation, especially their hygiene, and health," said Dr P Bhanuprakash of the Covid-19 hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/isolation-ward-medical-teams-home-quarantined-for-14-days-827344.html
19-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka extends coronavirus lockdown by a day; Cabinet to finalise relaxations||Lockdown restrictions have been extended by a day by the Karnataka government, in an order issued by chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar on Sunday. The order directed all heads of departments, district deputy commissioners and superintendent of policies to "continue to implement the measures presently in force" as per Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines dated April 14, "till the midnight of April 21, 2020." The MHA guidelines had earlier allowed the state government to relax lockdown norms post-April 20. The order came ahead of the cabinet meeting scheduled Monday, where the government will discuss COVID-19 lockdown measures and how it will be relaxed in parts of the state. While many urban areas will remain under lockdown till May 3, the government will discuss measures to revive the crisis-hit rural economy in parts of the state where norms will be relaxed after April 21.    There are indications that the minimum support price for crops, not procured due to the decline in demand during lockdown, will be announced by the state government. Boosting sowing activities ahead of the monsoon by ensuring logistics for supply of seeds, pesticides and other essential items will be discussed. Monetisation measures announced by chief minister B S Yediyurappa recently, such as auctioning 12,000 BDA corner sites and regularisation of unauthorised buildings - Akrama Sakrama scheme - will be deliberated by the state cabinet. While a cabinet decision on auctioning the 12,000 sites is likely, legal measures required to be adopted by the state to approach SC over Akrama-Sakrama are expected to feature in the cabinet meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-extends-coronavirus-lockdown-by-a-day-cabinet-to-finalise-relaxations-827408.html
19-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||App, portal to help CET, NEET students||The Higher Education department will launch a crash course through ‘GetCetGo’ android app and a web portal for the aid of students preparing for the Common Entrance Test (CET) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET)-2020. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will launch the scheme on Monday. The mobile app and the web Students can access previous years’ question papers, chapter-wise analysis, practice sessions, mock tests, unit tests and revision videos.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/app-portal-to-help-cet-neet-students-827450.html
19-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Thunderstorms dash mango growers' hopes of salvaging crops||The mango growers of the undivided Dharwad district were hoping to salvage the season after the rising temperatures affected the yield. But a few spells of thunderstorms in the last few days have shattered their hopes. The rain, accompanied by gusty winds, damaged the ready-to-harvest crop in Kalgahtagi, Kundgol, Dharwad and Hubballi taluks and in Shiggaon taluk of Haveri district. Mango, mostly Alphonso variety, is cultivated on 10,500 hectares in Dharwad district, the largest mango-growing district in the state.  Over two quintals of fruits grown on two-acre orchard of Channappa Mulgund in Unkal of Hubballi taluk have been blown off the trees. This apart, many mango and sapota trees have been uprooted. The soaring temperatures had reduced the yield. I was hoping to salvage the season by harvesting whatever left. But the thunderstorms in the last few days blew the fruits off the trees, Channappa Mulgund poured out his woes to DH. The story of Revadihal farmer Ravi Harijan is no different. He too has lost his crop in the storm that hit the region recently. Santosh Katage, a farmer from Shiggaon, was the worst hit. The farmer, according to the taluk Horticulture officer Praveen Kulkarni, has lost 90% of crop to thunderstorm. The unseasonal showers have uprooted sapota plants, blown off jackfruits and flowers off guava trees, leaving the farmers of the region worried. Meanwhile, Ramchandrappa Madiwalar, Deputy Director, Horticulture, has urged the horticulture farmers not to destroy crops, citing drastic dip in prices or lack of access to markets. "The department will take measures to send the buyers to the field and also make necessary arrangements to send their yield to the markets outside the state," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/thunderstorms-dash-mango-growers-hopes-of-salvaging-crops-827459.html
19-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Government extends lockdown norms by a day till tomorrow||Lockdown restrictions have been extended by a day by the state government, through an order issued by chief secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar on Sunday. The order directed all heads of departments, deputy commissioners and superintendents of police of the districts to “continue to implement the measures presently in force” as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs dated April 14, “till the midnight of 21st April 2020.” The MHA guidelines had earlier allowed the state government to relax lockdown norms post-April 20. The order came ahead of the Cabinet meeting scheduled on Monday, where the Covid-19 lockdown measures will be discussed and how they can be relaxed in parts of the state. While many urban areas will remain under lockdown till May 3, the government will discuss measures to revive the crisis-hit rural economy in parts of the state, where norms will be relaxed after April 21. There are indications that the minimum support price for crops, not procured due to the decline in demand during the lockdown, will be announced by the government. Issues like boosting sowing activities ahead of the monsoon by ensuring logistics for the supply of seeds, pesticides and other essential commodities will be discussed. Monetisation measures announced by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa recently, such as auctioning 12,000 corner sites by BDA and regularisation of unauthorised buildings - Akrama Sakrama scheme - will be deliberated upon by the Cabinet. A decision on auctioning the 12,000 BDA sites looks likely. Legal measures required to be taken by the state to approach the Supreme Court over the Akrama-Sakrama scheme are expected to be discussed at the Cabinet meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/government-extends-lockdown-norms-by-a-day-till-tomorrow-827465.html
19-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Plaints on job loss, pay cuts surge post lockdown extension||Ever since the extension of the lockdown up to May 3, the Labour Department has seen a surge in the number of complaints related to retrenchment and salary cuts, with officials fearing that things may get worse in the coming days. The state Labour Department has been receiving complaints from the public days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a lockdown on March 24. As companies descended into financial crisis, phones in the department started ringing. “It started with two to three complaints per day. The number of complaints has gone up in the last few days. We are receiving between 30 and 50 calls and most of them are related to salary cuts. We will issue notice to such companies,” Labour Commissioner K G Shantharam told DH.  The Union government has deployed four labour officers in Karnataka to receive complaints from workers. One of the officials said that as their numbers were published in the media, they were getting calls every 10 minutes. “Nearly half of the complaints are related to PF withdrawal and are guided to respective sections. Complaints about job losses and salary cuts have rise sharply over the last one week. We are sending daily reports to the Union government,” the official added.   Advocate and labour rights activist Clifton Rosario said most of the workers have lost confidence in the law. “The labour community is too weak to fight the entrenched employers. Most of them will not even think of complaining as demanding justice will only make them a target in future,” he said. Withdrawal of circular Rosario said the problem should have been tackled at the fundamental level. “The Centre should have included measures to mitigate the problems of the labourers in its announcement of the lockdown. It is unfortunate that the state government withdrew the only circular it passed to protect labourers,” he said.  Principal Secretary of Labour Department P Manivannan said the circular barring employers from sacking workers or cutting their salary was withdrawn because “we didn’t want it to clash with a similar order from the government of India”. He said the department will announce a helpline for receiving such complaints. “A WhatsApp helpline will be operational from tomorrow (Monday). It’s only for workers whose salary is generally less than Rs 21,000 per month,”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/plaints-on-job-loss-pay-cuts-surge-post-lockdown-extension-827466.html
19-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Number of Covid-19 cases nosedive on Sunday||Only six new cases of Covid-19 were reported by the State on Sunday, a steep fall in numbers after two days of high reportage.  Four of the new cases are residents of Mysuru and Nanjangud Pharma cluster, with one 30-year-old woman being a resident of Uppinangadi in Dakshina Kannada. This raises the total number of positive cases in the State to 388 to date. The sixth patient (patient 390), a 50-year-old woman of Bantwal in Dakshina Kannada, was also disclosed to have died due to complications from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), a late-stage consequence of Covid-19.  Similarly, in yet another case, patient 281, a 65-year-old woman from Bengaluru, also succumbed to SARI complications. She, like patient 390, had no history of travel. Seven patients were also discharged on Sunday, including patient 32, a 60-year-old man, who holds the record for the longest recovery to date in the state - 28 days. The man had returned from Germany to India on March 17. A second discharge, patient 55, a 45-year-old, took 25 days to recover.  He was serving as a security guard of patient 25, a Rajajinagar jeweller who came down with the Covid-19 on March 22 and who himself took 21 days to recover from Covid-19. A third individual, patient 83, a 29-year-old man took 22 days to recover. Of the four new cases, two (patients 385 and 386), had a history of travel to Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/number-of-covid-19-cases-nosedive-on-sunday-827469.html
19-04-2020||West||Five more die of coronavirus in Gujarat; state toll rises to 58||Five more coronavirus patients, including three women, died in Gujarat, taking the toll in the state to 58, a health official said on Sunday. Out of the five deaths, four were reported from Ahmedabad, and one from Surat, state principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi said. Four out of these five victims suffered from co-morbid conditions like diabetes, kidney failure, and hypertension, she said. The deceased from Ahmedabad included a 43-year-old woman who was also suffering from diabetes, and a 78-year-old man who had a kidney ailment. Besides, a 57-year-old man from suffering from hypertension and a 66-year-old woman having no co-morbid condition also died of coronavirus in Ahmedabad. In Surat, a 56-year-old woman, who also had hypertension, succumbed to COVID-19, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-more-die-of-coronavirus-in-gujarat-state-toll-rises-to-58-827246.html
19-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Flamingoes throng Mumbai as human activities dip||As human activities are at a minimum, the number of majestic flamingoes in Mumbai have increased manifold. Forest department officials, NGOs, environmentalists over the past fortnight have seen big flocks of flamingoes in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR).Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) Director Dr Deepak Apte said that this year the numbers were mo more. "Last year, in studies conducted simultaneously in various parts of MMR, we reported around 1.20 lakh. This year, from the images that we have, we estimate around 1.5 lakh flamingoes," said Dr Apte. Conservationists said it was a delight to see the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary. The Talawe wetland near Seawoods NRI complex in Navi Mumbai, which local planner CIDCO sought to bury for a golf course, has begun to witness an increased number of flamingo bird flights, thanks to the lockdown.The wetland visited by bird-lovers with their photography equipment, is a silent zone now thanks to the ban on movement of people and vehicles, said bird watcher Shruti Agrawal, who lives at Seawoods. “Now from our balconies, we get a beautiful view and we are able to keep a track of the birds landing and taking off,” she said.“We can say at least 15,000 to 20,000 birds are flocking the wetland this season,” said Shruti’s husband Sunil.  The couple are fighting a legal battle to save the wetland and have it declared as a flamingo sanctuary.  “It is a paradise for bird watchers,” said another enthusiast Sandeep Bangia who has been regularly capturing the flamingo flights on his DSLR camera.The destruction of wetlands in Uran by Navi Mumbai SEZ and JNPT SEZ has also disrupted bird flights and the flamingoes appear to flock Talawe in increased numbers, said B N Kumar, Director,  NatConnect Foundation, who has been running a campaign to save Uran wetlands. Environmentalists say the construction on Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL) at Sewree, another flamingo site, is also responsible for the birds finding the Talawe alternative. MTHL is planned to connect Mumbai with Uran via the Arabian Sea route. Flamingoes were first spotted in Mumbai in 1994. The two types of birds of this species: Greater flamingoes (Phoenicopterus roseus) and Lesser flamingoes (Phoenicopterus minor) are seen here prompting BNHS-India and other agencies to protect the environment and help promote wildlife tourism in the megapolis.They start arriving in October, nesting in mud-flats and leave before the onset of monsoon.Most of these birds, which are found here, arrive from the Great Rann of Kutch in neighbouring Gujarat. Some paleontologists and ornithologists believe that they are the birds, which is a link between the family of birds comprising storks, herons, ibises, spoonbills and cranes and the group that comprises ducks, swans and geese.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-flamingoes-throng-mumbai-as-human-activities-dip-827258.html
19-04-2020||West||228 new coronavirus cases in Gujarat; state tally rises to 1,604||Of the total new cases, 140 were reported from Ahmedabad, taking the district's tally to 1,002, state principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi said. Besides, Surat reported 67 new cases, Vadodara-eight, Rajkot-five, Banaskantha and Bhavnagar-two each, and Botad, Chhota Udepur and Mehsana- one each, she said. Out of 1,443 active cases in Gujarat, nine patients are on ventilator support, while the condition of the rest is stable, she said. Total 28,212 samples have been tested so far in the state for coronavirus, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/228-new-coronavirus-cases-in-gujarat-state-tally-rises-to-1604-827268.html
19-04-2020||West||Raj Bhavan shouldn't be conspiracy hub: Sena targets Koshyari||Shiv Sena's anger over the delay in Governor Bhagat Singh's nod for nominating Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray as a legislator surfaced on Sunday, with MP Sanjay Raut launching a veiled attack against the former BJP leader. Without naming Koshyari, who has sought legal advice after the state Cabinet recently recommended Thackerays name as a member of the Legislative Council from the governors quota of nominated members, Raut left no doubt as to who was the target of his attack. "Raj bhavan, governor's house shouldn't become center for political conspiracy. Remember! history doesn't spare those who behave unconstitutionally . @maha_governor," Raut tweeted.  Thackeray is not a member of either of the two houses of the state legislature. As per the Constitution, a minister or a chief minister who is not a member of either of the houses has to be elected to either of the houses within six months of being sworn into the post, failing which the person must resign. Thackeray was sworn in as chief minister on November 28, 2019, and completes six months in office on May 28, 2020. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar had recently held a Cabinet meeting which suggested Thackerays name as an MLC as a governor-nominated member. In another tweet, Raut also referred to 'shameless' governor Ram Lal.  Ram Lal, who served as Governor of Andhra Pradesh from August 15, 1983 to August 29, 1984 courted controversy after he appointed that state's finance minister N Baskar Rao as Chief Minister, while the incumbent CM N T Rama Rao was away in the US for surgery. This change was supposedly done at the behest of then Congress Leadership, even when Baskar Rao had no more than 20 per cent of MLAs supporting him. NTR returned to the state after a week and launched a massive campgain against Ram Lal. A month later, then President Zail Singh dismissed Ram Lal as governor and three days later NTR again became the Andhra CM. PTI ND VT VT VT||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/raj-bhavan-shouldnt-be-conspiracy-hub-sena-targets-koshyari-827269.html
19-04-2020||West||Industries in green, orange zones to be allowed to resume: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said industries in green zones and orange coronavirus zones will get permission to resume operations in a restricted manner. In a video message, he also said that industries which are ready to provide accommodation to their workers during the lockdown will be given food grain supply and permission for raw material from the state.  "The state government is allowing the industries from green and orange zones to start production and processing activities in a restricted manner. The industries will have to arrange the accommodation for their workers. They would not travel long distance for work, he said. The green zones are those which have not reported any coronavirus case, while orange zones are the ones where only a few cases have been reported.  The chief minister also said that except for movement of essential services, all the district borders would remain sealed. Till Saturday, the state reported 3,648 coronavirus cases and 211 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/industries-in-green-orange-zones-to-be-allowed-to-resume-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-827279.html
19-04-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Lawyer dies of heart attack after hospitals refuse admission in Maharashtra||Amid lockdown, a woman from neighbouring Navi Mumbai found herself completly helpless when two hospitals refused to admit her husband, a lawyer, who had suffered a heart attack. After running from one hospital to another in an ambulance, when Jaideep Jaywant (56) was finally admitted to a medical facility, it was too late, his distraught wife Deepali, who is also a lawyer, told PTI. She said in the initial days of lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus, it was her husband who had taken an initiative to supply essential items to harried neighbours, but he died without getting timely help. The victim, resident of Sector 17 in Vashi area of Navi Mumbai, had a massive heart attack on April 14. He collapsed after having lunch. "I could feel his pulse. There was still life in him. I immediately called an ambulance and rushed him to a nearby hospital," his wife said. "But, the security guard at the hospital did not even open the gates. They said they admitted only COVID-19 patients and no (other) emergency," she said. They then went to a municipal hospital in Sector 10 but were not allowed inside. They subsequently proceeded to D Y Patil Hospital in Nerul. "By the time we reached there, 30 minutes were wasted and he was declared dead," the grief-stricken wife said. "Can't there be any medical emergencies other than COVID-19 during the lockdown? Is it right for hospitals to turn away patients needing emergency medical aid?" she asked. The woman said she can't seek action against the hospital in her neighbourhood since she has no evidence against it. "General practitioners are all closed. Where do ordinary people go?" she asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-lawyer-dies-of-heart-attack-after-hospitals-refuse-admission-in-maharashtra-827315.html
19-04-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Homesick migrant sculptor chops off his tongue at Gujarat temple||A labourer hailing from Madhya Pradesh, who was apparently depressed because of the lockdown and yearned to return home, chopped off his tongue at a temple in Gujarat's Banaskantha district, police said. While some reports claimed it was a "sacrifice" to appease God, police did not confirm them. Vivek Sharma (24), a native of Morena district in Madhya Pradesh, who worked as a sculptor, was found lying unconscious in a pool of blood at the temple of Nadeshwari Mataji at Nadeshwari village in Sui Gam tehsil on Saturday. "We found him holding his chopped tongue in his hand. and rushed him to Sui Gam hospital," police sub-inspector H D Parmar said. The temple where the incident took place is looked after by the Border Security Force (BSF). Sharma worked at another temple, located 14 km away. As per the preliminary inquiry, Sharma had been extremely homesick and restless ever since lockdown was imposed for containing the spread of coronavirus, banning inter-district or inter-state movement. A local BSF official said Sharma might have thought of offering his tongue as a sacrifice to the Goddess so that circumstances may change and he could return home.  However, police said they cannot ascertain what exactly happened until Sharma recovers and his statement is recorded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-homesick-migrant-sculptor-chops-off-his-tongue-at-gujarat-temple-827338.html
19-04-2020||West||Over 55,000 cases filed, 11,000 arrested in Maharashtra for coronavirus lockdown violation||While 55,393 cases have been lodged for disobedience under section 188 of the IPC, another 1,051 are for illegal transport during the lockdown, an official said. "We have arrested 11,645 people, seized 36,935 vehicles and collected fines worth Rs 2,06,73,644 since March 22. We have arrested 301 people for 105 incidents involving assault on policemen on duty," he informed. A total of 567 people were found flouting quarantine orders, he added. He said, so far, 40 police personnel, including eight officers, have tested positive for the coronavirus. "Of the total cases registered, Pune city leads with 8,100, followed by 5,383 in Ahmednagar," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-55000-cases-filed-11000-arrested-in-maharashtra-for-coronavirus-lockdown-violation-827349.html
19-04-2020||West||Some business activities to start in Maharashtra from Monday||After nearly six weeks of shutdown, Maharashtra will open up some business activities on Monday but with the strictest of precautions.  However, the state's districts would continue to be sealed except for the movement of essential commodities, vegetables and fruits, milk, medicine and medical items.  Limited business activities would be permitted in orange and green zones. However, there is a strict no in red zones. More or less total lockdown would continue on Mumbai, the financial capital of India.  Some activities are expected to resume in the far suburbs in the larger Mumbai metropolitan region that comprises parts of Palghar, Thane and Raigad districts.  Industrial, commercial and business activities have come to a standstill in the Mumbai-Pune belt that has the largest number of COVID-19 positive cases and casualties in the country.  "We are starting some business activities in a limited way.... if we do not start running the economy now, we will be in a financial crisis after we come out of COVID-19," Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday in a webcast message.    Thackeray said that the state government was allowing production and processing activities in a limited way. "The employers would have to organise accommodation for the workforce. They should not travel long distances for work," he said.  Wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing should be a part of life, he said. Thackeray reiterated his assurance that migrant workers should not worry. "I am regularly in touch with the Centre.... we are sure of a solution in the coming days.... don't worry at all and ask your families not to worry... if it is possible, start joining work," he said.  "Maharashtra government will ensure that you are back home once the crisis ends," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/some-business-activities-to-start-in-maharashtra-from-monday-827394.html
19-04-2020||West||Four constables from Dharavi's Shahu Nagar police station test coronavirus-positive||Four constables from Shahu Nagar police station, which has jurisdiction over a large part of Dharavi, one of Mumbai's coronavirus hotspots, tested positive on Sunday, officials said. They have been admitted in an isolation centre in Dadar's Shivaji Park area, they added. "All 70 personnel at Shahu Nagar police station were tested for the virus on April 16 and reports came in today. The four were posted as operator, duty in charge and meal special. Two reside in Mahim police colony while the rest are from Dharavi and Kalyan," an official said. He said contract tracing was being done by health officials. The development was confirmed by Senior Inspector Vilas Gangawane of Shahu Nagar police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-constables-from-dharavis-shahu-nagar-police-station-test-coronavirus-positive-827423.html
19-04-2020||West||Maharashtra sees 552 new coronavirus cases, 12 deaths on Sunday||Maharashtra saw the biggest jump in COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday with 552 new patients and 12 deaths.  As of now,  the total progressive positive cases in Maharashtra stand at 4,200 of which 507 patients have been treated and discharged.  Of these total 4,200 cases,  Mumbai accounts for 2,724 patients.     So far, Maharashtra has tested 72,023 samples of which 67,673 were negative and 4,200 positive.  On Sunday, 12 deaths were  reported across the state, taking the toll in the state to 223.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-552-new-coronavirus-cases-12-deaths-on-sunday-827432.html
19-04-2020||West||Gujarat COVID-19 cases up by 367 to 1743; death toll 63||With this, the number of the infected people in the state shot up to 1743, while the death toll rose by 10 to 63. On Saturday, 280 new cases were reported with 12 deaths. With 239 new cases and seven deaths, the tally of COVID-19 cases in Ahmedabad district now stands at 1,101 and the number of the victims at 32, the official said. At the same time, 12 more patients were discharged after recovering from COVID-19 disease, taking their number to 105. "Gujarat tested 3002 samples in the last 24 hours, of which 367 returned positive. So far, the state tested a total of 29,104 samples," said Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi. Of the ten deaths on Sunday, seven were reported from Ahmedabad alone, she said, adding that Surat, Bharuch and Anand each reported one death. All but one of the ten deceased suffered from comorbidities like hypertension, asthma, diabetes and kidney failure among others. Of the 63 deaths so far, Ahmedabad tops the chart with 32, followed by Surat (8), Vadodara (7), Bhavnagar (4). Gandhinagar, Anand and Panchmahals each have reported two deaths so far while Bharuch, Patan, Kutch, Botad, Jamnagar and Arravali reported one death each. While Ahmedabad recorded 239 new cases, Surat's tally went up by 89 patients to 242. Vadodara reported 14 new cases, taking the number of COVID-19 people to 180. Rajkot, Mahisagar, Bharuch, Dahod, Narmada, and Mahisagar districts also reported new cases on Sunday. Earlier in the day, Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra attributed the surge in COVID-19 cases in the city to "pro-active intensive surveillance and aggressive testing". While Rajkot has so far reported 36 cases, Bhavnagar 32, Anand 28, Bharuch 23, Gandhinagar 17, Patan 15, Narnada 12, Banaskantha 10, Panchmahal 9, Chhota Udepur 7, Mehsana and Botad five each, Kutch 4, Porbandar and Dahod three each, Gir Somnath, Mahisagar, Kheda and Sabarkantha two each, and Jamnagar, Morbi, and Aravalli one each. Of the total 1743 COVID-19 cases, 1646 are "active" patients. While 14 patients are on ventilator support, the condition of the rest is stable, Ravi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-cases-up-by-367-to-1743-death-toll-63-827441.html
19-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: 24 quarantined for suspected coronavirus escape from hospital||At least 24 people admitted in a state-run hospital in Maharashtra's Palghar district for suspected coronavirus infection escaped from the facility over the last two days, police said on Sunday. A total of 187 persons were quarantined at the sub-district hospital at Kasa, after they came into contact with two doctors at the hospital who had tested positive for coronavirus infection earlier. Swabs of these people, including the hospital staff and their relatives who were placed under quarantine, have been sent for tests, and results are awaited. While 19 people suspected to have sneaked out from the facility on Friday, five others escaped on Saturday, said a Kasa police station officer. A hunt is on to trace them, he said, adding that no case has been registered yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-24-quarantined-for-suspected-coronavirus-escape-from-hospital-827451.html
19-04-2020||West||BJP demands high-level probe into Palghar mob-lynching||A couple of days after the mob-lynching incident in Palghar in which one driver and two saints of Juna-Akhada were killed, BJP on Sunday demanded a high-level probe. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that seeing the visuals that have come out, Palghar incident of mob lynching is shocking and inhuman. "It is more disturbing especially when we are going through such tough times otherwise too," he said. Fadnavis urged the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vilas Aghadi government to conduct a detailed probe. "I urge the State Government to immediately set up a high-level enquiry and ensure that people who are responsible for this are brought to justice at the earliest," he said. Mumbai BJP General Secretary Amarjeet Mishra said that while the attack was taking place, police remained a mute spectator. "The government must go to the roots. The insensitive policemen must be dismissed," he said. A huge mob of 150-plus, in the Gadchinchale village in the Palghar district, attacked the vehicle in which the victims were travelling from Nashik to Surat on Thursday night, suspecting them to be thieves. Some policemen too were injured. The Kasa police station has registered a case on Friday and arrested over 100 persons who have been remanded to police custody. The victims were identified as Sushilgiri Maharaj(30), Chikne Maharaj Kalpvirkshagiri (70) and driver Nilesh Telwade (30). The incident took place around 120 kms from downtown Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-demands-high-level-probe-into-palghar-mob-lynching-827457.html
19-04-2020||West||Flamingos throng Mumbai as human activities dip||As human activities cease the presence of majestic flamingos in Mumbai has increased manifold. Forest department officials,  NGOs,  environmentalists over the past fortnight has reported huge flocks of flamingos on the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) Director Dr Deepak Apte said, "Last year,  in the studies, conducted simultaneously in various parts of MMR,  we have reported around 1.20 lakh flamingos. This year, from the images that we got,  we estimate the presence of around 1.5 lakh flamingos," said Dr Apte. Conservationists said that it's a delight to see the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary. The Talawe wetland near Seawoods NRI complex in Navi Mumbai, which local planner CIDCO sought to bury for a gold course, has begun to witness an increased number of flamingo bird flights, thanks to the lockdown. The wetland where bird lovers used to visit in their cars and with photographic equipment, is a silent zone now thanks to the ban on movement of people and vehicles, explained bird watcher Shruti Agrawal who stays at Seawoods. “Now from our balconies, we get a beautiful view and we are able to keep a track of the birds’ landing and taking off,” she said. “We can say at least 15,000 to 20,000 birds are flocking the wetland this season,” said Shruti’s husband Sunil.  The couple has been fighting a legal battle to save the wetland and have it declared as a flamingo sanctuary.  “It is a bird watchers’ paradise,” said another enthusiast Sandeep Bangia who has been regularly capturing the flamingo flights on his DSLR camera. The destruction of wetlands in Uran by Navi Mumbai SEZ and JNPT SEZ has also disturbed the bird flights and the flamingos appear to flock Talawe in increased numbers, said B N Kumar, Director,  NatConnect Foundation, who has been running a campaign to save Uran wetlands.  Environmentalists say the construction on Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL) at Sewree, another flamingo site, is also responsible for the birds finding the Talawe alternative. MTHL is planned to connect Mumbai with Uran via the Arabian Sea route. Flamingos were first spotted in Mumbai in 1994.  In fact, the two types of birds of this species Greater flamingoes (Phoenicopterus roseus) and Lesser flamingoes (Phoenicopterus minor) are seen here prompting BNHS-India and other agencies to protect the environs and help in promoting wildlife tourism in this megapolis. They start arriving in October, nesting in mud-flats and leave before the onset of monsoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/flamingos-throng-mumbai-as-human-activities-dip-827485.html
19-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: Pune reports 57 new coronavirus cases but no death||No new death due to coronavirus infection was reported in Pune district of Maharashtra on Sunday but 57 new cases were detected, taking their total to 669, a Health official said. On Saturday, three deaths were reported from Pune, a coronavirus hotspot. Giving the break-up, the official said, "So far 562 cases are reported in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits, 57 in neighbouring PCMC, and 50 in rural areas". Up to Saturday, the COVID-19 death toll stood at 51 in Pune district. Meanwhile, 18 patients including two from state-run Sassoon Hospital in the city have been discharged after their repeat samples tested negative for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-pune-reports-57-new-coronavirus-cases-but-no-death-827493.html
