20-04-2020||Comment||COVID-19 & Higher Education: A pile of questions||Before getting down to an analysis of the impact of the pandemic on the state of higher education in India, a few observations about the magnitude of the crisis is in order. The COVID-19 affected situation stands as of now at over 15,600 as on night of April 18 as regards virus-affected cases and the number of deceased stands at 518. Karnataka, which was No.3 in the list, presently stands at the 11th position, with the number of cases standing at 384, out of which 14 are deceased. The pandemic has severely affected the economic and educational health of Karnataka. The first decision the government (even before the Central government) took in the field of education was to close down schools and colleges, including university campuses, till April 14, which has been extended. The government and higher educational institutions (HEIs) quickly announced that online teaching would be conducted by the faculty. But this is easily said than done. While some of the rich private universities promptly announced online teaching, the state-run public universities have faced immense practical problems in implementing the decision. 1. Assuming that some of them in Bengaluru and Mysuru have, in their own small little way, asked their faculty to carry out online teaching, the rest of the public universities located in far-away districts have not been able to implement online teaching due to poorly-equipped facilities at their disposal. Even assuming that the faculty have the facilities and intellectual capability to do online teaching, students have complained about the lack of facilities in their rural homes where they have gone back to, following the closure of colleges. Some of the additional problems encountered by public HEIs are: In disciplines like Languages, Humanities and Social Sciences, good quality reading material has not been prepared by a large number of teachers who still rely on traditional methods of classroom teaching. The situation may be true in many science-related disciplines too, barring technical education. How would meaningful online teaching be carried out in such situations if the closure of institutions continues for a longer spell? 2. How can online methods be followed for the conduct of practical classes in disciplines where it is absolutely necessary when students have moved out of campus? In the absence of the conduct of practical classes, the conduct of online education would fall flat. 3. In the case of technical courses as well as in commerce and management disciplines, students have to do internships with industry as part of course requirements. How would students be fruitfully able to undergo internship when academic institutions and industries are closed due to lockdown. Some industries may reopen in course of time, but would they be able to comply with internship requirements, concerned as they are with productivity and sales? 4. Another important issue which is faced by HEIs is, how would they make up for the loss of time on account of closure of institutions due to Covid-19. Assuming the mandatory 75% attendance requirement of classes is waived, what would happen to the internal assessment tests and viva voce examinations which are part of the requirements under the semester system in operation? 5. Another vexed issue relates to the placements of students who have to report for duty, caused by the extension of the academic year. 6. What are the plans drawn up for the conduct of semester examinations, evaluation of answer scripts and the announcement of results, all of which will require at least six weeks of time after the completion of the term? That would throw the next year’s academic calendar out of gear, with the 2020-21 academic year starting probably in September. 7. At a more substantial level, it is time the HEIs seriously introspect as to where do they stand in terms of coming up with solutions to dealing with pandemics like the COVID-19. Barring the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), which has come up with a kit, cleared by the Medical Council of India, which can test patients and produce the results in one hour, the other institutions, including IITs, have not risen to the occasion, notwithstanding the huge sums of money pumped in by the Government of India to them. Even the modelling about the likely number of COVID-19 cases the country would face, the relationship between testing and likely mortality rate, are done by Indian mathematicians and others working in UK and USA. It is a sad commentary on the relevance of research carried out by India’s HEIs. 8. Last but by no means the least important issue is the likely possibility of budgetary allocations made to higher education being reduced and transferred to areas which are more important for the government as a result of the health pandemic becoming an economic pandemic. While reduction in spending on higher education may be justified by the powers be, the government, in the long-run, should earmark the much-promised 6% of the GDP on higher education and equally importantly, increase the budgetary allocation for healthcare. One shudders to think of a situation where the virus would be airborne and the consequent damage it can cause to humanity. Priority should be to encourage research on finding medical solutions to future pandemics rather than simply extending lockdowns. (The writer is former Professor of Political Science and former Dean, Faculty of Arts, Bangalore University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/covid-19-higher-education-a-pile-of-questions-827698.html
20-04-2020||First Edit||Better cohesion, need of the hour||Karnataka’s handling of COVID-19 situation has largely been satisfactorily, but the gains could have been much bigger had there been better cohesion and unity of thought at the higher echelons of the government. The inconsistencies are so glaring that the government has lost all credibility in the eyes of the people, which could have serious repercussions in testing times such as these. The latest is the relaxation of lockdown guidelines announced by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, permitting IT/BT companies to function with 33% staff and allowing two-wheelers to ply on roads without passes. Within hours, the chief minister was forced to rescind the order following public outcry and protests by health experts that this could worsen the situation. Yediyurappa’s intention might have been good, as at some point, the economy has to be kickstarted and a lockdown cannot be a permanent solution, but he should have waited till the scheduled cabinet meeting on Monday and taken a considered decision in consultation with his colleagues. At a time when the government should act in unison, Health Minister B Sriramulu and Medical Education Minister D Sudhakar squabbled over who should handle the COVID-19 portfolio, until the chief minister brokered an uneasy truce between them. The fact that Primary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, who has nothing to do with the health department, is now entrusted with briefing the media on the COVID-19 situation, speaks volumes of the divide within the government. The flip-flop decisions of the government have left the public completely flummoxed with many wondering if Karnataka suffers from a leadership crisis. Some time ago, DGP Praveen Sood announced that grocery stores would remain open 24X7 but his order was followed more in the breach across the state. Though lockdown guidelines and a High Court order permit use of private vehicles for specific purposes like purchasing essentials, the police have launched a crackdown by seizing cars and bikes of even people venturing out for a genuine cause. In a single day, three different decisions were taken on whether or not to hold PUC exams during the lockdown. Clearly, the left hand is not aware of what the right is doing. Yediyurappa should take a leaf out of Kerala which has adopted a 360-degree approach to manage the crisis in a systematic manner. While Karnataka continues to take whimsical decisions, the neighbouring state has released a detailed road map on the lockout exit strategy and has started implementing the same. There is an urgent need to end this adhocism, but first Team Yediyurappa should learn to talk in one voice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/better-cohesion-need-of-the-hour-827694.html
20-04-2020||In Perspective||'Force Majeure’ in times of deadly coronavirus||The medical effects of the Covid-19 virus are hitting home hard across the world. The seriousness of the economic impact is yet to be understood in whole and its effect may only be known with time.  The economic impact of the Covid-19 crisis may, in no small measure, be dependent on how contracting parties and courts the world over understand and give effect to the ‘Force Majeure’ clause that most commercial contracts have inbuilt in them. What is ‘Force Majeure’? Simply put, ‘Force Majeure’ translates roughly into ‘a higher force’. In the world of contracts and legal obligations, a ‘Force Majeure Clause’ refers to a clause which partially or fully exempts a contracting party from performing its obligations under a contract, if a greater force which was unforeseeable and which is beyond the control of that party prevents him from performing his obligations. Typically, a ‘Force Majeure’ condition would include things such as a war, an epidemic etc (but it really is up to the parties to determine what, in fact, would constitute ‘Force Majeure’ by appropriate definitions in the contract itself). The ‘Force Majeure’ clause has, for many years, been one of the forgotten parts of a contract – a clause that is taken as a formality and finds its place in some corner of the contract and over which there is very little negotiation or dispute.  And why is this? Simply because it was hardly ever used --at least in the manner it arises now. The concept of ‘Force Majeure’ is of ancient origin --of a time when wars and epidemics were common, large scale destruction and calamity were not hard to find. In the modern world, very few people would have thought that an impediment so grave and long-term would strike, which would be beyond everyone’s control and which would make performance of contracts virtually impossible. More specifically, it would hardly have been in anyone’s contemplation that an epidemic so widespread would break out that virtually the entire world’s economies would come to a standstill. With the spread of the Covid-19 virus and the consequent shutting down of a large number of human activities, a situation very few would ever have contemplated, has, in fact, arisen. Supply chains have broken, raw materials and other inputs are unavailable to manufacturers, the government itself has ordered several industries to temporarily close down. The consequence: time-sensitive obligations under contracts become extremely difficult if not impossible to perform. Take for example an order placed on a manufacturer to supply engineering products to set up a power plant in a time-bound manner. With the social impact the world over, it may be simply impossible for him to have the resources to complete the work on time. Similarly, would it be lawful for a corporate employer to deny salaries to its employees on the basis that its business shut down for a few months? Contractual obligations There is no doubt that courts would see a large number of parties claiming ‘Force Majeure’ as a reason for non-performance of their contractual obligations.  I have no doubt that parties to commercial contracts and lawyers advising them are busy re-studying the terms of the ‘Force Majeure’ clauses that form part of their contracts --but which they never thought they would use. The difficulty would arise since the term itself is capable of extremely adaptable meanings --what is a force so great as to completely prevent the performance of a contract is very relative. Would very serious economic difficulty of a contracting party as a result of the lockdown excuse it from performing its obligations under a contract? Would the reduction in the availability (as opposed to the complete non-availability) of labour give rise to a claim of ‘Force Majeure’? These are difficult questions --largely because in a world dependent heavily on trade and commerce -- which have hardly arisen in the recent past. Going forward, the way in which this issue is treated by courts across the world would have a serious bearing on how economies behave and recover. While the first impression is that the kind of impact that the Covid-19 virus has had on economies world over undoubtedly constitutes a serious ‘Force Majeure’ event for most industries, the courts have the difficult task of adjudicating between the two contracting parties. By its very definition, ‘Force Majeure’ events imply that neither party is at fault. And yet, no matter which way the dispute resolution mechanism decides, one or the other party is likely to suffer serious financial damage. It would be an interesting phase to see in which way courts lean while interpreting ‘Force Majeure’ clauses. Would they be liberal or would the threshold to qualify as a ‘Force Majeure’ even be set high --as has been done in the past? Would practical considerations weigh in the legal interpretation that would follow? One can only wait and watch. One thing is certain though – the ‘Force Majeure’ clause has made a resurgence and is unlikely to be taken lightly in contracts, trade and commerce. (The writer is Advocate-on-Record, Supreme Court of India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/force-majeure-in-times-of-deadly-coronavirus-827703.html
20-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus Lockdown: Brother, sister die after consuming alcohol-based hand sanitiser||A man and his sister, both habitual drinkers from Kalghatagi taluk in the district, died on Sunday after they consumed alcohol-based hand sanitiser as an alternative foralcohol.  The deceased were identified as Basavaraj Venkappa Kurvinkoppa (45), a daily wager, his sister Jambavva (47) of Gambyapur village. The siblings were depressed after they could not find liquor for the past one month due to the lockdown clamped to mitigate the coronavirus spread.   However, on learning that sanitiser had alcohol content, they started consuming it for the past four days and breathed their last on Sunday at KIMS,Hubballi.  Doctors said that Basavaraj and Jambavva developed acute stomach pain on Saturday evening and were immediately brought to Civil Hospital in Dharwad for treatment. The doctors at Civil Hospital advised his family members to shift them to KIMS on Sunday as their health condition started to deteriorate. Basavaraj died on Sunday afternoon after failing to respond to medical treatment. A while later, his sister breathed her last.  According to police,  Basavaraj, a habitual drinker, had brought sanitiser bottles and mixed it with hooch which he got from Shigigatti tanda on outskirts of Kalghatagi. He consumed this mixture, along with his sister, for four days before both developed acute stomach pain and breathlessness on Saturday. Meanwhile, the Health Department has cautioned people against consuming sanitiser. Drinking sanitiser leads to multi-organ failure and there are less chances of survival, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-brother-sister-die-after-consuming-alcohol-based-hand-sanitiser-827558.html
20-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada MP urges govt to take action against Padarayanapura vandalisers||State BJP President and Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel has urged the state government to initiate strict action against those miscreants who destroyed barricades and checkposts set up to monitor lockdown order at Padarayanapura in Bengaluru.  He said "I have already spoken to Home Minister and urged him to direct police to book the miscreants under sedition act. The incident is a murder of democracy. The rules, regulations and guidelines are issued to check the spread of coronavirus. Doctors, police personnel, Asha workers and government officials are working tirelessly to contain the spread of the virus. Action should be initiated against those who pose a hindrance to the work rendered by the government officials, Asha and health workers," he told mediapersons in Mangaluru.  Coming down heavily on the misuse of passes issued, Kateel said in the name of pass, the elected representatives and officials should not indulge in ferrying people to various destinations. The lockdown guidelines should be adhered to by all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-mp-urges-govt-to-take-action-against-padarayanapura-vandalisers-827610.html
20-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Five test coronavirus positive in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi reported highest ever COVID-19 positive cases in a day with five people including two minors aged 13 and 17 years testing positive for the virus on Monday.  With this, the total count of positive cases including three deaths shot up to 27 in the district.  While a 13-year-old boy, a youth and a woman contracted the virus from the 55-year-old cloth merchant who died of novel coronavirus on April 13, a 50-year-old man came into direct contact with the 65-year-old fruit vendor who breathed his last due to COVID-19 on April 7.  Throat swab sample of another man returned positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-test-coronavirus-positive-in-kalaburagi-827613.html
20-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Deve Gowda launches MLA's drive to feed 50,000 poor families||JD(S) leader H D Deve Gowda launched the distribution of food packets, masks, and sanitizers to the poor being done by Tumakuru Rural MLA D C Gowrishankar on Monday. Gowda lauded Gowrishankar for his humanitarian gesture.   Gowrishankar said that he is committed to distributing 10 kg vegetables and grocery to 50,000 families at a cost of Rs 3.50 crore. "I will buy vegetables grown by local farmers and take the food kits to the doorsteps of people with the help of my party workers; in seven ZP constituencies. We plan to distribute one lakh masks and sanitizers," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/deve-gowda-launches-mlas-drive-to-feed-50000-poor-families-827754.html
20-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus lockdown: Ban on vehicular movement lands autorickshaw drivers in distress||The autorickshaw drivers in the district face distress due to restrictions in the wake of lockdown. Many of them now keep their fingers crossed as they have no jobs to run their families. Before the lockdown, the autorickshaw drivers were in demand right from wee hours till late night. However, most of the autorickshaws have gone off roads since March 24. There is a ban on operating the autorickshaws in order to contain Covid-19 which has hit families of over 6000 autorickshaw drivers across the district. About 15% of them are autorickshaw drivers-cum-owners, while about 85% of the autorickshaws are owned by someone else. They have lent their autorickshaws to be operated on daily income basis. They have not operated the autorickshaws for 28 days which means they have not earned a penny since those many days. According to the autorickshaw drivers, they are in distress as they are no other jobs at hands to run their families. “I haven’t operated my autorickshaw ever since the lockdown was imposed. I have no job. Whatever money I had saved has been spent mostly. I need money to buy milk and vegetables. I don’t know what to do,” Satish, an autorickshaw driver, narrates his difficulty. The tale of Subhan, another autorickshaw driver, is no different. He would earn about Rs 500 daily, but for the last 28 days he hasn’t earned a penny. “I go mad to sit in the house. I have lost mental peace. I have no money,” he said. “I would earn around Rs 12,000 a month. There is no permission to operate the autorickshaw. I need to pay Rs 3000 as house rent. I need to take care of my father, mother and sister. It requires at least Rs 6000 to run the family. How should people like me handle situation?” Munna, an autorickshaw driver from Gauribidanur, he questions. The Autorickshaw Drivers’ Association District Unit president Dambu Srinivas sought the government to pay compensation to autorickshaw drivers who are facing distress. “The officials claim that they are distributing essentials and groceries to working class. Don’t they know that even autorickshaw drivers are labourers? They are also facing distress and the government should pay them compensation,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-ban-on-vehicular-movement-lands-autorickshaw-drivers-in-distress-827759.html
20-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Illicit liquor seized||The excise officials raided an illicit liquor brewing unit at Kattipalli in Chembu village. Reportedly, Belli and Vijaya had produced illicit liquor and kept ready for sale. About 10 litre of liquor made out of cashew fruit, 120 litre of fermented wash were seized by the officials. Cases have been booked against the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/illicit-liquor-seized-827784.html
20-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Police cane youths clashing over spitting on road||Police resorted to a mild lathi-charge when two groups of youths clashed over an incident wherein the members of one group saw the others spitting in a public place.   Police said that on Monday morning, one group of youths noticed members of the other group spitting on the road while people were moving around near the railway station. When they were questioned, it led to a skirmish between the young groups. The bone of contention was that spitting on the road causes Covid-19 to spread. At this point, police intervened and resorted to a mild lathi-charge to disperse the youngsters. Others who witnessed this incident also rushed inside their houses in fear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-cane-youths-clashing-over-spitting-on-road-827799.html
20-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||11 booked for marriage sans permission||Manipal police have booked cases against 11 persons for organising a marriage without obtaining permission at Duglipadavu, near Alevoor, in Udupi district. On hearing the news of the marriage, the police visited the spot and found that no prior permission had been taken to conduct the marriage. For violating the norms and guidelines pertaining to lockdown, cases have been booked against groom, bride and their parents and relatives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/11-booked-for-marriage-sans-permission-827805.html
20-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||The trauma of being the centre of state's largest patient cluster ||The family of patient 52 in Nanjangud, Mysuru, heaved a sigh of relief as P52’s wife and father-in-law came back home on Sunday after recovering from Covid-19. But the trauma is far from over. P52 is the first patient to be diagnosed with Covid-19 and is considered the index patient in the Nanjangud patient cluster, the largest so far in Karnataka.   It’s been a day since P110, the 27-year-old wife of P52 came home to her three-year-old son after recovering. She and her 63-year-old father (P109) are confined to their respective rooms. The young woman spoke to DH. In P52’s Jubilant Pharma, 69 people have tested positive for the virus. As many as 1483 of the company’s employees have been quarantined.   “With me and him both in quarantine, his friend leaves essentials at our gate once in three days. I have a three year-old-son,”she says.   “Our relatives are ‘locked up’ because of us. The families of Jubilant Pharma company employees are also under quarantine because of us. We’ve never caused harm to anybody till date,” the woman’s mother said. Their ordeal began exactly a month ago. Though the index patient, patient 52, is still quarantined at a government facility and more of his secondary contacts are getting diagnosed every day, his family members at home want to put this behind them and move on.  The woman’s mother and her grandson have tested negative for the virus so far. As on Monday evening, out of 84 cases in Mysuru, 69 are from Jubilant Pharma.  “I can’t touch my son yet. I have questioned my husband so many times. He says he wasn’t in close contact with the foreign nationals who visited his company for audit. He says since he is in the documentation section, he merely hands over the reports to the manager. What TV channels show is fake news,” she says. "How is it possible for him to go to China when he earns a mere Rs. 15,000 per month?" she questions. "The fact that he has an Australian friend is fake news too. I even questioned his colleagues when they came to the hospital if there were any foreign visitors in February," she says. "Even the containers that come, first go to the security, production department and says he is only concerned with documentation and does not touch any of the contents of these containers that come from abroad," she added. "I have enquired him so many times in the past one month because it's not just about our family anymore. It is about families of employees at the company. He said he never used to mingle with anybody much," she says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/the-trauma-of-being-the-centre-of-states-largest-patient-cluster-827851.html
20-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Government launches online CET, NEET coaching||The Department of Higher Education has launched an online coaching for Common Entrance Test (CET), National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) through the 'GetCETGo' platform. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa inaugurated the platform on Monday. The government said the programme will benefit over 1.94 lakh students registered for CET 2020. "Following the lockdown, several students who have registered for NEET and CET are unable to attend coaching classes.. We have decided to help students through online coaching classes," said Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/government-launches-online-cet-neet-coaching-827852.html
20-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||PG admissions: KEA goes online for document verification||The Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA) has decided to take the online route for document verification for admissions to Post Graduate medical and dental courses. This will help ensure social distancing and safety of students. The KEA, which had recently invited applications from eligible candidates who have qualified in National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to PG medical and dental courses, has directed candidates to upload necessary documents along with the application forms. Once this is done, officials will download the applications and documents to verify them. In case there are doubts about the genuineness of the documents, the same will be sent to the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) for clarification. "As these students have completed their MBBS under RGUHS, it will be easy for us to verify the documents," said a senior official of KEA. Apart from academic certificates, candidates have to upload income certificate, rural certificate, Kannada medium certificate, Hyderabad Karnataka reservation certificate, reservation certificate, etc... "If students submit fake documents, they will face criminal action," warned an official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pg-admissions-kea-goes-online-for-document-verification-827853.html
20-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Poaching on the rise on Bandipur forest fringe||Bandipur Tiger Reserve, which usually witnesses surge in wildfire incidents during summer, has seen a rise in poaching activities this year. Around nine persons were arrested in connection with two poaching cases reported over the last three weeks (wild cat poaching on March 31 and transporting of deer meat (venison) on April 17). This proved that the network, involved in poaching and selling animal meat has turned active on the fringes of the forest.  Ten temporary workers, employed by the Forest department as fire watchers, were found involved in the crime, that has shocked the department. Tiger Project Director T Balachandra said, "Trusting locals, we provided them jobs. But, they have deceived the department. How can we trust them in future? Incidents of laying snare to trap boars and the use of country rifles to hunt deer, rabbits and cats were rare. Continued poaching was never reported before." Lockdown connection The existing lockdown might also be one of the causes. Miscreants might have thought that poaching may go unnoticed, as there is no movement of people. But, the department is alert, and has traced two incidents, so far, he said. The price of mutton has increased to Rs 700 per kg in the market. If deer is hunted and sold in the market, they can get around Rs 300 per kg. This might have spurred them on, he said.  We were concentrating on wildfire incidents. Now, all steps would be taken to stop poaching in the region, Balachandra said. Country rifles Country rifles are easily available at a few villages like Kodahalli, Annurukeri, Haggadahalli, Bannitalapura, Bheemanabeedu and Kotekere around Bandipur. The recently arrested seven persons are from Haggadahalla village, two others are from Kodahalli. The rifles are made at Kodahalli. This has been brought to the notice of the police department, he added. Poaching is reported on abandoned lands on forest borders. The department personnel, who are moving inside the forest, will have to intensify patrolling at borders, to check poaching, opined environmentalist Shashikumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/poaching-on-the-rise-on-bandipur-forest-fringe-827856.html
20-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Video of Covid-19 survivor goes viral||The video of a Covid-19 survivor lauding the efforts of District Wenlock Hospital doctors and paramedical staff has gone viral on social media. The video has been shared by Mangaluru Commissioner of Police Dr P S Harsha on his Twitter handle as well. In the video, the patient hailing from Thokkottu said, “In spite of testing positive for Covid-19, doctors and nurses treated me with love. They risked their life while saving my life.” The man tested positive after he returned from Delhi and was discharged from hospital on April 17. He said, “I was given best treatment in Wenlock Hospital. The doctors have risked their life. Even the police also showered love to me. My eyes are filled with love for the treatment shown to me. I can not forget those who saved my life.”   “The staff at the hospital had provided us with all the needed facilities. They even supplied me with hot water and required food. When there was no water in the toilet at 4 am, they had made arrangements for the supply of water,” he said in the video.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-video-of-covid-19-survivor-goes-viral-827871.html
20-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||60 Covid-19 labs in Karnataka by May-end, says Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar||Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said on Monday that Karnataka will have 60 laboratories to test Covid-19 samples by May-end. He said the government has also decided to go for aggressive testing of senior citizens with comorbidities.  “Currently, we have 17 labs testing more than 2,000 samples per day. The number will rise to 27 by the end of April. After that, we have proposed to set up Covid-19 testing centres at all government and private medical colleges, district hospitals and veterinary institutes, taking the number to 60 by May-end,” Sudhakar said. He said people, aged above 55 years, should strictly follow social distancing norms and stay at home during the lockdown period. All 16 Covid-19 fatalities in the state were of patients above 55 years of age, he noted. “People above 55 years should get tested even for minor symptoms, such as fatigue, cold, throat pain and fever, as many patients approached hospitals in the last stage. Four deaths reported last week in Karnataka occurred two days after they were admitted critically ill to the hospital,” he said.  The guidelines issued for senior citizens include avoiding visitors at home, maintaining a distance of one metre with senior citizens, using pulse oximeters to assess blood oxygen levels for those with comorbidities (as declining blood oxygen levels was a symptom of the disease and not to remain sedentary during the lockdown and others. To a question, he said that while 45% of the primary contacts of patients had tested Covid-19 positive (176), 2% of secondary contacts had tested positive (9).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/60-covid-19-labs-in-karnataka-by-may-end-says-medical-education-minister-k-sudhakar-827876.html
20-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Bengaluru, 2 other districts in ICMR's community transmission study||Three districts in the state - Kalaburagi, Bengaluru and Chitradurga - will be part of the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) study across India to check community transmission. The study, based largely on randomly collected samples, will be conducted in 82 districts of 25 states. “If the number of positive cases, in those randomly tested, in the aforementioned three districts is found to be negligible, then it means there is no community transmission,” Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said. As on Monday evening, Bengaluru Urban has 89 cases, Kalaburagi 27 cases, and Chitradurga just one case. So far, the state has denied community transmission despite having large patient clusters like the one at Nanjangud in Mysuru district with no explanation for a plausible source of the virus. Out of 84 cases in Mysuru, 69 belong to Jubilant Pharma company, where the source of the infection is not known. Out of 408 cases in the state, 29 are cases of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and two are of influenza-like illness. The World Health Organisation (WHO) strongly recommends surveillance systems to do active case-finding, testing and contact-tracing. The hospital-based surveillance systems are likely to miss mild and moderate symptomatic cases and asymptomatic infections.  “We therefore propose to establish community-based district-level sentinel hero surveillance system to monitor the transmission of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the general population,” said a note from ICMR. In this study, only people above 18 years of age will be included. The study has been planned for three months. There will be two rounds in the first month and subsequently once each in the remaining two months. The study team will visit randomly selected households and brief them about the survey after obtaining verbal consent, collect information on basic demographic details, exposure history to lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases, symptoms suggestive of Covid-19 in the preceding month, and clinical history. Three to four drops of blood will be collected via a finger prick.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-bengaluru-2-other-districts-in-icmrs-community-transmission-study-827883.html
20-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus lockdown: Help Ratnamma in Hubballi||Ratnamma (65) has been a small vegetable vendor in Hubballi for the past 40 years. Since the lockdown, she hasn't been able to sell anything. Without any income, she is wholly dependent on her BPL card. A medical emergency ate into all her savings. She doesn't have a trade licence which is required to get a lockdown pass from the district administration to move around the city and sell vegetables. She needs either a temporary vending pass or monetary support. Information provided by Harshavardhan Sheelavant (9886521664) If you have a story to share, contact us at spreadkindness@deccanherald. co.in||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-help-ratnamma-in-hubballi-827904.html
20-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP fuelling communal hatred in state: H M Revanna ||Congress party Covid-19 task force Bengaluru division president H M Revanna on Monday charged that the BJP was sowing seeds of communal hatred targeting a community in the state. “People in the state have not received any benefits from the state government to overcome distress due to Covid-19,” he said. Revanna was speaking at the Covid-19 district task force meeting of the party. The government is able to manage the situation due to grants given for MGNREGA, Anna Bhagya, Ksheera Bhagya and such other programmes. The government has survived due to the support of donors, he said. Revanna charged that there was no coordination between Health Minister and Medical Education Minister as the two leaders were trying to gain out of the situation. “There is no data about kits of essential materials. The Congress party will supply the kits to the needy if the government delivers the kits to those constituencies that are held by the Congress party legislators. The BJP is indulging in politics in the distribution of kits,” he charged.  The government is claiming that there are 18 labs to conduct medical tests of novel coronavirus infected people. There are 9 labs in Bengaluru alone, while there are 9 labs for the rest of the State. The State and the Central governments have completely failed to handle the situation, he said. He said that the KPCC president had formed teams to conduct survey of Covid-19 in the state and that he had been assigned the responsibility of a team to visit Chitradurga, Davanagere, Tumakuru, Chikkaballapur, Bengaluru Rural and Kolar districts. He discussed with local leaders and obtained data on 11 factors. “Malur MLA K Y Nanje Gowda has been appointed head of the Kolar district Covid-19 task force. He will tour the district and collect the data. Situation in the district is far better, while the medical services are satisfactory,” he said. Nanje Gowda said that the district administration was discharging duties satisfactorily in handling the situation. District Congress president K Chandra Reddy, vice-president Murali Gowda, former minister Nissar Ahmed and CMC member Prasad Babu were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-fuelling-communal-hatred-in-state-h-m-revanna-827830.html
20-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Opposition backs government on Padarayanapura scuffle||Opposition leaders said they will stand by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in condemning the Padarayanapura vandalism and in acting against the perpetrators, but they cautioned the government against the incident taking a communal colour.  “The Congress condemns the incident,” the party’s state president D K Shivakumar said. “We support and stand by whatever the CM has decided to do. This is a crime committed by individuals, not a community. We don’t want this to become a communal issue. But you know the kind of statements being made by BJP leaders. From the beginning, there have been attempts to incite violence,” he said.  Shivakumar held a meeting with Muslim leaders to discuss the situation.  “There is no justification to what happened in Padarayanapura and we all stand by the government. But there is a trust deficit with regard to the government since the members of the ruling party had a high-pitched campaign targeting one community and trying to portray that they were responsible for spreading the virus,” Shivajinagar MLA Rizwan Arshad said.  JD(S) MLC B M Farookh observed that the government and community leaders needed to take up awareness initiatives to instil confidence about quarantine measures. “What the accused have done is wrong. They could have communicated their misgivings, if any, with the officials. However, the larger problem is that people have fear attached with quarantine,” he said. “The government should also ensure that the quarantine process does not cause mental stress. For instance, yoga and meditation can be introduced to cope with stress during quarantine,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/opposition-backs-government-on-padarayanapura-scuffle-827850.html
20-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Horticulture department brings farmers, consumers under one roof ||The Horticulture department in the district is now acting as a bridge between farmers and customers for the delivery of fresh horticultural and agricultural produces at reasonable prices. The department’s move has benefited the farmers and the customers. The farmers have been in distress due to restrictions in the wake of lockdown, while their produces are getting damaged due to lack of transport facilities. As the farmers are unable to supply their produces to markets in neighbouring districts and states, the prices of the produces have fallen. This has prompted famers to halt the harvesting process. In order to ensure market for the produces, the department is now bringing the farmers and the consumers under one roof. The department has established a link between farming cooperative societies of Malur and Srinivaspur with some apartments in Bengaluru. With the help of these cooperatives, the farmers themselves supply the produces at the doorstep of the consumers. While the farmers are getting reasonably better prices, the consumers are getting fresh vegetables delivered at their doorstep. The farmers in Malur are supplying produces to 150 families of an apartment in HBR Layout in Bengaluru. The department has facilitated farmers to sell their produces at an apartment in Bengaluru considering inconvenience in the wake of lockdown. The inmates are directly procuring vegetables from farmers,” Gayatri, deputy director, Horticulture Department, told DH. The farmers are strictly following the guidelines set by the government to contain Covid-19. They wear masks and ensure social distancing while delivering the produces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/horticulture-department-brings-farmers-consumers-under-one-roof-827758.html
20-04-2020||National||PIL in SC for strict implementation of order against collection of rent||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court to ensure strict implementation of the order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on March 29 for not collecting rent from students and labourers during the lockdown. The petition filed by advocate Pawan Prakash Pathak and others contended that a large section of the population of Delhi, Mumbai,  Kota City, Bangalore, who were young students from other states were unable to pay rent of their accommodation. They are being threatened to vacate the rented premises, amid Covid-19 crisis, it alleges. "In a pressing situation like this, the students, who stayed in rented accommodations, are in dire straits. If they are not helped by the concerned government, then they will have to live in constant fear and depression," their plea said. The petitioners claimed that irrespective of the MHA order not to demand rent for a period of one month and further not to force the tenant to vacate premises during this period, it has been brought to notice that various landlords forcing tenant students to pay full rent or they would be thrown out of premises.  They cited the Supreme Court's landmark judgement in case of  'Maneka Gandhi Vs Union Of India' and Bandhua Mukti Morcha Vs Union of India to point out it is the fundamental right of everyone in this country to live with human dignity, free from exploitation and oppression.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-sc-for-strict-implementation-of-order-against-collection-of-rent-827513.html
20-04-2020||National||Secretary to NHA official tests COVID-19 positive: Sources||The secretary to a top official of the National Health Authority (NHA), responsible for the implementation of the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme, has tested positive for coronavirus, official sources said on Sunday. The infected official has been admitted to the Lok Nayak Hospital here and a contact tracing has been initiated. According to an official source, the NHA office, located in the Jeevan Bharti building in the Connaught Place area, has been sealed and all the officials have been asked to work from home. The NHA offices in the building will be disinfected and sanitized after which they will open, the source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/secretary-to-nha-official-tests-covid-19-positive-sources-827533.html
20-04-2020||National||India rejects Pakistan PM Imran Khan's allegations of discrimination against Muslims||India on Sunday trashed Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan's comments alleging targeting of Muslims in the country in the backdrop of the coronavirus pandemic. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the "bizarre comments" by the Pakistani leadership was an attempt to shift focus from the "abysmal handling" of that country's internal affairs. In a tweet, Khan accused the Indian government of deliberately targeting the Muslim community against the backdrop of the coronavirus crisis. "Instead of concentrating on fighting COVID19, they are making baseless allegations against their neighbours," the MEA spokesperson said. He was responding to media queries on Khan's remarks.  "On the subject of minorities, they (Pakistani leadership) would be well advised to address the concerns of their own dwindling minority communities, which have been truly discriminated against," Srivastava said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rejects-pakistan-pm-imran-khans-allegations-of-discrimination-against-muslims-827538.html
20-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 20, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-20-2020-edition-827539.html
20-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 20||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 18,477 as of April 20.  States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 587   Andhra Pradesh: 20 Assam: 1 Bihar: 2 Delhi: 47 Gujarat: 71 Haryana: 3 Himachal Pradesh: 2 Jammu and Kashmir: 5 Jharkhand: 2 Karnataka: 16 Kerala: 3 Madhya Pradesh: 70 Maharashtra: 232 Meghalaya: 1 Odisha: 1 Punjab: 16 Rajasthan: 25 Tamil Nadu: 17 Telangana: 23 Uttar Pradesh: 18 West Bengal: 12 Coronavirus in India: States/UTs with confirmed positive cases (Details are updated as we receive information) Maharashtra: 4,666 Delhi: 2,081 Tamil Nadu: 1,520 Rajasthan: 1,535 Madhya Pradesh: 1,485 Gujarat: 1,939 Uttar Pradesh: 1,184 Telangana: 873 Andhra Pradesh: 722 Kerala: 408 Karnataka: 408 Jammu and Kashmir: 368 West Bengal: 339 Haryana: 251 Punjab: 245 Bihar: 96 Odisha: 68 Uttarakhand: 46 Himachal Pradesh: 39 Chhattisgarh: 36 Assam: 35 Jharkhand: 42 Chandigarh: 26 Ladakh: 18 Andaman and Nicobar Islands: 15 Puducherry: 7 Goa: 7 Meghalaya: 11 Manipur: 2 Tripura: 2 Mizoram: 1 Arunachal Pradesh: 1 Nagaland: 1 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 2841 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-20-827540.html
20-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Two-third of Delhi's COVID-19 patients below 50 years, senior citizens account for more than half deaths||Delhi has 2,003 people who tested positive for COVID-19 as on April 19, of which 45 people died since March 13 when the first death was reported. A 68-year-old woman was the first to lose her battle to COVID-19 in the capital. According to official statistics, 1,283 or (64.5%) out of 1,989 patients analysed were below 50 years of age while 320 (16.08%) were in the age group of 50-59 years and the rest 386 were above 60 years of age. Details of 14 patients were yet to be ascertained by authorities. 
<!--
<!--td {border: 1px solid #ccc;}br {mso-data-placement:same-cell;}-->                                Delhi COVID-19 cases analysis Total COVID-19 cases reported in Delhi as on Apr 19, 2020: 2,003 *Cases analysed – 1,989 (as details of 14 not available with authorities)   When it comes to death, those above 60 years are the most vulnerable as 25 (56%) out of the 45 people who lost their lives were in this age group. Ten each (22% each) were below 50 years and 50-59 years age group.  The proportion of senior citizens in death toll confirms the pattern at a national and international level. However, the analysis shows that 84.44% or 38 out of the total deaths had comorbidity, which emphasised that those with other serious illness are high-risk patients when it comes to COVID-19. Twenty-two (88%) of the 25 senior citizens had comorbidity, once again emphasising the vulnerability of those above the age of 60 years. When it comes to deaths of people below 50 years, nine of ten had co-morbidity while seven out of ten in the age group 50-59 too had other serious ailments.  Studies have said that the prevalence of comorbidity in COVID-19 patients and underlying disease, including hypertension, respiratory system disease and cardiovascular, may be a risk factor for severe patients compared with non-severe patients. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal himself had highlighted the link between comorbidity and had earlier appealed to senior citizens to take extra precaution to ensure that they do not contract the virus infection. Among those who lost their lives who were below 60 years also indicated that comorbidity could be fatal for a COVID-19 patient.           Total COVID-19 deaths in Delhi as on April 19, 2020 – 45 **Seven people who died due to COVID-19 did not have a comorbidity Another problem that concerns the Delhi administration is the way people behave within containment zones. Kejriwal cited an incident in Jahangirpuri, which was declared a containment zone, where 26 members of an extended family living in separate houses in a street there testing positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. According to the Chief Minister, people continued to visit each other in Jahangirpuri though no person was allowed to enter or exit the containment zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-two-third-of-delhis-covid-19-patients-below-50-years-senior-citizens-account-for-more-than-half-deaths-827560.html
20-04-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll rises to 543 in country; number of cases climb to 17,265: Health Ministry||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 543 and the number of cases climbed to 17,265 in the country on Monday, according to the Union health ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 14, 175 while 2,546 people have been cured and discharged, and one patient has migrated, the ministry said. The total number of cases include 77 foreign nationals. A total of 24 deaths were reported since Sunday evening. Twelve deaths were reported from Maharashtra, five from Gujarat, three from Rajasthan and two each from Delhi and Karnataka. Of the 543 deaths, the highest number of 223 fatalities was reported from Maharashtra, followed by Madhya Pradesh (70), Gujarat (63), Delhi (45) and Telengana (18). The death toll reached 17 in Uttar Pradesh while Punjab and Karnataka reported 16 deaths each. Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh have reported 15 deaths each.Rajasthan has registered 14 fatalities. The disease has claimed five lives in Jammu and Kashmir, while Kerala and Haryana have recorded three COVID-19 deaths each. Jharkhand and Bihar have reported two deaths each, while Meghalaya, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Assam have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry's data. However, a PTI tally of the figures reported by various states as on Sunday showed 565 COVID-19 deaths in the country. According to the ministry's data, updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country is from Maharashtra at 4,203 cases, followed by Delhi with 2,003, Gujarat with 1,743, Rajasthan with 1,478, Tamil Nadu with 1,477 and Madhya Pradesh 1,407.  The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 1,084 in Uttar Pradesh, 844 in Telengana, 646 in Andhra Pradesh and 402 in Kerala. In Karnataka, cases has risen to 390, in Jammu and Kashmir to 350, in West Bengal to 339, in Haryana to 233 and in Punjab to 219. Bihar has reported 93 coronavirus cases, while Odisha has 68 such cases. Forty-four people have been infected with the virus in Uttarakhand, while Jharkhand has 42 cases and Himachal Pradesh has 39 cases.Chhattisgarh has 36 cases so far. Assam has registered 35 cases, Chandigarh has 26, Ladakh 18, while 16 cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Meghalaya has reported 11 cases, while Goa and Puducherry have seven COVID-19 patients each. Manipur and Tripura have two cases each, while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported a case each. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-543-in-country-number-of-cases-climb-to-17265-health-ministry-827569.html
20-04-2020||National||Kerala's lockdown relaxations violation of guidelines: MHA||Citing the observations Supreme Court made on March 31 that it trusts state governments and citizens will "faithfully comply" with the directives of the Centre, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said in a letter to Kerala on Sunday that this should be treated as "directions" of the apex court. Kerala was to kick in relaxations from Monday in seven out of 14 districts after grading them into Red, Orange-A, Orange-B and Green zones. Bhalla also wrote to other states as well reminding them that Clause 4(i) and (ii) of the April 15 guidelines have made it clear that the states cannot dilute the directions in any manner and should strictly enforce. It only allowed states to impose stricter measures in local areas. In his letter to Kerala Chief Secretary Tom Jose, the Home Secretary said the Kerala government order has allowed opening up of activities which are "prohibited" in the April 15 guidelines of the MHA.  On April 17, Bhalla said, the Kerala government circulated the guidelines among District Collectors and Superintendents of Police among others, which allowed opening up of local workshops, barber shops, restaurants, book stores, micro, medium and small scale industries in urban area, bus travel in cities and towns for a distance up to 60 km, two passengers on the back seat of four-wheelers and allowing pillion rider on two-wheelers. This amounts to "dilution" of guidelines and "violation" of the MHA order issued on April 15 under the Disaster Management Act 2005, Bhalla said in the letter. "I would urge you to rectify the guidelines of the Government of Kerala in line with the consolidated revised guidelines dated 15 April, 2020 and 16 April, 2020 without any dilution to ensure strict compliance of lockdown measures," Bhalla said.  Senior Kerala Minister Kadakampally Surendran said the state has given relaxations abiding by directions issued by Centre. "Centre may have asked for an explanation, due to some misunderstanding. Once we give an explanation, I hope the issue will be solved. We followed all norms set by the Centre," he said. Kerala Chief Secretary Tom Jose said, "we are discussing what can be done. If needed, necessary modifications will be made." In identical letters to other states, Bhalla said it has come to notice that some of the states were issuing orders allowing activities, which have not been allowed as per guidelines issued by the MHA. "I would urge you to ensure compliance of the revised consolidated guidelines and direct all concerned authorities for their strict implementation in letter and spirit without any dilution and to ensure strict compliance of lockdown measures," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/keralas-lockdown-relaxations-violation-of-guidelines-mha-827579.html
20-04-2020||National||16-year-old girl abducted, raped in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly abducted and raped by a man at a village in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district, police said on Monday. The girl was abducted on April 16, following which a complaint was lodged by her family. The 21-year-old man has been arrested, they said. During the investigation, it was learnt that after the girl was abducted, she was kept at different places, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/16-year-old-girl-abducted-raped-in-uttar-pradeshs-muzaffarnagar-district-827583.html
20-04-2020||National||COVID-19 situation serious in Mumbai, Kolkata, Jaipur, Indore: MHA||The Union government has said the COVID-19 situation is "especially serious" in Mumbai, Pune, Indore, Jaipur, Kolkata and a few other places in West Bengal, and warned that violation of lockdown measures risks the spread of the novel coronavirus further. Acting swiftly, the Union Home Ministry also announced that six inter-ministerial central teams (IMCTs) will visit these identified areas in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan within the next three days to make on-the-spot assessment and recommend remedial measures in a report to the Centre.  In identical orders issued to the four states on Sunday, the home ministry said there have been several incidents of violence against COVID-19 front-line healthcare professionals, complete violation of social distancing norms and movement of vehicles in urban areas. Reacting to the development, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said the basis on which the Centre has proposed to deploy its teams was "unclear" and added "we would not be able to move ahead on this as without valid reasons this might not be consistent with the spirit of federalism". The home ministry said in some districts, a number of violations to the lockdown measures have been reported, posing a serious health hazard and risk for spread of COVID-19 which include attacks on frontline healthcare professionals, complete violations of social distancing norms outside banks, PDS shops and in market places, movement of private and commercial vehicles with passengers in urban areas and so on.  These incidents, if they are allowed to occur without any restraining measures in hotspot districts or emerging hotspots, with large outbreaks or clusters, pose a serious health hazard, both for the population of these districts and for that living in other areas of the country, it said. After analysing the prevalence of such violations in major hotspot districts, it is clear to the central government that the situation is "especially serious" in Mumbai and Pune (Maharashtra), Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Jaipur (Rajasthan), Kolkata, Howrah, East Medinipur, North 24 Parganas, Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Jalpaiguri ( West Bengal), the home ministry said. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 543 and the number of cases climbed to 17,265 in the country on Monday, according to the Union health ministry. There are 4,203 confirmed coronavirus cases in Maharashtra of which 223 people lost their lives, according to Union health ministry data. In Madhya Pradesh, out of the 1,407 cases, 70 people have succumbed to the disease. Rajasthan has reported 1,478 cases of which 14 people lost their lives. In West Bengal, there are 339 confirmed cases of which 12 people died due to the infection, according to health ministry data. After the government announced its decision, the West Bengal chief minister tweeted, "We welcome all constructive support & suggestions, especially from the Central Govt in negating the #Covid19 crisis. However, the basis on which Centre is proposing to deploy IMCTs in select districts across India including few in WB under Disaster Mgmt Act 2005 is unclear." "I urge both Honb’le Prime Minister @NarendraModi Ji & Home Minister @AmitShah Ji to share the criterion used for this. Until then I am afraid, we would not be able to move ahead on this as without valid reasons this might not be consistent with the spirit of federalism," she added. The orders, signed by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, in his capacity as the chairperson of the National Executive Committee under the Disaster Management Act, also said the six inter-ministerial central teams will visit these hotspot areas and make on-spot assessment of the COVID-19 situation in these places and issue necessary directions to the four states. The teams, comprising five members each, will be headed by an Additional Secretary-rank officer of the central government. The six teams will make on-the-spot assessment of the situation, issue necessary directions to the state authorities for redressal of the situation, and submit their report to the central government in larger interest of general public. The IMCTs will focus their assessment on the compliance and implementation of lockdown measures besides issues like the supply of essential commodities, social distancing, hospital facility and sample statistics in the district, safety of health professionals, availability of test kits, PPEs, masks and other safety equipment, and conditions of the relief camps for labour and poor people. The orders also made it clear that the Ministry of Civil Aviation will provide air transportation, to and fro, from New Delhi to their respective place of visit (nearest airport), as their deployment is for an essential purpose of ensuring compliance to the lockdown measures. The state governments will have to provide logistic support to the IMCT, for their accommodation, transportation, PPEs and extend all cooperation for their visits to local areas, production of documents and records as requested by the IMCTs. There have been several incidents of attacks on healthcare workers and police by some people in different parts of the country, including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, leading to injuries to doctors, paramedics and police personnel. The lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 in a bid to combat the coronavirus pandemic. It was further extended till May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-situation-serious-in-mumbai-kolkata-jaipur-indore-mha-827590.html
20-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: 30 students brought from Kota reach home in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar||Thirty students, who were brought to Uttar Pradesh from Kota in buses sent by the state government, have reached their homes here, amid the nationwide lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. They reached Muzaffarnagar on Sunday evening and were sent into home quarantine, District Magistrate Amit Singh said. The students underwent checkups for COVID-19 after reaching the state, he said. The Uttar Pradesh government had sent 250 buses to Kota in Rajasthan on Friday to bring students from the state, who were in that city to prepare for engineering and medical competitive exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-30-students-brought-from-kota-reach-home-in-uttar-pradeshs-muzaffarnagar-827591.html
20-04-2020||National||Pandemic podcast: Transgenders, effect of lockdown on an invisible community||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, let’s listen to DH Business Bulletin by Nikhil Varma. Transgender activist Akkai Padmashali, on how lockdown has impacted transgenders. We also have DH Factcheck by Akash Sriram to separate fact from fiction and rhetoric.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-transgenders-effect-of-lockdown-on-an-invisible-community-827595.html
20-04-2020||National||Online search for child pornography escalates after lockdown in India||The report titled “Child Sexual Abuse Material in India” maps trends from 100 Indian cities and towns including New Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata and Indore among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/online-search-for-child-pornography-escalates-after-lockdown-in-india-827602.html
20-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown violation: MHA-West Bengal confrontation brews as centre sends teams to four states||A confrontation between Centre and West Bengal is brewing on Monday over the Ministry of Home Affair's (MHA) decision to send inter-ministerial teams to four states for an on-the-spot assessment following "especially serious" situation arising out of large-scale violation of COVID-19 lockdown norms, with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee making it clear that it will be difficult to cooperate without "valid reasons". Separately, the MHA has also asked Kerala to "rectify" its directions to relax lockdown in seven out of 14 districts, saying they were "dilution" and "violation" of its April 15 guidelines even as the state government expressed confidence that its clarification to the Centre would clear the air and they would be allowed to go ahead with its plans. The latest flashpoint emerged over the MHA's Sunday order to send six Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCTs) headed by Additional Secretary level officers to 11 districts -- seven in West Bengal, two in Maharashtra and one each in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh – citing a number of violations to the lockdown measures that was posing a "serious health hazard and risk for spread" of COVID-19 which is against the "interest of public". The teams will be sent to Kolkata, Howrah, Medinipur East, 24 Parganas North, Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Jalpaiguri in West Bengal, Mumbai and Pune (Maharashtra), Indore (Madhya Pradesh) and Jaipur (Rajasthan), invoking powers provided by the Disaster Management Act, 2005.  However, the Centre's decision has not gone down well with the West Bengal government with Chief Minister Banerjee saying she “welcomes all constructive support and suggestions” from the Centre but the basis of MHA order was “unclear”. “I urge both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to share the criterion used for this. Until then I am afraid, we would not be able to move ahead on this as without valid reasons this might not be consistent with the spirit of federalism," she tweeted. Banerjee also shot off a letter to Modi saying the central teams were sent to the state without intimation and was in “breach of protocol”. She said the state administration was kept in dark about this and such “unilateral action” by the Centre was “not desirable”. Responding to a question during daily briefing on COVID-19, MHA Joint Secretary Punya Salila Srivastava said the purpose of sending teams was to “assist and support” states to combat the pandemic. “The teams are selected keeping in mind health, administrative and disaster management aspects. The states will benefit from this,” she said. In separate orders sent to the four states on Sunday, the MHA has said that violence against frontline healthcare professionals, "complete" violation of social distancing norms outside banks, PDS shops and in market places and movement of private and commercial vehicles with passengers in urban areas among others were reported. "These incidents, if they are allowed to occur without any restraining measures in hotspot districts or emerging hotspots, with large outbreaks of clusters, pose a serious health hazard, both for the population of these districts and for that living on other areas of the country. After analysing the prevalence of such violations in major hotspot districts, it is clear to the Central government that the situation is especially serious" in these 11 districts, it said. The central teams will prepare reports focussing their assessment on how the administration is implementing the lockdown measures as well as issues like the supply of essential commodities, social distancing in public places, preparedness of the health infrastructure and hospital facilities and sample statistics in the district. The teams, which were flown to the nearest airports of their assignment areas, will also look at the issue of safety of health professionals, availability of test kits, PPEs, masks and other safety equipment, and conditions of the relief camps for labour and poor people. The states were asked to provide logistic support to the teams for their accommodation, transportation, PPEs and extend all cooperation for their visits to local areas, production of documents/records. Maharashtra has reported 4,203 COVID cases and 223 deaths while Madhya Pradesh has 1,407 cases and 70 deaths. In Rajasthan, 1,478 cases were reported while the death toll was 14 and West Bengal has 339 cases and 12 deaths as on Sunday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-violation-mha-west-bengal-confrontation-brews-as-centre-sends-teams-to-four-states-827608.html
20-04-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's father passes away||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath's octogenarian father Anand Singh Bisht breathed his last on Monday at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi after a protracted illness. Bisht, 89, who had been suffering from kidney and liver ailments, had been admitted to AIIMS on April 13. Adityanath, who could not visit his ailing father at AIIMS, said here that he would not be attending his funeral owing to his preoccupation with the fight against COVID-19 amid lockdown.  In a letter, the chief minister said that he was saddened at the demise of his father of his 'previous ashram' (Adityanath became an ascetic and renounced the world and joined a new ashram). ''He (Bisht) inculcated in me the sanskara (moral values) of honesty, hard work and dedication for public good...I wanted to see him for the last time but I am not able to do so owing to my duty toward the 23 crore people of the state....I will not be able to attend his funeral on Tuesday because of the lockdown and the fight against the coronavirus,'' he said. Adityanath also appealed to his mother and other relatives to follow the lockdown guidelines and ensure that the minimum number of people were present at the funeral. He said that he would be meeting his mother after the lockdown period gets over. According to the sources, the body of Adityanath's father would be taken to his ancestral village of Panchur in Pauri district of Uttarakhand. His cremation would take place on the bank of the Ganga river on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-chief-minister-yogi-adityanaths-father-passes-away-827622.html
20-04-2020||National||China protests India's move to prevent hostile takeovers||China on Monday protested the changes India recently made in its foreign investment policy, stating that the “additional barriers” set by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Government in New Delhi violated World Trade Organization’s “principle of non-discrimination”. Beijing asked New Delhi to reverse the recent revision of the policy on foreign investments, to roll back “discriminatory practices” and to treat investment from different countries equally. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry revised the policy on foreign investments on Saturday, making it mandatory for all entities based in the neighbouring countries to seek prior approval from the government before investing in India. While only the entities based in Bangladesh and Pakistan earlier needed approval from the government to invest in India, the new revision made it a mandatory requirement for all neighbouring countries, including China. New Delhi’s move is aimed at preventing attempts by China’s state-owned entities to take over the companies in India, taking advantage of their stress on the economy in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. China on Monday formally lodged a protest against the recent move by India. Ji Rong, the spokesperson of the Embassy of China in New Delhi, issued a statement, saying that the revision of the foreign investment policy would make it “much difficult” for companies from China to invest in India. She noted that China’s cumulative investment in India exceeded $ 8 billion by December 2019. She underlined that China had invested “far more than the total investments” by other neighbouring countries of India. “The Chinese investment has driven the development of India’s industries, such as mobile phone, household electrical appliances, infrastructure, and automobile, creating a large number of jobs in India, and promoting mutual beneficial and win-win cooperation,” said Ji, adding: “The Chinese enterprises actively made donations to help India fight COVID-19 epidemic”. She pointed out that the decisions of the companies to invest and operate in a certain country were guided by the economic fundamentals and business environment of the concerned countries. “Facing the economic downturn caused by (the) COVID-19 (crisis), (the) countries should work together to create a favorable investment environment to speed up the resumption of production and operation of the companies”. “The additional barriers set by Indian side for investors from specific countries violate WTO’s principle of non-discrimination, and go against the general trend of liberalization and facilitation of trade and investment,” said the spokesperson of the Chinese Embassy. “More importantly, they do not conform to the consensus of G20 leaders and trade ministers to realize a free, fair, non-discriminatory, transparent, predictable and stable trade and investment environment, and to keep our markets open,” she said, adding: “Companies make choices based on market principles. We hope India would revise relevant discriminatory practices, treat investments from different countries equally, and foster an open, fair and equitable business environment”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-protests-indias-move-to-prevent-hostile-takeovers-827626.html
20-04-2020||National||Jammu and Kashmir police books journalists for 'anti-national' posts, 'fake news'||Jammu and Kashmir police have booked a female freelance photojournalist and a correspondent of a national daily for uploading “anti-national posts” on social media and regarding a fake news item being published in the “The Hindu” respectively A police spokesperson said that cyber Police Station, Srinagar received information through reliable sources that one Facebook user namely Masrat Zehra is frequently uploading “anti-national posts with the criminal intention.” “The post by the users can provoke the public to disturb the law and order and to glorify the anti-national activities etc. In this regard FIR No. 10/2020 under the relevant provision of law was registered,” he said, The case against Zahra has been registered under section 13 UA(P) Act and 505-IPC.  The UAPA allows the government to designate individuals as terrorists and empowers the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to probe such cases. Zahra told DH that she has been asked to come to the police station on Tuesday. “Police have nowhere mentioned that I am a journalist. They have said that I am a Facebook user,” she said. The police have also registered FIR against Kashmir correspondent of “The Hindu” Pirzda Ashiq regarding a “fake” news item, regarding an encounter at Shopian and subsequent developments. “The details quoted in the news item were factually incorrect and could cause fear or alarm in the minds of the public. The news published without seeking confirmation from the district authorities,” the spokesperson said. In this regard Case FIR No 81/2020 has been registered in police station Anantnag and the individual was called for questioning. “The investigation in both the cases is in progress,” he said. Zahra is the second journalist in Kashmir who has been booked under UAPA. Earlier, Srinagar based journalist Asif Sultan was also booked under the same act for allegedly providing logistical support to a banned militant organisation. He continues to remain in detention. The press bodies and other journalists in Kashmir, took to social media to lodge their protest against the action. Kashmir Press Club, in a statement, asked Union Home Minister Amit Shah and J&K Lt Governor G C Murmu to issue directions for putting an end to ‘harassment’ of journalists in the Union Territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-and-kashmir-police-books-journalists-for-anti-national-posts-fake-news-827633.html
20-04-2020||National||CSIR-NIO researching role of ocean molecules in COVID-19 cure||The Goa-based CSIR-National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) and other units are exploring the possibility of using marine derived bioactive molecules in the treatment of COVID-19, and a concept note in this connection has been submitted to CSIR, New Delhi, a senior official said on Monday. Director of CSIR-NIO Sunil Kumar Singh told PTI the research is aimed at finding whether molecules extracted from the depth of the ocean can cure COVID-19. "Molecules having anti-viral and anti-malarial properties have been extracted by CSIR-NIO scientists and these molecules will be screened for COVID-19 inhibition. The entire project is currently in concept form, and a detailed presentation on it would be made to CSIR very soon," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csir-nio-researching-role-of-ocean-molecules-in-covid-19-cure-827645.html
20-04-2020||National||Srinagar Corporation makes farming within premises of houses mandatory||At a time when food shortage looms large due to the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC) is making farming within the premises of the houses mandatory. The SMC has asked people to use detached portions of their residential houses for growing vegetables and fruits. A public notice issued by the office of Joint Commissioner Planning, SMC reads that ongoing lockdown due to coronavirus has caged families in their homes and has a lesson for all thinkers, policy makers, planners as well as homemakers. “The need to reach out for basic necessities like food and medicines requires new strategies. Medicine, in general, cannot be manufactured at the household level. However, vegetables and fruits farming can be encouraged at an individual household level,” it reads. “We are aware that many conscious citizens, out of their own interest, do venture into vegetable farming (kitchen gardens) at household level in Srinagar but the practice is not common.” It says people know unavoidable circumstances like public strikes, shutdowns, the closing of national highway and extremely bad weather necessitates the inclusion of farming like agriculture and horticulture at the household level into the city. “Therefore, to address the issue, it shall be mandatory for all citizens/families that possess detached/semi-detached plots shall use the open areas around the house/building for kitchen garden and plantation of fruit trees/landscaping as at present. It is the right time to go for vegetable farming and plantation of trees,” it reads. It says those intending to apply for residential building permission in Srinagar within municipal limits shall promote vegetable farming at their individual household level and shall submit proposals accordingly which includes vegetable garden and plantation of fruit trees. Joint Commissioner Planning Ghulam Hassan Mir said the Corporation was also going to write to agriculture and horticulture departments to provide seeds and other necessary assistance to households in municipal limits to encourage the greenery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/srinagar-corporation-makes-farming-within-premises-of-houses-mandatory-827651.html
20-04-2020||National||FIR against UP hotel owner for forcibly evicting medical team||A hotel owner allegedly evicted nine members of a medical team on duty to control COVID-19 in the district following which an FIR has been lodged against him, police said on Monday. According to the complaint given to Sambhal Kotwali, the owner of the hotel, which had been taken over by the local authorities for using it as a quarantine centre for the medical staff, on Sunday forcibly got the premises vacated. "When we returned after duty on Sunday, the owner asked us to vacate it and threatened to throw our belongings out. He later got the hotel vacated forcibly," one of the doctors in the team, Dr Tanvir said The medical team comprised of three doctors and six pharmacist and paramedical staff. Circle officer Sambhal, Siddharth Kumar, said that based on the complaint by the doctors, an FIR has been lodged against the Madhuban hotel and investigations are on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fir-against-up-hotel-owner-for-forcibly-evicting-medical-team-827662.html
20-04-2020||National||COVID-19: India will stand by Maldives in these challenging times, says PM Modi||"The special bond between India and Maldives strengthens our resolve to fight this common enemy together," the prime minister tweeted.  India will stand by its close maritime neighbour and friend in this challenging time, he said. Noting the special challenges that the pandemic poses for a tourism-dependent economy like the Maldives, the prime minister assured the Maldivian President of continued Indian support for minimising the health and economic impact of COVID-19, an official statement later said.   The leaders updated each other about the current state of COVID-19 infections in their countries.    They expressed satisfaction that the coordination modalities agreed among SAARC countries were being implemented actively.  Prime Minister Modi was happy to hear that the Indian medical team sent earlier to Maldives, and the essential medicines gifted by India, had contributed towards controlling the spread of the infection in the islands.   The two leaders agreed that their officials would remain in touch on issues arising out of the present health crisis, as well as other aspects of bilateral cooperation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-will-stand-by-maldives-in-these-challenging-times-says-pm-modi-827669.html
20-04-2020||National||Avoid close-up photos of officials, recipients during COVID-19 relief work: CRPF to units||With pictures of people giving essential goods to those in need during COVID-19 relief work flooding the media, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has directed its field units to avoid clicking close-up photographs of their personnel and distressed recipients to respect their privacy. The force recently sent a message to all its field units, saying while it was important to click photographs of these civic aid work being done across the country for "audit purposes", clicking pictures that show faces of the force officials and distressed recipients should be avoided. "It must be kept in mind that the focus (of the camera) should be on the deed and not on the doer or receiver," the CRPF directive accessed by PTI said. "Hence, close-ups of the people involved in the activity should be avoided, while taking pictures and they should broadly depict the act or activities being undertaken so that no one feels that their privacy is being invaded," it said. The directive said pictures should be taken with an aim to record proof for official "purposes of audit performance-related projection and documentation". Pictures of people distributing food and other essentials are being seen over social media, newspapers and television news channels. "The directive was issued after observing that such noble activities of helping the needy should not become photo events but serve the real purpose catering to the distressed, stranded, hungry and poor," a senior official said. The CRPF, the country's largest paramilitary force with about 3.25 lakh personnel in its ranks, has asked all its field formations to provide food and other essential items to poor and stranded during the ongoing 40-days lockdown in the country aimed to combat coronavirus. Many other agencies, departments and organisations in the public and private domain are carrying out similar works of providing dry rations, cooked food, the supply of protective gear, face masks to people. The lockdown is stipulated to continue till May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/avoid-close-up-photos-of-officials-recipients-during-covid-19-relief-work-crpf-to-units-827673.html
20-04-2020||National||Implement steps to curb domestic violence during coronavirus lockdown: HC to Centre, Delhi govt||A bench of Justices J R Midha and Jyoti Singh further directed that a decision be taken in three days and steps required to protect victims of domestic abuse be immediately implemented. The April 18 order, uploaded Sunday night, came on an NGO's plea seeking measures to safeguard victims of domestic violence and child abuse amidst the coronavirus or COVID-19 lockdown.  The court, which heard the matter via video conferencing on April 18, also issued notice to the Centre, the Delhi government and the National and Delhi women commissions seeking their stand on the petition by April 24. The NGO, All India Council of Human Rights, Liberties and Social Justice (AICHLS), has claimed that there were increasing number of domestic violence incidents since the nation was put under lockdown and sought an urgent intervention by the court. The Women and Child Development department, represented by Delhi government additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose and advocate Urvi Mohan, had told the court that sufficient facilities were available to house victims of domestic violence and children in need of care and protection. The department had also said there were 24x7 helplines in place and when a complaint is received rescue of victim(s) is carried out immediately. The DCW, represented by advocate Rajshekhar Rao, had said that analysis of the calls received on its helpline during lockdown indicated no rising trend in domestic violence cases. "On the contrary, the number of cases reported to the helpline have decreased. While no definite conclusion can be drawn, this is probably due to the circumspection on the part of victims in reporting such incidents due to the presence of the perpetrators in the house and the fear of further violence if such attempt to report were made known to the perpetrator," the commission had said. It had also said that the cases of molestation, sexual assault, rape, kidnapping and stalking "have decreased manifold presumably since a large number of these incidents take place outside the domestic setting and by third parties".  AICHLS in its plea has contended that incidents of domestic violence and child abuse have gripped not only India but countries such as Australia, UK and USA and the reports suggest that countries are witnessing a horrific surge in domestic violence cases since the COVID-19 outbreak and lockdowns. The plea has claimed that the helpline numbers across the country have received about 92,000 calls based on domestic abuse and violence in the first 11 days of the lockdown alone and sought to appoint nodal officers to attend such distress calls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/implement-steps-to-curb-domestic-violence-during-coronavirus-lockdown-hc-to-centre-delhi-govt-827674.html
20-04-2020||National||Eight coronavirus-related projects at IIT Kharagpur get IIT Council approval||The projects include design and development of rapid diagnostic kit, real time TC machine, body suit for COVID-19 patients personal protective equipment for healthcare workers, largescale production of recombinant proteins for vaccine and testing. “IIT Kharagpur has set up research funding for R&D work related to COVID-19. The Institute submitted a list of projects to the IIT Council last week of which 8 projects have been selected,” said a statement issued by IIT Kharagpur. According to a statement issued by IIT Kharagpur the prototypes for most of these projects are expected to be ready within three to four weeks while a couple of them will take about six months to deliver the results. It further stated that the first phase of the projects will start soon after the lockdown as then the research staff will be able to work in the laboratories. ““IIT Kharagpur has a proven track record towards development of indigenous health and hygiene technologies which are affordable, high-quality at par with globally accepted standards, and commercially viable. Our researchers are committed to deliver the prototypes within a constrained timeline considering the healthcare needs in the current situation," said Virendra Kumar Tewari, Director of IIT Kharagpur. “It is our responsibility to improve the quality of life of the last person in the society. While we built some quick technologies to cater to the immediate needs of the essential service providers at the campus, we were simultaneously preparing project proposals and evaluating them keeping in mind the immediate need of the country, cost and product delivery period," said Prof Tewari. Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank praised the institute for “ innovating and developing techniques amd gadgets to help India” in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eight-coronavirus-related-projects-at-iit-kharagpur-get-iit-council-approval-827676.html
20-04-2020||National||Strides Pharma Science Limited receives USFDA approval for Flucytosine Capsules||Strides Pharma Science Limited (Strides) on Monday announced that its step-down wholly owned subsidiary, Strides Pharma Global Pte. Limited, Singapore, has received approval for Flucytosine Capsules USP, 250 mg and 500 mg from the United States Food & Drug Administration (USFDA). The product is a generic version of Ancobon Capsules, 250 mg and 500 mg, of Bausch Health US, LLC, the Bengaluru- headquartered pharmaceutical company said in a statement. The product will be manufactured at the company's flagship facility here and marketed by Strides Pharma Inc. in the US market. The company has 123 cumulative ANDA (Abbreviated New Drug Application) filings with USFDA of which 86 have been approved and 37 are pending approval, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/strides-pharma-science-limited-receives-usfda-approval-for-flucytosine-capsules-827677.html
20-04-2020||National||Bank loan fraud: ED attaches over hundred assets worth Rs 175 cr||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached 124 immovable properties worth more than Rs 175 crore of a West Bengal-based company in connection with a money laundering probe linked to an alleged bank fraud case, the agency said on Monday. It said a provisional order for attachment of the assets of Prakash Vanijya Private Limited has been issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), its director Mannoj Kumar Jain and others for allegedly cheating the Central Bank of India of Rs 234 crore loan amount. Of the 124 properties attached by the ED, 11 are in Chhattisgarh, 10 in West Bengal's capital Kolkata and three in Jalpaiguri. The total value of the properties is Rs 175.29 crore, the ED said in a statement. The federal agency said it launched a PMLA probe against the company and its officials after going through a CBI FIR and the properties were traced after "unfolding layered transactions". Probe found, the ED said, that Letter of Credit (LC) facility was obtained by accused Mannoj Kumar Jain and this was "misused" as LCs were issued without any underlying transactions by using fictitious and shell companies and without any real business or trade. "The LCs so opened were discounted by Jain through fictitious beneficiary companies and funds were received back by him by round-tripping through his shell companies," it alleged. "These released funds from bank were used for personal purpose and for settling other liabilities through kite flying operations," it said. The agency added that the accused, after availing credit facilities from bank, started acquiring immovable properties. "The purchase price of these properties were highly undervalued and balance amount were paid in cash. These cash amounts were illegally generated out of defrauded amount from the banks," it said. Some of these properties were then offered as "collateral securities" to bank for enhancing the credit limit, it said. Probe in the case is ongoing, the ED said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bank-loan-fraud-ed-attaches-over-hundred-assets-worth-rs-175-cr-827683.html
20-04-2020||National||Nitish under fire as BJP MLA drives from Bihar to Kota and returns with son||At a time when he was advocating that no one from other State should be allowed to enter Bihar as “this would defeat the purpose of the lockdown”, one of the ruling party MLAs drove from Bihar to Kota and returned with his son in less than three days. The inter-State pass was issued to BJP MLA from Hisua, Anil Singh, by the Nawada district administration. The special pass, issued by the Nawada SDO, specifically said that the BJP MLA had been allowed permission to drive in his vehicle BR-01PJ-0484 up to Kota (and return). “The pass will be valid from April 16 to April 25,” said the permission order. The move comes three days after Bihar’s top bureaucrat – State Chief Secretary Deepak Kumar - wrote a letter to Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla questioning how the Kota DM issued passes to private vehicles to drive from Kota to Bihar. The Bihar Chief Secretary also sought action against the Kota DM for violating lockdown rules by issuing passes to private vehicles. Deccan Herald had last week carried a report ‘Take action against Kota DM for sending students to Bihar: Nitish to Centre’. Miffed over double-standards adopted by Nitish over return of students from Kota as well as migrant workers, Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav said, “Why such discrimination between two class of people. Effort should be made to bring back all those stuck up outside Bihar.” Nitish’s former aide and poll strategist Prashant Kishor too took a jibe at Bihar CM. “People are stranded across the country, while Nitish is giving lecture on morality. And at the same time, his government gives permission to a BJP MLA to drive from Bihar to Kota to bring back his son,” lamented Kishor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitish-under-fire-as-bjp-mla-drives-from-bihar-to-kota-and-returns-with-son-827684.html
20-04-2020||National||PIL filed in SC for free treatments during COVID-19 lockdown||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court to relax or reduce charges of non-COVID-19 related treatment to safeguard 'right to life' of every citizen, during the period of lockdown imposed to contain Novel Coronavirus outbreak. The PIL filed by advocate Sourjya Das contended numerous members of the public, including self-employed, businessmen and professionals, have suffered loss of livelihood and income due to the lockdown.  "The restrictions imposed on public life by following the COVID-19 outbreak has hampered public life in such a way that the public do not know when things will get back to normal or when offices, shops and usual means of income would resume, thus financially empowering members of the public on a daily basis," his plea said.  The petitioner said that it was necessary to consider that at such times, numerous members of the public will require non-coronavirus related medical treatment services like chemotherapy, emergency transplants, colonoscopy, various tests and other various prescribed medical treatments which are of an immediate necessity to sustain the life of a member of the public.  He said it was the duty of the government to ensure that private hospitals did not exploit members of the public and take steps to ensure that its patients do not suffer a financial crisis. He contended intervention of the top court was required to issue necessary directions in view of "paramount necessity created at such trying times".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-sc-for-free-treatments-during-covid-19-lockdown-827696.html
20-04-2020||National||Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind appeals to Muslims to follow lockdown norms during Ramzan||Prominent Muslim body Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind has appealed to Muslims to adhere to all the guidelines of the lockdown and perform all religious rituals during Ramzan, starting later this week, staying inside their homes. Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind general secretary Mahmood Madani also appealed to the community to help the poor and ensure 'sehri' (meal before start of fasting) and 'iftar' (meal at breaking of fast) is made available for the needy.  "It is an appeal to the Muslims in India that they adhere to the lockdown guidelines completely. They should not leave their homes without reason," the Jamiat appeal said. It also asked Muslims to perform prayers and other religious rituals inside their homes and adhere to the lockdown guidelines during Ramzan which is to start from April 24 or 25. The nationwide lockdown, which was from March 25 till April 14, has been extended to May 3 by the government to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Thursday had directed state waqf boards to ensure strict implementation of the lockdown and social distancing guidelines during the holy month of Ramzan.  "We should cooperate with health workers, security forces, administrative officers, sanitation workers. They are working for our safety and well-being even putting their own lives at risk in this coronavirus pandemic," Naqvi had said "We should also demolish rumours and misinformation being spread about quarantine and isolation centres by creating awareness among people that such centres are only meant to protect people, their families and the society from the pandemic," the minister had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jamiat-ulema-e-hind-appeals-to-muslims-to-follow-lockdown-norms-during-ramzan-827697.html
20-04-2020||National||CM urges Shah for action against communal twist to lynching||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday urged Union Home Minister Amit Shah to take action against those giving communal colour to the lynching of three men by a mob in Palghar district. The state government has already ordered a high-level inquiry into the incident that took place on April 16. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh earlier warned against giving any communal colour to the incident, as two of the three deceased were believed to be seers. In a video message, Thackeray said he received a call on Monday from Amit Shah who himself said there is no communal angle to the Palghar mob lynching incident. "I have urged him to initiate action against those who are giving a communal twist to the Palghar mob lynching, which is factually incorrect. I also informed him that my government is definitely going to take action against the perpetrators," Thackeray said. Inspector-General of Police (CID) Atulchandra Kulkarni will head the probe into the lynching incident, he said. Thackeray said the three men lynched by the mob seemed to be victims of some rumour and there is no communal background to the incident. "As per my information, the seers were on their way to Surat in Gujarat during the lockdown. They were stopped by Dadra and Nagar Haveli police and sent back to Maharashtra, he said. As they took an internal route passing through Gadchindhali village, which is 110 km away from Palghar district, they were stopped by locals who suspected them to be a gang of thieves stealing children, the chief minister said, adding that police vehicles were also attacked by the mob. The village where the attack took place is barely a few kilometres from the border of the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Union Territory, he pointed out. "Over 110 people are arrested so far from Palghar, including five main accused. Two police officials have been suspended for dereliction of duty, he said. Out of the total accused, nine are juvenile and they have been sent to a remand home, Thackeray said. "I have informed Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath who had called seeking details about the incident, he said.  The chief minister on Sunday said stern action will be taken against those involved in the lynching of the three men. He said those behind this heinous crime and shameful act will be brought to justice in the strongest way possible. Deshmukh earlier said those who attacked and who died in the Palghar mob killings are not from different religions. "I have ordered Maharashtra police and @MahaCyber1 to take action against anyone instigating communal hatred in the society or on social media," he said in a tweet on Sunday. Deshmukh said police are keeping an eye on those who wanted to use the incident to create a rift in society. An assistant police inspector and a sub-inspector from Palghar were suspended on Monday for alleged dereliction of duty in the wake of the incident that took place on April 16 night when three men from Kandivali in Mumbai were going in a car towards Surat in Gujarat to attend a funeral. Their vehicle was stopped near a village in Palghar. The three were dragged out of their car and beaten to death with sticks by a mob on suspicion that they were thieves. The deceased were identified as Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri (70), Sushilgiri Maharaj (35), and their car driver Nilesh Telgade (30).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cm-urges-shah-for-action-against-communal-twist-to-lynching-827700.html
20-04-2020||National||Pondy CM questions GST on medical equipment to treat coronavirus||Territorial Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Sunday questioned the imposition of GST by the Centre on medical equipment for hospitals to treat COVID- 19 patients. He told newsmen here that the Centre should help the rescue of the states and facilitate the availability of the equipment like ventilators, monitors, face masks and drugs and medicines at the government hospitals. The state governments could in the alternative be permitted to buy the equipment either from within the country or outside the country, he said. But the imposition of GST (goods and services tax) on the devices pushed the prices up and hence the GST should be rescinded to make the devices available to the states, he said. The Chief Minister appealed to the Centre to make a sufficient number of equipment available for the doctors and nurses taking care of the coronavirus patients. The Centre should supply an adequate number of Personal Protection Equipment, masks and other facilities for the doctors and nurses attending to the infected patients, he said. Stating that everyone is presently at a crucial and testing time in battling the virus, the Chief Minister said the people should continue to adhere to the social distancing and voluntary isolation at their homes. The lockdown has been extended till May 3, hence there should be strict adherence to the norms of lockdown lest all the achievements made so far here would go for a toss, he said. Thanking the police for their work braving the hot spell and other hardships, the Chief Minister said the joint efforts of staff and workers of Health Department, PWD, Electricity, Civil Supplies, the volunteers of NCC and ASHA unit had been effective in enforcing the lockdown. He said the doctors and nurses taking care of the patients admitted at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College hospital for treatment for COVID-19 had also been rendering their service excellently. There were only three active cases of COVID-19 in the hospital while as many as 3,045 people were in-home quarantine in the Union Territory. Narayanasamy appealed to industries' owners to adhere to the conditions stipulated for resuming work in their units from Monday and no work from outside should be brought into Puducherry. "Only the locals and the migrant workers who were already available within the factories should be engaged to restart the units," he said adding that any violation would lead to cancellation of licences for the entrepreneurs. District Collector T Arun said the vigil was being maintained on the adherence to the conditions on which permissions were granted to entrepreneurs to run the factories in the wake of relaxation of restrictions as per the latest guidelines of the Central government. He said the Centre had permitted activities under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act after the restrictions were relaxed and hence around 10,000 workers would be benefitted by getting a job during the ongoing lockdown. The Industries and Labour departments would also keep a vigil on the industries to ascertain they did not violate the lockdown norms, he said. Senior Superintendent of Police Rahul Alwal said strict criminal action had been taken against owners of liquor shops after it was found that there was the illegal sale of the brew here during the ongoing lockdown. "Twentytwo licences had been suspended and this will culminate in cancellation of the licences as the probe was on into the violation of the lockdown norms," he said. The police official said cases were registered against the owners of the shops under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act. "There is no compromise on curbing the menace of illegal sale of liquor in the Union Territory," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pondy-cm-questions-gst-on-medical-equipment-to-treat-coronavirus-827704.html
20-04-2020||National||Plea in SC seeks direction to DMs to inspect shelter homes for migrant workers||A plea was filed in the Supreme Court on Monday seeking a direction to all the District Magistrates (DMs) across the country to conduct daily inspection of shelter homes for migrant labourers who had left the cities for their natives places following the nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. The application said the Centre should direct the DMs to ensure that sufficient food, drinking water, medical aid and proper counselling is provided to migrant labourers in these shelter homes till the lockdown, which has been extended till May 3, continues.  It has said that the Centre should direct all the states "to not permit any mass migration of any migrant labourers to their native villages situated within or outside the state, till the present lockdown continues". Advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava has filed the application in his pending petition before the apex court in which he has raised the issue of large scale migration of daily wagers and labourers amid the lockdown. Srivastava said the Centre should direct all the DMs to immediately identify moving or stranded migrant workers in their districts and shift them to the nearest shelter homes, where they should be provided sufficient food, water, medicines and counselling during the lockdown. The top court had on March 31 directed the Centre to ensure that migrant workers, who are kept in shelter homes across the country, are given adequate facilities like food, medical aid and assistance of trained counsellors and religious leaders of all faiths be taken to help them overcome their panic. The fresh application, while referring to media reports, has alleged that few state governments are not ensuring strict compliance of the March 31 order of the apex court as well as the directives of the Union Home Ministry.  It said that allowing any mass migration of labourers to their native places situated within or outside the state would defeat the purpose of lockdown. "If the said migrant labourers are sent to their native villages without proper COVID-19 testing, then it will be much more dangerous, as the said migrant labourers may carry the coronavirus to their native villages/rural areas, which may give rise to uncontrollable and exponential rise in COVID-19 cases," the application said. It said that in rural India, the doctor-population ratio is far lower than what has been mandated by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and thus, it is not advisable to send migrant labourers to their native villages till the lockdown continues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-seeks-direction-to-dms-to-inspect-shelter-homes-for-migrant-workers-827710.html
20-04-2020||National||Railways distributes over 20 lakh meals to needy||Indian Railways has distributed over 20 lakh meals to needy people since nationwide lockdown announced on March 24. IRCTC, ticketing and catering wing of railways, is operating all its base kitchens to prepare foods. The railways have been providing bulk cooked food with paper plates for lunch and food packets for dinner through IRCTC base kitchens, RPF resources, and contribution of NGOs. Distribution of food is being done with the help of Railway Protection Force (RPF), Government Railway Police (GRP),  commercial departments of Zones, State Governments, District administrations and NGOs, even beyond the station vicinity to cater to the food requirements of needy people in areas surrounding the railway stations, said an official from the railways. At present food distribution is being done in over 300 places to stranded passengers in railway stations, migrant workers and daily wage workers and other needy people. Of the total 25 lakh meals, about 11.6 lakh cooked meals have been provided by IRCTC, about 3.6 lakh meals have been provided by RPF from its own resources, about 1.5 lakh meals have been provided by Commercial and other departments of Railways and nearly 3.8 lakh meals have been donated by NGOs working with the railway organizations. The Railway Protection Force has played a major role in the food distribution to needy people prepared by IRCTC, other Railway departments, NGOs and from its own kitchens, said an official. The national transporter, which suspended the operation of passengers carrying trains, is operating only freight trains to transport essential goods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-distributes-over-20-lakh-meals-to-needy-827711.html
20-04-2020||National||2 crore meals served to vulnerable communities: Akshaya Patra Foundation||The Akshaya Patra Foundation on Monday claimed it has served over two crore meals to vulnerable communities likemigrant population, daily-wage labourers, industrial workers and homeless people across India during the COVID-19 related lockdown. "The Foundation has been working to serve these people every day by providing freshly cooked meals and food relief kits with essential groceries while working closely with the Government of India, various State Governments, Union Territory Administrations and civic bodies," the not-for-profit organisation said in a press release.  The relief feeding endeavour has been initiated in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Delhi and NCR, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, the release said. Besides utilising its kitchen network to prepare meals and deliver them to the centres assigned by the authorities, Akshaya Patra has also set up essential grocery kits to distribute it in Bengaluru. The kit contains rice, Tur Dal, oil, spices, Sambar and Rasam powder and vegetables which are known to have a long shelf-life, such as potatoes and pumpkins. Each kit has groceries sufficient for either 42 or 28 meals, the charitable organisation said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-crore-meals-served-to-vulnerable-communities-akshaya-patra-foundation-827722.html
20-04-2020||National||Reason behind Centre’s decision to send IMCTs to Bengal unclear: Mamata||However, Banerjee also said that she welcomes “ all constructive support & suggestions” especially from the Centre to deal with the COVID-19 outbreak. “We welcome all constructive support & suggestions, especially from the Central Govt in negating the #Covid19 crisis. However, the basis on which Centre is proposing to deploy IMCTs in select districts across India including few in WB under Disaster Management Act 2005 is unclear,” tweeted Banerjee. She urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah to “share the criterion” used for the Centre’s decision adding that without it the move may not be consistent with the spirit of federalism. “I urge both Honb’le Prime Minister @NarendraModiJi & Home Minister @AmitShah Ji to share the criterion used for this. Until then I am afraid, we would not be able to move ahead on this as without valid reasons this might not be consistent with the spirit of federalism,” tweeted Banerjee. Later in the day Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi stating alleging that the Central teams were sent without prior intimation to the state government and hence it was qa “breach of established protocol.” She also stated that the Central team arrived at Kolkata Airport at 10.10 am on Monday “much before” Union Home M Inister Amit Shah informed her about the visit of the Central teams. “I would like to bring to your kind notice that today the Union Home Minister spoke to me over telephone at about 1 pm regarding the visit of Inter Ministerial Central Teams to my state. Unfortunately the team had already landed at Kolkata Airport by AI Special Cargo Flight 1701 at 10.10 am i.e. much before our telephonic conversation,” stated Banejee. She also said that the Central teams kept the state government in “complete dark” and approached Central forces like BSF and SSB for logistics support adding that they had already moved in the field without any consultation with the state government. Meanwhile Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said that there was no “substantial logic” behind the teams. “We think that there is no substantial logic behind sending these teams. One of the team has gone to Kolkata and other has gone to Jalpaiguri... We don't know the criteria based on which they selected the areas,” said Sinha adding that after arrival the Central teams went on field visit with SSB and BSF personnel. Meanwhile with 54 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours the number of active positive cases rose to 245. So far 73 persons have been discharged after recovering from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reason-behind-centre-s-decision-to-send-imcts-to-bengal-unclear-mamata-827728.html
20-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown forces deferral of Kedarnath, Badrinath shrines' portal opening||According to the official sources, the decision to defer the opening of the portals of the two shrines was taken at a meeting presided over by Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday. ''The portals of Kedarnath and Badrinath shrines will now open on May 14 and 15 respectively,'' said Uttarakhand minister Madan Ksuhik after the meeting. The portals were to open on April 29 and 30 respectively according to the earlier schedule. He said that it would not be advisable to allow the pilgrims to visit the two shrines in view of the lockdown following the COVID-19 outbreak in the country.  Sources said that the two 'Rawals' (head priests of Kedarnath and Badrinath shrines), who had been visiting other state, arrived in the hill state on Sunday. Both of them were put under 14-day quarantine after their medical examination, sources said. Both the shrines, which were essential parts of the 'Char Dham Yatra' (the four sacred Hindu shrines of Gangotri, Yamunotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath) undertaken by lakhs of pilgrims from different parts of the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-forces-deferral-of-kedarnath-badrinath-shrines-portal-opening-827730.html
20-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: India will stand by Maldives in this challenging time, says PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday spoke with Maldivian President Ibrahim Solih on the health and economic challenges the COVID-19 pandemic poses for the island nation. The special bond between India and Maldives strengthens our resolve to fight this common enemy together. India will stand by its close maritime neighbour and friend in this challenging time. "The special bond between India and Maldives strengthens our resolve to fight this common enemy together," the prime minister tweeted.  India will stand by its close maritime neighbour and friend in this challenging time, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-will-stand-by-maldives-in-this-challenging-time-says-pm-narendra-modi-827732.html
20-04-2020||National||India has been reasonably successful in containing spread of COVID-19: Lok Sabha Speaker||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Monday said India has been "reasonably successful" in containing the spread of the novel coronavirus and hailed all frontline workers are fighting this difficult battle selflessly for the sake of the nation. Birla, who arrived at the Parliament House on Monday upon resumption of the functioning of the Lok Sabha secretariat, said extensive social distancing protocols have been put in place and the wearing of masks have been made mandatory for all persons entering Parliament premises. "India has been reasonably successful in its efforts to contain the spread of this virus and with the cooperation of the people, the nation shall be able to defeat this disease,” Birla was quoted in an official statement issued by the Lok Sabha secretariat. He further said that the secretariat is in touch with all Members of Parliament, who are leading efforts within their constituencies to spread awareness about the disease and to ensure that people are taking all the requisite precautions related to social distancing. Applauding the health workers, sanitation workers, security personnel and others, who are described as "corona warriors", the Speaker said they have shown tremendous willpower in containing the deadly pandemic. Birla urged the people to extend respect to them, as they have fought this difficult battle selflessly for the sake of the nation while saying that the country's corona warriors "deserve accolades and support of all stakeholders in our national strategy to contain the impact of the disease". Besides Birla, the officers and members of staff of the Secretariat also resumed their respective official duties from Monday. All vehicles entering the Parliament House premises are being sanitized, along with thermal scanning of all persons, the statement reads. Wide-ranging sanitisation of all surfaces, both indoors and outdoors along with social distancing norms with regard to meetings and other interactions are also being followed, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-been-reasonably-successful-in-containing-spread-of-covid-19-lok-sabha-speaker-827736.html
20-04-2020||National||Ban on doorstep delivery of newspapers: HC seeks Maha response||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court on Monday sought the Maharashtra government's response to a plea challenging its circular prohibiting door-to-door distribution of newspapers in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Justice N W Sambre was hearing a petition filed by the Maharashtra Union of Working Journalists and the Nagpur Union of Working Journalists challenging the circular dated April 18. The government order stated that while newspapers can be sold at stalls, door-to-door distribution by vendors cannot be permitted at this stage looking at the rapid spread of coronavirus. The petition said the circular was "arbitrary, unreasonable and in violation of fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution of India". The petitioners lawyer Deven Chauhan requested the high court to quash and set aside the circular. Justice Sambre, after hearing brief arguments in the case, issued notices to the Chief Secretary of the Maharashtra government, the Union Information and Broadcasting Ministry, state DGIPR (Directorate General of Information and Public Relations) directing them to file affidavits within two days. Next hearing on the plea is posted for April 23. Chauhan argued that the Union government had issued an advisory to all state governments and Union Territories to ensure smooth functioning of print and electronic media including printing and distribution. State government pleader Sumant Deopujari raised preliminary objection to the petition and said imposition of reasonable restrictions was required in view of coronavirus outbreak. He further argued that the facility of e-paper was available to readers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ban-on-doorstep-delivery-of-newspapers-hc-seeks-maha-response-827739.html
20-04-2020||National||Diabetes, heart patients must exercise extra caution against coronavirus: PGI doctors||Though such patients are more susceptible to COVID-19 virus, they must not rush to get themselves tested unless they have symptoms or have come in contact with active cases of coronavirus.  These patients can, however, follow certain extra precautionary measures to keep themselves healthy and avoid getting coronavirus infection, the doctors said. "Patients with uncontrolled diabetes and whose three-month average HbA1c blood sugar level is more than 7.5 should be extra careful as they are more susceptible," said Prof (Dr) Sushil Gupta of the department of endocrinology, SGPGI. If such patients get infection, it will be difficult for them to survive, he told PTI. Moreover, those suffering from diabetes and heart ailments have very poor resistance power, said Prof (Dr) Sudeep Kumar of the department of cardiology, SGPGI. He said these patients must never miss their regular dose of medicines and get their blood pressure and sugar levels tested timely otherwise they will expose themselves to the deadly virus.  They cautioned that patients above the age of 60 are likely to fall easy prey to the virus. At present eight coronavirus patients are undergoing treatment at the Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/diabetes-heart-patients-must-exercise-extra-caution-against-coronavirus-pgi-doctors-827746.html
20-04-2020||National||Expand list of essentials to include laptops, routers to facilitate work from home: Nasscom to govt||Industry body Nasscom has urged the government to expand the list of essential items to include products like laptops and routers to facilitate work from home amid the lockdown. Four days after allowing e-commerce firms to also deliver non-essential items such as electronic goods and readymade garments, the government on Sunday said non-essential items will continue to be prohibited during the lockdown period till May 3. "With most of us working/learning from home, access to basic equipment is absolutely critical. Urge govt to consider basic requirements like office chairs, routers, laptops/desktops etc as essentials for #ecommerce deliveries," Nasscom said in a tweet.  Nasscom had suggested IT companies that they bring back employees on work premises in a phased manner, starting with 15-20 per cent of workforce, even as the guidelines issued by the Home Ministry had allowed IT and IT-enabled services to operate with up to 50 per cent strength. A significant number of people in IT-BPM companies have been working from home to ensure business continuity. Nasscom President Debjani Ghosh had also, on Sunday, tweeted that the decision could have been "better thought through". "This could have been better thought through... a lot of the eCommerce cos have invested in planning for the 20th. And most don't have deep pockets to handle these kinds of reversal in decisions. The focus, I feel, should have been on ensuring adequate safety protocols," she had said. Under the first phase of the nationwide lockdown between March 24-April 14, the government had only allowed delivery of essential goods through e-commerce platforms. On April 16, the Ministry of Home Affairs issued fresh guidelines for the current lockdown, allowing all e-commerce deliveries and movement of trucks, followed by some states such as Maharashtra, Odisha and Rajasthan also issuing similar notifications. However, on Sunday, the home ministry issued an order saying the following clause -- "E-commerce companies. Vehicles used by e-commerce operators will be allowed to ply with necessary permissions" -- is excluded from the guidelines issued. The government's U-turn on home delivery of non-essential items will leave consumers disappointed, the world's largest online retailer Amazon had said, even as the decision was welcomed by local kirana store body CAIT that had called it the "most pragmatic". Stating that it will continue to follow the guidelines and deliver essential products, Amazin India had expressed hope that "this situation is rectified soon so that the urgent need of consumers is met and that there is revival of economic activity". Players like Paytm Mall have also urged the government to expand the ambit of essential goods to include products like laptops and mobile phones to facilitate people working from home.  "Safety of fellow Indians is of utmost importance to us and, therefore, we support the government's decision in spirit to limiting e-commerce operations to essentials. However, we believe that the ambit of essential goods should be increased," Paytm Mall Senior Vice-President Srinivas Mothey had said. He had added that people in the country are mostly working from home at the moment but many are finding it difficult as they are running low on certain items necessary to effectively operate under the lockdown. "Laptops, mobile phones, and accessories, computer hardware, webcams, all these things should be allowed to be part of essential goods. If the lockdown continues, lack of proper technical support would hinder the efficiency of employees which in turn would affect a company's operations," he had said. Sanjay Sethi, CEO and co-founder of ShopClues, echoed similar sentiments. "It is imperative to expand the definition of 'essential goods'. In fact, not doing so could be counterproductive at this time," he had said. While the entire nation is forced indoors and working from home for extended period, it is important that besides products like food, groceries and medicine, one also ensures supply of other critical items like small kitchen appliances, personal hygiene items, work from home essentials like phones, laptops and accessories, Sethi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expand-list-of-essentials-to-include-laptops-routers-to-facilitate-work-from-home-nasscom-to-govt-827748.html
20-04-2020||National||835 new COVID-19 cases found in Maharashtra in 36 hours: CM||As many as 835 new cases of COVID-19 have been detected in Maharashtra in the last 36 hours, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Monday. He said limited industrial activities have been allowed in certain areas of the state, but this should not be seen as an indication that the threat of coronavirus has receded in any way. There has been a rise of 835 cases of COVID-19 in Maharashtra in the last 36 hours. We are relaxing the stringent norms of lockdown to restart the wheels of the economy. "(But) one should not interpret that the threat of coronavirus is over," he cautioned. Select industrial activities are starting only in non- hotspot zones in terms of coronavirus cases, he said. "We are testing how we can resume industrial and business activities. There has been some relaxation in orange and green zones to resume industrial activities," said the chief minister. The green zones are those which have not reported any coronavirus case, while orange zones are the ones where only a few infections have been reported. Maharashtra, the most industrialised state, is worst affected by a coronavirus in the country. Till Sunday night, Maharashtra had recorded 4,200 COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/835-new-covid-19-cases-found-in-maharashtra-in-36-hours-cm-827750.html
20-04-2020||National||Cash transfers for poor, GST-free anti-coronavirus essentials top Congress agenda||After getting the government ring-fence Indian corporates from takeovers, Congress on Monday stepped up pressure on the Centre on seeking a waiver from GST on essential products in the fight against COVID-19 such as hand sanitisers, soaps, gloves and test kits. The main opposition party also demanded that the Modi government transfer Rs 7,500 into every Jan Dhan bank account and also hand out a similar amount to the pension accounts of widows, disabled, elderly and beneficiaries of the PM-Kisan initiative to deal with the COVID-19 lockdown. The demands was made after the first meeting of the high-level committee chaired by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to formulate the Congress stand on the emerging COVID-19 situation. “In these difficult times, we have been asking the government to ensure that all small and large equipment related to the treatment of COVID-19 be made GST Free. It is wrong to collect GST on sanitisers, soaps, masks, gloves from people who are battling disease and poverty,’ former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said.  Earlier, addressing the media through a video link, senior leader Jairam Ramesh, part of the 11-member committee, said that the Congress would submit specific suggestions to the government regarding the MSME and agriculture sectors by Wednesday. “Cash transfer is required immediately to bring relief to crores of people…the priority is about now. We believe Rs 7500 should be transferred. This will take care of immediate needs of the people that has arisen,” Ramesh said terming the relief announced by the government as inadequate. Ramesh said both Singh and Rahul, who also participated in the meeting, stressed that priority be given to the MSME sector because of its social and economic importance as it is one of the largest job providers in the country after agriculture.  Ramesh said both Singh and Gandhi also stressed on the need for making positive recommendations to the government to ensure smooth crop procurement and resolution of migrants' issues. “I am sure a compassionate, responsible government can find funds to provide for the vulnerable," he said when asked if the country had funds of this nature to spare. Ramesh said the Congress leadership will review the impact of the gradual easing of the lock down guidelines to allow migrant workers get employment within the state of their present residence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cash-transfers-for-poor-gst-free-anti-coronavirus-essentials-top-congress-agenda-827751.html
20-04-2020||National||NGO moves SC for full refund of flights cancelled in lockdown||An NGO, Pravasi Legal Cell on Monday approached the Supreme Court for a direction to the domestic and international flight operators to refund the full amount of ticket of the flights cancelled during the period of lockdown.  It contended that the action on the part of the airlines in not refunding the full amount collected for the tickets due to the cancellation of flights in the wake of restrictions imposed to contain COVID-19 was arbitrary and in violation of the Civil Aviation requirement issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation. "The airline companies instead of showing humanitarian virtues, are rather seeing these challenging times as an opportunity to extract unlawful gains from the people who are already in misery due to uncertainties," it claimed.   The NGO said the Ministry of Civil Aviation's order issued on April 16 directing the airlines to refund only those tickets that were booked during the lockdown period and left out the vast majority of passengers who had booked tickets before the flights were banned, was like treating the equals unequally in violation of the fundamental rights of citizens.  "The present policy is extremely harsh on the ordinary passengers who book tickets in advance for travelling," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngo-moves-sc-for-full-refund-of-flights-cancelled-in-lockdown-827752.html
20-04-2020||National||Rate at which coronavirus cases doubling in India improves to 7.5 days: Health Ministry||The Union Health Ministry said on Monday the rate at which the number of coronavirus cases in the country was becoming double in the last one week has improved to 7.5 days, as against 3.4 days before the nationwide lockdown was imposed. As per data on April 19, 18 states and UTs have shown an improvement than the national average doubling rate, Ministry of Health and Family Affairs Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said at a briefing. He said that the states and UTs where the doubling time is less than 20 days are Delhi where it is doubling in 8.5 days, Karnataka in 9.2 days, Telangana 9.4 days, Andhra Pradesh 10.6 days, Jammu and Kashmir 11.5 days, Punjab 13.1 days, Chattisgarh 13.3 days, Tamil Nadu 14 days and Bihar 16.4 days. Places, where the doubling time is between 20 days to 30 days, include Andaman and Nicobar Island where it was 20.1 days. In Haryana, the cases are doubling in 21 days, in Himachal Pradesh 24.5 days, Chandigarh 25.4 days, Assam 25.8 days, Uttarakhand 26.6 days and Ladakh 26.6 days. States having doubling time more than 30 days are Odisha and Kerala which reported dubling time as 39.8 days and 72.2 days respectively, Agarwal said. He also said that a total of 1,553 cases and 36 deaths have been reported in the last 24 hours taking the total number of cases in the country to 17,265 and death toll to 543 so far. Also, 2,546 people have been cured and overall around 14.75 per cent people have recovered, he stated.  Apart from Mahe in Puducherry and Kodagu in Karnataka, Pauri Garhwal district from Uttarakhand too have not reported any fresh case of coronavirus infection during last 28 days, he said. There are 59 districts in 23 states and UTs where no case has been reported in the last 14 days, he said. Agarwal also said that in some good news, all the patients in Goa have been discharged. No further active cases have been reported in the state yet, he said. He also expressed concern over the news of some journalists in Mumbai testing positive for the virus and said that when they attend their call of duty, they should take the required precautions. "Follow the norms of social distancing and wear face masks," Agarwal said. A representative from the Ministry of Agriculture said that the FCI has moved double the average quantity of food grains during the lockdown period and that face masks and hand sanitizers have been brought under Essential Commodities Act. She also said that NGOs have been permitted to buy food grains directly from FCI for relief operations.     "Sown area of summer crops has registered 36 per cent increase over last year; farming has been exempted from lockdown but social distancing has to be maintained," the Agriculture Ministry official said. She also said that the government has hiked MNREGA wages in the wake of the pandemic and the the average increase is Rs 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rate-at-which-coronavirus-cases-doubling-in-india-improves-to-75-days-health-ministry-827760.html
20-04-2020||National||Under quarantine, West Bengal's migrant worker commits suicide in Ahmedabad||A 40-year-old migrant worker from West Bengal, who was living with his wife and two children in a college campus in quarantine, allegedly committed suicide in Ahmedabad, police said. They said that the man had a quarrel with his wife over their children's constant fight which compelled him to hang himself. The labourer identified as Kamlesh S Pramanik, originally from Malda in West Bengal, was found hanging inside a boy's hostel at R C Technical College in Ghatlodia. Police said that Pramanik and his family were shifted to the college campus which has been converted into a quarantine facility for stranded migrant workers.  A policeman at Sola Police Station, where a case of accidental death has been registered, told DH that on 18th night around 9, Pramanik had quarrel with his wife over their children who, police said, would often go out to play which used to irk the father a lot. After the fight, he left the room, where the family was staying, and locked himself into another vacant room.  A day later on Sunday morning health officials came to distribute food and knocked at Pramanik's room but he didn't respond. Police said that the health officials broke open the door and found him hanging. When contacted, Deputy Commissioner of Police, zone-1, P L Mall told DH, "The husband-wife had a dispute that led to the incident. We have registered the case as an accidental death." "We are probing if there is any other reason behind the suicide," Mall added. Police said that Pramanik and his family were first put up at Iscon Mall which was converted into a shelter home for stranded migrant workers along with 126 others. Two days back, four of the workers were tested coronavirus positive following which all the other workers were taken to RC Technical College and were put under quarantined.   Meanwhile, in Aravalli district a migrant worker has been detected with the deadly virus who was also staying in a shelter home in Modasa town. Officials said that he was living with 60 other workers including his brother. He had developed some symptoms. Sources said that reports of five other inmates are awaited. Till Monday evening, seven cases were detected in the district.     "There are over a dozen shelter homes in the district in which over 1,200 workers are living against their will. Even the person who has been infected tried to run away while he was being taken for checking," said a senior officer. He added that "If the government doesn't send them home as soon as possible, they will run away and might spread the virus." By Monday evening, the number of coronavirus cases in Gujarat reached 1939 which is spread in 25 districts including Aravalli of which Ahmedabad is the worst affected with 1,248 cases and 38 deaths out of 71 casualties reported in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/under-quarantine-west-bengals-migrant-worker-commits-suicide-in-ahmedabad-827782.html
20-04-2020||National||India worried over China's renewed bid to lay its debt trap in South Asia in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic||New Delhi is worried over China’s renewed bid to spread its tentacles in the neighbourhood of India, on the pretext of providing assistance to South Asian nations in the wake of the pandemic and the consequent stress on the economies in the region caused by the curbs and the lockdowns enforced to contain it. China has already donated COVID-19 test kits, coveralls, masks and other protective gears to Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Afghanistan and Maldives, in addition to its “iron-brother” Pakistan. New Delhi also moved early to counter the charm offensive launched by China in the region, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi joining other leaders of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) in a virtual summit on March 15. India donated medical supplies to almost all its neighbours, sent medical teams to some and even arranged webinars for healthcare professionals of the South Asian nations for training in management of the pandemic. New Delhi, however, is worried about the possibility of China taking the advantage of the pandemic, offering loans and putting the South Asian nations in debt traps – thus posing a security threat for India. “We can only go to a certain extent in reaching out to our neighbours in South Asia, maybe helping them with little bit of what they need in this hour of crisis,” a source in New Delhi said, adding: “But India surely cannot do what China can do with its deep pockets”. China already provided a preliminary $ 500 million concessional loan to Sri Lanka to help it cushion the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. A number of diplomatic sources in New Delhi indicated that Beijing has offered similar loans to Bangladesh, Nepal and Maldives too. Sri Lanka had to lease out the Hambantota Port to China for 99 years after its construction by a company based in the communist country resulted in a huge debt burden on the tiny Indian Ocean nation. Maldives was also caught up in an estimated $ 3 billion debt-trap as the erstwhile government of the island nation in the past few years awarded the state-owned companies of China contracts to build several infrastructure projects, allegedly on unsustainable loan terms. The Chinese Government has often been accused of putting other nations in debt traps on the pretext of supporting development projects as part of its ambitious cross-continental Belt and Road Initiative, which New Delhi has been strongly opposing. “If the countries in our neighbourhood get caught up in such debt-traps, it will ultimately pose a security threat to us,” said the source in New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-worried-over-chinas-renewed-bid-to-lay-its-debt-trap-in-south-asia-in-the-wake-of-covid-19-pandemic-827814.html
20-04-2020||National||Send special trains for migrants to return home: Danish Ali to PM Modi||“When Government of India could send special aircrafts to foreign countries for the return of Indian citizens then it can also send special trains for the return of stranded citizens within the country,” he said adding that far away from their homes, these hapless citizens have no money, food and necessary means to survive, said Ali. Flagging that with each passing day, the people stranded in lockdown are getting restless and are worried about the members of their family living in the villages, Ali drew Modi’s attentions to the incident of a woman  Chhaboo Mandal a migrant worker from Gurugram committing suicide as she could not see her child on the verge of death due to starvation. “You must be aware of hundreds of hardworking migrant labourers of Surat, Madurai and Mumbai, defying the lockdown and marching towards their homes. Crores of poor and migrant labourers are desperate to go back to their families,” he said and referred to the recent incident of BJP government of UP having sent buses to Kota for coaching students’ return to their homes in various districts. “I really appreciate this initiative. The same arrangement can be made for every citizen stranded in any part of the country and there should be no discrimination with any citizen in such a delicate and difficult situation,” he said. Ali urged Modi to take a decision on priority by arranging special buses, trains on government expenses helping them reach their destinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/send-special-trains-for-migrants-to-return-home-danish-ali-to-pm-modi-827815.html
20-04-2020||National||Bengal's faulty kits due to lapses in storage: Centre||A careless laboratory technician may have caused a tiff between the Centre and the West Bengal government over the quality of testing kits for COVID-19. The West Bengal Health and Family Welfare Department had taken to Twitter to complain about the faulty COVID-19 test kits that were throwing up inconclusive results and asked the Indian Council of Medical Research to look into the matter. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee holds the Health portfolio. Upon examination, the ICMR found that the RT-PCR kits used by West Bengal were supplied by BGI and approved by the US FDA. However, the kits need to be stored below 20 degrees Celsius and could throw up incorrect results if kept at room temperature. According to Raman Gangakhedkar, the Head of ICMR’s Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases department, the technicians have to be careful while conducting the tests and ensure that the kits are always stored below 20 degrees celsius.  “We have told the West Bengal Government that the kits we use in NIV which can do 10,000 tests and are available in National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED) in Kolkata. We are providing these kits for temporary use to get over the crisis,” Gangakhedkar said.  The West Bengal government was also facing allegations of suppressing the number of COVID-19 deaths and testing fewer samples compared to other states..||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengals-faulty-kits-due-to-lapses-in-storage-centre-827825.html
20-04-2020||National||To help drivers, road ministry launches dashboard with list of dhabas and truck repair shops||To help drivers engaged in supplies of essential commodities and other cargo, the road transport ministry on Monday launched a dashboard containing list of dhabas and truck repair shops. In addition, the National Highways Authority of India's centralised call number 1033 has also been enabled to answer calls and help drivers/cleaners to find information about the dhabas and repair shops along National Highways. "The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) has created a dashboard link on its website for providing list and details of dhabas and truck repair shops available across the country by various organisations like NHAI, states, oil marketing companies. The list can be accessed at https://morth.nic.in/dhabas-truck-repair-shops-opened-during-covid-19," the ministry said in a statement. This is intended to facilitate the truck/cargo drivers and cleaners in their movement while travelling between different places of the country for delivering required goods in the present challenging times of lockdown announced to curb COVID-19 pandemic. Regular contact is being maintained with various stake holders particularly states/UTs, oil marketing companies (OMCs), etc, in providing information which is then updated on the dashboard link on MoRTH website, the statement said. "It may be stated that these dhabas and repair shops, drivers, cleaners or any other person in the chain of movement of goods, shall follow all the necessary precautions and healthcare protocols of social distancing, use of masks, hygiene, etc," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/to-help-drivers-road-ministry-launches-dashboard-with-list-of-dhabas-and-truck-repair-shops-827828.html
20-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Delhi Police receive 969 calls on its helpline regarding lockdown in 24 hours||The Delhi Police received over 900 calls on its 24x7 helpline number from 2 pm on Sunday and the same time on Monday, seeking assistance on issues faced during the lockdown, officials said. A total of 25,680 calls were received by the police on its helpline (011-23469526) till Monday, they said. Police received 969 calls from Sunday from 2 pm to Monday at 2 pm. Out of 969 calls, fifty-three calls were related to areas outside Delhi, which were referred to the respective state helpline numbers. Eight calls were related to no food or no money, which were forwarded to NGOs. A total of 781 calls were related to movement passes, police said. The helpline also received calls related to other issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-delhi-police-receive-969-calls-on-its-helpline-regarding-lockdown-in-24-hours-827833.html
20-04-2020||National||Consumer forum demands air ticket refunds on travel date basis||City-based consumer protection forum Mumbai Grahak Panchayat on Monday urged the civil aviation ministry to direct airlines to refund customers for the cancelled flights based on the date of travel and not as per the date of booking and has sought suitable modification in April 16 order on this issue. All domestic and international commercial passenger flights have been suspended for the lockdown period. However, cargo and special flights permitted by the DGCA can fly in this period. On April 16, the aviation ministry said passengers can ask airlines for full refund if the bookings were done during the first phase of lockdown for travel up to May 3. However, the government has not taken any decision till now on whether full refund should be given to passengers who booked their tickets before the lockdown for travel during the March 25-May 3 period. The first phase of the lockdown was from March 25 to April 14. The second phase began on April 15 and would last till May 3, as of now. "It is unfair to restrict the benefit of full refund only to those who booked the travel for the first lockdown period during that period itself. In fact, we wonder whether if any airline was at all accepting any bookings during the first lockdown period for the said lockdown period," Mumbai Grahak Panchayat Chairman Shirish V Deshpande Dilip Deshpande said in a representation to Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri . "Unwarranted importance is (being) given to the date of booking and not to the date of travel. What is important is date of travel, no matter when the tickets are booked. In this case also you are denying legitimate full refund to lakhs of passengers who have booked their tickets much before the first lockdown period for the journey during second lockdown period. The passengers who have booked their tickets well in advance cannot be denied the full refund under any circumstances," Deshpande said. Therefore, the Forum suggests that “if a passenger has booked a ticket for travel during the first lockdown, that is from March 25 to April 14 and the airline has received payment for booking of the air ticket during the lockdown period for travel during the same period for both domestic or international air travel, then that airline, travel agent or travel web portal, as the case may be, shall refund the full amount collected without levy of any cancellation charge," Deshpande said in the representation. It may be also mentioned here that immediately after the government extended the lockdown to May, domestic carriers including IndiGo announced the resumption of services in a phased manner from May 4, without waiting for any directives from the government in this regard. This forced the aviation watchdog DGCA to issue a circular late last week stating: "All airlines are hereby directed to refrain from booking tickets.  Further, the airlines may note that they shall be given sufficient notice and time for restarting operations." The Forum stated that the first travel advisory was issued by the Health Ministry on March 11, restricting non-essential travel and, therefore, it calls for full refund to such passengers also who have cancelled their tickets pursuant to such government advisory and necessary instructions. It also said that besides the airlines, the travel agents, travel portals and aggregators should also be directed to provide full refund in cases where the tickets have been booked through them, without any conditions or offer of utilising the said money for future travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/consumer-forum-demands-air-ticket-refunds-on-travel-date-basis-827839.html
20-04-2020||National||Central govt job applications to have option to mark 'transgender', DoPT issues memorandum||Application forms for recruitment in central government will soon have option to mark the third gender. The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) on Monday issued an office memorandum in this regard. The DoPT has asked all ministries and departments to modify their examination rules providing for inclusion of "transgender" as a separate category of gender, so as to make rules in conformity with the provisions of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, the office memorandum said. It said the matter regarding the inclusion of "third gender/any other category" in application forms in recruitment to various posts under the central government was under consideration for quite sometime. Based on the provisions of the Act and legal opinion obtained, Civil Services Examination Rules 2020 have been notified on February 2 this year providing for inclusion of "transgender" as a separate category of gender. The Transgender Persons (Protection of Persons) Act, 2019 got assent of President Ram Nath Kovind on 5 December, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-govt-job-applications-to-have-option-to-mark-transgender-dopt-issues-memorandum-827844.html
20-04-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll rises to 559, number of cases climb to 17,656 in country: Health Ministry||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 559 and the number of cases climbed to 17,656 in the country on Monday, registering an increase of 40 deaths and 1,540 cases since Sunday evening, according to the Union health ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 14,255 while 2,841 people have been cured and discharged, and one patient has migrated, the ministry said. The total number of cases includes 77 foreign nationals. A total of 40 deaths were reported since Sunday evening. Twelve fatalities were reported from Maharashtra, nine from Gujarat, five from Andhra Pradesh, four from Madhya Pradesh, three each from Rajasthan and Telangana and two each from Delhi and Karnataka. Of the 559 deaths, the highest number of 223 fatalities were reported from Maharashtra, followed by Madhya Pradesh (74), Gujarat (67), Delhi (45),Telangana (21) and Andhra Pradesh (20). The death toll reached 17 in Uttar Pradesh while Punjab and Karnataka have registered 16 deaths each. Tamil Nadu has reported 15 deaths so far, Rajasthan 14 and West Bengal 12. The disease has claimed five lives in Jammu and Kashmir, while Kerala and Haryana have recorded three COVID-19 deaths each.  Jharkhand and Bihar have reported two deaths each, while Meghalaya, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Assam have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry data. However, a PTI tally of the figures reported by various states as on Monday 6:30 pm showed 17,744 cases and 584 deaths in the country. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of deaths announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states. According to the health ministry's data updated in the evening, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra (4,203), followed by Delhi (2,003), Gujarat (1,851), Madhya Pradesh (1,485), Rajasthan (1,478) and Tamil Nadu (1,477). The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 1,176 in Uttar Pradesh, 873 in Telangana, 722 in Andhra Pradesh and 402 in Kerala. The number of cases has risen to 395 in Karnataka, 350 in Jammu and Kashmir, 339 in West Bengal, 233 in Haryana and 219 in Punjab. Bihar has reported 96 coronavirus cases, while Odisha has 68 such cases. Forty-four people have been infected with the virus in Uttarakhand, while Jharkhand has 42 cases. Himachal Pradesh has 39 cases, Chhattisgarh has 36 while Assam has registered 35 infections so far. Chandigarh has 26 COVID-19 cases, Ladakh 18, while 15 cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Meghalaya has reported 11 cases, while Goa and Puducherry have seven COVID-19 patients each. Manipur and Tripura have two cases each, while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported a case each. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-559-number-of-cases-climb-to-17656-in-country-health-ministry-827846.html
20-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Over 24,000 FIRs lodged, 71,782 people booked for defying lockdown orders in UP||The Uttar Pradesh Police has registered 24,446 FIRs and booked 71,782 people so far for defying lockdown norms, a senior official said. The FIRs were lodged under the Indian Penal Code section 188, which deals with disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant. "To strictly implement the lockdown in districts, police registered 24,446 FIRs against 71,782 violaters after the lockdown orders," Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Awasthi said. These people were released on bail to avoid pressure on jails, he added. The official said during this period, police recovered more than Rs 9.5 crore as fine from those violating the lockdown. In this period, over 20 lakh vehicles were checked and more than 27,000 were seized, he added.  He said in Uttar Pradesh, 2,871 Tablighi Jamat members were identified and all were tested for coronavirus. FIRs were also lodged against 45 Jamatis belonging to other countries, Awasthi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-over-24000-firs-lodged-71782-people-booked-for-defying-lockdown-orders-in-up-827858.html
20-04-2020||National||Stranded Bengal labourers in different districts to soon return home: Minister||The process to send home West Bengal labourers stranded in various districts due to the lockdown would start this week after a review meeting on the present COVID-19 situation, Labour Minister Purnendu Basu said on Monday. The state government had last week said it would allow such labourer to return to their respective districts on condition that they would be in quarantine at home for 14 days. "A review of the coronavirus situation will be conducted very soon. During the meeting, we shall assess the ground-level situation in all the districts, and a separate roadmap would be created for areas that have been declared micro-spots. Then, we would start the process of sending home these labourers," Basu said. According to state government sources, thousands of labourers had left their homes in February for harvesting activities and were stranded due to the sudden nationwide lockdown. "Special police vans would be arranged to ferry the labourers back to their native districts. Once they reach, medical screening would be conducted and if required, they would be taken to government quarantine centres or advised home quarantine for two weeks," an official said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier said her government will provide assistance to labourers from West Bengal who are stuck in other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stranded-bengal-labourers-in-different-districts-to-soon-return-home-minister-827862.html
20-04-2020||National||Finance Commission's advisory council to meet on Apr 23-24||The Economic Advisory Council of the 15th Finance Commission will meet on April 23-24 to discuss the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on India's GDP growth and possible public expenditure to shore up the economy. The two-day meeting, which will be held via video conference, to be presided over by Chairman N K Singh, will also discuss possible assumptions for tax buoyancy and revenue in the current year and next year, an official statement said. The agenda of the meeting includes implications of the pandemic for GDP growth in 2020-21 and 2021-22 and uncertainty about macro variables over time. It would also discuss the public expenditure fillip to shore up the economy. The finance panel's advisory council was set up in April 2018 to advise the Commission on any issue or subject related to the terms of reference (ToR) of the Commission, and also to assist in the preparation of any paper or research study which would enhance the Commission's understanding on the issue contained in its ToR. Several international agencies, including IMF and World Bank, have cut India's growth forecast over concerns about the fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has slashed India's GDP growth projection to 1.9 per cent in 2020 from 5.8 per cent estimated in January, as the global economy hits the worst recession since the Great Depression in the 1930s due to the coronavirus pandemic. Similarly, the World Bank has estimated India's economy to grow between 1.5 to 2.8 per cent in the 2020-21 -- the worst growth performance since the 1991 liberalisation.  Fitch has projected India's GDP to grow at 2 per cent this fiscal -- the slowest since the economy was liberalised 30 years back. While S&P pegs GDP growth for India at 1.8 per cent in the current fiscal, Moody's expects it to be 2.5 per cent in 2020. These growth estimates compare to an estimated 5 per cent growth rate in 2019-20 fiscal that ended on March 31. Indian economy also grew by 5 per cent in 2019 calendar year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finance-commissions-advisory-council-to-meet-on-apr-23-24-827863.html
20-04-2020||National||COVID-19 lockdown: Over 1,000 Kashmiri migrants stranded in Punjab sent home||Over 1,000 Kashmiris, who had been stuck in Punjab’s Pathankot due to the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown, were sent home on Monday, an official statement said. Nearly 1,200 migrants were stranded in Pathankot after the Jammu and Kashmir administration had refused them entry in the union territory, it said. The Kashmiri migrants had reached Pathankot from various states and on Monday the J&K government allowed them to return to the union territory, the Punjab government’s statement said. It said the migrants were provided shelter, food and lodging during their stay in nine quarantine facilities of Pathankot. “They were provided 24X7 support, with proper board and lodging, as well as food. Medical teams were deployed round-the-clock for regular health checkups and for providing them with regular supply of medicines,” Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said in the statement.  The Kashmiri migrants acknowledged the support provided to them by the state government, specially the Punjab Police, it said. “The Punjab Police has been a warm host for 20 days in these dark days,” said a resident of Jammu and Kashmir’s Ramban district. They also expressed gratitude to Radha Soami Dera Beas and other organisations who helped them during this critical time, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-over-1000-kashmiri-migrants-stranded-in-punjab-sent-home-827872.html
20-04-2020||National||80% of COVID-19 cases either asymptomatic or show mild symptoms: Health Ministry||The Union health ministry on Monday said 80 per cent of the COVID-19 patients are either asymptomatic or show mild symptoms and it is a major area of concern. The asymptomatic patients may pass on the infection to other people, it said, stressing on maintaining social distancing and infection prevention and control practices in hospital set ups. "On the basis of worldwide analysis, 80 per cent of the COVID-19 patients are asymptomatic or show mild symptoms. Around 15 per cent patients turn into severe cases and 5 per cent may become critical," Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry, said at a daily press briefing. As of now, there is no plan to further widen the testing criteria, he said. Head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar said 80 out of 100 infected people do not show any symptoms. As part its revised strategy to fight the spread of COVID-19, the government has started testing people with fever, cough and sore throat in hotspots or cluster areas and evacuees centres. Also, all hospitalised patients with severe acute respiratory illness, shortness of breath, fever and cough are being tested for COVID-19 infection.  Direct and high-risk contacts of confirmed cases are also being tested once between day five and 14 of coming in his/her contact. Besides, all asymptomatic individuals who undertook international travel and developed symptoms, all symptomatic contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases and all symptomatic health care workers were being tested for the infection as per the guidelines. The apex body for biomedical research had recently revised its strategy to contain the spread of the virus more effectively and provide a reliable diagnosis to all individuals meeting the inclusion criteria of COVID-19 testing. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 559 and the number of cases climbed to 17, 656 in the country on Monday, according to the Union health ministry.   However, a PTI tally of the figures reported by various states as on Monday showed 17,744 cases and 584 deaths in the country. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of deaths announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/80-of-covid-19-cases-either-asymptomatic-or-show-mild-symptoms-health-ministry-827895.html
20-04-2020||National||UK court's rejection of Vijay Mallya appeal significant achievement: CBI||It is a significant achievement in the continuing war against economic fugitives, an elated CBI said on Monday, hours after a British court rejected embattled liquor baron Vijay Mallya's appeal against his extradition to India for allegedly defrauding banks of nearly Rs 9,000 crore. "It is a significant achievement in continuing war against economic fugitives who have been managing to stay away from the judicial process in the country," CBI Spokesperson RK Gaur said. He said it also validates the painstaking and meticulous investigation done by the CBI. Mallya on Monday lost the UK High Court appeal against his extradition. The dismissal of the High Court appeal came as a major achievement for the agency which has been tirelessly pursuing his extradition from the UK with the then Head of Special Investigation Team of the CBI Rakesh Asthana regularly attending London hearings followed by Joint Director Anurag.  The ruling by the High Court gives 64-year-old Mallya, who is on bail, 14-days to approach the UK Supreme Court. If he does not use the appeal at the apex court he would be sent to India in accordance with provisions of India-UK Extradition Treaty. The CBI case against Mallya' extradition pertained to alleged fraud of Rs 900 crore at IDBI bank. Sources at senior positions said the UK courts gave judgements in the favour of the CBI because of "quality of investigation" done by the agency. The task before the agency was to convince the courts that India has a "prima facie" case against Mallya based which he should be extradited to face trial before Indian courts, they said. The proceedings were almost like a trial with Mallya taking six point defence all rejected by the High Court of Justice Queen's Bench Division, London (UK), they said. Mallya took the plea that the lower court which cleared his extradition was wrong to conclude that a prima facie case is made out which is not being prosecuted in India, erred in law in its approach to the prima facie case test, prima facie case of conspiracy to defraud was made out,  a prima facie case of fraud by false representation was made out, a prima facie case of money laundering was made out and also erred in its approach he admissibility of his evidence. All these points have been rejected by the High Court, they said. The CBI had filed a charge sheet against Mallya on January 24, 2017, and a supplementary charge sheet on June 1, 2017, before special CBI courts in Mumbai, they said. Mallya had slipped through the nose of Indian agencies in March 2016 but the CBI did not relent and filed extradition to the UK authorities on February 09, 2017, through diplomatic channels. "The extradition folder contained the details of evidence against the fugitive under a duly sworn affidavit and attested by the Court of Special Judge, CBI Cases, Mumbai," CBI Spokesperson said here. The extradition request was based strong arguments of the CBI that misrepresentations were allegedly made to the IDBI bank to induce it to sanction and disburse loans of Rs 900 crore in three tranche in 2009. "These included dishonest and deliberate misrepresentations and concealment of the brand value of Kingfisher Airlines Ltd., inflation of the security value, false promises of equity infusion and future rosy projections, among others," the spokesperson said. The CBI alleged that there was dishonest use of the loans so sanctioned and disbursed by IDBI bank and diversion thereof against the terms of sanction. "Wilful and intentional default on the loans availed and continuing intention to cheat manifest in the alienation of personal assets in violation of the personal guarantee agreement, removal of funds from a personal account, alienation of assets of UBHL, causing impediments in the bank's recovery efforts etc," it said. The UK authorities arrested Mallya on April 20, 2017, and given bail.  During 10-day hearing by Senior District Judge Emma Arbuthnot from December 04, 2017, a number of defence witnesses/experts were examined which was almost "like a full trial", the sources said. The agency provided detailed submissions following which the judge on December 10, 2018, recommended the case to the secretary of state to consider the extradition of Mallya to India, the spokesperson said. Secretary of State ordered the extradition of Mallya on February 04, 2019.  Mallya appealed against the order of Senior District Judge and subsequent extradition order of the Secretary of State.  The UK High Court started the hearing the appeal from February 11 and revered the order on Monday.  "While dismissing the appeal, the judges have concluded that there was a prima facie case of conspiracy to defraud, misrepresentation, conspiracy and also a prima facie case of money laundering against Vijay Mallya. The UK High Court has highlighted 7 important aspects of prima facie case, as found by SDJ coincides of allegations in India," the spokesperson said. He said the judgment is a significant achievement in CBI's efforts to curb corruption and is a reminder that fugitives cannot consider themselves as above the law merely because they have changed jurisdictions, he said. "The judgment also vindicates the painstaking investigation by CBI, especially since Mallya had raised various issues with regard to the admissibility of evidence, the fairness of investigation itself and extraneous consideration, with a view to divert attention from his own acts," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uk-courts-rejection-of-vijay-mallya-appeal-significant-achievement-cbi-827897.html
20-04-2020||National||States can take stricter action but can't dilute Centre's coronavirus lockdown guidelines: MHA||Joint secretary in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), Punya Salila Srivastava, said home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote fresh communication to the states as some of them were issuing certain guidelines that amounted to "diluting" the lockdown leading to "severe repercussions to health" of the citizens. "MHA is regularly monitoring the lockdown situation in the country. Wherever lockdown is being violated we (MHA) are taking adequate action in coordination with state governments," she said while briefing reporters about the updates on lockdown measures being implemented across the country. "Yesterday, MHA again wrote letter to states and UTs that guidelines issued by it under the disaster management Act are to be followed strictly," she said.  "They (states and UTs) can undertake stricter steps as per their local conditions but not dilute or weaken them," she added. Writing this letter became important, she said, as in some states facilities were being allowed which were not permitted under the MHA guidelines. The ministry also wrote to the Kerala government about the directives issued by the state and expressed its concerns over it, she said. The ministry, through a letter written by Bhalla to Kerala chief secretary Tom Jose, came down heavily on the state government for its decision to allow opening of restaurants, bus travel in cities and opening of MSME industries in urban areas, saying it amounts to dilution of lockdown guidelines and also a Supreme Court observation. Srivastava said that some things, mentioned in the Kerala-issued order, violated MHA guildelines issued under the disaster management Act and was tantamount to "diluting the lockdown." They were requested that national guidelines should be followed, she said. Also, attention was drawn towards the Supreme Court observation of March 31 where it said that all state governments and people should follow the central government's directives with honesty and dedication and in letter and spirit. The MHA officer said it was found that some districts in other states were also violating the lockdown and that can have "severe repercussions for health." In some districts, she said, the COVID-19 situation is grave or is inching towards that. Srivastava identified these districts as Jaipur in Rajasthan, Indore in Madhya Pradesh, Mumbai and Pune in Maharashtra, Kolkata, Howrah, North 24 Parganas,  Medinipur East, Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Kalimpong in West Bengal. She said six inter-ministerial teams have been formed by the MHA for visiting the above mentioned four states and they have now reached their respective locations. These teams are led by an additional secretary-rank officer of the central government and each of them have six members comprising a senior public health specialist and an official from the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), she said. The MHA's effort is to ensure that all available expertise, as far as possible, should be shared with the states in the interest of the people.  These teams will assess the hotspot areas, health and medical infrastructure management, issues related to disaster management and will "cooperate" with the states. They will give a report on the lockdown rules and supply of essential goods, social distancing norms, health services and security of health workers and also check the status of relief camps being run for poor and labourers in these states. "The purpose of the inter-ministerial teams is to provide support and assistance to the states in their endeavour to combat COVID-19," she said. "The teams have been very carefully constituted so that support can be provided from health, administrative and disaster management aspects and I am sure states will benefit from it," she added. We hope that with these steps, we will be successful in the mission against coronavirus, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/states-can-take-stricter-action-but-cant-dilute-centres-coronavirus-lockdown-guidelines-mha-827898.html
20-04-2020||National Politics||Congress MLA asks woman to choose between Narendra Modi & Ashok Gehlot while giving ration; video goes viral||A purported video of Congress legislator Rajendra Singh Bidhuri from Begun constituency in Rajasthan's Chittorgarh district has gone viral on social media, in which he is asking a woman to choose between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot before handing out a ration kit.  The video was reportedly shot during a ration kit distribution programme at Soniyana village, Begun tehsil, on April 17 and has now gone viral, drawing criticism from Opposition leaders.  In the video, the legislator is asking a woman over a microphone, "Who is good, Modi or Ashok Gehlot?" When the woman from the crowd said Modi, the MLA said, "Woh diya waala Modi (The one asked to light up diyas)... batao kaun achha, aap ko keh raha hu .....kya keh rahe ho Modi, toh phir diya jalao ration chod jao (Tell me who is good. I am asking you. Are you saying Modi? Now light diya and leave the ration here," while pointing his finger at the woman in the crowd. The MLA remained unavailable for comment despite repeated calls.  The video invited sharp reaction on social media. BJP state president Satish Poonia called the act an example of how the Congress was discriminating against those who did not subscribe to their ideology.  "The MLA has proved that Congress is playing the politics of appeasement and punishing those who don't support them," said Poonia. Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat also took to social media to condemn the incident saying the reaction of the Congress MLA showed his hatred towards Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-mla-asks-woman-to-choose-between-narendra-modi-ashok-gehlot-while-giving-ration-video-goes-viral-827685.html
20-04-2020||National Politics||Politics kicks up over Palghar lynching as BJP, Congress play blame game||A huge political row kicked up over the macabre murder of three persons including two Hindu Sadhus from Juna Akhada in Palghar in Maharashtra with Congress accusing the ruling of BJP of “shameful attempt to politicise” the incident while the latter alleging a direct NCP-CPI(M) nexus behind the incident. In Maharashtra, BJP’s oldest ally Shiv Sena had parted ways from NDA and formed a government last year in alliance with Congress and NCP. The incident, which happened on last Thursday went viral on social media in last two days with many on social media voicing outrage over the killing of Hindu monks and some suggesting a Muslim angle to it initially. Later the Left- BJP blame game began. Noting that activities of the leftists have been going on in the Palghar area for quite some time, VHP said the lynching is part of Left’s own action and sought to remind people of the 2008 killing of Swami Lakshmanand in Odisha in which though the state pinned the blame on Maoists, many alleged Christian groups to be behind the attack. Akhil Bhartiya Sant Samiti was dismissive of Maharashtra government probe and alleged that the state government wants to lay the blame at the doors of innocent tribals in order to protect naxals, crypto Christians, illegal immigrants and Rohingya Muslims. Swami Jitendranand Saraswati of the Samiti also wrote a letter to Home Minister Amit Shah. Congress leader Sachin Sawant said, “Amit Shah, Ajay Kumar Bisht (Yogi Adityanath) and the entire BJP wants to defame the Maharashtra government. The village where mob lynching took place is a BJP bastion. There has been a BJP sarpanch there for ten years. Most of those, who have been arrested belong to the BJP. BJP should be ashamed of doing communal politics. It is surprising that the Chief Minister of UP, which is the den of mob lynching calls up the office of CM Uddhav Thackeary,” he said. Congress politician Salman Nizami, who tweeted “So, Muslims are not involved in Palghar lynching - so the outrage has stopped. Well done Islamophobics!” also got trolled on Twitter. At the AICC, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said all the arrested persons are local Aadivasis from Vikramgarh Taluka in District Palghar and there is no communal or Hindu-Muslim angle to the attack as is being sought to be projected by those, who see an opportunity in every such incident to inflame communal passion. “These attempts to politicise are deeply shameful and must be rejected with the contempt they deserve,” he said. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra tweeted a video clip of the incident in which a youth is seen wearing a white and yellow tea shirt, which was identified by BJP national secretary Sunil Deodhar as a leader from NCP. “Very important revelations in the #PalgharMobLynching case clearly establishes a deep nexus! Why should politicians & leaders be present at the Lynching site ..what were they doing ..Instigating??, Patra said asking Deodhar to name the parties whose leaders were there. Deodhar identified one of them as NCP District Panchayat member and three as CPI-M members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/politics-kicks-up-over-palghar-lynching-as-bjp-congress-play-blame-game-827807.html
20-04-2020||National Politics||Conspiracy to troll BJP leaders on social media: Mungantiwar||Senior BJP leader and former Maharashtra minister Sudhir Mungantiwar, who was recently trolled during a Facebook live session, on Monday claimed a "gang" on social media was deliberately targeting leaders from his party. Mungantiwar said it may be a conspiracy and these people may be part of some company contracted to troll BJP leaders.  Mungantiwar was addressing people through a Facebook live session on Sunday evening due to the lockdown in place for the coronavirus outbreak when some people started putting up "vulgar and objectionably messages". "This is a gang that is targeting only BJP leaders for many months now. I was interacting with common people when some persons started putting up vulgar and objectionable messages and comments. It may be a conspiracy by some company tasked with destroying the social image of BJP leaders," he claimed. He said the trolling was being analyzed to unmask the people behind it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/conspiracy-to-troll-bjp-leaders-on-social-media-mungantiwar-827854.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi crosses 2,000 mark in COVID-19 cases||With 110 fresh cases, the number of people affected by Covid-19 in the national capital has crossed the 2000-mark on Sunday while two more deaths were reported. The total toll has risen to 45 while the number of cases is 2003. Eighty-three people have also been discharged from hospitals on Sunday with a total number of those recovered rising to 290. At present, 1,668 people tested positive for Covid-19 are still undergoing treatment in various hospitals in the capital. An analysis of patients showed that 1,283 or 64.5% of 1,989 Covid-19 positive people were below the age of 50 years while 320 or 16.08% were aged between 50 and 60 years. Those above 60 years of age were 389 or 19.40%. Details of 14 patients are yet to be ascertained.  The statistics relating to death showed that 25 or 56% of the 45 people who died were above the age of 60 years. Among the senior citizens, 22 or 88% had co-morbidity. Ten each people belonged to 50-59 years and below 50 years age group. Nine persons who were below 50 years and seven in 50-59 years age group had co-morbidity. So far, 24,387 samples have been tested of which 19,393 have tested negative. Authorities are yet to receive resuls of 2,872 samples.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-crosses-2000-mark-in-covid-19-cases-827516.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||One-and-a-half-month-old baby dies of COVID-19 infection at Delhi hospital||A one-and-a-half-month-old baby has died of coronavirus infection at a hospital in Delhi, making him the country's youngest victim of the deadly disease. This is also perhaps the first fatality of an infant due to COVID-19 in the national capital. The baby died at Kalawati Saran Children's Hospital attached to Centre-run Lady Hardinge Medical College on Saturday morning, officials said. "The baby was brought to the hospital a few days ago. He had tested positive for COVID-19. The child was admitted in SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Illness) ward and died yesterday morning," a doctor at the hospital said on the condition of anonymity. The surveillance team has been informed for contact-tracing, he said.  The 45-day-old infant and a 10-month-old baby were recently brought to the emergency department of the hospital. These two children were admitted to the SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) ward. They were shifted to the COVID-19 block on the premises of the Lady Hardinge Medical College after they tested positive, a senior doctor said. The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital on Sunday climbed to 2003, with 110 fresh cases and two deaths being reported in a day, according to the Delhi government authorities. As per the age profile of COVID-19 victims in Delhi shared by the Health Department, of the total 45 fatalities reported till date, 25 were aged 60 years and above, making 56 per cent of the total death cases. Ten of them were in the age group of 50-59 and 10 were aged less than 50 years, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-and-a-half-month-old-baby-dies-of-covid-19-infection-at-delhi-hospital-827534.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh govt to make available 50 lakh low cost masks at PDS shops||The Madhya Pradesh government has planned to procure 50 lakh low cost cotton masks and facilitate their availability at fair price shops for public to contain the spread of coronavirus. The government will get these masks stitched by women from urban areas in the state, a public relations official said on Monday. A decision on this was taken during a meeting called on Sunday by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on the state's preparations to fight COVID-19. The masks will be made available at all ration shops covered under the public distribution system (PDS), the official said, adding that the preparation of masks would also provide employment to women. In the first phase of the initiative, the government will procure 50 lakh cotton masks, which will not only be cost effective but also reusable after washing, he said. Women of urban areas, who wish to engage themselves in the mask-making activity, can get themselves registered with the government and secure an order to make 1,000 masks, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-govt-to-make-available-50-lakh-low-cost-masks-at-pds-shops-827574.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||62-year-old dies of coronavirus in Rajasthan||One more person died of coronavirus in Rajasthan while 17 fresh cases were reported on Monday, officials said. Rajasthan has so far seen 24 deaths due to the virus, with Jaipur accounting for 13 deaths. "A 62-year-old Nagaur district resident died Sunday night at SMS Hospital here. He was admitted on April 18 and was suffering from hypertension," Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said.   Singh said of the 17 fresh cases, eight were reported from Jaipur; two each from Kota, Jhunjhunu and Jodhpur and one each in Banswara, Nagaur and Ajmer.  A total of 1,495 cases of the virus have been reported in the state so far. He said so far 302 patients have tested negative for the infection after treatment, of which 97 have been discharged from hospitals. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 60 people brought from Iran to Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer.  The entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is under way to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/62-year-old-dies-of-coronavirus-in-rajasthan-827575.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Four new cases of coronavirus reported in Kashmir||The number of COVID-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir has climbed to 354 as four more persons tested positive for the virus, officials said on Monday. “Four new cases – all from Kashmir -- have been detected in the union territory,” the officials said. They said the test results of these cases came late on Sunday night. Three of them are from Bandipora and another from Baramulla, they added. The officials said the total number of positive cases has now risen to 354 -- 55 in Jammu and 299 in Kashmir. Five patients have died in Jammu and Kashmir and 56 have recovered. More than 61,000 people have been kept under surveillance including those who are either in government established quarantine facilities or in home isolation. “Till date 61331 travellers and persons in contact with suspected cases have been put under surveillance which include 5939 persons in home quarantine including facilities operated by government, 289 in hospital isolation, 264 in hospital quarantine and 23868 under home surveillance. Besides, 30966 persons have completed their surveillance period so far,” the officials said.  Meanwhile, the restrictions on the movement and assembly of people in Kashmir continued for the 33rd day on Monday, the officials said. They said the security forces have sealed off main roads in most places in the valley and erected barriers at several other places to check the unwanted movement of the people and to enforce the lock down. Only persons with valid movement passes were allowed passage, they added. The declared containment or red zones across the valley have been sealed to ensure strict adherence to the standard operating procedure. The officials said there were 83 red zones in the Kashmir valley and all such areas would remain as red zones up to 42 days, unless no new positive case of COVID-19 is detected. The authorities have ramped up testing in the valley after receiving 9600 rapid testing kits from the Centre.  The markets across the valley were shut and public transport was off the roads with only pharmacies and groceries allowed to open, the officials said.   Educational institutions across Kashmir are closed, while all public places including gymnasiums, parks, clubs and restaurants were shut down more than a week before the nationwide lock down announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. While the Prime Minister announced the country-wide lockdown on the evening of March 24, the union territory administration here had on March 22 announced a lock down across Jammu and Kashmir till 31 March as part of its efforts to curb the spread of the coronavirus. The administration said the essential services including healthcare personnel have been exempted from the restrictions. Restrictions were first imposed in many parts of the valley on March 19 to contain the spread of the virus infection. The measures were taken after the detection of the first positive case of coronavirus in the valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-new-cases-of-coronavirus-reported-in-kashmir-827593.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Noida is COVID-19 sensitive, people need to practice social distancing: UP health minister||Gautam Buddh Nagar is a sensitive area and the public here needs to be more cautious about the COVID-19 pandemic, Uttar Pradesh Health Minister Jay Pratap Singh said and urged people to practice social distancing during the lockdown. Singh, who is also the state government's minister in-charge of the district, made the remarks during a video conference with Jewar-Greater Noida MLA Dhirendra Singh and a few journalists on Sunday. Gautam Buddh Nagar, adjoining Delhi in western UP, is among the districts worst-hit by the pandemic and has so far recorded 97 positive cases of coronavirus even as 38 of these patients have been cured and discharged, according to officials. "From Monday onwards, there could be some relaxations for industrialists and essential services but the need of the hour is to strictly follow the guidelines of the lockdown which has now been extended till May 3. People must practice preventive measures like social distancing to combat coronavirus," the health minister said. Expressing concern over the pandemic that has swept the entire world, MLA Dhirendra Singh said, "Gautam Buddh Nagar is a sensitive district". He stressed that more focus should be given to this region in the fight against the virus. With 97 COVID-19 positive cases, the district is behind only Agra (240) and Lucknow (165), even as the total number of patients in entire UP stood at 1,100 by Sunday evening, according to the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-is-covid-19-sensitive-people-need-to-practice-social-distancing-up-health-minister-827597.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Man shoots brother over land dispute in Poonch||A man allegedly shot dead his brother over a land dispute in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Monday, a police officer said. There was a dispute between two brothers over their land in Mandi belt. Following clashes, the accused opened fire killing his brother, the officer said. A case has been registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-shoots-brother-over-land-dispute-in-poonch-827623.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: 217 prisoners released since April 1 in J&K to decongest jails||Deputy Inspector of General of Police, Prisons, Muhammad Sultan Lone, said: “From 1st to 15th April, as many as 217 detainees were released from different jails in J&K.” Those released include 52 prisoners detained under Public Safety Act (PSA) and 80 under-trials. Seventeen were released on parole while 68 others were released either on bail or their jail term was about to end.  Prison officials said besides, there are 41 detainees from J&K in Uttar Pradesh jails. “Although their PSAs have been revoked, they are still in UP jails as their families are not able to reach them due to countrywide lockdown,” they said. The release of detainees in J&K started after the Supreme Court on March 23 directed states and UTs to constitute a high powered committee(s) to consider cases of prisoners/detainees for release on bail or parole in order to decongest the jails amid coronavirus outbreak in the country.  On April 1, a three-member high powered committee headed by Executive Chairman J&K State Legal Services Authority (SLSA), Justice Rajesh Bindal along with Principal Secretary, Home Department, Shaleen Kabra and DGP (Prisons), V K Singh, as its members, passed directions for the release of jail inmates except those involved in militancy-related cases to decongest the prisons in the UT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-217-prisoners-released-since-april-1-in-jk-to-decongest-jails-827627.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Robot dispenses sanitiser at Bulandshahr collectorate||A bright red robot at the district collectorate here is helping people maintain social distancing and minimise spread of coronavirus by dispensing sanitiser to staff and visitors.  Fitted with sensors, the robot detects human presence and dispenses sanitiser.     Such robots will soon be deployed in hospitals in the district for giving food, water and medicines to patients to help reduce contact between healthcare workers and positive cases. "We have deployed a robot, made by local engineering students, at COVID-19 control room at the collectorate. The robot is used for giving sanitisers to employees and visitors, thereby avoiding human involvement in the job," District Magistrate, Bulandshahr Ravindra Kumar told PTI. The robot, which has the capability to walk, can work for one to one-and-a-half hours at a stretch after which its battery needs to be recharged. As of now, it will dispense only sanitiser. "Presently, we have only one robot. But, we are facilitating the makers to buy spare parts so that they can deliver two more. Very soon, we will be using services of robots for giving food, water and medicines to patients in hospitals," the DM said. These robots will not only help doctors and staff but also prevent them from direct contact, thus avoiding infections, he stressed. He said credit for the robot goes to local techies - Nishant Sharma and Atul Kumar - both pursuing engineering courses at separate private institutions in Noida. Sharma said, "When we came to know about the disease and the way it spreads, we thought of doing something. We made this robot after toiling for over a month. "We named it 'Delta 3.0'. It has sensors and as one comes near, the gadget pours sanitiser in the hand of the person," he explained.  The robot has a display and speaker through which it can give instructions to patients and display the fed message or slogans, Sharma said.   It is controlled through a mobile application, he said, adding that it costs over Rs 1 lakh but if supported by the government the price could be brought down. Till Sunday, Bulandshahr district has reported 15 coronavirus cases of whom two have been discharged while one COVID-19 positive patient has died.  Health officials said 12 active cases were still there. Among the affected persons, nine belonged to Tablighi Jamaat.         The DM said that each of those in institutional or home quarantine have been given a soap, two washable face masks and hand sanitisers. "We are also giving 25 kg bleaching powder and 20 litres of sodium hypochlorite for sanitisation of villages as a precautionary measure," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/robot-dispenses-sanitiser-at-bulandshahr-collectorate-827638.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC satisfied with govt measures for emergency treatment to non-COVID-19 patients in hospitals||The Delhi High Court has expressed satisfaction over measures taken by the Centre and Delhi government to provide treatment to non-COVID-19 patients including those needing chemotherapy, dialysis and pregnant women, despite the enormous pressure due to coronavirus situation. The court said if a citizen has any grievance related to medical facilities, it can approach competent authorities in the government for appropriate redressal through helplines and dedicated Whatsapp numbers and also asked Centre and Delhi government to give wide publicity to helpline numbers and continue to render medical aid and assistance to citizens. A bench of Justices J R Midha and Jyoti Singh applauded and commended the work being done by doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and all others associated with them in various hospitals and dispensaries and clinics.  The bench also appreciated the brilliant work being done by the other government agencies on the administrative side including police, armed forces, paramilitary forces, to name a few, who amongst other tasks are helping the health workers. “Every sector today, be it the Government or the private sector, working in the field of health or administration or law and order, is contributing in its own way, battling the pandemic, which surely includes the citizens, who in their own way are contributing to the fight against COVID-19.  “Every single day is posing new challenges. At this stage, therefore, for anyone to undermine the efforts put by the medical staff or the government agencies in providing medical aid and assistance, would, in our view, not only be wholly unfair and inappropriate but also demotivating for those working dedicatedly and tirelessly, 24x7 on ground,” the court said in its judgement. The court's verdict came while disposing of a petition seeking direction to authorities to provide medical aid and treatment to patients suffering from varied illnesses and diseases, other than COVID-19. It claimed that most of the hospitals are providing treatment to patients suffering from the effects of the deadly virus while there are other persons who are suffering from serious illnesses such as cancer and kidney problems and need chemotherapy or dialysis on an urgent basis. The petitioners Yash Aggarwal and Chitrakshi, law students, claimed that hospitals are not attending to many cases of medical emergencies and are refusing to entertain patients who have to undergo dialysis or chemotherapy. The plea, filed through advocate Sumedh Rishi, submitted that women who are pregnant also need treatment, both during pregnancy and at the time of delivery, as well as at the postnatal stage. The court, however, said the contention of the petitioners that non COVID-19 patients suffering from cancer or kidney diseases are not being treated, is “incorrect”.  The court said it was of the view that the authorities have formulated detailed guidelines for putting into place an effective system of treating non-COVID illnesses and diseases to the best of their capacity, given the enormity of the calamity they are faced with. The bench was assured by the Centre's counsel Anurag Ahluwalia, Delhi government's advocate Satyakam and Medical Council of India's lawyers T Singhdev and Tarun Verma that treatment will be earnestly provided to non-COVID-19 patients, having medical emergencies and those who need treatments such as chemotherapy and dialysis. The advocates assured medical care to pregnant women, both during pregnancy and at the time of delivery.  The court noted that guidelines indicate that the government has declared services for all crucial areas such as maternal, newborn and child health, prevention and management of communicable diseases, treatment for chronic diseases to avoid complications and addressing emergencies, as 'essential services'. There is a clear direction that all health services including Ayush would remain functional, such as hospitals, nursing homes, clinics, telemedicine facilities as well as dispensaries, chemists, pharmacies, medical laboratories and collection centres, it said. Various aspects have been covered in these guidelines which also include measures with respect to illnesses like hypertension, diabetes and mental health and diseases such as tuberculosis, vector borne and viral hepatitis, it noted. The court further said COVID-19 is an unprecedented calamity, globally, which has left no country, across the globe, untouched with its scathing and devastating effect. It said there can hardly be any doubt that given the magnitude of the calamity and the pandemic, the task undertaken by health workers or the other workers on the frontline, both inside and outside the hospital, of rendering medical aid and treatment to a patient suffering with COVID-19, is a gigantic and herculean task.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-satisfied-with-govt-measures-for-emergency-treatment-to-non-covid-19-patients-in-hospitals-827639.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||AIIMS doctor harassment case: Delhi SC/ST minister urges Harsh Vardhan to take strict action||Delhi SC/ST Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on Monday urged Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to ensure stern action against alleged harassment of a woman resident doctor at AIIMS on the basis of caste and gender. The woman doctor had attempted suicide on Friday, according to reports quoting her colleague. "Cases of atrocities against Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes continue to increase. Nothing has changed under the BJP and Congress governments (at the Centre). There is no difference. Why are such cases not taken seriously?" the minister tweeted in Hindi. Tagging a report on the alleged harassment of the doctor, Gautam urged the Prime Minister's Office and the Union health minister to ensure strict action in the case.  The Resident Doctors' Association of AIIMS had also written to Vardhan alleging inaction on the part of the administration in this regard.  Terming it a serious case of caste and gender-based discrimination, the RDA claimed that the resident doctor had made repeated appeals to the AIIMS administration, but their inaction prompted her to "take the drastic step". It added that the woman resident doctor also wrote to the Women's Grievance Cell, SC/ST Welfare Cell of AIIMS and national commissions for SCs and STs, but no appropriate action was taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aiims-doctor-harassment-case-delhi-sc/st-minister-urges-harsh-vardhan-to-take-strict-action-827655.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||108 new coronavirus cases in Gujarat; state tally climbs to 1,851||The number of coronavirus cases in Gujarat rose to 1,851 after 108 more people tested positive for the disease on Monday, an official said. Among the new patients, 91 were reported from Ahmedabad, taking the total number of such cases in the district to 1,192. Besides, six new cases were reported from Aravalli district, two each from Kutch, Mahisagar, Panchmahal, Rajkot and Surat, and one each from Vadodara and Mehsana, principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi said. So far, 106 patients have been discharged after recovery, she said. Out of 1,676 active cases, 14 patients are in critical condition while 1,662 are stable, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/108-new-coronavirus-cases-in-gujarat-state-tally-climbs-to-1851-827660.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Two overground workers of Jaish arrested in Shopian||Security forces apprehended two overground workers of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) militant outfit from Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, officials said. A joint team of security forces led by police arrested the two overground workers of Jaish during vehicle checking at Wachi in Shopian, a police official said.  The arrested duo have been identified as Zahoor Ahmad Koka and Uzair Ahmad Dar, both residents of Zainpora area in the district. One pistol, and two hand grenades were recovered from the possession of the two OGWs, the official said He said a case under unlawful activities prevention act has been registered against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-overground-workers-of-jaish-arrested-in-shopian-827661.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Bihar: 3 more test positive for coronavirus, total cases reach 96||Three more persons have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Bihar, taking the number of COVID-19 cases in the state to 96, an official said. They came in contact with COVID-19 patients, Health Department Principal Secretary Sanjay Kumar tweeted late on Sunday night. The three persons - aged 30, 36 and 52 years -- hail from Jamapur in Munger districts of the state, he said. The disease has claimed two lives in the state while 42 patients have recovered till now. There were 52 active cases in Bihar till Sunday night. The total number of samples tested in the state so far is 10,746. Of the total 96 COVID-19 cases in Bihar, Siwan district reported the highest number of 29 cases. It was followed by 20 in Munger, 11 in Nalanda, nine in Begusarai, seven in Patna, five in Gaya, four in Buxar, three each in Gopalganj and Nawada, and one each in Lakhisarai, Saran, Bhagalpur, Vaishali and Bhojpur, a state health bulletin said. Of the 38 districts in the state, 14 have so far reported COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-3-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-total-cases-reach-96-827666.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Death toll in Indore rises to 52, coronavirus cases reach 897||Three more persons died of coronavirus Indore in the last 24 hours, taking the toll in the Madhya Pradesh district to 52, an official said on Monday. The deceased included two men and a woman, in the age group of 42 to 47 years, Chief Medical and Health Officer Praveen Jadia said. Besides, seven more people tested positive for COVID- 19 here, taking the total number of such cases in the district to 897, he said. Of these, 71 patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovery. Data analysis showed that the COVID-19 death rate in Indore was 5.8 per cent, higher than the national average. Curfew has been imposed in the district's urban limits since March 25, after the first coronavirus patient was found in Indore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-death-toll-in-indore-rises-to-52-coronavirus-cases-reach-897-827668.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Antibody testing for surveillance in coronavirus hotspots of Kashmir begins||Health authorities in Kashmir have started antibody testing to carry out surveillance for COVID-19 in 83 hotspots of the valley. The testing is being carried out as per the directions of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) issued on April 18. As per local media reports, 9,600 test kits arrived in Kashmir on Sunday which are part of the five lakh testing kits consignment received from China. Rapid kits are real-time polymerase chain reaction-based molecular tests that can reduce the burden of laboratories as they can be used in the field. The results of these tests take around 30 minutes. Doctors and healthcare workers can then determine the number of people who could be infected in a population sample. However, the test kits are not diagnostic and must be interpreted as per the guidelines. “The rapid test kits are useful for epidemiological studies and surveillance purposes,” ICMR has said. Divisional Commissioners Kashmir, PK Pole, said the kits will give a better picture of the spread of infection in red zones of Kashmir. “We will be testing high risk population on priority, such as those pregnant women who are near their date of delivery,” he said. Pole said Kashmir’s testing strategy was dynamic and is evolving as per the emerging situation. “For now, we must test whosoever is required as per guidelines in the red zones,” the Div Com said. The Directorate of Health Services Kashmir has distributed the kits in 83 of its red zones. These kits would also be used to test the frontline health workers. On Saturday, the number of tests Kashmir carried out stood at 5327. The density of tests in Kashmir division, with a population of seven million (as per 2011 Census) stood at 761. This as per data available at the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare is among the highest in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/antibody-testing-for-surveillance-in-coronavirus-hotspots-of-kashmir-begins-827679.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Ladakh MP seeks help from Centre for fair distribution of groceries||In a letter to Ladakh Lt Governor R K Mathur and the Union Home Ministry, Namgyal expressed concerns over the various problems faced by the people in his constituency. He said he was receiving a lot of calls and messages from people seeking evacuation of patients, students, pilgrims and workers of Ladakh stuck in various parts of India and abroad. People are also raising demands of financial assistance to the neediest especially labourers and bread earners of very poor families to pay their room rents, electricity bills, school fees and other expenses, Namgyal said in his letter.  Appreciating the collective performance of the administration of Ladakh and district administrations of Leh and Kargil in containing the spread of COVID-19 in the Union territory without any loss of life, the BJP MP said he was "concerned with other issues being faced by people especially those downtrodden whose voices for their rights for basic necessities are going unheard". He also asked the Centre and the LG of Ladakh for consideration of non-ration cardholders for availing of ration and vegetable distribution besides consideration of the non-registered needy and deserving natives of Ladakh for various benefits under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY). The BJP parliamentarian from the newly carved Union territory of Ladakh sought the Centre's intervention in distribution of seeds, saplings and other requirements for agricultural and horticultural works.  He also raised the issue of "sufficient and fair distribution of groceries including vegetables, fruits, egg and LPG gas, etc. in Ladakh" as well as the issue of wastage of vegetables. "I am very much disheartened. Sharing with you herewith the pictures of wastage of vegetables stored in Leh," the MP said. He emphasised on early setting up of Biosafety Level-2 laboratory in his constituency. "I appreciate if you could kindly initiate your personal intervention in early setting up of Biosafety Level - 2 Laboratory in Ladakh for which I am constantly in touch with all of the concerned officers but still lagging behind of the time," said the Lok Sabha member from Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-mp-seeks-help-from-centre-for-fair-distribution-of-groceries-827682.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Badrinath temple opening deferred due to coronavirus lockdown||The portals of Badrinath temple in Garhwal Himalayas, which were scheduled to open on April 30, will now open on May 15, a temple official said. The portals of Badrinath were originally scheduled to open on April 30.         However, as per the revised schedule they will now open on May 15, Uniyal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/badrinath-temple-opening-deferred-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown-827714.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Pregnant woman turned away from Jamshedpur hospital, NCW seeks strict action||The NCW has sought strict action in a case of a pregnant woman losing her unborn child after she was accused of spreading coronavirus and turned away from a hospital in Jamshedpur. According to a media report, pregnant and bleeding, the woman was allegedly asked by the Jamshedpur hospital to clean up blood, accused of spreading coronavirus, and turned away. She eventually lost her child. The NCW has sought strict action against those responsible. "A woman pregnant & bleeding, came to a Jamshedpur hospital, was allegedly asked to clean up her blood, accused of spreading coronavirus, which led to loss of her unborn child. NCW has written to Chief Secretary @JharkhandCMO for strict action," NCW said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-pregnant-woman-turned-away-from-jamshedpur-hospital-ncw-seeks-strict-action-827718.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: UP cops donate blood during woman's delivery, husband likens them to 'God'||Going beyond their call of duty, two policemen responding to an emergency call in Noida donated their blood at a hospital that helped in the delivery of a pregnant woman who has given birth to a baby boy. The call was made at 6.46 pm on Sunday on the emergency 112 service of the Uttar Pradesh Police during which the caller said his wife was admitted at the ESI Hospital in Sector 24 for delivery, according to officials. "Caller Vijay Kumar said two units of blood was required for his wife Rajni but it was not available anywhere and sought police help," a police spokesperson said. "Immediately the police response vehicle (PRV) reached the hospital where its commander Anjul Kumar Tyagi and pilot Lala Ram donated one unit of blood each,” the spokesperson added. The delivery was carried out successfully and now both the mother and the baby were doing well, the police said. Vijay, the new-born's father, likened the policemen to “God” who came to his help at the crucial juncture. “You only tell me what would you call somebody who comes to your help when there is no help available anywhere? I don't remember their names but for me they are God. I am thankful to the police for their help,” Vijay, who works in a private factory here, told PTI. Vijay and Rajni, both around 25, have a four-year-old daughter also and have now become parents for the second time. “Both the boy and his mother are doing well now. I am happy,” he said. The family hails from Mainpuri district in Uttar Pradesh. “I wanted to go back to Mainpuri because my family lives there. I could not go because of the lockdown,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-up-cops-donate-blood-during-womans-delivery-husband-likens-them-to-god-827731.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: 16 high-risk contacts of infected Delhi pizza delivery agent test negative||Sixteen "high-risk contacts" of a pizza delivery agent, who was infected with COVID-19 last week, have tested negative for coronavirus in south Delhi, an official said on Monday. The 19-year-old pizza delivery agent had tested positive for the virus on April 14, prompting authorities to put 72 families he delivered pizza under home quarantine. "All 16 high-risk contacts of pizza delivery boy have tested negative. They are colleagues of the pizza delivery agent who was infected with coronavirus recently,” south Delhi District Magistrate B M Mishra told PTI. Mishra said the district administration has not conducted COVID-19 test on members of 72 families as they have not shown any symptoms of the infection so far. The delivery agent was feeling unwell for some time and had a persistent cough since the third week of March. Later, he approached a hospital where he tested positive for the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-16-high-risk-contacts-of-infected-delhi-pizza-delivery-agent-test-negative-827734.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: 4 inmates test positive in Indore central jail||Four inmates of the central jail in Indore in Madhya Pradesh tested positive for the novel coronavirus, taking the total number of COVID-19 prisoners in the city to six, a senior official said on Monday. They were admitted in MY Hospital on April 17, Central Jail Superintendent Rakesh Kumar Bhangre told PTI.  "They are in the 28-34 age group. The number of prisoners infected with coronavirus here is now six. All inmates who came in contact are being shifted to a temporary jail to be examined by medical staff," he said. Bhangre said the jail holds 2,220 inmates against a sanctioned capacity of 1,230. "The prison barracks have been divided into seven zones and the municipal corporation has disinfected them. The inmates have been given masks," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-4-inmates-test-positive-in-indore-central-jail-827735.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||For peace, happiness at home, man 'sacrifices' daughter in Uttar Pradesh||In a shocking incident, a two-and-half-year old child was allegedly sacrificed brutally by her own father as the latter was told by a 'tantrik' (exorcist) that it would bring 'peace' and 'happiness' in his family. According to the police sources here, the incident took place at Sikandarpur village in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district, about 500 kilometres from here, on Sunday. The alleged culprit, identified as Wajid Ali, was arrested by the police and the body of the child was also recovered, sources said. Police said that Wajid, a father of six children, and his wife used to quarrel a lot. Wajid contacted an exorcist, who suggested to him that he could have peace and happiness in the family if he sacrificed one of his children. Wajid, who worked as a labourer at a brick kiln, chose his little daughter for the purpose of sacrifice.  On Sunday night, he took his daughter to a nearby field and strangled her to death. He then also axed her body and buried the same in the field. On Monday, Wajid's wife reached the local police station and told the cops about the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/for-peace-happiness-at-home-man-sacrifices-daughter-in-uttar-pradesh-827747.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Kashmir photojournalist booked for ‘anti-national’ social media post||A woman photojournalist working in Kashmir was on Monday booked for allegedly posting anti-national content on social media with the intention to “incite the youth” and promote “offences against tranquillity”, police said. The development comes close on the heels of police summoning senior journalist Peerzada Ashiq, working for a national daily, over a story he had filed recently. “A case has been registered against Masrat Zahra for uploading anti-national posts with criminal intention to induce the youth and promote offences against tranquillity,” a police official said.  The police officials, however, refused to comment any further on the FIR registered against the photojournalist or the summoning of senior journalist Peerzada Ashiq. Ashiq was summoned by the police on Sunday in two different districts of Kashmir within a span of six hours to explain his position regarding one of his news reports. The press bodies and other journalists, however, took to social media to lodge their protest against the action. "Masarat Zehra, a professional photojournalist has honestly told stories of Kashmir in 4-year career. Invoking UAPA (unlawful activities prevention act) is outrageous. In solidarity with our colleague, we demand FIR (be) withdrawn. Journalism is not crime. Intimidation/censorship won't silence Kashmir's journalists," Moazum Mohammad, vice president of Kashmir Press Club, said in a tweet. The press club, in a statement, also asked Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor G C Murmu to issue directions for putting an end to harassment of journalists in the Union Territory. It said there have been instances wherein scribes were harassed for travelling to report stories. "The Jammu and Kashmir government, especially the police, needs to understand that there is a vast difference between journalism and cyber crime," the press club said in reference to the Cyber police station summoning both the journalists.  While Ashiq was summoned on Sunday before being directed to appear before police in Anantnag district in late evening hours, Zahra was summoned to the Cyber police station on Saturday. Meanwhile, the Twitterati and journalists in Kashmir started the hashtag #IStandWithMasratZahra in support of the woman journalist. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti'a daughter Iltija Mufti said intimidating and harassing journalists in Jammu and Kashmir to stifle reportage has become the norm. "Masarat Zahra, a photojournalist was booked under draconian UAPA for allegedly 'uploading anti national posts'. In J&K using VPNs or social media is now seen as a threat to public order," Iltija tweeted from her mother's handle. In another tweet, she said, "Predominantly media in the country is largely pliable. The ones that have any credibility left are hounded & punished. It's worse for journalists from J&K who report at the cost of their lives. TOI reporter Samiya Latief was bullied & trolled on twitter." The action against the two journalists comes amidst a crackdown by police, including its cyber wing, on internet users peddling fake news or uploading anti-national content on the virtual platform. According to police sources, at least five persons, including a policeman, have been arrested over the past one month for posting anti-national or inflammatory content on social media and circulating fake news.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-photojournalist-booked-for-anti-national-social-media-post-827755.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||14 more test positive for coronavirus in Jammu and Kashmir, state tally rises to 368||"14 new cases reported. All from Kashmir. Total number of cases now 368. Jammu-55 and Kashmir-313. Detailed bulletin follows," J&K government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal tweeted. In the past four days, most of the samples testing positive are of people from Bandipora and Kupwara districts. Data maintained by the directorate of health services Kashmir reveals that Bandipora has swelling hotspots, with more and more patients getting added every day. One of these hotspots is Gundi Jahangeer in Bandipora with 34 COVID-19 cases till Sunday afternoon. All the 31 patients of district Kupwara are in Muqam Shahwali village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/14-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-jammu-and-kashmir-state-tally-rises-to-368-827763.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Kanpur police announce Rs 10,000 reward for information on Tablighi Jamaat members||Kanpur police on Monday announced a cash reward of Rs 10,000 for those who help authorities in tracing Tablighi Jamaat members "hiding despite repeated appeals to come forward" for COVID-19 testing, a top official said. Inspector General of Police (Kanpur range) Mohit Agarwal said there is a strong possibility that some people who attended the religious congregation in Delhi last month are still hiding and posing a risk to themselves, their families and the society at large.  The officer said the number of positive cases in the city has increased exponentially in the last three days and most of the total 74 patients are linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event. "The Tablighi Jamaat members are still hiding. We have made repeated appeals to them to come forward for the sake of their own life and to help us from preventing the pandemic," he said. If they self report to authorities, no action will be takenagainst them, he said, adding that strict against will be taken if they fail to do so. He said those who will help police in tracing Tablighi Jamaat members will be rewarded Rs 10,000 and their identity will be kept secret.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-kanpur-police-announce-rs-10000-reward-for-information-on-tablighi-jamaat-members-827768.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Asymptomatic coronavirus patients will be kept in COVID care centres: Delhi health minister  ||Asymptomatic patients who have tested positive for coronavirus in the national capital will be kept in COVID care centres, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday. The number of coronavirus cases in the national capital till Sunday stood at 2,003, including 45 deaths. Many cases in Delhi are coming up where people are not showing symptoms but have tested positive for infection. "We have three levels of facilities -- COVID care centre, dedicated COVID health centre and dedicated COVID hospital. Accordingly, we will admit them in different facilities. If a patient is asymptomatic, then they will be admitted in a COVID care centre,” Jain told reporters.  He also said that after the trail run, coronavirus tests using rapid antibody test kits have begun in some of the containment zones across the city as per the central government protocols. Till Sunday, the number of containment zones in Delhi stood at 78. Recently, 31 members of an extended family, including children, living in an area, marked as a containment zone in Jahangirpuri here, had tested positive for COVID-19. However, all of them were found asymptomatic. The Centre had recently classified COVID-related health facilities into three categories -- COVID care centre, dedicated COVID health centre and dedicated COVID hospital. COVID care centres are only for cases that have been clinically assigned as mild or very mild or as suspect cases. These centres can be makeshift facilities and can be set up in hostels, hotels, schools, stadiums, lodges, among other places, both public and private.  If the need be, existing quarantine facilities can also be converted into COVID care centres, according to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) outlined by the Union government recently. Functional hospitals like community health centres (CHCs), which can handle regular non-COVID cases should be designated as COVID care centres as a last resort. This is important as essential non-COVID medical services for pregnant women and newborns are to be maintained, it said. Every COVID care centre must also have a dedicated basic life support ambulance (BLSA) equipped with sufficient oxygen support round-the-clock for ensuring safe transport of a case to dedicated higher facilities if the symptoms progress from mild to moderate or severe, the SOPs said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/asymptomatic-coronavirus-patients-will-be-kept-in-covid-care-centres-delhi-health-minister-827777.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||One more tests positive for COVID-19 in Punjab; total count 245||One more person tested positive for coronavirus in Punjab on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 245. The fresh case was reported in Jalandhar, as per medical bulletin here. Out of the 245 fresh COVID-19 cases, Mohali district reported the highest number with 61 in Punjab, followed by Jalandhar, which reported 48 cases so far. Twenty-six cases were in Patiala, 24 in Pathankot, 19 in Nawanshahr, 16 in Ludhiana, 11 each in Mansa and Amritsar,  seven in Hoshiarpur, four in Moga, three each in Rupnagar, Sangrur and Faridkot, two each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Kapurthala, and Barnala, and one each in Muktsar, Gurdsapur and Ferozepur, as per the medical bulletin.     One patient is critical and is on ventilator support, it stated. Of the total cases, 16 have died while 38 have been discharged from hospital so far.  A total of 6,797 samples have been taken so far in the state, of which 6,273 samples tested negative and reports of 279 samples are still awaited.  There are 191 active cases in the state, as per the medical bulletin. Meanwhile, one more person tested positive for COVID-19 in Chandigarh, taking the total number of cases in the union territory to 27. A total of 454 samples have been taken in Chandigarh so far, of which 417 were tested negative while results of nine cases were awaited. Fourteen patients have been cured and discharged from hospitals, as per the bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-more-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-punjab-total-count-245-827835.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 positive doctor, elderly man with coronavirus symptoms die in UP's Moradabad||The head of a government health centre in the district, who had tested positive for COVID-19, and a 72-year-old man suspected to have contracted coronavirus have died here, officials said on Monday. Both of them were at a quarantine centre in the TMU Hospital in the district and died on Sunday night, the officials said.  According to the incharge of the quarantine centre, Virendra Singh, the 35-year-old doctor was involved in treatment of COVID-19 patients and later contracted the infection. He was the head of Tajpur health centre and was admitted to TMU Hospital on April 13, Singh said. He said the other man was admitted to the hospital with chest-related problems on April 17. Moradabad Chief Medical Officer Milind Garg said the test report of the septuagenarian is still awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-positive-doctor-elderly-man-with-coronavirus-symptoms-die-in-ups-moradabad-827836.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Ensure that industries follow social distancing norms: UP CM Adityanath to officials||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday directed officials to ensure that industries given permission to operate in the state follow social distancing norms to keep the coronavirus outbreak in check. During a meeting at his official residence, Yogi Adityanath directed that the coronavirus lockdown be followed strictly with social distancing in place as this was important to the check the infection spread, an official spokesman said. The chief minister said certain units have been given permission to start operations with conditions and it should be ensured that these are not violated and social distancing is maintained, the spokesman said.  The government has allowed 11 industries-- steel, refineries, cement, chemicals, fertilizers, garments (excluding apparel), foundries, paper, tyre, common effluent treatment plants and sugar mills-- to operate with certain conditions from April 20. Adityanath also asked officials to ensure that the students brought from Rajasthan’s Kota are quarantined. It should also be ensured that they download the Arogya Setu application and only then be allowed to depart for their homes, he added. He directed officials to ensuring that police and medical teams are kept safe from the infection. All steps necessary should be adopted by doctors and other medical health staff on duty to keep themselves safe from the infection, he said.  The chief minister also asked to immediately set up testing labs in the government medical colleges which lack the facility till now. Adityanath directed for the screening of people involved in doorstep delivery of essential services, the spokesman said. Orders have been issued for the testing of the maximum number of people. The chief minister also asked to restart construction works on expressway projects. He asked the principal secretary, rural development, to ensure that there is no shortage of drinking water in the Bundelkhand region, the spokesman added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ensure-that-industries-follow-social-distancing-norms-up-cm-adityanath-to-officials-827838.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Himachal Pradesh has suffered Rs 410 cr revenue loss due to lockdown, says CM  ||Himachal Pradesh has borne a loss of Rs 410 crore in the last 30 days due to the lockdown clamped to contain the spread of COVID-19, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Monday. Talking to mediapersons here, the chief minister accompanied by chief secretary Anil Khachi and director general of police Sita Ram Mardi said the loss in revenue will be compensated and the state government's topmost priority was to save lives. The state earned a mere Rs 40 crore in the last 30 days against the average monthly earnings of Rs 450 crore. So, the state exchequer had to bear a loss of Rs 410 crore, he said.  The state's private sector including the tourism industry also suffered a huge loss due to the lockdown but our topmost priority is to save the lives of the people of Himachal Pradesh, he said. Thakur said the state government had to take some unpleasant decisions like closing educational institutions, temples during navratras and banning entry of tourists as there was no other option to check the spread of coronavirus in the state. These harsh steps have yielded positive results, however, the state's COVID-19 tally witnessed a spike due to Nizamuddin Markaz returnees, he said. As many as 25 of total 39 cases tested positive in the state are of either either those who attended the Tablighi Jamat congregation in Delhi or their contacts, he added. After the state government issued a stern warning to the Jamatis, several of them and their contacts came forward for testing, he said further.  Meanwhile, Khachi said 77 per cent of the total cases in the hill-state are asymptomatic. Out of 39 COVID-19 positive cases, 36 are males and 3 females, while the average age of the patients is 38, he said. The chief secretary said that the state has a stock of 4,500 personal protection equipment (PPE), 15,000 N 95 masks and 64 ventilators. Efforts are on to procure more PPEs to increase the stock upto 50,000 PPEs, he added. "We have got 5,000 rapid testing kits from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) so far against our demand of 30,000 kits," he said. Besides, the state has a 855 hospital beds including 53 in the intensive care units (ICUs) for confirmed COVID-19 patients, he said, adding that 9000 beds for institutional quarantine were available as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-himachal-pradesh-has-suffered-rs-410-cr-revenue-loss-due-to-lockdown-says-cm-827861.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: 12-year-old Chhattisgarh girl walking from Telangana dies||A 12-year-old girl died while making a 150-kilometre trip on foot from a village in Telangana to her native Bijapur district in Chhattisgarh, officials here said on Monday. Jamlo Makdam and a group of people, who work in chilli fields in Kannaiguda village in Telangana, started walking on April 15 and she died near Bhandarpal village in Bijapur on the morning of April 18, an official said.  Her samples have tested negative for coronavirus and she may have died due to electrolyte imbalance, a health official informed. "The distance between the place in Telangana where she worked and Bijapur is 150 kilometres and she died some 50 kilometres away from her native village here. She had a meal on Saturday morning but then complained of stomach ache and uneasiness and died around 10am," said Bijapur Chief Medical and Health Officer BR Pujari. "Her samples were sent for coronavirus testing on Saturday and the report returned negative on Sunday evening. Prima facie, it seems she died of electrolyte imbalance," he added. He said those who were walking along have informed that the girl did not eat well which may have caused muscle fatigue, adding that the viscera had been preserved for further medical investigation. The state government later in the evening announced a compensation of Rs 1 lakh for the kin of the girl.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-12-year-old-chhattisgarh-girl-walking-from-telangana-dies-827865.html
20-04-2020||North and Central||Video of Jalandhar coronavirus patients enjoying Punjabi song goes viral on social media||A video of twelve coronavirus patients in a hospital in Jalandhar was shared widely on social media as they grooved to a Punjabi song and kept up their spirits by clapping and enjoying the song. A patient made a video of eleven other infected people in Jalandhar civil hospital as they clapped and raised their hands in the air on a foot-tapping Punjabi song that played on a television in their isolation ward. In the video which went viral on social media, patients wearing face masks and sitting on their beds enjoyed the song. "All of the patients maintained social distancing. They did not gather or dance to the song," said senior medical officer Kashmiri Lal at Jalandhar civil hospital. He said a television set has been installed in the ward for coronavirus patients and that they are regularly counselled.  "They are counselled that they have nothing to worry about. They will be alright and will soon go home as other patients have been fully cured," said Lal. Jalandhar district has 48 coronavirus cases and it stands second after Mohali in the COVID-19 tally in Punjab.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/video-of-jalandhar-coronavirus-patients-enjoying-punjabi-song-goes-viral-on-social-media-827877.html
20-04-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus Lockdown: India erects low wall against Chinese money||The Great Wall against Chinese acquisitions is extending into India. Foreign direct investment from the People’s Republic will now require government approval, which could slow development in key areas like technology. Compared to similar policies enacted by Australia and Italy post-COVID-19, Indian policy is more narrowly aimed at Beijing. New Delhi remains hungry for capital, so this signals the door is open to buyers from elsewhere. Technically the policy does not name China; the limits apply to countries sharing a land border with India. Nevertheless, it is the obvious target. The development comes after a skittish domestic reaction to the news that the People’s Bank of China had increased its shareholding in top mortgage lender HDFC to just over 1% earlier this month. That’s hardly a threat, but it fed anxieties that the Chinese economy will recover first, and make opportunistic purchases. Domestic policymakers have been fretting about ties for some time. China is a top trading partner, but the relationship is skewed. Around 80% of the nearly $90 billion in annual bilateral trade the two countries is comprised of Indian imports, in particular machinery and equipment. Mainland FDI amounts to $2.34 billion, or less than 1% of inflows since 2000, according to official Indian figures, although funds are often routed through Hong Kong and elsewhere. The real number might be closer to $6.2 billion, reckons Gateway House, a Mumbai think-tank. Any stall in Chinese inflows would be most keenly felt in the technology sector. Paytm - a local fintech giant - has grown fast with backing from Alibaba and its affiliate Ant Financial. Tencent has invested in education tech firm Byju’s, food delivery platform Swiggy and more. But as elsewhere, Indian officials are alert to the value of personal data and worry about it falling into the wrong hands. The poor emerging market can’t afford to spurn job-creating investments from whatever source. India is betting that Chinese companies like MG Motors and Xiaomi looking for the next big growth market won’t be too deterred, and that in the context of a wider international backlash, Beijing’s retaliation will be limited. (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are her own. Refiles to add secondary RIC for Alibaba.)   CONTEXT NEWS - India on April 17 revised its foreign direct investment policy to require government approval for any inbound investment from any country that “shares a land border” with India. The policy will primarily impact flows from China. - “An entity of a country, which shares land border with India or where the beneficial owner of an investment into India is situated in or is a citizen of any such country, can invest only under the Government route,” the Department for Promotion of Trade and Industry and Internal Trade said in a press note. - Similar restrictions were already in place for Bangladesh and Pakistan. - The trade ministry said the changes were designed to curb opportunistic takeovers and acquisitions of Indian companies. - Separately, the Securities and Exchange Board of India has sought information from multiple Asian countries on whether funds there are connected to Chinese investors, local financial newspaper Mint reported on April 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-lockdown-india-erects-low-wall-against-chinese-money-827580.html
20-04-2020||Opinion||A new space race in the offing?||All major spacefaring nations, including the United States of America and India, are signatories of the Outer Space Treaty, 1967. Article II of The Outer Space Treaty, 1967, states: ‘Outer space, including the moon and other celestial bodies, is not subject to national appropriation by claim of sovereignty, by means of use or occupation, or by any other means.’ The Moon Agreement 1979, although ratified by only 18 countries, the US not being one of them, also prohibits the exploration of the moon. The order highlights that US doesn’t consider space as ‘global commons’ and further states that the US is not a party to the 1979 Moon Agreement and doesn’t recognise the Agreement to ‘be an effective or necessary instrument to guide nation-states regarding the promotion of commercial participation in the long-term exploration, scientific discovery, and use of the Moon, Mars, or other celestial bodies.’ Commercial exploitation of space While the legal opinion on the legitimacy of exploiting outer space by the US is divided, the intent of commercial exploration is not entirely new. Over the past couple of years, we are seeing increasing interest in asteroid mining and exploitation of space by nation-states. The US Congress had passed the ‘Commercial Space Launch Competitiveness Act’ in 2015 giving its citizens the right to ‘possess, own, transport, use, and sell the asteroid resource or space resource obtained.’ NASA’s Artemis Lunar Exploration programme plans to develop a base camp at the south pole of the moon and build other infrastructure to facilitate long-term exploration of the moon. Billionaire explorers like Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk, are also looking to reach Mars and other celestial bodies and take advantage of the resources found. Luxembourg, a small European nation, has implemented an even more liberal regime than the US for asteroid mining and harvesting of other resources from space. Trump’s executive order is an endorsement of the growing global sentiment and formal recognition of the property rights of private players from the US.    Russia has heavily criticised the US, and Trump for the order, stating, ‘attempts to expropriate outer space and aggressive plans to actually seize territories of other planets hardly set the countries (on course for) fruitful cooperation.’ However, we need to trust actions, not words when we observe sovereign nation-states in the international arena.  Russia’s space agency Roscosmos has announced plans for a 2024 orbiter, a 2028 sample-return mission, and human flights by 2029-30. China has an ambitious lunar programme with its Chang’e missions. Russia and China are also planning to build a shared data centre for lunar and deep-sea research. It will be interesting to see whether all these missions are only towards the pursuit of science or are there other strategic and economic interests that the countries will undertake. New strains in international order Setting up bases and exploiting and trading resources found in space is also a way of asserting power in space. Most states now acknowledge space as a new domain of security, and thus are building capabilities to safeguard their interests and project power. While building defensive capabilities through specialised defence space agencies is one way, establishing economic avenues through the exploitation of resources and trade is the other way to gain primacy.  The Outer Space Treaty, enacted in 1967, in the wake of the cold war and the height of the space race, has done well to prevent exploitation of space so far. As space exploration and travel is becoming cheaper, and there is increased participation from private players, we are likely to see new strains in the international order. We would observe an increased interest in property rights in space and countries trying to enable, if not encourage, their private players to harvest resources in space.   The executive order says that the US is looking to negotiate multilateral agreements with foreign states for sustainable operations for the recovery of space resources. India needs to be cognizant of the developments in this new ‘space race’. While the Moon Agreement which India has signed but not ratified may prove to be a thorn, India must take prudent measures to ensure that its citizens can reap the economic dividends of space exploration while India can safeguard its strategic interests. (Utkarsh Narain is a technology policy analyst at the Takshashila Institution)   Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-new-space-race-in-the-offing-827601.html
20-04-2020||Right in the Middle||Arangetram fever||“This is criminal for our time," says the veteran Bharatanatyam dancer when she addresses a young crowd at the dance conference. She is referring to the money that was being spent on arangetrams (dance debut on stage). She cites an example of how $75000 was spent on one such arangetram in the US. She points out, do we have a social responsibility of how much we spend on such events? What is the real purpose of an arangetram? An arangetram is a significant milestone for any budding artiste to demonstrate proficiency of the art form.  Listening to the dancer’s speech brought back memories of my own debut as a Carnatic musician in Chennai decades ago. It was at a small Ganesha temple. There was a makeshift stage in a corner of the temple compound. A small crowd of well-wishers including my family and friends were seated on the dusty floor in front of me. My mother had a harried look on her face as she had to report the proceedings to my elderly relatives who couldn’t make it to the event.  As I settled myself on that stage with the ubiquitous flask of warm water next to me I noticed my accompanying musicians (the violinist and percussionist) giving me nervous smiles. That’s when the tight knot in my chest began to dissipate. I was in good company and the three of us were going to swim or sink together! My guru, a taciturn man just nodded his head with a small smile. It was an arangetram sans fuss and fanfare as was the norm then. When an unflattering review of one of my subsequent concerts appeared in the paper, with the critic sparing no words, I remember cringing with shame. That’s when I remembered my aunt’s sage advice, “Any criticism, however unwelcome, is better than no feedback at all!”  Arangetrams are not just a turning point for the student but also for the teacher. Somewhere down the line, it has become more of a lavish affair where people discuss the elaborate arrangements, the flowery speeches, the eclectic menu and show-stopping attire along with the repertoire presented by the dancer. As I was ruminating over such thoughts my friend called me over to his place. “I need your feedback for a speech that I’ve just written,” he said. When I heard him present the speech with so much conviction and confidence, I envisioned a huge crowd at a political rally being swayed by his words. I was brought back to earth when he remarked, “Oh, this is a speech for an arangetram that I’ve been invited to as the chief guest!”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/arangetram-fever-827702.html
20-04-2020||Second Edit||Video conference: Extend facility to district courts now||The Supreme Court has done well to issue a set of directions to the lower courts to conduct their sittings and hearings through video-conferencing as the normal functioning of courts with the presence of judges, lawyers, litigants and others in the room is not possible now. Social distancing norms make the usual functioning of courts difficult. None of the parties can, in any case, physically reach the court during the lockdown. The apex court said that video-conferencing was being used by it and the high courts, and other courts should also use new technologies. District courts were told to adopt the new method of working, and presiding officers have been given the power to take the necessary decisions. The court issued the directions under Article 142 of the Constitution and has made it clear that the switchover is not ‘’a matter of discretion but of duty”. Some high courts have actively started hearing cases through teleconferencing. Apart from judges, court staff, lawyers and journalists have participated in such proceedings from their homes or offices. The shift to such facilities should have taken place without being prompted by the fight against Covid-19.  The national e-governance plan of 2006 had proposed the setting up of paperless e-courts with teleconferencing facilities. Digitisation has taken place in some areas but the adoption of modern technologies by courts has been slow in all states.  The lower courts should follow the Supreme Court’s directions without fail because it is these courts that affect the lives of citizens most. State governments should ensure that they get all the infrastructure and facilities which are required for the purpose. There is a large backlog of cases in all courts. If the courts do not function for many weeks, the case burden will only increase. It should also be ensured that some of the new facilities which are being used now will continue to be used even after the coronavirus goes away. The experience gained through the use of new technologies should help the courts to retain them later. The new technologies will not only fast-track the working of courts but will also make their functioning more transparent. They will increase the efficiency and productivity of the staff. Initial hiccups and difficulties are likely because of technical and other reasons but the new system will become normal and convenient in due course. Some high courts like the Delhi High Court have issued very detailed guidelines on how the proceedings in the district courts are to be conducted. These are useful for courts everywhere and should be adhered to in the interest of not only quick, but correct, delivery of justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/video-conference-extend-facility-to-district-courts-now-827699.html
20-04-2020||South||Stay indoors, win gold coin in this Kerala village||For the 10,000 odd families of Thazhekkode gram panchayat in Malappuram district of Kerala, staying at home during the lockdown will not only keep them safe but also fetch prizes, including a gold coin. Malappuram has so far recorded 20 Covid-19 cases. Several people of Thazhekkode, about 40 km from the town, are also in quarantine. While authorities elsewhere are resorting to police patrolling to keep people indoors, the panchayat came up with an attractive scheme. It is offering prizes — one sovereign gold coin, refrigerator, washing machine, etc — with the help of sponsors.   Volunteers will identify the families that follow the lockdown. The winners will be decided through a draw of lots. Panchayat president Abdul Nazar A K said many residents used to violate curbs initially and hence, they thought of the idea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stay-indoors-win-gold-coin-in-this-kerala-village-827512.html
20-04-2020||South||COVID-19 cases in Kasargod comes down||Thirteen more persons in Kerala, including eight in Kasargod, recovered from COVID-19  on Sunday, while two fresh cases were reported. The number of COVID-19 cases in Kasargod has come down to 42, while neighbouring Kannur topped the tally in the state now with 48 cases. The two fresh cases on Sunday were also reported from these two districts and both were persons who came from abroad. Of the 410 infected in Kerala so far, 270 already recovered while two died and 129 are now under treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-cases-in-kasargod-comes-down-827528.html
20-04-2020||South||Kerala govt to ease COVID-19 lockdown restrictions in 2 zones from Apr 20||The Kerala government announced the relaxation of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions in two zones, allowing among other private vehicles movement in an odd-even basis and dine-in services at hotels from Monday. State police chief Loknath Behera said the relaxations of restrictions imposed would come into effect in the Green and Orange-B zones in the state from Monday,an official release said. Earlier, the Left government had colour-coded 14 districts of the state into four zones-- Red, Green, Orange-A and Orange-B, for containing the Covid-19 pandemic. Red zone comprises Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode and Malappuram districts. In this zone, a complete lockdown will be in place until May 3 while two entry and exit points are allowed for carrying essential commodities to coronavirus hotspots. Orange-A zone comprises Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam and Kollam while orange-B zone comprises Alappuzha, Thiruvananthapuram, Palakkad, Thrissur and Wayanad. The lockdown will be in effect until April 24 in this zone and then partial relaxation will be allowed. Kottayam and Idukki come under the Green zone, in which lockdown will be in effect until April 20 and then regulations will be eased. However, large gatherings, the functioning of educational institutions, religious functions, celebrations and travel outside the district will not be allowed in this zone.  Not more than 20 people are allowed to take part in weddings and funerals, according to government instructions. On the functioning of courts, the release said, "Courts in the Green and Orange-B zones will re-open on April 21 while that in Orange-A zone will start functioning from April 25. The courts will function with 33 per cent of staff. The cases will be heard via video conferencing." Meanwhile, the Bankers' Council has announced that banks will function as per the usual timings from Monday in the state except four districts falling under the Red zone. The Transport Ministry has clarifiedthat public transport won't be allowed to ply in the state during the lockdown period. "Inter-district travel will not be allowed despite relaxations in the state, but essential services such as medical services, food supplies will not be stopped. However, in case of emergency, inter-district travel will be allowed with an affidavit prepared by the traveller," Behra said in a release. On the implementation of the odd-even scheme for private vehicles, the police said, "Vehicles with odd numbers will be permitted on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Those with even numbers will be allowed on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays." Woman drivers travelling solo or with dependants are also exempted from it, police said. On Sundays, only those working for essential services are allowed to use their vehicles. All education institutions, cinema halls, shopping malls, public parks, bars, places of worship will remain closed in all zones of the state. The health department and local administration, which carry out sanitation work before the monsoon, are allowed to operate. Four-wheelers are permitted to carry two passengers besides the driver and in case of a two-wheeler, only the driver will be allowed while the pillion rider is allowed in case the person is a family member. On Dine-in services, a government order said it is allowed at hotels and restaurants until 7 PM in Green and Orange-B zone from Monday and in Orange-A zone from April 24. However, take-away counters can function until 8 PM, it said. Kerala on Sunday reported two positive cases of Covid-19 in the state taking the total number of affected to 401 while the health department announced that 13 people were cured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-to-ease-covid-19-lockdown-restrictions-in-2-zones-from-apr-20-827529.html
20-04-2020||South||Efforts made to undermine Kerala govt's achievements in COVID-19 battle: CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday alleged that efforts were being made to undermine the achievements of the state government in its fight against Covid-19 and said he was "ignoring" them as it was not the time for controversies. The Opposition Congress has been raising allegations that a US-based company had been entrusted with the task of collecting data regarding the virus-infected patients in the state, in violation of fundamental rights. "Many developed nations are in awe of the achievements of Kerala in its fight against Covid-19 pandemic. This is the speciality of Kerala model," Vijayan said. Referring to the data collection charge levelled by the opposition parties, Vijayan said some were engaged in slandering the state government. "Those who think that the government should not have a reputation for effectively handling the coronavirus outbreak are engaged in slandering the state government. It has happened before, it's happening now also. This is not the time to go behind controversies. People are watching and they will evaluate," Vijayan said in his weekly interactive programme 'Naam munnott'. He said he had decided to ignore such controversies. The ward-level committees, set up by the government for the anti-coronavirus fight, was collecting information of those under home isolation, elderly persons and those at the risk of the disease using a questionnaire in this regard and upload it on the server of the private agency. The Congress has alleged that the data, collected through the government machinery, was being uploaded not on the government server but on that of the foreign company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/efforts-made-to-undermine-kerala-govts-achievements-in-covid-19-battle-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-827531.html
20-04-2020||South||Neurosurgeon dies of COVID-19, fatalities mount to 16 in Tamil Nadu||A 55-year-old neurosurgeon succumbed to COVID-19 at a private hospital here on Sunday, sources in the health facility said. The doctor was critical for the past few days and was put on ventilator support and died due to the viral disease, hospital sources told PTI. The neurosurgeon was also the chief doctor and director at a private hospital in the city. The super speciality doctor's daughter, who has also been admitted to the same hospital for coronavirus is stable and doing well, they said. The death of the doctor comes days after the passing away of an orthopaedic surgeon (in Chennai) from Nellore district in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. With the death of the neurosurgeon, the total fatalities in Tamil Nadu have risen to 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/neurosurgeon-dies-of-covid-19-fatalities-mount-to-16-in-tamil-nadu-827532.html
20-04-2020||South||No vehicles, dead HIV patient carried on cycle to hospital in Telangana||The body of a 44-year-old HIV patient who died in Kamareddy district was carried on a bicycle to a government hospital on Sunday owing to the absence of transport in view of the ongoing coronavirus lockdown. According to police, the man suffering from HIV for the past few years died on Saturday night at a shelter meant for the poor. As a foul smell emanated from the body, police were alerted. Since no one came forward to help shift it to the hospital for post mortem due to coronavirus fears, police requested some sanitation workers to carry the body. As there were no ambulances available for transporting it, the remains were wrapped in a bed-sheet and carried on a cycle to the hospital by the sanitation workers, they said. The authorities found a contact number near the body of the man, hailing from Nirmal district and informed his family members of his demise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-vehicles-dead-hiv-patient-carried-on-cycle-to-hospital-in-telangana-827535.html
20-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Indian Navy's Southern Command develops UV unit to contain COVID-19||The unit built at a cost of Rs 5,000, comprises a metallic container, two UV lamps one each on the opposite side, with aluminium foil pasted on its internal surfaces to facilitate UV radiation to reach every corner of the chamber.  The efficacy of the equipment has been validated by a team of medical experts from SNC,  a press statement said. The portable unit, produced by Naval Ship Repair Yard (NSRY), Kochi is considered ideal for disinfecting small objects like currency notes, all kinds of cards, wallets, diary, pens, mobile phones, keys, uniform accessories (e.g beret) and surgical instruments. It is best suited for disinfecting items on which sanitising gels and liquids cannot be applied. The fabrication of the disinfectant unit is relevant due to the surface transmission aspects of the spread of COVID-19 in society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-indian-navys-southern-command-develops-uv-unit-to-contain-covid-19-827567.html
20-04-2020||South||Centre objects to Kerala easing coronavirus lockdown restrictions||The Union Home Ministry has taken strong objection to the Kerala government's decision to allow opening of restaurants, bus travel in cities and opening of MSME industries in municipal areas, saying it amounts to dilution of its lockdown guidelines. In a letter to the Kerala government, the home ministry said the state government on April 17 has circulated revised guidelines for lockdown measures which allowed opening of activities which are prohibited in the Centre's consolidated revised guidelines issued on April 15. Such additional activities allowed by the government of Kerala, include opening of local workshops, barber shops, restaurants, book stores, MSMEs in municipal limits, bus travel in cities and towns for shorter distance, two passengers in the back seat of four wheeler and pillion riding on scooters. This amounts to dilution of guidelines issued by the home ministry and violation of its April 15 order issued under the Disaster Management Act 2005, the home ministry said.  The Kerala government has announced relaxation of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions in two zones, allowing among others private vehicles movement in an odd-even basis and dine-in services at hotels from Monday.   Kerala on Sunday reported two positive cases of COVID-19 in the state, taking the total number of affected to 401 while the health department announced that 13 people were cured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/centre-objects-to-kerala-easing-coronavirus-lockdown-restrictions-827571.html
20-04-2020||South||Kerala govt denies dilution of coronavirus lockdown guidelines||The Kerala government on Monday said there was some "misunderstanding", due to which the Centre had objected to dilution of thelockdown protocol after the state had allowed opening of restaurants and MSME industries in municipal areas among others. The Union Home Ministry has taken strong objection to Kerala government's decision to allow opening of restaurants, bus travel in cities and opening of MSME industries in municipal areas, saying it amounts to dilution of its lockdown guidelines. In a letter to the Kerala government, the Home Ministry said the state government on April 17 has circulated revised guidelines for lockdown measures which allowed opening of activities which are prohibited in the Centre's consolidated revised guidelines issued on April 15. State Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran denied there was dilution of the lockdown guidelines. "We have given relaxations in accordancewith the Centre's guidelines. I think there is some misunderstanding,based on which the Centre has sought an explanation. Once we give an explanation, it will all be sorted out. The Centre and the state have the same stand with regard to fight the pandemic. There is no contradiction in the stand taken. It's just a misunderstanding we will clear it," Surendran told mediapersons. He also said the lockdown and easing the protocol was a new thing for the state and the country and the state government will clear the doubts in a few hours. The additional activities allowed by the government of Kerala, include opening of local workshops, barber shops, restaurants, book stores, MSMEs in municipal limits, bus travel in cities and towns for shorter distance, two passengers in the back seat of four-wheelers and pillion riding on scooters. Hundreds ventured into the streets on Monday after the state government diluted the lockdown protocol. This amounts to dilution of guidelines issued by the Home ministry and violation of its April 15 order issued under the Disaster Management Act 2005, the Home Ministry said.  The Kerala government has announced relaxation of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions in two zones, allowing among others private vehicles movement in an odd-even basis and dine-in services at hotels from Monday.   The Left government had colour-coded 14 districts of the state into four zones-- Red, Green, Orange-A and Orange-B, for containing the Covid-19 pandemic. Four-wheelers are permitted to carry two passengers besides the driver and in case of a two-wheeler, only the driver will be allowed while the pillion rider is allowed in case the person is a family member. On dine-in services, a government order said it is allowed at hotels and restaurants until 7 pm in Green and Orange-B zone from Monday and in Orange-A zone from April 24. However, take-away counters can function until 8 PM, thestate government had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-denies-dilution-of-coronavirus-lockdown-guidelines-827596.html
20-04-2020||South||Amid coronavirus lockdown, migrant workers a content lot in Kerala||Television, indoor games like carrom and chess for entertainment and even recharge for mobile phones are just some facilities provided for 'guest workers', as migrant labourers are called in Kerala, by the LDF government, setting an example to the rest of the country. While migrant labourers in many states are up in arms over lack of facilities given to them, including transport to their states, the more than 3.5 lakh 'guest workers' in 19,764 camps in Kerala have no complaints and are waiting for the dangers of the pandemic to pass. "The basic needs of the workers like drinking water and cooking facilities have been ensured. Those who prefer to have food like chapathi and sabji are given that. Milk is supplied to the camps through state-run Milma. Along with that, food from community kitchens has also been provided to the workers. Besides, if they wish to prepare their own food, the required items are supplied to them," a senior official from the Labour Department told P T I. The state government has also been issuing posters, making announcements and video messages in various languages, including Assamese, Odiya, Hindi and Bengali, among others, to sensitise the guest workers on the deadly COVID-19 and the importance of social distancing and cleanliness. Most of the guest workers who shared their thoughts with P T I, expressed the hope that they would be able to meet their families after the lockdown ends, but were also worried about the jobs in the future. "I came to Kerala years ago from Maharashtra. My whole family is still there. I go there once in a year. Everything was well and fine here till this issue," Babu Lal, a guest worker, now lodged at a make-shift camp in a school located in the capital city of the state, said. He said those in the camp get breakfast, lunch, snacks in the evening and dinner and they have been following the social distancing norms. "After all this (pandemic scare) is over I will visit my family. But before going to Maharashtra, I will have to work here for one or two months so that I can save some money before I meet my family," Lal, who speaks and understands Malayalam well, told P T I. These workers, the major labour force of Kerala, were employed in construction, road works and in hotels, supermarkets and also as private security guards. Some of them have considered this lockdown period as a vacation from their hectic work schedules. "I have been working in various hotels for nearly a decade in Kerala and at restaurants. The work starts early in the morning and goes on till late at night. Now our hotel is closed and we are in this camp. We don't have any work, but have food and accommodation, along with TV," Gautam, a worker from Odisha, said. Gautam's camp, a government school which houses at least 215 workers from various states, has two televisions with cable connection. Another worker said he was bored of sitting idle without any work and was also worried also whether there would be any jobs for them after the lockdown ends. "We are staying here without any work. The only issue is that we don't have any income as of now. I don't know whether there will be any jobs after all this ends. We need to send money to our families also," Prem Kumar, an Uttar Pradesh resident said. He was working as a private security guard and later left that for a job in a hotel. Those put up at the Government Central High School, which hosts mainly workers from other parts of Kerala and Tamil Nadu and other southern busy themselves in gardening. "The workers, instead of sitting idle, have been engaged in gardening while maintaining social distancing. By the time school reopens, I am sure they would beautifully alter the landscape. The city corporation has been providing the necessary equipment which they sought for the purpose," Shine, a city corporation staff in charge of the camp, said. He said if any worker required medical help, an ambulance is brought from the nearest government hospital and they are taken there for a checkup. The state has appointed a rapid response team headed by Labour Commissioner Pranab Jyothinath to look into the welfare of the guest workers. A district-level team inspects the labour camps in the state every day to monitor the situation. In Kochi, Border Security Force jawans spoke to guest workers at a camp in suburban Perumbavoor, which is home to the most number of workers from other states. "There are many workers from other states, including Assam, Odisha and West Bengal. Our jawans spoke to them in their language so that they understand the situation properly. We have explained to them what is being done for them in Kerala," an officer said. A video of a home guard conversing in Hindi with workers from outside Kerala on March 30 and telling them about the dangers of COVID-19 and the need to stay at home and maintain social distancing, went viral in the social media recently. The measures were intensified after March 29, after hundreds of migrant workers at Chenganassery in Kottayam district came out on the streets violating the 21-day lockdown restrictions imposed by the Union government to prevent the spread of pandemic COVID-19, demanding that arrangements be made for their travel to native villages in north India. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said that the government has made all arrangements for medical assistance to guest workers and was constantly engaging with them to ensure their well-being. He had lashed out at "forces trying to create unrest in society by provoking the guest workers to the streets during the pandemic."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amid-coronavirus-lockdown-migrant-workers-a-content-lot-in-kerala-827612.html
20-04-2020||South||A burial that was not: Chennai doctor's last rites see attacks, protest amidst coronavirus fears||Dr Simon, Managing Director of New Hope Medical Centre, could not be given a proper burial due to protests from locals at a crematorium in this metropolis. After locals attacked those who gathered at the crematorium in Vellangadu near upscale Anna Nagar to bid goodbye to the doctor with stones, sticks, and glass, a surgeon who worked with the dead doctor took up the job on himself and buried his senior with his bare hands.     ‘Doctors are humans too’ “We (doctors) are humans too. This should not happen to anybody. The doctor was buried with nobody around him. Just me and two ward boys from our hospital. It is said that a man who served the society and lived for it went down with just three people around him,” Dr K Pradeep Kumar, Orthopaedic and Arthroscopy Surgeon, told DH. Dhamu, a driver of the ambulance that was used to transport Dr Simon’s body, said people gathered at the crematorium after hearing the sound of an earthmover that was being used to dig the pit to bury the body. “Some 300 people gathered and started pelting stones and bottles at us. We had to withstand the attack since I and another driver, Anand, were carrying the body from the vehicle to the ground. We could not have dropped the body on the ground. I drove the vehicle with broken glasses for a few km before going to a government hospital for first aid,” Dhamu said, choking every few seconds.  Locals did not want the body of the doctor buried in their air due to misconception that COVID-19 could spread from the body. The burial with just three people After the unfortunate incident, Dr Pradeep Kumar went to his hospital wore the PPE and took control of the wheels of the broken ambulance to see-off his boss. “When I reached the burial ground, there was nobody there to help us. The police were in good numbers to ensure that nothing untoward takes place again. With just two ward boys, we lowered the casket and began the burial. There was none to push sand into the grave. I did it with my bare hands. I was scared for two reasons – one is the fear of the mob arriving again and the other is we need to give him (Dr Simon) a proper burial. He needs to rest in peace,” Dr Pradeep Kumar said. Narrating the harrowing experience, Dr Pradeep Kumar said only a few people from the doctor’s family – his daughter has tested positive for COVID-19 – had come to the burial ground and everyone, including the body, were subjected to attack from stones and sticks. “They (the mob) threw stones and bottles and everyone had to run from the place for their safety. No one had any other choice. We had to disperse, and it was quite a task to get my senior’s body back into the ambulance. The ambulance drivers were bleeding, but they were strong and drove it till I took the wheels from one of them,” Dr Pradeep Kumar said. A nice soul has gone too soon Dhamu, the ambulance driver who along with Anand, was injured and had to get stitches on their heads, said he began working with Dr Simon a decade ago and left his hospital two years back to drive his own ambulance vehicle. “My ambulance was attached to the hospital, thanks to Simon sir. He was such a wonderful human being who had helped several people. I cannot digest people can be so heartless to oppose the burial of a nice soul. He was a doctor after all, who treated people and dedicated his life serving them,” Dhamu added. In a moving video, Dr Bagyaraj, a microbiologist with the hospital owned by Dr Simon, asked whether this was what doctors earn for doing service to the people. “Is this the price? How will doctors feel safe? We could not save him, but we could have at least given him a proper burial. We could not even do that. Will his soul rest in peace? Without understanding that there was no harm in burying the dead though they have had COVID-19, people protested and made us feel bad about coming into this profession,” he said. Health Secretary Dr Beela Rajesh tweeted: “Salutations to Dr Simon Hercules for his exemplary service in the fight against Covid19. Let us stand by each and every healthcare worker, they are the real heroes.” Meanwhile, Chennai Police have arrested 20 people for indulging in violence at the burial ground on Sunday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-burial-that-was-not-chennai-doctors-last-rites-see-attacks-protest-amidst-coronavirus-fears-827624.html
20-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Tamil Nadu govt urges MEA to help stranded Indian fishermen in Iran||Chief Minister K Palaniswami, in a letter to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, said the fishermen had been stranded in different parts of Iran since February and the state government had been receiving repeated requests from them and their families to provide them basic needs. Recalling that he had already taken up the matter with Jaishankar in February, he said around 1,000 fishermen from India, including 650 from Tamil Nadu, were stranded in Chiruyeh, Kish, Lavan, Bandar-eMogham, Asaluyeh and other places in Iran.  "Government of Tamil Nadu is receiving repeated requests from the stranded fishermen and their families to provide food, water and other basic needs and it is also reported to me that they are suffering in foreign soil without adequate food and other basic needs," he said in the letter.  "Hence, I request your good office to direct the Embassy of India in Iran again to arrange food, water and other basic needs immediately to the stranded fishermen and also to arrange for their early return to India," the chief minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-tamil-nadu-govt-urges-mea-to-help-stranded-indian-fishermen-in-iran-827680.html
20-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: 75 new COVID-19 cases reported in Andhra Pradesh; tally rises to 722||Registering the highest per day spike so far, as many as 75 new coronavirus cases were added in Andhra Pradesh, taking the total past the 700-mark to 722 on Monday. With three deaths reported, the toll mounted to 20. A woman sub-inspector of police and seven other frontline government staff of different departments contracted the virus in temple town Srikalahasthi of Chittoor district, official sources said. Health Department authorities confirmed that community transmission of the virus has set in as over 40 such cases were detected in different districts so far.  In Anantapuramu district, an assistant sub-inspector of police succumbed to coronavirus. Chittoor district witnessed a sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases, registering 25 in a single day and taking the total to 53. The Srikalahasthi cases only sent the entire district administration into a tizzy as it turned out to be a case of "one source infecting many people". Guntur district, a major hotspot, added 20 new cases to its list to touch 149 overall.  Kurnool district continued to be the hotbed in the state, topping with 174 cases. Apart from 16 new cases in the last 24 hours ending 9 am, one more death was reported from the district, taking the count to five. Krishna district too recorded one more death and now tops the state in toll, with a total of six. The COVID-19 bulletin said 3,775 samples were tested in the last 24 hours of which 75 turned positive and the remaining negative. The cumulative number of tests in the state crossed 30,733 till date, of which 30,011 were negative, according to the COVID-19 dashboard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-75-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-rises-to-722-827691.html
20-04-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown 2.0: Kerala govt modifies relaxations, does not allow buses, hotels||With the Centre taking strong objection to certain relaxations by it in the COVID-19 lockdown guidelines, the Kerala state government on Monday decided not to allow plying of buses in cities, opening of restaurants and pillion riding on two-wheelers, official sources said. The decision was taken at a meeting Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan held with state Chief Secretary Tom Jose on Monday morning, the sources said. "A formal order on the restrictions would be issued today itself.  Buses would not be allowed to ply, restaurants will remain closed and only parcel service would be allowed and barber shops willalso remain shut," they told PTI. The Union Home Secretary has written to the state Chief Secretary objecting to Kerala government giving additional relaxation which amounted to "dilution" of lockdown guidelinesissued on April 15 under the Disaster Management Act 2005.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-20-kerala-govt-modifies-relaxations-does-not-allow-buses-hotels-827717.html
20-04-2020||South||Kerala is safer, says Italian tourist recovered of COVID-19||"Kerala is safer" were the parting words of an Italian tourist who tested positive for COVID-19 and was discharged on Monday from a hospital here after making a full recovery. Roberto Tonizzo, in his forties, tested positive on March 13 while on a visit to nearby Varkala. The results came out negative on March 26 and were under quarantine at the General Hospital here. "I am so happy. I thank everybody, all doctors and other staff. Once everything is over, I would like to come back. Kerala is like my home. It's safer here. Now I have to go back to my country, but I will come back," Tonizzo told media. The state government arranged a vehicle for him to go to Bangalurufrom where he will travel to Italy with other Italian nationals later. Earlier, on April 9, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said that seven nationals from the United Kingdom and an Italian national had recovered and cured of COVID-19. The seven people, admitted in the Ernakulam medical college, were part of the group which had on March 15 tried to leave the country without permission while being under observation at Munnar, a hill station in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-is-safer-says-italian-tourist-recovered-of-covid-19-827765.html
20-04-2020||South||Hyderabad gets 1500 bedded hospital in three weeks to fight coronavirus||The COVID-19 pandemic, which has paralysed the nation’s economy, has nevertheless, galvanised some state governments to go for the much-needed expansion of public health care services. In Telangana, where COVID-19 cases are piling up, the Chandrasekhar Rao government has readied a 1500-bedded hospital in Gachibowli, the IT hub of Hyderabad, in about three weeks, making use of a sports complex building. The 14-storied facility with about 540 rooms would serve as a COVID-19 hospital beginning from Monday. However, Chief Minister Rao has on Sunday announced that the hospital would continue to offer quality medical care as Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS), “a premium government hospital” on the lines of AIIMS in Delhi and Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences in central Hyderabad. “Our government had planned to build four super specialty hospitals on four sides of Hyderabad. While AIIMS has come up one side (Bibinagar to East of Hyderabad), the Gachibowli hospital would serve this side (West),” Rao said.   The state government has allocated the sports complex building and the adjacent surplus land to the medical department, with the intention of upgrading it to a multi-specialty hospital with 750 general and 750 specialty beds and an attached post graduate medical college, CM said.   TIMS, once operational as envisaged, is expected to ease the patient numbers at Osmania, Gandhi, NIMS etc., state run hospitals. While in Andhra Pradesh, the Jaganmohan Reddy government has announced an overhaul of the health infrastructure in the state with Rs 16,000 crore. Under the head – Naadu, Nedu (Then and Now) the money would be used for construction of new medical colleges, and building, repairs and development of village clinics, PHCs, area hospitals, and district-level hospitals, CMO officials said. The two Telugu states are reeling under the incessant COVID-19 cases. As on Monday morning, Telangana has 858 total cases, while in Andhra Pradesh the cumulative number is 722.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-gets-1500-bedded-hospital-in-three-weeks-to-fight-coronavirus-827778.html
20-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: As relaxations went out of control, Kerala reimposes certain restrictions||As some of the districts like Thiruvananthapuram witnessed considerable vehicles movement on Monday, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that stringent action would be taken against any sorts of violation of the norms. He said that the order to allow barber shops to function in a limited manner was being kept in abeyance owing to concerns and objections. The directive to allow bus for providing travel facilities for industrial workers was wrongly interpreted as allowing public transport facilities.Restaurants would be only allowed to have take away services. Six more positive; 21 negative Six more persons in Kerala were tested COVID-19 positive in Kerala on Monday, while 21, including 19 in Kasargod, recovered. Of the 169 infected in Kasargod so far, 142 already recovered and only 27 are under treatment now. All the six fresh cases were found in Kannur district, said the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-as-relaxations-went-out-of-control-kerala-reimposes-certain-restrictions-827780.html
20-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Mangaluru roadblock causes mental blow for Kannadigas in Kasargod||The restrictions imposed by Mangaluru on patients from Kasargod in Kerala have caused severe mental blow to scores of Kannadiga's in Kasargod as they have been emotionally more attached to Karnataka than Kerala. In order to take political advantage of the situation, a campaign for making the region an union territory or a separate Tulu state has been triggered. Kasargod is more connected, personally and professionally, to Karnataka, especially Dakshina Kannada district as most of the families in the district are having any sort of bonding with Dakshina Kannada. For this reason, the roadblock to Mangalore for treatment purposes has emotionally hurt the people of Kasargod, especially the three lakh odd Kannadigas. Dr. Y S Mohankumar of Kasargod said that already the people of Kasargod were feeling like being ignored by Kerala as no development was taking place here. With the fresh attitude of Karnataka towards Kasargod residents, the people here felt like being ignored by Karnataka too, said the doctor who himself is a Kannadiga. Even as Kerala former chief secretary P Prabhakaran had submitted a detailed report pointing out the specific infrastructure needs of Kasargod in 2012, there were not much initiatives even for long-pending plights to have a medical college. Hence the people of Kasargod now feel that the COVID and the roadblock by Managaluru came as a blessing as the backwardness of Kasargod's healthcare got some attention and the Medical College hospital started functioning and Tata group announced a speciality hospital for the district. Muralidhara Balukaraya, president of the Karnataka Smathi in Kasargod said that the Kannadigas were equally upset over Karnataka blocking the roads as well as Kerala not giving importance for Kasargod's development. Kerala Tulu Academy president Umesh M Saliyan said that the present development was being politically used by some sections and campaigns for making Kasargod a separate region was being triggered, which is not advisable. The Kannadigas and Malayalis are living in harmony, which should not be disturbed, said Umesh.  Manjeshwar MLA M C Kamaruddin said that for the people of Kasargod, Mangaluru was so far like a part of the district. But with the present roadblock by Karnataka authorities, the people have started feeling a separation. It was owing to the proximity and easy accessibility to Mangaluru that put the development needs of Kasargod in the backburner. But now the people are strongly feeling the need for making Kasargod self-sufficient. Commissioning of the medical college and Tata setting up a hospital are positive steps in this regard, he said. Meanwhile, activist Dr. Naresh Mulleriya of Kasargod said that Karnataka’s firm stand on restricting the entry of people from neighbouring Kasargod in order to contain COVID-19 has found support among many Kannadigas. Kerala’s moves against Karnataka was also seen as an attempt to divide the unity of Kannada speaking population, he alleged. Indian Medical Association (IMA) Mangaluru, Chairman Dr Annayya Kulal said that Kannadigas were well aware that Karnataka’s heart bleeds for them and emotionally they are with them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-mangaluru-roadblock-causes-mental-blow-for-kannadigas-in-kasargod-827797.html
20-04-2020||South||Kerala Congress leader, 5 others held for violating coronavirus lockdown||A Congress leader and five other party workers have been arrested for allegedly violating the lockdown protocol by arriving at the district Collector's office to submit a memorandum, police said on Monday. Bindhu Krishna, the Kollam district Congress Committee president, along with the five, was arrested while arriving a the Collector's office to submit a memorandum seeking intervention in matters related to non-resident Keralites.  "We arrested her and five others for violating the lockdown protocol," police said. As per the lockdown norms, a gathering of five or more persons have been banned. However, Krishna claimed that she and other party workers followed the lockdown guidelines and maintained social distancing while they went to submit the memorandum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-leader-5-others-held-for-violating-coronavirus-lockdown-827818.html
20-04-2020||South||Govt should give Rs 5,000 per month to daily wagers, arrange special trains/buses: Lok Sabha MP||Lok Sabha MP Kunwar Danish Ali on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting to provide Rs 5,000 per month to labourers and the needy who have been stranded due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak. He also requested the prime minister to arrange special buses and trains on government expenses to help the stranded labourers and daily wagers reach their destinations. A nationwide lockdown imposed by the Centre to curb the spread of coronavirus left many people stranded in various places of the country. A large number of them are daily wagers and labourers who have lost their livelihood, the parliamentarian said.  “Far away from their homes, the hapless citizens have no money, food and necessary means to survive. Sir, with each passing day, the people stranded in lockdown are getting restless. They are also worried about the members of their family living in the villages. The situation is getting frightening,” he said in the letter to the prime minister. Demanding special trains and buses for stranded laborers and daily wagers, the BSP MP from Amroha in Uttar Pradesh said if the central government can send special aircraft to other countries for the return of Indian citizens stuck there, it should also provide adequate transport facilities for those stranded within the country. “I urge you to tell the country that the government is for everyone, whether rich or poor, by arranging special trains. In the interest of common masses, I request you to take a decision on priority by arranging special buses, trains on government expenses helping them reach their destinations,” Ali requested Modi. He also put forward the demand of giving Rs 5,000 per month to the poor, labourers and daily wagers till the lockdown continues.  The BSP MP also requested that the MPs should be provided with some means of communication like the All India Radio to reach out to the people of their constituencies during the lockdown period. “And at least once a week, all Lok Sabha MPs must be provided the facility of video conferencing with the district-level officers,” the letter read. Ali also hoped that Modi will talk about the suggestions made by him in the upcoming ‘Mann ki Baat’ to be aired on April 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/govt-should-give-rs-5000-per-month-to-daily-wagers-arrange-special-trains/buses-lok-sabha-mp-827831.html
20-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 2 deaths, six new coronavirus cases||Karnataka reported two deaths and a mere six new cases, a drastic fall after three days of a surge in positive cases, on Sunday. A 50-year-old woman from Bantwal, Dakshina Kannada district, being treated for the virus died due to severe accurate respiratory infection (SARI) complications while a 65-year-old woman from Bengaluru also succumbed to SARI. Both of them had no history of travel. The woman hailing from Kabbinahithilu in Bantwal complained of breathlessness, and on visiting a private hospital for treatment was sent to Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru. After the woman was diagnosed with SARI, her throat swab was collected and sent for testing on Saturday. Even as doctors awaited the report, the woman breathed her last on Sunday morning, making it Dakshina Kannada’s first Covid-19 death. The final rites of the patient were carried out as per the medical protocol. According to sources, the victim’s son studying in Bengaluru had visited Dubai in the first week of February and had returned home on February 13.   New cases Meanwhile, out of the six new cases reported on Sunday, four are from Mysuru and Nanjangud pharma cluster, with one 30-year-old woman being a resident of Uppinangadi in Dakshina Kannada.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-2-deaths-six-new-coronavirus-cases-827505.html
20-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No relaxation, coronavirus lockdown to continue till May 3: Karnataka Cabinet||The Karnataka Cabinet on Monday decided that lockdown measures to contain the spread of COVID-19 will continue “as is” till May 3 with no relaxation whatsoever.  “The same situation will continue till May 3,” Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said, briefing reporters after the Cabinet meeting. “We’re awaiting fresh guidelines from the Centre and if any relaxation can be given, the chief minister and the task force will discuss in 3-4 days. But in principle, the lockdown will continue till May 3 and there will not be any relaxation for now,” he said.  The Cabinet decision supersedes Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s announcement on April 18 that some economic activities will be permitted after April 20, especially construction work and industries. “As far as agriculture and horticulture sectors are concerned, there is no restriction on procurement, marketing and transportation,” Madhuswamy said.    “The question before us was about the manufacturing sector and industries. Can we give relaxation in rural areas, urban areas or where there aren’t any cases? Since everything is linked - raw materials, transport, food etc - the entire state can’t be treated as one unit. So, be it MSMEs or manufacturing, we have decided not to allow anything for now, given the prevailing situation,” he explained.  The Cabinet resolved to mount pressure on the Union Ministry of Commerce & Industry on the need for Karnataka’s spices and coffee to be exported. “All markets have closed, so it was decided to raise this with the commerce department,” Madhuswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-relaxation-coronavirus-lockdown-to-continue-till-may-3-karnataka-cabinet-827621.html
20-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||People warned against sharing info about coronavirus victims, patients on social media in Karnataka||Dakshina Kannada police have warned of stringent legal action against people who share photos of the cornavirus victims in the district and other patients on social websites. District Superintendent of Police B M Laxmi Prasad in a release, warned the people that strict legal action will be taken against those who flout rules. Police have noted that the photo of the woman COVID-19 victim is being shared on social media. Providing any information about coronavirus-infected patients or victims publicly is a punishable offence, he said. The police are putting together information about the people who shared the photo and other information about the COVID-19 in the district and have initiated legal action. A 50-year old woman from Bantwal had died of Covid-19 at the Wenlock hospital here on Sunday. She is the first coronavirus victim in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/people-warned-against-sharing-info-about-coronavirus-victims-patients-on-social-media-in-karnataka-827643.html
20-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to promulgate ordinance to tackle coronavirus pandemic||Close on the heels of the Padarayanapura vandalism, the Karnataka Cabinet on Monday decided to promulgate an ordinance that gives the government special powers to enforce containment measures and also provide protection to frontline health workers.  The ordinance will be on the lines of what Kerala and Uttar Pradesh governments have promulgated, Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said, briefing reporters after the Cabinet meeting.  “Through the ordinance, a State Epidemic Act will be enacted to protect health workers and any non-cooperation will be punishable,” Madhuswamy said. “Also, any attempt to deliberately spread the disease or float rumours will attract action,” he added. The vandalism by a mob at Padarayanapura late on Sunday evening triggered the decision to promulgate an ordinance. A mob running amok vandalised police barricades to allegedly prevent authorities from quarantining suspected COVID-19 persons in the area. Earlier this month, an ASHA worker, while carrying out a surveillance work following a report of COVID-19 case, was allegedly manhandled by a group of 40-50 people in Sadiq Nagar of Saraipalya.   “This (ordinance) won’t need Presidential assent. We decided on the need for this after going through the ordinances passed by Kerala and Uttar Pradesh,” the law minister said.  For instance, the ordinance passed by Kerala prescribes a two-year imprisonment penalty with or without a fine of up to Rs 10,000. This seems more stringent when compared with the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-promulgate-ordinance-to-tackle-coronavirus-pandemic-827644.html
20-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sanjeevini Self Help Groups produce 10 lakh masks in Karnataka||Karnataka State Rural Livelihood Development Agency (KSRLDA), a government agency implementing the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) programme in Karnataka has produced around 10 lakh face masks made by 1,524 women of various Self Help Groups in 21 districts of the state.  Officials from the Department of Health and Family Welfare provided initial training for the production of three-layer face masks which are procured by them, other government departments and various private companies. Masks which are sold at reasonable rates provide added income to the women who produce these masks during their spare time. “Social distancing and wearing of face masks are the best ways to curb the spread of COVID-19. The rampant spread of the disease caused panic buying of face masks among the public leading to a huge shortage. Officials at Sanjeevini saw this as an opportunity for members of their Self Help groups, who were trained in tailoring. Today these Self Help Groups produce around 18,000 to 25,000 face masks every day. The Department of Health and Family Welfare supported Sanjeevini, as it was not only a way of making face masks available to everyone, including the poor at affordable costs but also provided employment to several women,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare, Karnataka.    This initiative comes at a crucial time, as the country is in the middle of lockdown 2.0, where it has been made mandatory for anyone stepping out of their homes, whether for authorised work or to procure essential items, to wear a face mask. “The Department of Health and Family Welfare, strongly advises citizens to continue using face-masks even after the lockdown is lifted, as we need to be aware that the virus is still prevalent in certain parts and could lead to a second wave if necessary precautions such as social distancing and wearing of face masks are not strictly followed,” said Jawaid Akthar, Additional Chief Secretary, Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sanjeevini-self-help-groups-produce-10-lakh-masks-in-karnataka-827772.html
20-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Andhra Pradesh people breach border into Pavagada to buy fish||Hundreds of people from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh thronged YN Hoskote hobli to buy fish on Monday. The fish were caught in the Nagalapura lake on the AP border. When the police learned of the crowding around the lakes and other water bodies, they went to those spots and resorted to a mild lathi-charge to disperse the crowds. It is reported that some youth and even a journalist was hurt in the caning.  Covid-19 cases have been confirmed barely 35 km from the Karnataka border in AP's Kalyanadurga. The news of Govindappa, a leader of Nagalapura village catching fish in the lake for sale, spread and people began crowding around lakes and ponds at midnight itself.  This led to arguments when a section of the locals told fishermen not to sell it to people from AP but to the people within the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/andhra-pradesh-people-breach-border-into-pavagada-to-buy-fish-827798.html
20-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Among southern states, COVID-19 cases doubling fastest in Karnataka||The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases were doubling in Karnataka every 9.2 days, which was still slower than the national average of 7.5 days as on Sunday, a senior health ministry official said. Nationwide, Gujarat with a doubling rate of 3.7 days was the worst affected state based on this parameter. The doubling rate was 5.3 days in Madhya Pradesh, 5.5 days in Uttar Pradesh and 6.7 days in Maharashtra. The doubling rate in Telangana was a tad slower than Karnataka at 9.4 days, followed by Andhra Pradesh (10.6 days), Tamil Nadu (14 days) and Kerala (72.2 days). “India’s COVID-19 doubling rate has improved to 7.5 days from 3.4 days before the lockdown,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry said at the daily briefing. In Goa, all the seven persons infected with COVID-19 have recovered and discharged from hospitals, he said adding that there were no active cases in the coastal state. He said eight states and a Union Territory – Delhi (8.5 days), Karnataka (9.2), Telangana (9.4), Andhra Pradesh (10.6), Jammu and Kashmir (11.5), Punjab (13.1), Chattisgarh (13.3), Tamil Nadu (14) and Bihar (16.4) have shown a doubling rate in less than 20 days. Andaman and Nicobar Island recorded a doubling rate of (20.1 days), Haryana (21), Himachal Pradesh (24.5), Chandigarh (25.4), Assam (25.8), Uttarakhand (26.6) and Ladakh (26.6). In Odisha, the rate of doubling is 39.8 days. Kerala was the best with a doubling rate of 72.2 days, indicative of the successful steps it had taken to arrest the spread of COVID-19. While the centre attributed the slowing of the doubling rate to the lock down, the real challenge would be on ensuring that the disease does not spread once the restrictions are eased after May 3. Aggarwal said the country recorded 1,553 additional cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 17,265 total cases 543 deaths. Thirty six more deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. On the brighter side, he said 2,546 people have recovered so far which translates to a recovery rate of 14.75%. Fifty nine districts have not reported any new cases in the last 14 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/among-southern-states-covid-19-cases-doubling-fastest-in-karnataka-827802.html
20-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SC recommends five judicial officers for elevation as Karnataka HC judges||The Supreme Court Collegium on Monday recommended for the elevation of five judicial officers as judges of the Karnataka High Court. In a resolution, the Collegium headed by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde recommended the names of  Shivashankar Amarannavar, Smt M Ganeshaiah Uma, Vedavyasachar Srishananda, Hanchate Sanjeevkumar, and Padmaraj Nemachandra Desai for elevation to the Karnataka High Court. In other decisions, the Collegium also recommended names of advocates Boppudi Krishna Mohan, K Suresh Reddy, and Ms K Lalitha Kumari alias Lalitha for elevation as judges of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. It also sent the name of advocate B Vijaysen Reddy, for appointment as the judge of the Telangana High Court. In another resolution, the Collegium recommended for making permanent three additional judges, Justices Bibek Chaudhuri, Subhasis Dasgupta, and Smt Suvra Ghosh of the Calcutta High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-recommends-five-judicial-officers-for-elevation-as-karnataka-hc-judges-827811.html
20-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'No need to panic over Covid-19'||“Don’t get panic by the rising Covid-19 cases in the district. Follow guidelines, stay with confidence in the safety of your home,” said District Surveillance Officer Dr S Chidambara. The DH-PV phone-in programme on Monday was flooded with calls with many from the city and rural areas seeking clarification on the pandemic, with a lot of hope that everything will be normal soon. Dr Chidambara explained that personal hygiene and following social distance will help to check Covid-19 from spreading. To a query, Chidambara said, “There is no need for everybody to undergo Covid-19 test. But, it may be required in future if the pandemic does not come under control.” Fever, cough and cold need not be the symptoms of Covid-19. However, those suffering from dry cough, high fever and breathing problems may get tested at fever clinics, he advised. The programme was flooded with calls from those suffering from cough, cold and fever, senior citizens, lactating mothers and others, with a lot of doubts. However, Dr Chidambara cleared their doubts and instilled confidence among them during the one-hour programme. Dr Chidambara appealed to the public to extend cooperation, by following timely orders issued by the Health department and the government. Besides, taking preventive measures would help in controlling coronavirus, he said.  The callers wanted to know how to improve immunity of the body, to fight the virus. Is it possible to control it with nature and home remedies and whether it has reached the community spread level. Commenting on home medicines, the doctor said, taking nature medicines is a personal choice. But, there is no scientific evidence, that it would prevent virus attack. Most of the diseases spread by food and water. Hence, it is important to give importance to cleanliness and hygiene. Fruits and vegetables should be washed with salt water and used for cooking, he suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-need-to-panic-over-covid-19-827849.html
20-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: No let up in Vijayapura, Kalaburagi as infections mount||The Covid-19 cases continued to surge in Vijayapura and Kalaburagi. On Monday, Chapparband Galli of Vijayapura city reported 11 new cases of virus while Kalaburagi city saw five test positive for novel coronavirus. The rapid spurt in Covid-19 cases in Vijayapura has taken its total count to 32, including two deaths. All but one case were reported from Chapparband Galli under Gol Gumbaz police station. A total of seven people, including three kids and as many women, all contacts of Patient 221 (a 60-year-old woman) tested positive for virus on Monday. According to district health authorities, a 7-year-old girl, two boys aged 10 and 14, a 36-year-old man, and three women in the age-group of 25 years to 38 years, have acquired infection from Patient 221 - the first Covid-19 case reported in Vijayapura. Two women, aged 21 and 47, and a 28-year-old man, all primary contacts of Patient 362, tested positive for novel coronavirus. A 34 year-old-woman also contracted virus from Patient 228, the sources said. On the bright side, all 30 (active cases) patients are healthy. Meanwhile, there’s no let-up in Covid-19 cases in Kalaburagi city, which reported five new cases on Monday. With this, the district’s tally went up to 27, including three fatalities. A 13-year-old boy, an 18-year-old youth and a 30-year-old-woman from Mominpur area contracted the virus from the 55-year-old cloth merchant, who died while undergoing treatment, recently. All three are the kin of the deceased.  This apart, a 50-year-old man tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. He was a contact of a 65-year-old man who died due to Covid-19. Throat swab sample of a teenage boy returned positive. The source of his infection is the 57-year-old man who is undergoing treatment for the Covid-19. All patients are being treated at ESIC Hospital in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-no-let-up-in-vijayapura-kalaburagi-as-infections-mount-827866.html
20-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa faces flak from within BJP on policy u-turns||Back-to-back rollbacks of policy announcements, internal contradictions and the palpable absence of coordination have put Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in a spot, with his own partymen picking holes in the goings-on of the administration during this fight against Covid-19. On Monday, the Cabinet decided to extend the lockdown till May 3 with no relaxation for the time being. This was a complete rescinding of Yediyurappa's announcement on April 18 that the government will allow some economic activities - construction work and industries, particularly - after April 20.  On April 18 itself, Yediyurappa had to roll back his announcement of permitting two-wheelers to ply outside Covid-19 containment zones and allowing 33% of IT/BT employees to work from office.  "The CM was clearly misled and we really don't know who is advising him," a party insider observed. When the coronavirus started peaking, Yediyurappa had to deal with two of his ministers - Health Minister B Sriramulu and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar - locking horns in what many saw as a one-upmanship contest. The chief minister had to intervene and divide their responsibilities, besides appointing Education Minister S Suresh Kumar as the Covid-19 spokesperson.  Last week, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, also the IT/BT minister, assured the sector that 50% employees will be permitted to work from office after April 20, even as Yediyurappa maintained that a decision on this will depend on the Covid-19 situation.  According to a BJP MP, Yediyurappa is stretching himself at the age of 78 during the pandemic. "What's missing is a unified chain of command," the MP said, requesting anonymity. "Also, there are 2-3 bureaucrats who are vetoing many policy decisions."  A minister in Yediyurappa's Cabinet summed it up thus: "A person should listen to everyone and then apply his mind before taking decisions. You shouldn't announce something by listening to one person and then change it after listening to another person. In all this, the government gets the bad rap."  Yediyurappa has also been criticized for not being able to rein in his legislators from making 'communal. statements, despite publicly chiding such attempts.  Politically, Yediyurappa has been kept on the edge by a section of BJP leaders, accusing him of not taking them into confidence. They have also expressed dismay about the alleged interference of Yediyurappa's son B Y Vijayendra in the administration, lodging a complaint with the BJP central leadership as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-chief-minister-b-s-yediyurappa-faces-flak-from-within-bjp-on-policy-u-turns-827879.html
20-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||99 cases in state in the 30-40 age group: Minister S Suresh Kumar||Ninety-nine cases in Karnataka are in the age group of 30-40, said Minister S Suresh Kumar, in-charge of daily Covid-19 media briefings.  Karnataka saw a double-digit rise on Monday as the state saw 18 new cases taking the total tally to 408.  As many as 112 patients have been discharged till now and there have been 16 deaths. Out of 18, 11 are from Vijayapura, five from Gulbarga, one each from Bidar and Gadag.  "Out of 408 cases, 99 are in the age group of 30-40 years, 96 in 20-30 years, 56 in 40-50 years, 48 in 60-70 years, 44 in 50-60 years, and 32 in 10-20 years. Our fatality rate is high only because 80% of the 16 deaths are above 60 years of age. In fact, 11 of them had a severe acute respiratory illness (SARI)," Kumar said. "So far, there are 10 Covid-free districts in Karnataka: Chamrajanagar, Chikkaballapur, Hassan, Haveri, Kolar, Koppal, Raichur, Shivamogga, Yadgir and Ramanagara. Also, in the past 32 days, Kodagu has remained virus-free. Chitradurga has remained free of the virus for 26 days, Davanagere (25 days), and Udupi (22 days)," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/99-cases-in-state-in-the-30-40-age-group-minister-s-suresh-kumar-827881.html
20-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's doubling rate of infections worst in south India||Karnataka has the worst doubling rate in south India even as confirmed cases of Covid-19 registered a two-fold growth at a slower rate during the lockdown, compared with the period when there were no restrictions. The number of confirmed Covid-19 cases were doubling in Karnataka every 9.2 days, which was still lower than the national average of 7.5 days as on Sunday, a senior health ministry official said. Nationwide, Gujarat with a doubling rate of 3.7 days was the worst-affected state based on this parameter. The doubling rate was 5.3 days in Madhya Pradesh, 5.5 days in Uttar Pradesh and 6.7 days in Maharashtra. Kerala was the best with a doubling rate of 72.2 days, indicative of the successful steps it had taken to arrest the spread of Covid-19. The doubling rate in Telangana was a tad slower than Karnataka at 9.4 days, followed by Andhra Pradesh (10.6 days) and Tamil Nadu (14 days).  “India’s Covid-19 doubling rate has improved to 7.5 days from 3.4 days before the lockdown,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, said at the daily briefing. In Goa, all the seven persons infected with Covid-19 have recovered and discharged from hospitals, he said adding that there were no active cases in the coastal state. While the Centre attributed the slowing of the doubling rate to the lockdown, the real challenge would be on ensuring that the disease does not spread once the restrictions are eased after May 3. Aggarwal said the country recorded 1,553 additional cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 17,265 total cases, including 543 deaths. Thirty six more deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.  On the bright side, he said 2,546 people have been cured, so far, which translates to a recovery rate of 14.75%. Fifty nine districts have not reported any new cases in the last 14 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-doubling-rate-of-infections-worst-in-south-india-827902.html
20-04-2020||West||Palghar mob lynching: Culprits will be brought to justice, says CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday night said that culprits involved in lynching of three men in Palghar district will be brought to justice. "The Palghar incident has been acted upon. The police has arrested all those accused who attacked the 2 sadhus, 1 driver and the police personnel, on the day of the crime itself. "Nobody guilty in this heinous crime and shameful act will be spared and they will be brought to justice in the strongest way possible," the CM said in late night tweets posted from Twitter handle @CMOMaharashtra. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has already announced a high-level inquiry into the incident. The incident occurred on April 16 night when three men from Kandivali in Mumbai were headed towards Surat in a car to attend a funeral. Their vehicle was stopped near a village in Palghar district. The trio were dragged out of their car and beaten to death with sticks by a mob on suspicion that they were thieves. The deceased were identified as Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri (70), Sushilgiri Maharaj (35), and their car driver Nilesh Telgade (30).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-mob-lynching-culprits-will-be-brought-to-justice-says-cm-uddhav-thackeray-827536.html
20-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Mumbai's Ramzan evenings will not be the same this year for foodies||For foodies, the Mohammed Ali Road, Nagpada Junction, Bhendi Bazaar, Minara Masjid, Bohri Mohalla and Dongri are places of delight! During the holy month of Ramzan, the attraction increases further  - when in the evenings, the area dazzles with lights and the aroma of food – both vegetarian and non-vegetarian, and a variety of desserts. The eateries on this street prepare food so delicious that even non-Muslims eagerly wait for the fest all year long. Be it the tandoor items, faluda or firnis, the food items are really delicious.  South Mumbai has a rich history of these stalls with who’s who frequenting these places. There is something more than food here. “It was a happening place and it is a happening place,” says Aejaz Ahmed Ansari, a veteran journalist and commentator.  “What makes the place interesting is that it suits everybody’s pocket,” he adds.The kebabs of Sarvi Hotel at Nagpada, the nalli-nihari of Noor Mohammadi Hotel, the kormas and bheja-fry at Shalimar, the biryani of Zaffar Bhai's Delhi Durbar and seek-kababs of Al-Madina Fast Food, have been attracting Mumbaikars for long.  "Mumbai will miss the charm of Ramzan," says veteran writer and political analyst Prakash Akolkar,  who visits these food joints during Ramzan.Saadat Hasan Manto, Kaifi Azmi, Jan Nisan Akhtar,  Salil Chowdhury and M F Hussain loved this area with its food stalls. Khalid Hakim, run by Noor Mohammadi, also happens to be one of the favourite joints for Bollywood actor Sanjay Dutt. Here you can order a Chicken Sanju Baba as you gaze at an MF Hussain original that the legendary painter had done for Hakim’s father. Besides Noor Mohammadi, some of the other places people love are – Al Rehmani Restaurant for seek paratha and chicken fry, Zayka for tangdi kabab, JJ Jalebi for jalebi and malpua, gulab jamuns. There are several bakeries and sweet shops in the area and the sweet aroma is tempting for the “aam aadmi” and the “hi-fi aadmi”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-mumbais-ramzan-evenings-will-not-be-the-same-this-year-for-foodies-827565.html
20-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Pune, Pimpri declared containment zones in Maharashtra||The order was issued on Sunday night and would be in force for a week, April 20 to 27.  Since Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) are densely-populated, combating COVID-19 is a big challenge.  There are 546 positive cases and 49 deaths in PMC jurisdiction while the same is 48 and 1, respectively, in the PCMC area.   Maharashtra's first COVID-19 case was detected in Pune.  Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who is the Guardian Minister of Pune district, ordered the complete PMC-PCMC lockdown. Pawar has also ruled out any sort of relaxation in the lockdown in these two cities of Pune.  In Maharashtra and in India, the Mumbai-Pune belt is the worst-affected region. In fact, large parts of Mumbai and the Mumbai metropolitan region, too have several containment zones.   At a meeting, Pawar has asked Pune's Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar,  Pune Collector Naval Kishore Ram, PMC Commissioner  Shekhar Gaikwad and his PCMC counterpart Shravan Hardikar, to enforce the lockdown strictly. It may be recalled that in 2009, during the Swine Flu outbreak, the first death was reported in Pune. It also reported the maximum number of cases in India.  The PMC is spread over 331 sq km and PCMC, 182 sq km. The PMC and PCMC plus three Cantonment boards comprise the Pune Metropolitan Region spread over 7,000 sq km and is home to 70 lakh people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-pune-pimpri-declared-containment-zones-in-maharashtra-827576.html
20-04-2020||West||Palghar lynching: Culprits will be brought to justice, says CM Uddhav Thackrey||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said stern action will be taken against those involved in the lynching of three men in Palghar district. The state government has ordered a high-level inquiry into the incident that took place on April 16. "The Palghar incident has been acted upon. The police has arrested all those accused who attacked the 2 sadhus, 1 driver and the police personnel, on the day of the crime itself," Thackeray tweeted late Sunday night. "Nobody guilty in this heinous crime and shameful act will be spared and they will be brought to justice in the strongest way possible," he added. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said a high-level inquiry has been ordered into the incident. He warned against giving any communal colour to the incident, as two of the three deceased were believed to be seers. "Those who attacked and who died in the Palghar mob killings are not from different religions. I have ordered Maharashtra police and @MahaCyber1 to take action against anyone instigating communal hatred in the society or on social media," Deshmukh said in a tweet on Sunday. "Police have detained 101 people involved into the killing of three Surat bound people in Palghar. I have also ordered high level inquiry into this killings," he said. Deshmukh said police are keeping a close eye on those who wanted to use the incident to create a rift in society.  The incident took place on April 16 night when three men from Kandivali in Mumbai were going in a car towards Surat in Gujarat to attend a funeral. Their vehicle was stopped near a village in Palghar. The three were dragged out of their car and beaten to death with sticks by a mob on suspicion that they were thieves. The deceased were identified as Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri (70), Sushilgiri Maharaj (35), and their car driver Nilesh Telgade (30).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-lynching-culprits-will-be-brought-to-justice-says-cm-uddhav-thackrey-827620.html
20-04-2020||West||Home Minister Amit Shah speaks to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray on Palghar lynching||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday spoke to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to enquire about the lynching of three people in the state's Palghar area, officials said. During the telephonic conversation, Thackeray apprised the home minister about the incidents and the steps taken to nab those involved in the incident, they said. On April 16 night, three Mumbai residents, who were on their way to Silvassa, were lynched by local residents in Gadakchinchale village of Palghar district on the suspicion that they were thieves. Reports said more than 100 people, including a few minors, were detained by police for their alleged involvement in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/home-minister-amit-shah-speaks-to-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-on-palghar-lynching-827628.html
20-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Over 50 mediapersons test positive in Maharashtra||The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had conducted a camp last week, during which swabs were collected.  The Television Journalists Association (TVJA) had made a request to organise the camp for the mediapersons working in the field on a daily basis. The camp was held on Thursday and Friday and swabs of 171 mediapersons including photographers, TV camerapersons, videojournalists and reporters were collected. On Monday, the reports came in and so far 53 of them tested COVID-19 positive. "Yes, the information that we received from BMC is that 53 of those who attended the camp were found COVID-19 positive," TVJA president Vinod Jagdale told DH. The BMC called all of them individually to immediately be under home quarantine. They would be shifted to institutional quarantine. Most of them are asymptomatic, however, still the BMC is not taking any chances and they would be put on institutional quarantine.Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar has put her in self isolation for 14 days. She took this decision after some of journalists with whom she came in contact in last few days tested positive for COVID-19. In a related development, two staff members of BMC's disaster control room had been tested positive. In fact,  around a fortnight ago, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Health Minister Rajesh Tope had visited the control room, separately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-over-50-mediapersons-test-positive-in-maharashtra-827637.html
20-04-2020||West||Maharashtra govt orders CID probe into Palghar mob lynching case||The Maharashtra government on Monday ordered a probe by State-CID into last week's mob lynching case in Palghar district in which two sadhus and a driver were brutally killed. So far, the police has arrested 110 persons including nine juveniles. "No one will be spared," Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said. The CID probe was announced hours after Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Thackeray over phone. Thackeray said that was also necessary to find out the people who are creating communal tension on social media. "I requested Union Home Minister Amit Shah . We will also find them out and take action against them," said Thackeray. The victims were identified as Chikne Maharaj Kalpvirkshagiri (70) Sushilgiri Maharaj (30), both from Shree Panch Dashnam Juna Akhada, and driver Nilesh Telwade (30). The Varanasi-based Juna Akhada is the highest order of saints in India. "Investigation is handed over to CID. Inspector General of Konkan range is directed to enquire into police action. Two police officers are suspended," the Maharashtra police tweeted. A huge mob of 150-plus, in the Gadchinchale village in the Palghar district, nearly 120 kms off downtown Mumbai, attacked the vehicle in which the victims were travelling form Nashik to Surat,  on Thursday night,  suspecting them to be thieves. Some policemen too were injured. The Kasa police station has registered a case on Friday and oiln Saturday carried out the arrests. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath called up Thackeray and demanded action against the culprits. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that seeing the visuals that have come out, Palghar incident of mob lynching is shocking and inhuman. "It is more disturbing especially when we are going through such tough times otherwise too". Mumbai BJP General Secretary Amarjeet Mishra said that while the attack was taking place, police remained a mute spectator. "The government must go to the roots. The insensitive policemen must be dismissed," he said. Meanwhile, Vishva Hindu Parishad, Secretary General Milind Parande said that that this ambush seems to be part of a deeper conspiracy, because many times in the past, there have been incidents of brutal violence inspired by "Leftists" in this area. "So the killers and their accomplices should be punished at the earliest after a high level investigation into their involvement in this brutal incident," he said. "Activities of Leftists have been going on in Palghar these days on a high pitch. They also have a long history of killing Hindu leaders. Mob lynchings are part of the Left's own action plan. The country has not forgotten the heinous murder of Swami Lakshmananand ji Maharaj," he said. Meanwhile, CPI(M) central committee member and AKIS President Ashok Dhawale tweeted: "Sambit Patra and Sunil Deodhar are not only communalising, but spreading downright lies. The Sarpanch of the Gadachinchle village where the mob lynching took place belongs to the BJP, her name is Chitra Choudhari. Many BJP men have been arrested for killing these sadhus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-orders-cid-probe-into-palghar-mob-lynching-case-827642.html
20-04-2020||West||Who's stopping Guv from nominating Thackeray as MLC? asks Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday sought to know who was stopping Maharashtra Governor B K Koshyari from approving the state Cabinet's recommendation to nominate Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray as MLC from the governor's quota. Raut said Koshyari's affiliation with the BJP is not a secret, but this is not the time to indulge in politics. Thackeray is not a member of either of the two Houses of the state legislature. He was sworn in as chief minister on November 28 last year and completes six months in office on May 28. As per the Constitution, a minister or a chief minister who is not a member of either of the houses has to be elected to either of the Houses within six months of being sworn in to the post, failing which the person must resign. Raut expressed confidence that Thackeray will remain chief minister of the state even after May 27. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar recently held a Cabinet meeting which suggested Thackeray's name as a governor-nominated member of the Legislative Council (MLC). "The Maharashtra Cabinet has recommended Uddhav Thackeray's name as a member of the Legislative Council from the governor's quota. There is a vacancy as well. Then who is stopping him (Koshyari) from approving the recommendation? Raut wondered while speaking to a Marathi news channel. Raut in a tweet on Sunday referred to Ram Lal, who served as Governor of Andhra Pradesh from August 15, 1983 to August 29, 1984. Lal courted controversy after he appointed that state's finance minister N Baskar Rao as Chief Minister, while the incumbent CM N T Rama Rao was away in the US for surgery. This change was supposedly done at the behest of then Congress leadership, even when Baskar Rao had no more than 20 per cent of MLAs supporting him. NTR returned to the state after a week and launched a massive campaign against Ram Lal. Asked why he recalled the reference, Raut said, I do not wish repetition of that incident in Maharashtra. I am of the opinion that this is not the time for politics. The Centre and the state should not fight with each other." "Those who indulge in politics are anti-nationals. They should face sedition charges. I dare those trying to dethrone the Uddhav Thackeray government that they should desist from doing so," he said. Neither Delhi nor the Raj Bhavan in Maharashtra can stop Thackeray from staying chief minister of Maharashtra even after May 27, the Sena leader said. "There is nothing to hide about Koshyari's BJP affiliation. But, I would like to make one thing clear that Uddhav Thackeray is going to be the chief minister of Maharashtra even after May 27," he said. The Shiv Sena parted ways with long-term ally BJP after the state Assembly elections last year over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post. Shiv Sena president Thackeray later joined hands with the NCP and Congress to form the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government. Raut said he and NCP president Sharad Pawar had earlier raised the issue of Koshyari "running a parallel government" in the state and at times giving instructions to senior state officials which are "contrary" to the decision of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. "I raised the issue during the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi a couple of weeks back. NCP chief Sharad Pawar also endorsed my views. It is a serious matter that the governor Koshyari communicates with several senior IAS officials without any consultation with state Cabinet, Raut said. The Raj Bhavan has been the epicentre of politics in the state. He (Koshyari) was a BJP chief minister and before taking political plunge, he was an RSS pracharak. But it is a time when we want to see him firmly standing behind the chief minister," he said. Meanwhile, BJP MLA and former state minister Ashish Shelar countered Raut over his aggressive stand, saying Koshyari will take a decision at an appropriate time. "This is not the time to pressurise the governor for their own gain. The governor will take a decision at the right time. There is no need to get restless over it," Shelar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/whos-stopping-guv-from-nominating-thackeray-as-mlc-asks-shiv-sena-leader-sanjay-raut-827653.html
20-04-2020||West||Palghar lynching: Two cops suspended for negligence in duty||Two policemen were suspended on Monday for alleged dereliction of duty in the wake of lynching of three men in Maharashtra's Palghar district, an official said. The incident took place on April 16 when the three men from Kandivali in Mumbai were going in a car towards Surat in Gujarat to attend a funeral. Their vehicle was stopped near a village in Palghar. The three were dragged out of their car and beaten to death with sticks by a mob on suspicion that they were thieves. Palghar Collector Dr Kailas Shinde earlier said the role of police on the day of the incident was being probed, and it was also being examined how the three men travelled from Mumbai during the lockdown. Following the probe, Palghar Superintendent of Police Gaurav Singh ordered the suspension of Kasa police station's assistant police inspector Anandrao Kale and sub-inspector Sudhir Katare for alleged dereliction of duty, a police source said. The Kasa police have registered three FIRs in connection with the incident and arrested 101 people, who have been remanded in police custody till April 30, a police spokesperson said. Nine juveniles have also been taken into custody and sent to a remand home at Bhiwandi in neighbouring Thane district, he said. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said stern action will be taken against those involved in the lynching of the three men. The state government has ordered a high-level inquiry into the incident. The deceased were identified as Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri (70), Sushilgiri Maharaj (35), and their car driver Nilesh Telgade (30).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-lynching-two-cops-suspended-for-negligence-in-duty-827664.html
20-04-2020||West||COVID-19: 57 fresh cases, 2 more deaths reported in Rajasthan||Two more persons died of coronavirus in Rajasthan while 57 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported on Monday, officials said. Twenty-five deaths due to the virus have been reported in the state so far, with Jaipur accounting for 13 of the total deaths. "A 62-year-old Nagaur district resident died on Sunday night at SMS Hospital here. He was admitted on April 18 and was suffering from hypertension. Another death was reported in Kota," Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said.  Singh said of the 57 fresh cases, 43 were reported from Jaipur, six from Jodhpur, three from Kota, two from Jhunjhunu and one each from Banswara, Nagaur and Ajmer. A total of 1,535 cases of the virus have been reported in the state so far. He said so far 302 patients have tested negative for the infection and after treatment, 97 have been discharged from hospitals. The total number of COVID-19 cases includes two Italian citizens and 60 people evacuated from Iran. They are in Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is under way to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-57-fresh-cases-2-more-deaths-reported-in-rajasthan-827686.html
20-04-2020||West||COVID-19 cases reach 1,168 in Ahmedabad city, deaths rise to 34||The number of coronavirus cases in Ahmedabad city rose to 1,168 on Monday after 91 more people tested positive for the infection, an official said. Three more COVID-19 patients died, taking the death toll in the city to 34, Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra said. He said the sudden rise in number of coronavirus cases was due to aggressive testing through active surveillance.  Out of 91 fresh cases, 61 were reported from the city's central zone, 13 from south zone, he said. Nehra said 14,503 samples have so far been tested in the city, out of which 12,675 have been tested as part of the active surveillance drive. Five more patients have been discharged, taking the number of those who recovered in the city rose to 35, he said, adding that the number of such people will increase from April 23-24 after most of them will complete their 14-day treatment. The city health teams also conducted 264 tests using rapid testing kits, out of which the antibody tests of eight came out positive, the official said. "We managed around 6,000 people who came to Ahmedabad from abroad last month till March 22 to contain any spread of coronavirus from them. Some people came from other states, including Indore, and several people came from Nizamuddin (Tablighi Jamaat event) in Delhi, which caused the spread of infection," Nehra said. Most of the these infections spread in east Ahmedabad, especially in the walled city areas, where the civic body is carrying out intensive surveillance and aggressive testing to fight the coronavirus.  "Our strategy is to detect, isolate and treat the patiets. The sudden spike in the number of cases is because we are able to find more number of cases through active surveillance. We have found more than 900 cases proactively," the civic commissioner said, and urged people to continue to follow the rules even after the lockdown is lifted. He said the civic body is also trying to find "super spreaders" of coronavirus. "A super spreader could be a shop owner, sanitation workers, vegetable vendor, water collector, who come in contact with several persons. Such a person can spread the disease to more number of people. We have taken up a campaign for screening, testing, and infection management of such super spreaders," he said. Three private hospitals have also been allowed to treat coronavirus patients, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-reach-1168-in-ahmedabad-city-deaths-rise-to-34-827738.html
20-04-2020||West||Most of the accused in Palghar lynching are BJP members: Congress||The ruling Congress in Maharashtra on Monday alleged that majority of the people arrested for the last week's mob lynching incident in Palghar district were members of the BJP. State Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant also accused the BJP of playing "communal politics" to derive political mileage from the incident in which three people, including two seers, were killed by a mob apparently on suspicion of being thieves or child-lifters. The saffron party has refuted the charge and reiterated its demand to probe the role of the police in the incident.  "The village Divashi Gadchinchale is known as BJP bastion for the last ten years including the post of village head. The current head is also from BJP. Most of the people arrested in the lynching incident are from BJP (sic)," Sawant tweeted. He also mentioned certain rumours of communal nature, saying a thorough probe is necessary into their circulation and connection to the lynching incident, if any. "Who is behind such rumours that is turning people violent. It should be investigated. The BJP should be ashamed of its dirty politics of communalising the issue. The party that failed to stop similar incidents in last five years is now politicising the issueis a serious thing (sic)," he said in another tweet. In the wake of the incident, several BJP leaders slammed the Shiv Sena-led coalition government--also comprising the Congress and the NCP--for the "administrative" failure to protect the Hindu seers. However, Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Council Pravin Darekar refuted the charges raised by Sawant. "Going by the people and their political affiliations, a zilla parishad member of Congress is also seen in the video footage available of the attack on the seers and their driver. "So, should we say that the party (Congress) is behind the attack? We are talking about the failure of the police and home department, and not communalising it," he stated. The incident took place on the night of April 16 when three men from Kandivali in Mumbai were going in a car towards Surat in Gujarat to attend a funeral.  Their vehicle was stopped near a village in Palghar district. The three were dragged out of their car and beaten to death with sticks by a mob on suspicion that they were thieves. The deceased were identified as Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri (70), Sushilgiri Maharaj (35), and their car driver Nilesh Telgade (30). Earlier on Monday, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray urged Union Home Minister Amit Shah to take action against those giving communal colour to the lynching incident. The state government has already ordered a high-level inquiry into the incident. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had warned against giving any communal colour to the incident, as two of the three deceased were believed to be seers. Palghar Police had arrested 101 people in connection with the lynching incident. Two policemen were suspended on Monday for alleged dereliction of duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/most-of-the-accused-in-palghar-lynching-are-bjp-members-congress-827761.html
20-04-2020||West||As Goa declared COVID-free; health experts urge more testing||As of now, Goa has tested 826 samples (780 reports received) out of which seven people, six of them with a history of recent foreign travel, tested positive.   On Monday, even as Lav Aggarwal joint secretary, Union Health Ministry formally declared Goa as "COVID-free", former president of the Goa chapter of the Indian Medical Association Dr Shekhar Salkar insisted that high-risk groups such as frontline medical professionals, policemen, media persons, grocery store owners, etc, should be tested at random to really gauge the extent of the spread of COVID-19 in the state. "The extent of spread can be gauged by the testing of professional groups who are on the frontline. They represent a high-risk group. If say a sample of 1,000 people from these groups tests negative, then we would have a better idea, about how well we have managed to control the spread," Salkar told Deccan Herald. The Opposition has already urged the government against rushing to declare the state 'COVID-free', demanding that the state government conduct extensive testing before coming to the conclusion or at least adopt a scientific method to confidently say that Goa is free from COVID-19. "Testing is the only effective way to determine whether Goa is really in a safe zone. We urge the government to take steps to expedite community testing and build up facilities to quarantine likely suspects who may emerge from community testing," state Congress president Girish Chodankar said on Monday. "I believe the government can only declare Goa COVID-19 free, when they have done enough testing as per the scientific standards mandated and acceptable to experts," another opposition MLA Vijai Sardesai said. Incidentally, two persons admitted to a state health ministry-run quarantine facility near Panaji with COVID-19 like symptoms have died, but health authorities have clarified that deaths were caused due to other health complications and both had tested negative for COVID-19. While Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and Vishwajit Rane have praised frontline workers in the COVID-19 hospital and official quarantine facilities for bringing the coronavirus numbers in Goa to zero, both have advocated a cautious approach for the coming days. The Health Minister has also hinted at increasing the scope of testing. "While we currently do not have any active cases in the state, it is our responsibility to keep in mind the importance of the lockdown, maintain social distancing, increase the scope of testing and adhere to norms and guidelines issued by the central and state governments," Rane said. Goa's status as a COVID-free state in the near future is also likely to be tested by two factors; the arrival of more than 8,000 sailors who are currently stranded in different ports across the world, as well as a recent spike in cases in Karnataka's Belgavi district, which is the nearest wholesale market for vegetables, fruits, food grains, milk, etc for Goan traders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/as-goa-declared-covid-free-health-experts-urge-more-testing-827837.html
20-04-2020||West||Gujarat govt allows three private hospitals to admit, treat COVID-19 patients||By Monday evening, total cases in the state stood at 1,939 while number of casualties was 71. Ahmedabad alone accounted for 1,248 cases and 38 deaths. Health officials said that Ahmedabad city is the second worst affected city in the country after Mumbai. On April 17, the total cases in Ahmedabad was 862 which shot up to 1248 on Monday. The rising numbers have compelled the state government to rope in private hospitals and allow individuals who want to get themselves treated in these hospitals on their own expense. On Monday, principal secretary, Jayanti Ravi announced that three hospitals in Ahmedabad, HCG, Sterling Hospital, and Narayana Multispecialty Hospital have been given permission to admit COVID-19 patients. So far, government has been treating the patients free of cost. According to Ravi, the rise in number of cases is mainly due to extensive testing in hotspot parts of the city, mostly densely populated walled city areas. She said, "1173 of Ahmedabad municipal limit, 912 cases have been detected in central zone and south zone which fall under walled city area." In the past 24 hours, Gujarat tested a record 4,212 samples (3000 in Ahmedabad alone) out of which 196 were positive. Till Monday evening, the state tested a total of 33,316 samples. Earlier in the day, Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra said in his new briefing that with over 3000 tests per day, Ahmedabad is the highest city in the country and only behind the European and US cities in number of testings. He said that instead of waiting for patients to come to hospital, aggressive testings and surveillance have detected these cases which after a couple of weeks could have infected lakhs of people. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Monday deputed eight senior IAS officers posted in state capital Gandhinagar to oversee the fight against the lethal virus. In the move, additional chief secretary (ACS) Mukesh Puri, urban development, has been given the task of supervising all medical services at Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation run Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel (SVP) hospital, while secretary of finance, Milind Torwane will be supervising dedicated 1,200 bed special COVID-19 hospital run by Asarwa civil hospital in Ahmedabad. Tribal development commissioner Dilip Rana has been assigned to coordinate COVID-19 Care Centre at Samras hostel in Ahmedabad where, officials said, asymptomatic patients, will be shifted from the civil and SVP hospitals leaving the beds for serious patients. Additional Chief Secretary, agriculture, Poonamchandra Parmar will be coordinating and supervising patients who are critical and on ventilators. Woman and child welfare department’s Manisha Chandra has been ordered to supervise surveillance and tracking of cases across the state.  Jenu Devan, managing director, Tourism Corporation of Gujarat Ltd, has been asked to check supply of food and essentials in Surat where migrant workers have been clashing with the police. ACS, Panchayats, rural housing and rural department, A K Rakesh will be monitoring situation in Ahmedabad rural areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-allows-three-private-hospitals-to-admit-treat-covid-19-patients-827841.html
20-04-2020||West||Lockdown: Mumbai cop hangs self, family stranded in Sangli||A 27-year-old woman constable allegedly committed suicide on Monday afternoon in the SRPF Camp in Goregaon in the metropolis and her family in Sangli claimed they were unable to secure permission to come here amid the lockdown for the coronavirus outbreak. Surekha Berde, attached to Andheri railway police, was found hanging in her flat by her husband Pramod, said police. Her brother Arjun Vivek said, "We were informed about the death at 4 pm. We tried to get online passes to travel from Sangli to Mumbai but we have not managed to get them. Even the local police station is not being able to help us." Senior Inspector Gitendra Bhavsar of Vanrai police station said an accidental death report had been registered and probe into why she took this extreme step was underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-mumbai-cop-hangs-self-family-stranded-in-sangli-827859.html
