21-04-2020||Comment||The spectre of malnutrition||As always in any crisis, the hardest hit are the poor and the most vulnerable – in the case of India, they include first and foremost the migrant labourers, who suddenly find themselves homeless, wage-less and starving. Their desperation to reach their distant homes far outweighs any fear of death from invisible viruses, which have been a part of their lives for many years, coming as they do from some of the poorest states of India. For them, the fear of dying of destitution and starvation is more powerful than the fear of dying from coronavirus. Governments, district administrations and NGOs are putting in their best efforts through preventive, curative, regulatory, social and human interventions. A general strategy and emergency provisions are in place, and discussions regarding lockdown exit strategy have started. At this point, it would also be important for policymakers and their think-tanks to give attention to the expected deterioration in the nutritional/health situation, and acute food and nutrition insecurity of the poorest 20-25% of the population during the next 4-8 months, which is the likely lockdown duration, and to the gradual restoration of supply chains, livelihoods and production. The invisible virus will worsen the invisible scourge of malnutrition. Even before the lockdown, the dietary intake of this group was far below the Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) prescribed by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). Though governments have taken steps to provide food grain rations and emergency food handouts, the dietary gap between RDA and actual consumption among the poorest households is bound to widen due to the present livelihoods, cash and food trauma, and place vulnerable populations in a complete subsistence mode. Reports from the field say that poor rural families are presently subsisting on rice and wheat given under PDS, and some dal which they have stored from their own fields or as wages. There is no milk or any other food for children. The predictable outcomes of such a situation are that the incidence of wasting among children, which is already high, will increase immediately; stunting among children, which was showing signs of improvement over the last few years, will gradually deteriorate;  the Body Mass Index (BMI) of adolescent girls and boys, which is unacceptably low and remains an unaddressed issue, will worsen and severely impact the health and earning capacity of our youth, the demographic dividend that we so proudly boast about; the already high rates of anaemia across all age groups and both sexes will increase, and the general health of the adult population, the elderly and the sick will also deteriorate. Most worrisome is the expected increase in the percentage of infants born with low birth weight (LBW) during the course of the next year on account of poor pregnancy weight gain/foetal nutrition. LBW will curse another generation of children with malnutrition, morbidity or mortality, producing another generation of adults with lesser physical and cognitive potential. There is consensus among experts on these projections and that it is now time to prepare and put in place steps to prevent a surge in malnutrition, anaemia, and low birth weight babies in the near future, and its repercussions on our human resources and public health. An essential and proven intervention recommended in addition to the ongoing government initiatives of providing basic food grains to prevent starvation among the most vulnerable is to provide additional calories, protein and micronutrients in the form of fortified nutritious food, made from low-cost mixtures of millets, soya, green gram, peanuts, jaggery, etc. It should be introduced as an essential food in the open market or distributed free of cost to the neediest families. This is a simple, cost-effective and proven intervention to prevent macro and micronutrient deficiency among the most vulnerable and is endorsed in the National Nutrition Policy 1993 and earlier Five-Year Plans. There are several FSSAI-approved compositions of such fortified, blended foods for children, adolescents, women and adults already available. And presently, there is a complete absence of such low-cost foods in the market which the poor can afford, though all grocery stores are full of several new varieties of expensive energy foods and drinks. How can this be done in the immediate future? There are several energy food production units in the public and private sectors, or run by women’s groups, which can be requested to produce such low-cost, high-energy foods as ‘Essential Foods’. These could be made available to vulnerable families through the open market, or through free distribution, either by government under the COVID Emergency funds or through philanthropic agencies. Interestingly, there are several private sector units operating in India that produce such low-cost fortified, blended foods, but only for export and not for Indian markets! This intervention will almost immediately contain and mitigate the imminent upsurge in LBW babies, malnutrition and anaemia, the repercussions of which the nation will have to face soon. Since this is a complex inter-sectoral subject, it would be appropriate and timely for Niti Aayog to start consultations and provide advisories to the states, whose energies are presently focused on containing COVID-19. (The writer, a retired IAS officer, is an expert on development issues)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/the-spectre-of-malnutrition-828025.html
21-04-2020||Comment||Let not polio raise its head again||The Covid-19 pandemic has brought the nation to a standstill, along with its routine immunisation programmes and processes. The pandemic is imperilling the three-decades-long worldwide drive to wipe out polio. In an unprecedented move, the Global Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI) has recommended suspending the polio vaccination campaign to help stop the spread of the novel coronavirus. Since the launch of the GPEI in 1988, the annual number of polio cases worldwide had decreased by 99.99% -- from an estimated 350,000 cases in more than 125 countries to 74 cases in 2015. Until 2009, India reported a majority – some 70% -- of the global polio cases. India was officially declared polio-free in March 2014 by the World Health Organisation (WHO). That is, no cases of polio had been detected in the previous one year. And India has remained polio-free since then even as it has continued with its polio immunisation programme. However, due to the current Covid-19 exigency and the suspension of the ‘pulse polio’ drive, India may be at risk of a second wave of the polio epidemic as the immunisation process is on hold and because of the possibility of importation of the polio virus from neighbouring countries. Immunisation is a routine process for every child and is essential. Delay in administering a vaccine dose may impact the timeline of the subsequent doses, making the child vulnerable to a disease which it would be protected from if vaccinated on time. WHO has issued guidelines that subsequent vaccine doses have a limited permissible waiting period for interrupted or delayed immunisation. Having said that, we share our borders with Wild Polio Virus (WPV)-endemic countries (Pakistan and Afghanistan) whereby we face a dual-threat: preventing entry of WPV and stopping outbreaks due to vaccine-derived poliovirus (VDPV), and rare strains mutated from the live attenuated virus in Oral Polio Vaccine (OPV). Until all the children in the country are not vaccinated with polio vaccine, there continues to be a high threat to India’s polio-free status due to the risk of importation of WPV or VDPV. Due to the suspension of the drive, the virus will likely re-invade countries that are now polio-free. India has been polio free for eight years now, and if we are not ready with an intensified immunisation programme post-Covid-19 pandemic, we may have another epidemic to deal with, amidst other health exigencies. As per the latest vaccination guidelines by the Indian Academy of Pediatrics, children should get four doses of Injectable Polio Vaccine (IPV) at the stages of 6, 10, 14 weeks and 18-24 months. Additionally, OPV should be administered at birth, and on campaigns. A handful of unvaccinated people can also make it easier for a disease to spread and survive. The herd or collective population-level demands many people should be vaccinated for Vaccine-Preventable Diseases (VPDs) to stop a disease from spreading. Active immunisation programmes help break the chain of diseases from spreading, curtailing the transmission. Studies have shown that OPV-induced gut immunity fades substantially over time. Although children and adults vaccinated with OPV are protected against poliomyelitis, they might still be susceptible to infection and transmit the poliovirus. Therefore, it is important to evaluate the situation immediately once the lockdown is lifted and an extraordinary approach may have to be adopted to vaccinate children with IPV at the earliest. It is important to understand how intensified, viable solutions and polio vaccination drives can help avoid the spread of vaccine-preventable diseases. We must come together as a nation to prevent future pandemic outbreaks, especially those which have a definitive existing management and prevention approach. India immunises over 170 million children annually, despite a few infrastructure challenges, reinfection threats, and a periodic episode of mistrust of vaccines among people. Still, India has been successful in pioneering programmes to eliminate some crucial vaccine-preventable diseases like polio and measles. This success is a result of an enormously coordinated effort by the healthcare force to help deliver vaccines at the right time and at the right places. We must not allow life-saving health interventions to fall victim to our efforts to address Covid-19. To prevent a re-occurrence of polio cases, there is a need to immediately devise strategies and to scale-up routine immunisation. At present, the world is dealing with a highly contagious virus, but as far as children under the age of five are concerned, the mortality risk presented by most of the currently vaccine-preventable diseases is higher than the mortality risk presented by Covid-19. Therefore, VPD surveillance should be maintained and reinforced to enable early detection and management of VPD cases and, wherever feasible, to contribute to surveillance of Covid-19. I strongly recommend that the Government of India should begin rigorous planning now, to intensify immunisation programmes once the pandemic is under control. These vaccination activities must focus on children who have missed/will miss vaccine doses during this period of interruption and prioritise the most vulnerable children. If resources are limited, immunisation activities should place priority on outbreak-prone VPDs such as measles, polio and diphtheria. Countries should implement effective communication strategies and engage with communities to allay concerns, enhance community linkages and re-establish community demand for vaccination. While social distancing is the need of the hour, we must look at successfully rolling out an effective vaccine against Covid-19 as soon as it becomes available. Immunisation programmes must remain robust and accessible to those that most need inoculations. (The writer is an Epidemiologist and Chairman of the Scientific Advisory Committee of the National Institute of Epidemiology, Indian Council of Medical Research)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/let-not-polio-raise-its-head-again-828228.html
21-04-2020||First Edit||Oversight of FDI from China prudent||The change in India’s foreign direct investment (FDI) policy, announced by the government last Friday, was a specific response to a situation that has arisen due to the economic disruption caused by the pandemic-related lockdown. The government tightened the FDI rules, mandating specific approval of inward investments by entities based in neighbouring countries. The automatic route of approvals has been closed now. Restrictions on investments from Pakistan and Bangladesh have existed, and so the latest change is effectively directed at China. The government has explained that the change is needed to prevent opportunistic takeovers of Indian companies. Many Indian companies can now be bought cheap after they lost much of their share value in the last few weeks’ market crash. They have become easy targets for takeover.  The latest red flag about China’s investments was raised when its central bank recently bought about 0.21% stake in HDFC Ltd, taking its total holding in the Indian bank to over 1% and thus required reporting. There has been a large inflow of Chinese investments into many Indian companies and there are reports that much more is in the pipeline. Concerns over Chinese acquisition of economic assets are prompted by the strategic and security underpinnings that many such investments may have. India’s apprehensions are shared by other countries also, and some of them, including the US and some members of the European Union, have taken steps to counter or reduce the inflow of Chinese capital. There is strong political backing in China for promoting its economic interests abroad. The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) is the most obvious example of the conjoining of its economic, strategic and political interests. India rightly decided not to get drawn into it and not to join other initiatives like the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) which would have boosted China’s economic advantage to India’s detriment.   Obstruction of the free flow of capital and adoption of protectionist policies go against the idea behind the opening up of the economy since 1991. But the present situation is very different and involves not just economics but national security and other vital interests. Since China has shown that it is ready to leverage its economic and technological advantages for dominance over other countries, others have to take steps to protect their own interests. The FDI decision may be considered as one such decision. It should be noted that Chinese investments can also come into India from companies in which China has stakes but are located in other countries. Such loopholes should also be plugged. China has protested India’s action, but the government should stand firm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/oversight-of-fdi-from-china-prudent-828208.html
21-04-2020||In Perspective||Death was cheap in India till coronavirus arrived||As we try to come to grips with the Covid-19 pandemic, which has killed nearly 600 in India and over 1.7 lakh people across the world so far, it is important to view this in a wider perspective of life and death as it has existed and continues to exist for most Indians and ponder over what it tells us about our society, our people, our public policy. This becomes especially important as we hear, watch and ourselves indulge in debates around lives and livelihoods over the question whether India needed this extended lockdown or not, and the huge price that we are paying in terms of both private and public revenues, with catastrophic impacts on livelihoods and life choices. We have witnessed a large number of scenes of distress that this lockdown has caused to poor people. But these are not part of coronavirus statistics. Non-Covid-19-related statistics matter to be able to view coronavirus statistics in a wider perspective. One kind of death that has been almost entirely ‘flattened’ due to the lockdown is the one caused by road accidents. According to a Government of India report, nearly 1.5 lakh people died every year in road accidents between 2016 and 2018. The figure of 1,51,417 in 2018 included more than 22,000 pedestrians killed in accidents involving vehicles, and although data is not readily available, one can easily surmise that an overwhelming majority of those who caused those deaths would not have faced any legal action. Our police and legal systems are so complex and people-unfriendly that they remain outside the reach of a majority of people – not only poor people, but also others without power or patronage. How many of us know or remember that nearly 8.8 lakh under-five children are reported to have died in 2018 alone in India and 69% of these are understood to have been caused by malnutrition, as per the UNICEF’s report ‘State of the World’s Children-2019’. On an average, 2,500 to 3,000 children die every day in India. Among girls between 15 and 19 years of age, who are themselves still physically growing, ‘pregnancy-related complications’ are the number one cause of death. The National Family Health Survey statistics tell us that half of India’s women between 15-49 years were reported to be anaemic in 2015. Last year, India ranked 102 among 117 countries that qualify for the global hunger index. About 20 crore people sleep hungry every day in India, not because India does not have enough food but because it is extremely unequally distributed. These figures are obviously some of the worst in the world and though some of these have been gradually improving, the rate of improvement has been slow. We have always been told that our governments have never had enough money to invest in public health; these are the same governments that are defending the lockdown to prevent Covid-19-related deaths despite the massive economic cost of doing so. Perhaps that is because coronavirus does not distinguish between male and female, rich and poor, powerful and powerless, and perhaps because this is one disease that was brought to India by the rich, not the poor. Or perhaps, at least partly because this gives the current government an opportunity to hide the fact that it was already presiding over an economic slowdown before the pandemic hit. It can now be blamed on the coronavirus. These statistics presented here are not to argue for or against the lockdown. That is for the governments and experts to decide. But it is to remind people that this binary between life and livelihood, as it is being made out to be, is fake and meaningless for a large section of people. ‘Life’ here refers only to those lives that are vulnerable to coronavirus. For a large section of people, livelihood also means ‘life’. Those who died walking home hundreds of miles away due to the lockdown or those who committed suicide due to stigma that has come to be attached to being coronavirus-infected also lost lives. Tomorrow, god forbid, if we see a spike in the numbers of farmers’ suicides due to either loss of crop or loss of market, that would also be loss of lives. And those who anyway have been dying and would die because of hunger, poverty, lack of access to public healthcare, or because of discrimination faced at home and outside, coronavirus or no coronavirus, are also lives lost. It is to remind ourselves to be a little more mindful of the larger perspective and canvass of life and death while discussing coronavirus in India. The numbers of Covid-19-related cases and deaths have been frightening in Italy, Spain, the UK and the US, and it makes complete sense if we are concerned about adopting ways to prevent the epidemic from spreading to larger numbers in India. But, at the same time, it is also important to be aware of these other numbers, especially the numbers of deaths and their causes, that have been taking place in India and have remained largely unnoticed by the larger middle and higher class people. One hopes that in future, we would be ready to spend just a fraction of what we are today ready to lose to save ourselves from coronavirus on preventing the death of hundreds every day in road accidents and thousands every day from hunger and malnutrition.   (The writer is Director, Centre for Budget and Policy Studies, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/death-was-cheap-in-india-till-coronavirus-arrived-828227.html
21-04-2020||Kalaburagi||Karnataka's Kalaburagi records fourth death due to COVID-19||The deceased who was suffering from Parkinson disease for the past three years was admitted to the hospital due to fever. "His throat swab report arrived on Monday night confirmed positive for coronavirus," Medical  Education Minister Dr K Sudhak said in a tweet.   Kalaburagi had reported the country's first COVID-19 death on March 10 after a 76-year-old man who returned from Saudi Arabia died of COVID-19.  A 65-year-old fruit vendor and 55-year-old cloth merchant died of the virus on April 7 and 13, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/karnatakas-kalaburagi-records-fourth-death-due-to-covid-19-827978.html
21-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Over 55 years with even slightest discomfort? Karnataka govt wants to do coronavirus test||If you are aged 55-plus, have co-morbid conditions and now experiencing even slightest health discomfort, its time for coronavirus screening in Karnataka as the government is keen on pushing pre-emptive measures to check its spread. Medical Education Minister Sudhakar K, who is in charge of all matters related to COVID-19, told PTI on Tuesday the government would take it seriously even if such people feel uneasiness, tiredness or slightest of discomfort. We will do it (coronavirus test in such cases)we want to do it. We have issued guidelines for senior citizens, especially those with co-morbid conditions. Even if they have the slightest discomfort, we want to take it seriously, the Minister said. Senior citizens (those above the age of 60) account for about seven per cent of the state's population. The Minister also said about 2,300 realtime reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (realtime RT-PCR) tests, one of the most accurate laboratory methods for detecting, tracking, and studying the coronavirus, are being conducted a day in the State. The target is to ramp them up to a minimum of 10,000 a day by May 10, Sudhakar said. Seventeen people infected with coronavirus have lost their lives in Karnataka, which has reported 415 COVID-19 positive cases, including 114 discharges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/over-55-years-with-even-slightest-discomfort-karnataka-govt-wants-to-do-coronavirus-test-828108.html
21-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Man held for derogatory post ||Sleuths of District Crime Intelligence Bureau (DCIB) have arrested a youth for posting derogatory remarks against MP Tejaswi Soorya, on social media. The arrested is Nasir, a resident of Ponnathmotte. It is said that the accused had posted derogatory comments on women as well. In this regard, Vivek Rai from Virajpet had filed a complaint. Based on the complaint, the youth was arrested, said police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-held-for-derogatory-post-828167.html
21-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mobile meat sales unit launched in Tumakuru||MLA G B Jyotiganesh launched a mobile meat sales unit commissioned by the Animal Husbandry Department and Sheep and Wool Development Board, at Hanumanthanagar in the city on Tuesday. The motive behind the move is to deliver quality meat to the doorsteps of customers at a reasonable price. "Doctors have indicated that protein is required to gain immunity against Coronavirus. Hence the mobile unit," the MLA said.   Mahanagara Palike Mayor Farida Begum said that the mobile unit would go to people's doorsteps on call. "This will reduce the number of people coming out and exposing themselves to the infection," she observed. Animal Husbandry Deputy Director K G Nandish said that each kilogram of meat is priced at Rs 650. For details call: 8147651991.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mobile-meat-sales-unit-launched-in-tumakuru-828193.html
21-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus lockdown makes nomads' lives miserable||In light of the country-wide Covid-19 lockdown, nomads residing in huts near Ramgopal circle in Huliyar town, Chikkanayakanahalli taluk, Tumakuru district are struggling to get even one square meal a day. As it were, they are deprived of basic amenities like houses and drinking water. They make a living by selling hairpins and needles on the streets. However, for the last month, they have not been able to do that to feed themselves. Now that they have spent all the money they had, life has become miserable for them. Even the free rations supplied by the government are over.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-makes-nomads-lives-miserable-828197.html
21-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Railways brings crucial medicine from Pune to Belagavi, saves child||The Railways has saved the life of a child by bringing crucial medicines from Pune to Belagavi, thanks to the intervention of Minister of State for Railways. In a release, the SWR said that on April 11, a request was received at the office of the Minister of State for Railways, Suresh Angadi, at Belagavi. "A 5-year old child from Belagavi was undergoing treatment from a doctor based at Pune. The medicine, said to be critical, was to be transported to Belagavi from Pune. The appeals (by child's parents) to the Maharashtra state authorities to permit their relatives based at Pune to drive their vehicle to Belagavi to bring the medicine had gone in vain," the SWR said. Following this, the parents requested the minister's help. The minister immediately directed the concerned Railway officials in Pune to assist in the matter. "The medicine was brought to Pune railway station, and thereby it was transported through a goods train, which was due to pass through Belagavi. The staff of the train ensured that the medicine reached Belagavi safely the very next day," the SWR said. As Belagavi was also under lockdown, the Railway staff of Belagavi took the initiative to take the medicine closer to the home of the patient because the approach roads of the station were blocked. The medicine reached the child eventually and turned out to be a saviour of the child.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/railways-brings-crucial-medicine-from-pune-to-belagavi-saves-child-828243.html
21-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Notice to Dharward edu officer over SSLC exam confusion||The government has issued a notice to the additional commissioner (Dharwad), Department of Public Instruction, who had recommended to promote SSLC students without examinations, for creating confusion among students and parents. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar has issued a notice to him seeking an explanation. Recently, Siddalingaiah S Hiremath, additional commissioner for the Dharwad region, conducted a meeting to discuss the SSLC examinations and after the meeting, he sent a recommendation to the principal secretary of the department suggesting to promote the SSLC students without conducting examinations considering the current Covid 19 pandemic. Minister Suresh Kumar said, "Such decisions do not come under his powers (purview) and we have issued a notice seeking an explanation for conducting a meeting and for submitting the recommendations." The minister issued the notice to him as the recommendation by the Dharwad region officials created confusion among the students and parents as it was circulated among several social media platforms.  Suresh Kumar also clarified, "There is no need to give importance to such a recommendation as the officers are authorised to implement the orders issued by the government and not to take any such decisions or to conduct any such meetings."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/notice-to-dharward-edu-officer-over-sslc-exam-confusion-828253.html
21-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karwar to get Covid-19 lab in two weeks||The laboratory to test various infections caused by viruses including Covid-19 and Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD) is likely to be functional at the district hospital premises in another 15 days. “The work to install equipment worth Rs 80 lakh will be completed in 10 days. Permission of the Indian Council of Medical  Research (ICMR), New Delhi, will be obtained before launching the laboratory,” Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Mohammad Roshan told reporters here on Tuesday. Automatic equipment and machine would be used to conduct tests. About 96 samples could be tested at once. The equipment and the machine that could be used for 16 hours continuously would test 768 samples a day, he said. “The lab will have separate sections for personal protection equipment, reception of samples, biological safety, PCR machine, infection-free reception zone and biological disposal. Samples of throat swab and blood may be kept in cold storage where temperature will be minus 20 degree Celsius and minus 80 degree Celsius respectively. A large refrigerator is being installed for the purpose,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karwar-to-get-covid-19-lab-in-two-weeks-828254.html
21-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Asha volunteer abused in Mysuru||Even as attacks on Asha (accredited social health activist) volunteers continued in various places, including in Bengaluru, a similar incident has occurred in the city on Monday. Sumaya Firdouse, an Asha volunteer attached to Bannimantap government hospital was on rounds at Aleem Nagar, under NR (Narasimharaja) Police Station limits, when three persons abused and threatened her. The police have taken the accused into custody. Sumaya has lodged a complaint with the police in this regard, against three youths, identified as Mehaboob, Khaleel and Gshan. She said that she asked the youth, who were loitering around, to wear masks and maintain social distance, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Enraged by her advise, the youth abused and threatened to kill her if she did not mind her business. However, people nearby rushed to her rescue and provided her safe passage. Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar and District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar visited the Asha volunteer at her home at Aleem Nagar and got information about the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/asha-volunteer-abused-in-mysuru-828258.html
21-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||80-yr-old 4th coronavirus casualty in Kalaburagi; 2 more test positive||A 80-year-old man succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday morning, taking the death toll to four in Kalaburagi district. Results of his throat swab samples came out in the night and have turned out to be positive. Sources in Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences said the patient, a resident of Dargah road, was admitted to the hospital on Sunday evening as he had fever. The deceased has no travel history. His wife has been quarantined. Three positive cases, including the deceased patient, were reported in the district on Tuesday. The results of throat swab samples of a 24-year-old youth, a resident of Pattan Cross, and a 65-year-old man turned out to be positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/80-yr-old-4th-coronavirus-casualty-in-kalaburagi-2-more-test-positive-828273.html
21-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Government warns against using kids’ pics for fund raising||The Women and Child Welfare Department has warned of action against those raising funds for Covid relief works,  by using photos of children. In a release, the department said that several non-governmental organisations and voluntary groups were using the photographs of children to collect donations. Under the centrally-sponsored Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS), the department has registered about 1,000 government and private institutions, to provide help to children in need. "It has come to our notice that several NGOs are using photos of children to raise donations to meet their food, health and other expenditure during the lockdown. However, this is against the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act," the director of the ICDS scheme stated in a release. The department noted that those violating the rule face up to 6 months of imprisonment and/or up to Rs 2 lakh penalty. "During the ongoing emergency period, NGOs facing such problems can contact the officials concerned at the district level for help or call the toll-free childline 1098," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/government-warns-against-using-kids-pics-for-fund-raising-828289.html
21-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Anche Mitra: Postal services at doorstep||The India Post (IP) has introduced Anche Mitra application to provide various services at doorstep of its customers in the wake of lockdown. The app may be used to apply online seeking various services. The following website may be visited to enjoy the services: www.karnatakapost.gov.in. The web page will open once the link is clicked. It will guide the visitors to various options including services which include sub-sections called medical and emergency services. The facility may be used to send medical materials, registered post, speed post, for postal insurance scheme transactions, to pay premium, to deposit and withdraw funds. It is mandatory to mention complete name and address to enjoy services. Once the particular service is sought, the IP staff will approach the concerned at their doorstep and provide the service. There is no need to pay for the service at the doorstep. The customers may also inform the IP about letters or parcel that they are expecting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/anche-mitra-postal-services-at-doorstep-828128.html
21-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Excise staff behind illegal sale of liquor, says H Nagesh||Excise Minister H Nagesh on Tuesday said that the some officials of the department were hand in glove with owners of liquor outlets in selling the liquor illegally. “There are complaint that owners of the liquor outlets have been illegally selling the liquor. Some officials of the department are backing the owners,” he told reporters. The Minister said that the department top brass had been directed to conduct the inspection of the stocks at the liquor outlets. “Details of the stocks were entered in the register book after the lockdown was imposed. The officials will verify the actual stocks and the data entered in the book to initiate action,” he said. The licenses of the concerned outlets would be cancelled if discrepancies were noticed in the stocks. Criminal cases would also be registered against such owners, he warned. He said that government would grant permission to resume operations of the outlets after May 3. He was under pressure by alcohol addicts. The president of forum of the alcohol addicts himself had called up the Minister requesting resumption of operations of the outlets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/excise-staff-behind-illegal-sale-of-liquor-says-h-nagesh-828135.html
21-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Five Padarayanapura residents scare villagers ||The visit of five people from Padarayanapura in Bengaluru, considered as the hotspot for Covid-19, has scared residents of Shillangere village in the district. All the five came to the village on Monday night. A man, his wife, child, father-in-law and mother-in-law, who hail from the village, reside at Padarayanapura. Due to vandalism on Sunday night and increasing number of Covid-19 cases, they came to the village without informing anybody. The local residents alerted about the visit to Asha workers and gram panchayat members. The health department staff and the police rushed to the house and kept all the five and four others at the house under home quarantine. The blood and throat swab samples of the 9 members have been sent to Bengaluru for a report. Members of the family broke locks of the door and came outside protesting the home quarantine. They also had arguments with the health department officials. Additional forces of police were deployed at the village following the incident. A probe has been ordered to ascertain how the five managed to enter the district as there is strict vigil at checkpoints. The primary enquiry revealed that the five travelled by a goods vehicle and entered the district either through a checkpoint at Ramasandra on National Highway-75 or Tornahalli checkpoint in Malur taluk. It has come to light that the police at these checkpoints did not check the vehicle properly. There is a dereliction of duty on part of the staff at the checkpoints. Notices will be slapped on them, deputy commissioner C Satyabhama said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/five-padarayanapura-residents-scare-villagers-828176.html
21-04-2020||Mysuru||COVID-19 lockdown: ASHA volunteer threatened in Mysuru||Even as attacks on ASHA (accredited social health activist) volunteers continued in various places, including in Bengaluru, a similar incident has occurred in Mysuru on Monday. Sumaya Firdouse, an ASHA volunteer attached to Bannimantap government hospital, was on rounds at Aleem Nagar, under NR (Narasimharaja) Police Station limits, when three persons abused and threatened her.       Enraged by her advice, the youth abused and threatened to kill her, if she did not mind her business. However, people nearby rushed to her rescue and provided her safe passage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/covid-19-lockdown-asha-volunteer-threatened-in-mysuru-827999.html
21-04-2020||Mysuru||Coronavirus Lockdown: Mysuru-born woman IAS officer plays perfect caregiver in Jharkhand||Eighty-year-old Laxmi Devi, a childless widow, stayed alone in Jharkhand’s second capital - Dumka. Suffering from arthritis, she could not move without the help of a wheelchair. The extended lockdown only added to her woes as she ran short of cash and foodgrains. She called up her relative, who, in turn, spoke to the Deputy Commissioner of Dumka. Within an hour, two officials from the district administration were at the doorsteps of Laxmi Devi with loads of foodgrains (rice, pulses, flattened rice), fruits (oranges, apples, grapes), Horlicks and biscuits. The octogenarian lady showered her blessings and conveyed her gratitude to the young Deputy Commissioner, a 2011-batch Jharkhand cadre IAS officer, Rajeshwari B, who has been tirelessly taking care of the needy in tribal-dominated Jharkhand. “This is the least we can do for the needy,” the woman IAS officer, who originally hails from Mysuru, told Deccan Herald over phone.  She then rushed to Dumka Medical College and Hospital to check the status of the establishment of the Virology Laboratory. “It’s a new institution and labs are not yet ready, but the State Health Department aims to establish a Covid-19 testing lab in Dumka at the earliest,” she said.  Asking everyone to maintain social distance as this was the only weapon to fight Covid-19, she rushes to Gandhi Maidan, where haat (vegetable market) is regularly organised. She asks her officials to keep tabs on those (sellers and buyers) in the market through drones. “Ensure everyone maintains a one metre distance and wears masks. Also ensure other lockdown rules are not violated,” she instructs further. Adept at multi-tasking, the 1985-born IAS officer, who studied at Udupi and Kodagu in Karnataka, finds time for her family too. “Going with the trend… While hubby messed up on the kids’ hairdo, I think I did a fine job,” she tweeted while posting pictures of her hubby’s haircut during lockdown. Her tweet (posing as hubby’s hair-dresser) has earned 1600 likes. Earlier, she earned plaudits from the Union Government for making Ramgarh, where she previously served as Deputy Commissioner, the first open defecation free district in Jharkhand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/coronavirus-lockdown-mysuru-born-woman-ias-officer-plays-perfect-caregiver-in-jharkhand-828276.html
21-04-2020||National||Govt must deposit Rs 7500 in bank accounts of poor; revive MSME sector: Cong panel||Formed by Congress President Sonia Gandhi, the consultative group, which also has Rahul Gandhi, met for the first time on Monday and demanded that the government immediately deposit a sum of Rs 7,500 in all Jan Dhan accounts, all pension accounts and all PM-Kisan accounts to help the poor and vulnerable tide over this crisis. The Congress will prepare a detailed plan for revival of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) together with steps to ensure smooth crop procurement and resolving migrants' issues, and will put it before the central government, senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said. Ramesh, who is a member of the party's consultative group on COVID-19 headed by Singh, said the Congress has urged the government to submit Rs 7,500 through direct benefit transfers. He also said the former prime minister and Rahul Gandhi stressed that priority be given to the MSME sector due to its social and economic importance and because it is one of the largest job providers in the country after agriculture. "We have worked out a very concrete MSME revival package which we will submit to the central government in a day or two," he told reporters at a press conference through video conferencing. He said the two leaders also stressed on the need for making positive recommendations to the government to ensure smooth procurement of wheat, mustard and gram. The former union minister said the idea of this group is to make specific recommendations to the government in a spirit of constructive cooperation as has been emphasised by the former Congress president repeatedly and also how to make the transition out of the lockdown after May 3. It will suggest steps to smoothen the transition for different sections of the society, particularly the migrants, students and farmers, he said. Ramesh said both Singh and Gandhi also stressed on the need for making positive recommendations to the government to ensure smooth crop procurement and resolution of migrants' issues. "I am sure a compassionate, responsible government can find funds to provide for the vulnerable," he said when asked if the country had funds of this nature to spare. Ramesh alleged that the Centre was busy "destabilising" the Madhya Pradesh government and was "caught napping in preparation for managing COVID-19" due to which the action was delayed. "I think, it is a matter of priorities. Right now the most urgent thing in the country is cash transfer. People have to survive, people's livelihoods have been destroyed, lakhs and lakhs of families need immediate assistance. "I think, a compassionate government, a sensitive or a responsive government must and can find the resources for Rs 7,500 direct transfer to every Jan Dhan Account, to every pension account -- pension of old age, pension of widows and pension of disabled, and into every PM Kisan Account. It is not a question of whether we can find the funds. We must find the funds, and I believe that we can find the funds," he noted. Ramesh said he hoped the government would "come down from its pedestal" and constructively accept the suggestions put forth by the Congress. Asked on Congress MPs having divergent views on scrapping of MPLADs funds, he said the opinion expressed by him was his personal view and not the Congress's. Ramesh had gone against the party's stand and welcomed the government's move to scrap MPLADs. He also supported party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's demand on migrant labour, saying if one should be concerned about the students, one should also be concerned about migrant labour. "If we can provide logistics and transportation to the students, surely we can provide logistics and transportation facilities to migrant labourers as well," he said. The Congress leader said these are not Congress's demands, but people's requirements. "We are extending our hands of constructive cooperation, we hope that the government will come down from its pedestal" and accept these suggestions constrctively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-must-deposit-rs-7500-in-bank-accounts-of-poor-revive-msme-sector-cong-panel-827917.html
21-04-2020||National||Finance Ministry sanctions Rs 46,038 cr as states share in taxes for Apr||The Finance Ministry on Monday said it has sanctioned Rs 46,038 crore for the devolution of states' share in central taxes and duties for April. In a tweet the ministry said to assist states effectively address situation arising out of COVID-19 pandemic, as a special dispensation, the calculation of net proceeds of shareable taxes has been kept unchanged as per Budget 2020-21. The Budget had projected the share of the states in taxes at Rs 7.84 lakh crore for 2020-21. The 15th Finance Commission had recommended the share of states at 41 per cent of the divisible pool and 1 per cent for the newly-created union territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. The 14th Finance Commission had recommended the states be given 42 per cent share in taxes. "Ministry of Finance has issued sanctions for April instalment of Devolution of States' Share in Central Taxes and Duties amounting to Rs 46,038.10 crore today. The inter-se share is as per the recommendations of the XV Finance Commission,” the ministry tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finance-ministry-sanctions-rs-46038-cr-as-states-share-in-taxes-for-apr-827920.html
21-04-2020||National||Pray at home during Ramzan: Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad to followers||Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi, who has been booked by the Delhi Police for holding a religious congregation here during the lockdown, on Monday urged the followers of the organisation to pray at home in the month of Ramzan. "I request all, both in India and abroad, to strictly follow the guidelines and instructions of the local or national governments and till the time restrictions are in place and please observe prayers at home. And even in this, we should not invite people from outside," he said in a statement. Ramzan begins later this week. While addressing an online briefing on Sunday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal cited the Tablighi Jamaat congregation last month, a major hotspot, and the large inflow of travellers from other countries to Delhi as the reasons for the spread of the virus, and said the city was "fighting a difficult battle". The Delhi Police crime branch, had on March 31, lodged an FIR against seven people, including the cleric, on a complaint by the Station House Officer of Nizamuddin police station for holding the congregation in alleged violation of the orders against large gatherings to contain the spread of coronavirus. Later, the Indian Penal Code Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) was added to the FIR. The cleric is wanted by the Delhi Police and he responded twice to them. He is currently under home quarantine. In an audio message released earlier this month, Kandhalvi had said he was exercising self-quarantine after several hundreds who visited the congregation at Nizamudddin Markaz tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pray-at-home-during-ramzan-tablighi-jamaat-leader-maulana-saad-to-followers-827932.html
21-04-2020||National||Complaints received from West Bengal on quality of RT-PCR kits; temporary arrangements made: ICMR||The ICMR has received complaints related to repeat testing of patients in West Bengal as the RT-PCR kits were not working properly, it said on Monday. Temporary arrangements have been made so as to enable the state to handle the crisis, it added. Addressing its daily briefing on COVID-19, head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Raman R Gangakhedkar said the RT-PCR kits are approved by the US FDA. The RT-PCR test is the gold standard for frontline test for COVID-19. "They (West Bengal) complained that the RT-PCR kits were not working properly because of which they had to do repeat tests. "One has to keep in mind that such kits need to be kept below 20 degrees Celsius temperature. If the temperature is higher, proper test results are not obtained. The complaint about repeat testings may have arisen since the technician may have kept the kits and tried the tests at room temperature. "We have told the West Bengal government that the kits we use at NIV are sufficient for 10,000 tests and these kits are available at NICED, Kolkata," Gangakhedkar said, adding that these are being provided for temporary use to enable the state deal with the crisis. Replying to a question on rapid antibody tests coming under the scanner over quality issues, he said rapid tests are not used for individual diagnosis the world over. "The rapid antibody test is not used for individual diagnosis, as we do not know how powerful the antibody developed will be against the virus. It can be used for surveillance and consistent errors will not affect assessment of infection trends in epidemiological surveys," Gangakhedkar added. India procured five lakh rapid antibody testing kits from China last week and these were being distributed to states for the districts with a high-burden of the infection, health ministry officials said. Regarding some states raising concerns over the quality of the kits, Gangakhedkar said rapid antibody tests are CE-IVD approved and quality tests were already done to check their sensitivity and specificity as claimed, and they were found to be satisfactory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/complaints-received-from-west-bengal-on-quality-of-rt-pcr-kits-temporary-arrangements-made-icmr-827935.html
21-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 21, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-21-2020-edition-827942.html
21-04-2020||National||Coronavirus state-wise India update: Total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 21||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 20,013 as of April 21. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 632 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 3259 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-state-wise-india-update-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-21-827943.html
21-04-2020||National||Coronavirus knows no religion, caste, says PM Modi||In a LinkedIn post on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the coronavirus does not see a person's religion, race, colour, caste or creed before striking. Speaking on the disease and the world's actions to stem its spread, PM Modi said that "our response and conduct thereafter should attach primacy to unity and brotherhood," adding that "we are in this together".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-knows-no-religion-caste-says-pm-modi-827944.html
21-04-2020||National||5 more test COVID-19 positive in Odisha; total cases rise to 79||Five more persons tested positive for novel coronavirus in Odisha on Tuesday, taking the total number of such cases to 79 in the state, a health department official said. All the fresh cases have been reported from Balasore district neighbouring West Bengal, he said. The state health and family welfare department has not provided details of the new patients. "Contact-tracing of all the new cases are going on and follow-up action is also being taken," the official said. Two COVID-19 cases including a two-year-old child were also reported from Balasore district on Monday. The number of active cases in the state now stands at 53 while 25 persons have been cured of the disease. A 72-year-old man from Bhubaneswar died of the coronavirus infection. Of the 79 cases reported in the state, 46 are from Khurda district comprising Bhubaneswar, eight each from Balasore and Bhadrak, seven from Jajpur, three from Sundergarh, two each from Kendrapara and Kalahandi and one each from Cuttack, Dhenkanal and Puri districts. A total of 11,748 Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT PCR), a test for coronavirus, and 4,861 rapid antibody tests have been conducted so far in the state, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-odisha-total-cases-rise-to-79-827972.html
21-04-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll rises to 590 in country; number of cases climb to 18,601: Health Ministry||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 590 and the number of cases climbed to 18,601 on Tuesday, according to the Union health ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 14,759 while 3,251 people have been cured and discharged, and one patient has migrated, the ministry said. The total number of cases includes 77 foreign nationals. A total of 31 deaths were reported since Monday evening -- 11 fatalities were reported from Rajasthan,  nine from Maharashtra, four from Gujarat, two each from Delhi, Telengana and Tamil Nadu and one from Uttar Pradesh. Of the 590 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 232 fatalities, followed by Madhya Pradesh at 74, Gujarat at 71, Delhi at 47, Rajasthan at 25, Telengana at 23 and Andhra Pradesh at 20. The death toll reached 18 in Uttar Pradesh while Tamil Nadu has reported 17 deaths so far. Punjab and Karnataka have registered 16 deaths each. West Bengal has reported 12 fatalities. The disease has claimed five lives in Jammu and Kashmir, while Kerala and Haryana have recorded three COVID-19 deaths each. Jharkhand and Bihar have reported two deaths each, while Meghalaya, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Assam have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry's data updated in the morning. The data stated that the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 4,666 followed by Delhi at 2,081, Gujarat at 1,939, Rajasthan at 1, 576, Tamil Nadu at 1,520 and Madhya Pradesh at 1,485.                        The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 1,184 in Uttar Pradesh, 873 in Telangana and 722 in Andhra Pradesh. Kerala and Karnataka have reported 408 cases each.   The number of cases has risen to 392 in West Bengal, 368 in Jammu and Kashmir, 254 in Haryana and 245 in Punjab.   Bihar has reported 113 coronavirus cases, while Odisha has 74 such cases.   Forty-six people have been infected with the virus in Uttarakhand and Jharkhand each. Himachal Pradesh has 39 cases, Chhattisgarh has 36 while Assam has registered 35 infections so far.   Chandigarh has 26 COVID-19 cases, Ladakh 18, while 16 cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.   Meghalaya has reported 11 cases, while Goa and Puducherry have seven COVID-19 cases each.   Manipur and Tripura have two cases each, while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported a case each.   "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-590-in-country-number-of-cases-climb-to-18601-health-ministry-827981.html
21-04-2020||National||On Civil Services Day, VP, PM Modi laud civil servants for leading COVID-19 fight||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday extended greetings on Civil Services Day, saying like health professionals, the civil servants have also been leading the fight against coronavirus. "On Civil Services Day, I compliment all the civil servants of our country for effectively and efficiently translating policies into programmes," the Vice President tweeted. Their high professional standards have stood us well in times of peace as well as times of crisis like the current one, Naidu said. "Our civil servants along with doctors and medical professionals have been leading India's fight against COVID-19 ... We are grateful to all such warriors who have been risking their lives at the face of the infection to protect all of us," he said. The duration of fight against coronavirus is still uncertain, he pointed out. "I am sure our experienced and able civil servants will assist the nation in winning the battle," the vice president said. Prime Minister Modi appreciated their efforts in ensuring India successfully defeats COVID-19. "They are working round the clock, assisting those in need and ensuring everyone is healthy," he said. "On Civil Services Day, tributes to the great Sardar Patel, who envisioned our administrative framework and emphasised on building a system that is progress-oriented and compassionate," Modi tweeted. Today, on Civil Services Day I convey greetings to all Civil Servants and their families. I appreciate their efforts in ensuring India successfully defeats COVID-19. They are working round the clock, assisting those in need and ensuring everyone is healthy. He also shared his speech from Civil Services Day in 2018 in which he spoke about appreciation, evaluation and introspection for the bureaucracy. According to Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances, Civil Services Day is observed on April 21 as on this day in 1947, country's first home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel addressed the probationers of Administrative Services Officers. He referred to civil servants as the 'steel frame of India'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/on-civil-services-day-vp-pm-modi-laud-civil-servants-for-leading-covid-19-fight-827985.html
21-04-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: How the coronavirus lockdown is affecting women||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, let’s listen to our correspondents from Mumbai and Chennai over journalists testing positive for coronavirus. Tara Krishnaswamy tells us how the lockdown has affected women and Dr Prathima Reddy answers questions about pregnant women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-how-the-coronavirus-lockdown-is-affecting-women-827993.html
21-04-2020||National||India's envoy in UAE reminds diaspora of rule of law amidst outrage over 'Islamophobic' slurs||India's ambassador in the UAE has reminded the diaspora living in the Gulf country of the importance of adhering to the rule of law, saying discrimination is against "our moral fabric" as some Indians posted "Islamophobic" comments on social media platforms, triggering outrage from the Arab citizens. Ambassador of India to the UAE Pavan Kapoor quoted a tweet of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who said that COVID-19 does not see race, religion, colour, caste, creed, language or borders before striking. "Our response and conduct thereafter should attach primacy to unity and brotherhood. We are in this together," Modi said in the tweet. The envoy in his tweet said India and the UAE share the value of non-discrimination on any grounds. "Discrimination is against our moral fabric and the Rule of law. Indian nationals in the UAE should always remember this," he said. His remarks on Twitter came after comments of some Indians, including that of BJP Member of Parliament for Bengaluru South Lok Sabha constituency Tejasvi Surya, started doing the rounds on social media, with several people terming them as "Islamophobic". The offensive comments of Indians triggered an outrage from the Arab nationals who took to social media to condemn and question their remarks. Princess Hend Al Qassimi, a member of the UAE royal family, took note of the offensive remarks and said that the UAE law applies on nationals and non-nationals in terms of hate speech. She said last week that "anyone that is openly racist and discriminatory in the UAE will be fined and made to leave the country". The screenshot of BJP MP Surya's now-deleted tweet was shared multiple times on Twitter with people condemning the leader for his "Islamophobic" remarks on Arab women. Recently, a prominent Indian businessman in the UAE apologised for "unintentionally hurting religious sentiments" through his poem, which alluded to a Muslim religious group. Sohan Roy, founder chairman of Sharjah-based Aries Group, in a Facebook live video on Saturday, apologised for his "Islamophobic" post, The Gulf News reported. Last week, an Indian national working in the UAE was sacked by his company for allegedly sharing Islamophobic posts on Facebook related to the coronavirus pandemic. Bala Krishna Nakka from Hyderabad, working as Chief Accountant at Dubai’s Moro Hub Data Solutions Company, was sacked after his Facebook went viral, evoking widespread condemnation. Nakka joined a growing list of Indian expats who have landed in trouble for alleged Islamophobic social media messages in recent days. Rakesh B Kitturmath, who worked as a team leader at Emrill Services, an integrated facilities management (FM) headquartered in Dubai, was sacked a week earlier after his post sparked an outrage on social media. Earlier, Abu Dhabi resident Mitesh Udeshi was sacked for posting a cartoon mocking Islam on his Facebook page while a police complaint was filed against Sameer Bhandari of Future Vision Events & Weddings’ in Dubai after he asked a Muslim job seeker from India to go back to Pakistan. The UAE outlaws all religious or racial discrimination under a legislation passed in 2015. The anti-discrimination/anti-hatred law prohibits all acts “that stoke religious hatred and/or which insult religion through any form of expression, be it speech or the written word, books, pamphlets or via online media.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-envoy-in-uae-reminds-diaspora-of-rule-of-law-amidst-outrage-over-islamophobic-slurs-828014.html
21-04-2020||National||TIFR-IISc team develop simulation model of COVID-19 spread||A joint team of Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Mumbai in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, has designed a city-scale agent-based computer simulation for the modeling the progression of the COVID-19 disease in large Indian cities. As of now, they have carried out simulation for Mumbai and Bengaluru. While Prof. Rajesh Sunderesan from IISc Bengaluru is leading the effort, the Mumbai teams  Dr. Piyush Srivastava, Dr. Ramprasad Saptharishi,  Dr. Prahladh Harsha along Prof Sandeep Juneja are part of the team. The simulator builds a fine-grained replica of a city and mimics various interaction spaces such as households, schools, and workplaces. The model also takes into account the population densities, age distribution, household size distribution, and origin-destination of workers, among others. The model seeks to assess the effects of various regulatory interventions on the progression of the disease in the city.   Measures considered in the study include isolation of confirmed cases, home quarantine, social distancing for those aged above 65, full and partial closures of workplaces and schools, and various combinations of these measures over different time-frames. "Currently, the simulator has been used with data from Bengaluru and Mumbai, but it is flexible enough to be extended to other cities," said Prof Juneja, adding that with more data coming in,  in a real-time basis,  the predictions will be more accurate. Preliminary results suggest that to prevent a second wave of infection after the current lockdown, aggressive steps for tracing, isolation and containment of cases during the lockdown are needed, so as to minimize the spread of the infection in the city at the time lockdown restrictions are eased. "However, in its current form, the simulator looks only at the public health impact of the various interventions and is not able to assess the economic and ethical issues that intertwine with the nationwide COVID-19 containment effort," said Prof Juneja.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tifr-iisc-team-develop-simulation-model-of-covid-19-spread-828018.html
21-04-2020||National||Lockdown: With no earnings, transgenders struggle for food and medicines, survive by borrowing||Like most other transgenders, Chandini earned her living by begging in trains or dancing in celebrations such as child births and weddings but the prolonged lockdown has halted passenger railway services and all social occasions – and with it her earnings. Now, the 42-year-old, an acute diabetic, has to choose whether to spend the little money she has buying food or medicines. "I used to make at least Rs 500 every day. It was not much, but enough to help me make ends meet. Since the lockdown, with no income, I do not have money," Chandini said. Pushed to the sidelines of society with few doing mainstream jobs, several of India's 4.88 lakh transgenders are struggling to survive by borrowing from others. Chandini has borrowed Rs 4,000, hoping it will see her through till the shutdown ends next month. Movement of people, except those associated with essential and emergency services, has been restricted under the lockdown till May 3 and everybody has been asked to stay at home to break the chain of transmission of the coronavirus that has claimed 590 lives and infected 18,601 people in the country. Rashmi, another transgender, who earned her livelihood by begging on roads at Sector -16 in Noida, said people would at least give her leftover food from their cars, if not money. "Now, I am locked at home. If not the coronavirus, then hunger will kill me," the 34-year-old said. The transgender population in India is around 4.88 lakh and most members of the community are involved in begging at traffic signals and in trains, dancing at weddings and sex work to earn their livelihood, according to organisations that works for their welfare. The biggest lockdown in the world has taken away all their means of earnings, and though the government is giving Rs 1,500 as relief to transgenders, many of them do not have the required documents to get the money, they said. "Most members from the trangender community earn on a daily basis. The government has given them Rs 1,500 but what can they get from this Rs 1,500. For giving this Rs 1,500, authorities are asking for identity cards, bank account numbers, which they don't have," Pushpa, founder of community-based organisation 'Nai Bhor', said.  She said people have been doing "social distancing" with the community for the past "1,100 years" by discriminating. Discrimination is everywhere whether healthcare or education, Pushpa said, claiming that even now, in this time of crisis, the government is not bothered about the community. Disha Kene, another transgender, said, "Even if members of the community have dry ration there are other needs that have to be met like medicines, which is not been thought about." "The community does not have any savings and their means of livelihood is to earn today and spend that money. Milk and medicines... they do not have money to buy these," she said. A member from the community who is HIV positive is particularly worried about getting critical medicines. "I have a stock of medicines for now. But if the situation worsens in the coming days, I do not know how I will manage," she said. NGOs and activists have demanded that the government integrate concerns of the transgender community in all their policy and strategy for disaster mitigation in view of the coronavirus outbreak. They also said the matter is particularly urgent as the community's members are perceived to be at a high risk of contracting HIV and that many are possibly into substance use which is very harmful in the current situation. In an appeal to the government, the Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR), a non-profit organisation, and its partner Sakha said transgenders must be included as a group in all policies and actions devised for disaster mitigation during the COVID-19 pandemic. "Just when we were beginning to work systematically with the government and all key stakeholders to build a supportive policy framework and an enabling environment for social acceptance and inclusion of transgenders across services and entitlements, this pandemic has again brought to the forefront the high cost of social exclusion and gender inequality," CFAR Executive Director Akhila Sivadas said. Concurring with the concern of CFAR, Meera Parida, co-founder of Sakha, said, "The COVID-19 outbreak has pushed us back to those times when we were struggling to come to terms with our identity, get heard and save ourselves from life-threatening challenges like HIV." In the context of the raging novel coronavirus pandemic, she urged the government to integrate the concerns of transgenders in all policies and strategies. Parida said that "as a transgender, one has to be more prepared to avert the risk of getting infected by coronavirus and this is particularly urgent as the group is perceived as being at high risk of contracting the HIV and that many are possibly into substance use, which is very harmful in the present context".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-with-no-earnings-transgenders-struggle-for-food-and-medicines-survive-by-borrowing-828019.html
21-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: SC seeks Centre, Jammu and Kashmir's reply by April 27 on restoration of 4G internet services in UT||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked Centre and Jammu and Kashmir administration to file their responses by April 27 on a plea seeking restoration of 4G internet services in the Union territory in view of prevailing COVID-19 pandemic. The top court was told that due to non-availability of 4G services, several aspects are affected including medical facilities and education services. The Centre opposed the plea by telling the apex court that it is a question of national security as militancy still poses a serious threat in Jammu and Kashmir and cited a recent incident where hundreds of people gathered in the valley for a funeral of a militant killed by security forces. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, R Subhash Reddy and B R Gavai asked Attorney General K K Venugopal, appearing for the Centre and Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing Jammu and Kashmir administration, to file detailed reply on affidavits by April 27 after assessing the ground situation. At the outset, the bench enquired from the parties about the status of a 4G services related case, which was taken suo motu (on its own) by the Jammu and Kashmir High Court. Senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, appearing for petitioner -- 'Foundation for Media Professionals'-- said that his petition concerns only with restoration of 4G services in Jammu and Kashmir. He informed the bench that in the suo motu case taken by the High Court, notice has been issued and it deals with whole gamut of matters in which 4G internet services is one of the issue. He elaborated the need for 4G services and said for effective video conferencing facility to consult doctors in case of any health emergency, it was the need of the hour. The senior advocate said that having access to 4G services and being able to consult doctors in time would help in saving lives. He added that the second aspect is of educations as without 4G internet services, schools are facing problems in holding virtual classes for the students during the lockdown period. The bench, then asked Ahmadi as how many Covid-19 cases are there in Jammu and Kashmir as of now. The senior advocate replied, as of now around 354 cases have been reported. Mehta said he needs a week time to file a reply to the petition. Venugopal, who raised the issue of national security and threat of militancy, said that there are lots of problem and recently a terrorist was killed by security forces and around 500 people gathered for his funeral. The bench asked both -- Attorney General and Solicitor General -- to clear the stand of the Centre and the Jammu and Kashmir administration by filing the affidavits. Mehta said he would like to file a consolidated detailed affidavit on the issue after which the bench posted the matter for further hearing on April 27. Ahmadi intervened and said since the Attorney General has raised the issue of national security, the internet restriction could be there in the areas where there are problems but it cannot be extended to the entire state. Advocate Charu Ambwani, appearing for petitioner 'Private Schools Association of Jammu and Kashmir', also seeking restoration of 4G internet services in the union territory, said at present 2200 schools are unable to hold classes. She said that future of over 20 lakhs students of the state are at stake as they cannot study due to unavailability of proper internet connectivity. The bench, said since it has asked both, Centre and Jammu and Kashmir administration to file their reply, it would like to first go through it. On April 9, the top court had issued notice to Centre and J&K administration on the plea of 'Foundation for Media Professionals' which has assailed an order of the J&K administration on March 26 that restricted the internet speed to 2G only in the UT. The plea filed through advocate Shadan Farasat, while seeking restoration of 4G internet services, alleged that the action of the government was violative of Articles 14 (right to equality), 19 (freedom of speech) and 21 (right to life) of the Constitution. Terming 2G telephone services as "outdated", the plea said 4G internet speed would be useful in ensuring information flow to the citizens in view of the coronavirus or COVID-19 pandemic.    "The advent of the COVID-19 global pandemic has fundamentally altered the existing situation. At present, the following facts exist: first, COVID-19 exists in India, and is a highly infectious and communicable disease. Research into its origins and the best ways of tackling this disease is ongoing, and there is a continuing flow of new information about how best to contain the fall out of the virus, and limit its spread and impact," it said. The slow internet speed also renders telemedicine or online video consultation impossible, it said. "The right to internet connectivity has repeatedly been recognised by the Government of India as a basic necessity or an essential service to ensure the right to health," the plea said and referred to the National Telecom Policy in support of its contention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-sc-seeks-centre-jammu-and-kashmirs-reply-by-april-27-on-restoration-of-4g-internet-services-in-ut-828021.html
21-04-2020||National||SC refuses to pass orders on plea to evacuate Indians stranded in US due to coronavirus outbreak||A bench of Justices N V Ramana Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai told petitioner senior advocate Vibha Datta Makhija to wait for sometime. She wanted the Centre to bring back distressed Indian citizens from the United States. "They cannot be brought in, no matter how much we want. Assistance is being given to them. They are spread across the US. The government over there is extending Visas," the bench said. The court took into consideration a status report filed by the Centre, stating that it was not possible at this stage to evacuate people from the US. The court, however, allowed petitioner Makhija to make a representation before the officers of the Ministry of External Affairs within two weeks. "The concerned authorities are directed to consider it on its own merits and take appropriate steps to ameliorate the conditions of those in USA," the bench said. During the hearing, Makhija contended the people over there need help because application for extension of Visas cost was fixed as 500 USD. There was also no guarantee of Visa getting extended. To this, the court said it was a different government and there could not be any control on their decisions. "Indian government can request the US government to not create problems in the Visa extension," the bench said. Makhija then said she has got a list of 110 people, who were in dire need of help, including cancer patients and disabled persons. "There are helplines. The government has said they will consider evacuation on case by case basis. There needs to be fairness. Evacuations have  been organised by Indian government in the past to bring back indian citizens," she said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said that it was done earlier. Now internationally, it has been stopped. "On this situation, orders can't be passed. There can't be an Article 14 plea that you brought some persons, now bring others back as well," the bench said. Makhija, however, said she was not talking about students right now. There werw workers also. They were facing discrimination. They bring in lakhs of rupees in remittances every year. The bench, however, said, "We cannnot do anything at this time. Don't pitch it at a level which does not exist." Makhija again said there was international commitment to meet, along with WHO guidelines and rights of citizens. The bench said: "The court will not tell government to do anything in a particular manner. It is a worldwide problem. Each country is doing their best. These are not matters for court intervention. The government will lay down a roadmap". Makhija, for her part, pointed out she was not challenging the roadmap. "We will not entertain this challenge. These are not subjects that can be entertained in these time. Whatever you're asking for, we will not entertain," the bench said. Mehta said the petitioners can convey the issues to the designated nodal officer for the particular country. Makhija then said the travel ban is invalid. "We are not entering into these areas. What the government wants to do, what the WHO said at what time we are not going into this issue," the bench said, refusing to pass any order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-pass-orders-on-plea-to-evacuate-indians-stranded-in-us-due-to-coronavirus-outbreak-828032.html
21-04-2020||National||Amid COVID-19 lockdown, average online media consumption surges from 90 mins to 4 hours||A study on media consumption has found that per-capita daily online media intake has soared to more than 4 hours since the coronavirus-driven lockdown, compared with an average of 1.5 hours in the pre-shutdown period. Telecom companies have also been reporting over 30-percent spike in data usage since the nation has been put under the lockdown that began on March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus COVID-19, the disease caused by a coronavirus, has killed close to 600 in the country and infected close to 19,000. Globally, the deadly pandemic has killed over 1.7 lakh, close to 41,000 of them in the US alone and infected more than 2.4 million, again over 8 lakh of them in the US alone since the virus appeared in the Chinese city of Wuhan last November. And, the single biggest beneficiary of this massive spike is YouTube with around 300 billion views in the first quarter of 2020, which is 13-percent more than in the fourth quarter of 2019 and 11-percent more than in the first quarter of 2019, according to the study by media buying agency Mindshare and online video intelligence and analytics platform Vidooly. There was a steep increase in content consumption as the time spent by the average user rose to over 4 hours per day since the lockdown from 1.5 hours on social media platforms earlier, showed the survey. As a primary video sharing platform, YouTube alone has garnered over 300 billion views in the first quarter of 2020, up 13 percent over the fourth quarter of 2019 and a full 11-percent over the year-ago period, as per the survey. According to the survey, the millennials remain the most-active group on YouTube in the country as 70-percent of viewership is coming from the 18-34 age group. "Entertainment, music and news are the top-three genres in terms of content consumption contributing to over 70-percent of views and more than 90-percent of the views on YouTube are through mobiles," the survey showed. YouTube has also seen a 20.5-percent surge in subscribers base since the lockdown was announced, while COVID-related content has surged 98-percent in terms of views and 199-percent in terms of engagement. To garner better engagement, brands are indulging in marketing through Facebook and Instagram. Genre-specific observations from the report indicate a 120-percent spike in the number of uploads in the 'education' category after the lockdown. Music, majorly short-form content, has seen a 9-percent decline in consumption during the lockdown, indicating the shift in consumer behaviour towards long-form content. An increase in time at a consumer's disposal is cited as the reason for this shift. Other genres that have seen a significant increase in viewership are food and recipe (52-percent), gaming (23-percent), and information (42-percent). According to MA Parthasarathy, chief executive of Mindshare South Asia, through this survey with Vidooly, the company tried to leverage data and digital analytics to understand the shifts in consumer behaviour on content consumption on online media platforms and hopes to use the insights from this study to better serve our clients in crafting relevant, timely and effective content solutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-covid-19-lockdown-average-online-media-consumption-surges-from-90-mins-to-4-hours-828035.html
21-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Indian Internet infra not prepared for shift to online teaching-learning, says QS report||The report titled "COVID-19: A wake up call for telecom service providers" is based on a survey conducted by QS I Guage, which rates colleges and universities in India with complete operational control held by London-based QS. The report pointed out connectivity and signal issues as the most prevailing problems faced by students while attending online classes. "The survey pointed out that the infrastructure in terms of technology in India has not achieved a state of quality so as to ensure sound delivery of online classes to students across the country. It is seen that both the state and the private players have not yet managed to overcome technical challenges, for instance, in providing adequate power supply and ensuring effective connectivity as the data reveals," the report said. "Although, due to the outbreak of COVID-19, the world had witnessed a massive shift from the traditional Face to Face (F2F) to online platform as a mode of delivery of classes. Due to lack of proper infrastructure, a shift to a total reliance on the online platform for the delivery of lectures seems to be a distant dream," it added. According to the report, the survey with over 7600 respondents found that in order to use internet at home, 72.60 percent of the respondents use mobile hotspot, 15 pc use home broadband, 9.68 pc use WiFi dongle and 1.85 pc have poor to no internet connectivity. "The data revealed that amongst the respondents who used home broadband, over 3 pc faced cable cuts, 53 pc faced poor connectivity, 11.47 pc faced power issues and 32 pc faced signal issues. When it came to mobile hotspot, 40.18 pc faced poor connectivity, 3.19 pc faced power issues and 56.63 pc faced signal issues.  "Studies and reports regarding the consumption of power by the state authorities reveal that the states are not using power entirely due to COVID-19 situation thereby leaving a surplus supply for private entities and general public," it said. Schools and colleges were closed in the country ahead of nationwide lockdown announced on March 24 to contain the spread of coronavirus. The lockdown has now been extended till May 3.  "The education sector is amongst the many which has taken a strong blow due to the COVID-19 situation. No more are the stakeholders involved in higher education able to function conventionally and the prospect of operating back to the status quo seems quite uncertain. In such a time, the only recourse that universities and institutions across the globe are resorting to is that of functioning online," the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indian-internet-infra-not-prepared-for-shift-to-online-teaching-learning-says-qs-report-828045.html
21-04-2020||National||'Lockdown woes': UP family burns effigy of breadwinner out of compulsion||According to the reports, Sunil Kumar, a resident of Dumri Khurd village in UP's Gorakhpur district, about 300 kilometres from here, worked as a daily wager in Delhi. Sunil died a few days ago at a Delhi hospital following protracted illness. Sunil's wife Poonam Devi lived at the village with their five children. On getting the news of her husband's death, she expressed her inability to travel to Delhi to claim his body amid the lockdown. ''I never went out of the village,'' she said. She contacted the local officials and asked them to tell the Delhi authorities to cremate her husband there only and send her the ashes, if possible. After consulting the villagers and the priests, she decided to perform a symbolic cremation at the village. An effigy of her husband was prepared and the last rites were performed in accordance with the Hindu traditions. Her eldest son lit the pyre. Taking note of the reports, the UP government on Tuesday directed the Gorakhpur district magistrate to make arrangements to bring the body from Delhi and hand over the same to the family members. Poonam would now have to perform second cremation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-woes-up-family-burns-effigy-of-breadwinner-out-of-compulsion-828051.html
21-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: India's avoidable coal imports to be brought down to zero 2023-24||India is planning to bring 'avoidable coal imports' to zero by 2023-24 amid abundance of fuel stock due to subdued demand by the power sector in the wake of the coronavirus-driven lockdown, according to a source. The source, on the condition of anonymity, said the "government is planning to bring down to zero the country's avoidable coal import by 2023-24". This comes at a time when the country's coal imports increased marginally by 3.2 per cent to 242.97 million tonnes (MT) in the just-concluded financial year 2019-20. Of the total, 110 MT of fuel was unavoidable import, while the remaining nearly 130 MT is avoidable import, the source said.  The government is planning to reduce "this avoidable coal import by 25-30 per cent in the ongoing fiscal', the source said. This unavoidable coal import consisted of coking coal and coal with low-ash content. According to industry experts, India does not have much coking coal, which steel plants use to mix into iron to produce steel, and so has to import. "The coastal power plants have boilers which are designed in such a way that they use low-ash coal," the source said. Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi recently wrote to chief ministers of all states asking them to not import dry fuel and take domestic supply of fuel from state-owned CIL, which has the fossil fuel in abundance.  To give a boost to coal demand hit by the ongoing lockdown, the government has also announced a slew of measures like increased dry fuel supply for linkage consumers. The ministry also approved relaxation in quantity of coal for linkage consumers. It also announced that no performance incentive shall be levied on power consumers if CIL supplies more than the upper limit of fuel supply agreement (FSA). About 80 per cent of India's domestic coal production comes from CIL. CIL recorded an all-time high coal output of 84.36 MT during March 2020, registering 6.5 per cent growth compared to 79.19 MT it produced in March 2019. Coming back strongly in the last quarter of 2019-20, CIL clocked a robust 9.9 per cent production growth compared to same quarter of 2018-19. The firm produced 213.71 MT of coal during January-March 2020, an increase of 19.26 MT in volume terms as compared to 194.45 MT in the fourth quarter of 2018-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-indias-avoidable-coal-imports-to-be-brought-down-to-zero-2023-24-828054.html
21-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Babita Phogat joins Delhi police team to prepare meals for the needy||Wrestler-turned-politician Babita Phogat on Tuesday helped police personnel here in preparing meals for the needy amid the ongoing lockdown, officials said. The Arjuna Awardee and Commonwealth Gold Medallist visited the Najafgarh police station and lent a helping hand to policewomen who are voluntarily devoting three hours from their eight-hour shifts on a daily basis to stitch masks and prepare food for the poor, a senior official said. "Phogat was highly impressed with the way the female staff of Najafgarh police station engaged in preparing food, masks and distributed these along with milk and medicine among women, children and needy persons during this difficult time. She also participated in the services and contributed towards their continuous efforts to motivate the staff," he said. Phogat also lauded the efforts of the police in maintaining social distancing, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-babita-phogat-joins-delhi-police-team-to-prepare-meals-for-the-needy-828064.html
21-04-2020||National||Cooperate with Central team: West Bengal Governor to CM Mamata Banerjee||The Governor on Tuesday morning urged Banerjee to “synergetically” ( synergistically) cooperate with the Central team top relieve people from their flight. “My request to CM MB to synergetically cooperate with the Central Team @PMOIndia to wean away the miseries of people,” stated Dhankhar in tweet on Tuesday. Even as her urged everyone to support the Mamata Banerjee government in the fight against the novel coronavirus pandemic, Dhankhar said cooperation and not confrontation between the Centre and state government was the need of the hour.  “My appeal to all: Support government @MamataOfficial to contain and combat corona curse...Cooperation and not confrontation between Centre and State must,” stated Dhankhar in the same tweet. Dhankhar’s comments a day after the Chief Minister questioned the basis of the Centre’s decision to send Inter Ministerial Central Teams to West Bengal. Later in the day without directly naming him the Trinamool Congress (TMC) Derek O' Brien took a dig at the Governor for his tweets in criticism of the state government. “Mamata Banerjee is the elected Chief Minister of Bengal. She is not one twitter happy Governor of a state who is nominated whom the Centre nominated...She did not become Chief Minister from Bengal because someone from Delhi or Gujarat gave her a nomination,” said O’Brien. Banerjee not only described the basis of Centre’s decision as “unclear” in a tweet on Monday but also shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi stating that the Central teams were sent to West Bengal without prior intimation to the state government and hence was “breach of protocol”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cooperate-with-central-team-west-bengal-governor-to-cm-mamata-banerjee-828077.html
21-04-2020||National||Bengal youth trumps physical barrier to feed the needy||Physical hindrances and poverty have failed to stop a differently-abled youth from West Bengal’s Birhum district from helping the poor during the lockdown. Challenges faced by Jagannath Mahara, a resident of the Suri town in Birhbhum are many. Apart from poverty, he was born without any arms. But that has not stopped Mahara from feeding the needy.  “I was born without arms. Whatever little I have saved from providing private tuition I am using it to buy food grains for the pavement dwellers and the homeless,” said Mahara. He also said that life has become even more difficult for the pavement dwellers since the lockdown has started and he is just trying to alleviate their sufferings a little bit. However, Mahara is no stranger to challenges. Having no arms he has completed his school education and now is studying in college writing with his foot all these years. Not only does he help the poor with money saved from giving private tuition but also uses it to manage the expenditure of his studies. His family members said that Mahara’s effort to help the needy started a few weeks back when he saw those pavement dwellers in his locality were almost facing the prospect of starvation. Since then he decided to help them with whatever he has. However, at one point his savings started to run out and Mahara became worried as to how long he can continue his initiative. Soon a local NGO and several others came forward to help him and the initiative is now continuing with renewed enthusiasm. “We are very poor ourselves. But helping others is in Jagannath’s nature. When he saw pavement dwellers suffering from hunger during lockdown he decided to help them. Many in our locality have come forward to stand by him,” said Chaaya Mahara, Jaganaath’s mother.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-youth-trumps-physical-barrier-to-feed-the-needy-828087.html
21-04-2020||National||SC gives more time for J&K govt to respond to plea for 4G Internet service||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the Jammu and Kashmir administration time till April 26 to file its reply to a plea for restoring 4G internet services to enable students, doctors and others to access information during the period of lockdown. The Centre, led by Attorney General K K Venugopal, for its part, opposed the plea citing militancy. He said the funeral of a militant killed recently was attended by 500 people. "It is a very serious issue. Militancy is still there. When a militant was killed about 500 people came for the funeral. They are being made into martyrs," he said. A bench presided over by N V Ramana said whatever the Centre and Jammu and Kashmir administration wanted to say, they should do it through an affidavit. The court put a batch of petitions for further consideration on Monday, April 27. Senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, appearing for 'Foundation for Media Professionals', contended internet restrictions should not be extended to the entire area. "The schools all over the country have resorted to online classes. But in absence of 4G services, all students in Jammu and Kashmir are at a disadvantageous situation," he said. The counsel highlighted the importance of 4G services for doctors and medical professionals and its use for video conferencing. Another petitioner contended the future of 27 lakh students was at stake. They had laptops and tabs but no internet connection. During the hearing, the court sought to know if the Jammu and Kashmir HC was also hearing the similar issue. To this, the counsel said the High Court had taken Suo Motu cognisance of several other issues. But here the issue was limited to the access of 4G services. The PIL, filed by the foundation through its president and noted journalist Paranjoy Guna Thakurta, earlier this month, contended the people in Jammu and Kashmir were unable to access the latest information, guidelines, advisories, daily updates and restrictions on COVID-19 pandemic. Two other petitions --- by Soayib Qureshi and Private Schools Association J and K -- were also filed for a similar purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-gives-more-time-for-jk-govt-to-respond-to-plea-for-4g-internet-service-828092.html
21-04-2020||National||Migrant workers in urgent need of assistance: Survey||The highest job losses were reported from Tamil Nadu’s Tirupur, one of the major textile hubs of the country, where a “vast majority” reported that they were laid off, followed by Ahmedabad, the survey carried out by Gram Vaani, a social technology company incubated out of IIT-Delhi said. The survey reached out to 752 respondents across eight states and found that 57% of those who lost their jobs were not paid their full wages, most such complaints originating from Ahmedabad and Gurugram in Haryana. “I am from Madhya Pradesh, my factory in Tirupur has been closed, I want to go back to my place but because of lock down, trains are not running, I am facing great difficulty in arranging for my food,” a worker from Madhya Pradesh stranded in Tirupur said. Gram Vaani’s Saajha Manch network seeks to help migrant workers share information and create awareness about their rights and entitlements. This network was activated to carry out a survey to understand how they were coping with the lockdown. A total of 752 responses, more than 50% workers wanted to go back to their places of origin and were even willing to pay for their transit. “Me, my wife and three children are stuck in Maharashtra, I am out of work from 21st March and we do not have any money left to sustain ourselves,” Luvkush Saini, a labourer stranded in Maharashtra, was quoted in the results of the survey released by Gram Vaani. The survey was conducted over a span of 18 days and the responses divided into two time period, to understand whether the need for urgent assistance (particularly food) had settled over time. “Respondents in the later time period, 8th-14th April, had even more demand for urgent assistance, than respondents in the earlier period, 27th March to 7th April,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-workers-in-urgent-need-of-assistance-survey-828098.html
21-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: 42 tested positive even after the 14-day quarantine in Kerala, govt to start screening all again||In Kerala, 42 persons kept in quarantine on arrival from aboard were tested positive even after the 14 days. Many of them were asymptomatic also. Hence Kerala government is now carrying out COVID-19 tests on all persons in quarantine even if they have no symptoms. Virologists and doctors point out that in some cases it was found that the virus would remain in a person for up to 25 days. While the general directive was to keep a COVID-19 suspect in 14 days quarantine, Kerala was following 28-day quarantine norms to ensure that even if the person contracts the virus on the 14th day, he would be under quarantine and thereby the risk of a spread could be averted. This strategy helped in averting the risk of asymptomatic persons causing the spread of the virus as all the 40 odd tested positive even after 14 days were remaining in quarantine. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Viajayn said that even a patient was remaining positive over the last 36 days and hence detailed studies on COVID-19 were required. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja told DH that the 14 day incubation period of the virus was only a general norm and around five percent were tested positive after 14 days. There were fresh reports suggesting that the virus may remain alive for 27 days, she said. According to a senior virologist at the Kerala unit of the National Institute of Virology, in many infectious diseases like Cholera, there could be up to eight asymptomatic cases against one symptomatic. Being a new virus, COVID-19's effects are yet to be ascertained. It was found that normally a person can remain COVID-19 positive for five to ten days and in some cases, it extended up to 30 days. The couple in Kerala aged around 90, who recovered from COVID, remained positive for about 20 days, while many patients recovered in a few days' time, he said. The expert committee of doctors appointed by the Kerala government for COVID-19 care recently informed the government that the COVID-19 infection in Kerala was found to be of a mild nature and the transmission period could be only up to eight days after showing symptoms. But one could be tested COVID-19 positive even after the quarantine period and hence persons were being tested positive even after 14 days.  Experts sum up that since COVID-19 is a new virus, the exact incubation period and effects of the virus are yet to be ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-42-tested-positive-even-after-the-14-day-quarantine-in-kerala-govt-to-start-screening-all-again-828106.html
21-04-2020||National||52 fresh cases of coronavirus in Rajasthan, tally now at 1,628||Rajasthan recorded 52 fresh coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the state's virus tally to 1,628, an official said.  The state has so far seen 25 deaths due to the virus, with Jaipur accounting for 13 deaths. "52 fresh cases have been reported in nine districts of the state, including 34 in Jaipur," Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said. He said test results of the backlog 4000 samples sent to a private lab in Delhi have started coming and these are being captured in the report. Hence, number of positive cases is expected to rise today and tomorrow. Singh said of the 52 fresh cases, 34 were reported from Jaipur; five in Jodhpur; four in Bhilwara; two from Tonk, Dausa and Jaisalmer and one each in Swai Madhopur, Nagaur and Jhunjhunu. A total of 1,628 cases of the virus have been reported in the state so far. He said so far 302 patients have tested negative for the infection after treatment, of which 97 have been discharged from hospitals. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran to Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/52-fresh-cases-of-coronavirus-in-rajasthan-tally-now-at-1628-828114.html
21-04-2020||National||Spread positive, correct and factual information on coronavirus, J P Nadda tells BJP publications||BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday asked the editors of the party's various publications to use the digital platform to disseminate positive, correct and factual information during the COVID-19 pandemic. Amid a countrywide lockdown, Nadda has been holding meetings with party leaders online and asking them to help the poor and the needy. On Tuesday, he interacted with the editors of BJP's various publications and suggested to them to maximise the use of digital platforms to disseminate positive, correct and factual information, saying the pen has a lot of might. He also asked BJP workers to digitise all the archives of the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spread-positive-correct-and-factual-information-on-coronavirus-j-p-nadda-tells-bjp-publications-828122.html
21-04-2020||National||Technical snag delays hearing of plea of HIV positive prisoner seeking bail in Delhi High Court||A technical snag, which cropped up during proceedings conducted through video conferencing in the Delhi High Court, led to a delay in the hearing of plea of an HIV positive prisoner seeking to be released on interim bail for 90 days as he fears catching coronavirus in jail. The technical fault occurred with the mike of the Delhi government counsel on Monday due to which he was not audible to judges and the advocate for the prisoner after which the matter was adjourned for Wednesday. "There is a technical fault with the mike of Ravi Nayak, counsel for NCT of Delhi. He is not audible. Hence hearing cannot be completed. List on April 22,” a bench of Justices Jayant Nath and Prateek Jalan said in its brief order. The court was hearing the interim bail plea of a murder convict on grounds that he was suffering from HIV stage-II and was vulnerable to being infected with COVID-19 in jail. Advocate K Singhal, representing the convict, said the video conferencing was being conducted through 'Cisco WebEx' software and initially the government counsel's voice was clear but later on, he was not audible. While the judges were conducting proceedings from their residence, the two advocates joined the hearing from their respective houses. The hearing went on for around 15 minutes and later it was adjourned to April 22, he said, adding that this could happen with anyone and no one was at fault. Singhal informed that the man's wife and daughter were also HIV positive and on March 15, the high court had suspended his sentence for two weeks to consult and receive treatment at the Indraprastha Apollo Hospital here. Jail authorities were also taking him for treatment to various government hospitals.  On April 3, the man again approached the high court seeking extension of the period of interim suspension of sentence by 60 days, which was rejected by the high court. Thereafter, he file a fresh plea which is pending in the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/technical-snag-delays-hearing-of-plea-of-hiv-positive-prisoner-seeking-bail-in-delhi-high-court-828123.html
21-04-2020||National||Speaker Om Birla calls for COVID-19 control room in each Assembly||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Tuesday urged State Assemblies to explore the feasibility of extensive use of digital technology in legislative and financial work and for other routine tasks such as meetings and file movements so as to make sure that stringent social distancing norms are followed in their respective states. Birla was informed by a number of Presiding Officers about the plight of stranded workers in many parts of the country. He was also informed that a large number of students have been left stranded in the educational hub of Kota, which also happens to be Birla’s constituency. Birla assured the Presiding Officers of taking all the requisite steps to make sure that the stranded students and workers are provided with all necessary assistance. His assurance came even as the very move by the Uttar Pradesh government to bring back students from Kota was criticised by the Bihar Chief Minister as violating the spirit of lockdown. Despite the criticism, another BJP-ruled state Madhya Pradesh has also sent buses to bring back its students from Kota.  He also called upon all the state assemblies to set up a control room for real time information exchange between the various state assemblies and Parliament, which would allow MLAs and MPs to discharge their duties in a more effective manner in order to fight the challenge posed by COVID 19. Interacting with Chairs of state legislatures through video conference, he said Assemblies and Parliament must adopt technology for functioning more effectively. Birla said that both Central and State governments have been vigilant with this pandemic and have taken necessary steps to contain its spread. The Presiding Officers of state legislatures informed Birla that many states have taken proactive measures with regard to providing relief to affected people. He was informed that many state MLAs have actively contributed to COVID 19 relief funds, both at the central as well as state level. Many states have also extended direct relief to the people through cash transfers in bank accounts of the intended beneficiaries. States have also taken steps to provide cooked food to the poor and destitute and have given rations in the form of rice, flour and oil etc. The Lok Sabha Speaker also informed the Presiding Officers that the four Committees of Presiding Officers that had been constituted earlier to look into matters relating to Disruptions in the House, Autonomy of Legislatures,  Tenth Schedule of the Constitution and Information Technology and related matters - have made substantial progress in finalising their reports, and will submit the reports in due course.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speaker-om-birla-calls-for-covid-19-control-room-in-each-assembly-828133.html
21-04-2020||National||Centre suspends 'faulty' coronavirus rapid antibody tests||Five lakh rapid antibody test kits were imported from China and distributed among state governments to step up surveillance against COVID-19. The states had started using the kits from Monday but found the outcome of the tests was inaccurate. “We have received a complaint from one state that rapid kits were leading to lesser detections, so we took feedback from three states,” Raman Gangakhedkar, the Head of the Epidemiological and Communicable Diseases Department Indian Council of Medical Research said.  He said all states have been asked to put on hold the rapid antibody testing for COVID-19 for two days, pending an assessment by ICMR experts. “Over the next two day, eight institutes of ICMR will carry out field validation of the rapid antibody tests and if a problem is found in the batches of kits received, we will seek replacement from the manufacturer,” Gangakhedkar said. “We have learnt that the positive samples of RT-PCR are showing too much variation (when tested by rapid kits) in the range of 6 to 71%,” he said, referring to the percentage of successful detection made by the rapid testing kits in COVID-19 positive cases. “This much variation is not good and it requires investigation,” Gangakhedkar said pointing out that the test kits were first generation ELISA is crude form which required to be refined. “But these findings will not be overlooked,” he said adding that the rapid test kits were tested in Delhi before being sent out to states and had shown 71% accuracy. He added that its accuracy percentage was growing with the passage of time as COVID-19 antibodies take seven days to develop. As on Tuesday evening, India had 18,985 confirmed cases of COVID 19 of which 3260 had recovered and discharged from hospitals. The recovery rate of COVID-19 patients was 17.16%. India had 15,122 active cases of the virus and had reported 603 deaths till date. Stepping up its response to COVID-19, the Centre had mapped 1.24 healthcare workers and volunteers district wise who could be deployed as per requirement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-suspends-faulty-coronavirus-rapid-antibody-tests-828141.html
21-04-2020||National||SC asks Centre to consider plea by Mander for minimum wages to migrant workers||The top court called upon the Union government "to look into such material and take such steps as it finds fit to resolve the issues," including payment of monthly sum to hawkers, rickshaw pullers and others. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai told advocate Prashant Bhushan that the court cannot direct the government to pay certain amounts to migrant workers as it would amount to interfering in finances of the Union government. "In an unusual situation faced by the country, the court cannot tell the government how it should work and which schemes to implement," the bench said. Activist Mander, led by advocate Prashant Bhushan, alleged that nearly 90% of migrant workers have not received either ration or cooked meal. He said none of them has been paid a single penny. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said the migrant labourers, staying in shelter  home, were given food. He also pointed out Rs 500 per month was transferred to Jan Dhan accounts held by crores of women. He also said helpline number has been provided to address any issue raised at the ground level. "Whenever any complaint is received, the authorities are attempting to address it immediately," he said. Mehta also said around 50,000 NGOs were working shoulder-to-shoulder with governments to provide food and basic necessities to migrant workers, the poor and destitute. "While thousands of NGOs are doing exemplary social work, some persons' social work is confined to filing PILs," he quipped. To this, Bhushan retorted that the petitioner can't be expected to feed 15 lakh people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-consider-plea-by-mander-for-minimum-wages-to-migrant-workers-828142.html
21-04-2020||National||TN Tablighi attendees ready to donate plasma for COVID-19 treatment||“I am ready to donate my plasma not just to help other patients recover from COVID-19 but to send a message that I am cooperative in nature and a law-abiding citizen. I want to give hope to others.” These are the words of 40-year-old Mohammad Jaffar from Tiruchirappalli in Tamil Nadu who tested positive for Coronavirus after attending the Tablighi Jamaat religious congregation in New Delhi. Jaffar, who is now under home quarantine after his discharge from a government hospital on April 16, is not alone. A good number of those who attended the Delhi meet from Tamil Nadu have expressed their willingness to donate their plasma to treat COVID-19 patients to send a strong message that they are “law-abiding” citizens. Local religious leaders are also encouraging recovered COVID-19 patients, especially youngsters, to donate their plasma once the government makes an announcement in this regard. “I donate blood every six months and I don’t have any problem in donating my plasma. If my plasma can save a life, why should I refrain from donating it? Besides helping in treating someone, I can also send a message that I am cooperative in nature. Helping someone in need is the basic instinct of a human being,” Jaffar told DH. A group of treated patients from Theni also released a video on Tuesday expressing their willingness to donate their plasma, while the secretary of Erode District Masjid Coordination Committee told DH that several patients in the textile town were willing to do their bit in containing COVID-19. The offer comes as the Tamil Nadu government looks set to commence trials for convalescent plasma therapy to treat COVID-19 patients. Doctors believe plasma from recovered COVID-19 patients will have antibodies to the virus which will help treat others who have contracted Coronavirus.  The state government has sought permission from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting plasma therapy treatment. Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar had last week said the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) and the Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University have been equipped to carry out the clinical trials. The attendees of the congregation from across the country came under attack from various quarters for “non-cooperation.” But, in Tamil Nadu, nearly 1,000 people voluntarily got admitted to hospitals after the government made a public appeal in this regard. Of the 1,520 COVID-19 patients in Tamil Nadu, more than 1,300 belong to the Delhi cluster, including 620 members of the jamaat who attended the meeting. The number of total discharges has also crossed 500.  M Sheik Mohamed, Director of Aiman College of Arts and Science for Women in Tiruchirappalli, told DH that he was preparing a list of persons from the city who are willing to donate their plasma. “I am 68 years old, but I am ready to donate my plasma if I am found eligible. We are collecting a list of people who returned from the hospital after treatment. We have got consent from several people and we will get consent for more in the coming days. Young people are more than willing to donate their plasma,” he said. Ruing the “stigmatization” to which the conference attendees were subjected, Mohammed said negative comments against him, and a group of people affected them a lot during the treatment. “Nobody wishes the virus upon themselves. We were targeted and branded as those who do not cooperate. By expressing willingness to donate our plasma, we have made our stand and conscience clear,” he added.             Dr. P Vasanthamani, Dean, Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, Chennai said five patients who underwent treatment at the hospital have already expressed their willingness to donate their plasma.       “The treated patients will have powerful anti-bodies and there is a procedure involved in accepting plasma donation. The patients are discharged only after 14 days in the hospital and they have advised another 14 days quarantine at home. After the home quarantine ends, we will screen them and check whether they are eligible for donation,” she told DH.       She added that the hospital has received a good response for its call to young patients to donate their plasma for COVID-19 treatment.       Haji Mohammad Hanifa, secretary of the Erode District Masjid Coordination Committee also said he was preparing a list of those eligible for plasma donation in his district.       “It is unfortunate many of those who attended the meeting contracted COVID-19. Now that they are all fine and discharged from the hospital, they want to help treat new patients and do their bit to the society. Most of them are voluntarily coming forward to donate their plasma,” Hanifa told DH.       He added they will hand over the list to the district administration when the government makes an official announcement that it has begun plasma therapy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tn-tablighi-attendees-ready-to-donate-plasma-for-covid-19-treatment-828144.html
21-04-2020||National||Manipur plans grocery kiosks near Myanmar border to stop spread of coronavirus||Manipur government is planning to open grocery kiosks along the borders with Myanmar in order to prevent its residents from crossing the border to buy the essentials and thereby prevent the spread of coronavirus. Chief Minister N. Biren Singh on Tuesday said the state cabinet discussed the need for opening grocery kiosks in some areas along the borders in Churachandpur, Kamjong and Tengnoupal districts as some people used to cross the border to buy essential items. Manipur shares about 510-km of 1,624 km-long borders with Myanmar but a large part is unfenced and is guarded by Assam Rifles. People on both sides of the border, however, are allowed to travel up to 20-km without travel documents as part of an agreement between the two countries. Before the country-wide lockdown was clamped, the state closed the border gates but the free movement of people in some areas continue to worry the state government about the possible spread of the coronavirus from across the borders.  Manipur reported two COVID-19 positive cases but both recovered and have been released from hospitals.  "The state needs to maintain extra vigil in its border areas to check incoming of infected persons because even slight negligence may lead to an unmanageable situation. The state must never take it easy with the notion that it has zero positive cases now. We all must take it as just a beginning of a long battle against the deadly coronavirus which requires a systematic approach to come out victorious," said a statement quoting Singh.  Singh also asked the director-general of police L M Khaute to re-enforce with more police vigil in Churanchandpur district to increase the number of check posts.  Singh on Tuesday distributed medical equipment to chief medical officers in Senapati, Ukhrul, Chandel, Tamenglong, Tengnoupal and Jiribam districts and the medical officer of Mao public health centre. This included 85 thermal scanners, 930 PPEs, 510 N95 masks, 26,000 three-layer masks, 25,500 gloves, 85 oximeters, 8500 surgical caps, and 85 sanitizers. The equipment was bought with assistance from the local area development fund of Lorho S. Pfoze, MP, Outer Manipur Parliamentary constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manipur-plans-grocery-kiosks-near-myanmar-border-to-stop-spread-of-coronavirus-828157.html
21-04-2020||National||Centre to conduct tele-survey to assess COVID-19 prevalence||The survey will be carried out by the National Informatics Centre by calling people on their mobile phones from calling number 1921. “People are informed that it is a genuine survey and are requested to participate in good measure when a call comes in from 1921 to enable proper feedback of the prevalence and distribution of Covid symptoms,” an official statement said. It also cautioned people against any other calls by pranksters or calls from any other number in the guise of such similar survey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-conduct-tele-survey-to-assess-covid-19-prevalence-828161.html
21-04-2020||National||COVID-19 lockdown not affected placements so far: IIT Guwahati||The IIT Guwahati on Tuesday said placements have not been impacted by the COVID-19 lockdown so far and no job offers withdrawn. "Even in the current uncertain situation, the institute is happy to note that placements have not been impacted so far. No offers, domestic or international, have been withdrawn. However, a few companies have postponed the date of joining," said a statement issued by the IITG. It said the institute was discussing with companies to assess the feasibility of work from home model. "The Institute is doing everything in its capacity to support students during this critical period," it said.  It further said that the institute was conducting online courses of all the theory courses (more than 350) since April 4 and it was likely to be completed by May 15. "The institute has tentatively scheduled examinations in July and will be welcome the incoming students for the new session in August 2020," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-not-affected-placements-so-far-iit-guwahati-828164.html
21-04-2020||National||Central team, Bengal govt spar over improper implementation of COVID-19 lockdown||Claims and counterclaims flew thick and fast between the Central teams visiting West Bengal to evaluate the regimentation of the lockdown and the state government on Tuesday (April 21). While Apurva Chandra, Additional Secretary, Department of Defence and team leader in Kolkata claimed that state government was cooperating; Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said that it would have been better if the Centre coordinated with the state government before sending the team. Later in the day, the Central team visited some areas in the city. Chandra said that on Monday they met the Chief Secretary at the state secretariat and were assured that after another meting they will be taken around. “But today we were informed that there are some issues and we will not be going out,” Chandra told a news agency. He also said that he had conveyed to the state government that the team will be only with a state government liaison officer because our work can be effective in case the state government accompanies them. “I would like to add that these teams have gone to other states also like  Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan. There we got the support of the state governments and all the teams are working. They have also been given the same notice as the state of West Bengal. But there is no problem,” said Chandra. “Our government’s stand is that in a set up like this it would have been better if the Centre coordinated with us before sending the teams. We have provided all our progress report and information regarding the situation in West Bengal to their team leader Vineeth Joshi in north Bengal. If he wants to visit any places we will consider it,” said Sinha. “There should be no conflict between the Centre and the state. But blaming only the state government will not do. It is expected that discipline will be shown by both sides,” said Sinha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-team-bengal-govt-spar-over-improper-implementation-of-covid-19-lockdown-828174.html
21-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: India asks nationals in UAE to cease hate speech against Muslims||India has advised its nationals in United Arab Emirates to refrain from making hate-speeches, after some of them drew flak, lost jobs and even faced charges for making posts on social media platforms, targeting Muslims. “India and (the) UAE share the value of non-discrimination on any grounds. Discrimination is against our moral fabric and the rule of law. Indian nationals in the UAE should always remember this” Pawan Kapoor, New Delhi’s envoy to Abu Dhabi, posted on Twitter. Kapoor also tagged with his post on Twitter a recent tweet by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, himself, underlining that the COVID-19 did not see race, religion, colour, caste, creed, language or borders before striking and it should be defeated with the spirit of “unity and brotherhood”. The tweet by New Delhi’s envoy to Abu Dhabi appeared to be a part of its image-makeover exercise in the UAE and other West Asian nations, where several social media users strongly reacted to the posts by Indian Twitterati blaming the Muslims for the spread of the pandemic in India. Princess Hend Al Qassimi, who belongs to a royal family of the UAE, recently reacted to some tweets by Saurabh Upadhyay, an Indian based in the Emirates, who made critical remarks about Muslims, referring to the spread of COVID-19 virus in a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi. “Anyone that is openly racist and discriminatory in the UAE will be fined and made to leave,” she posted on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-asks-nationals-in-uae-to-cease-hate-speech-against-muslims-828182.html
21-04-2020||National||India's prospects to contain COVID-19 rest on broad shoulders of civil servants, says Jitendra Singh||Commending the yeomen services rendered by civil servants in the fight against COVID-19, Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Tuesday said India's prospects to contain the pandemic rest on their broad shoulders. In an interactive call with a group of select officers of 25 states and five Union territories on the Civil Services Day, Singh said the country's governance model has been widely recognised as promoting meritocracy and constitutional values. He said district collectors have been leading the fight against the pandemic and India's prospects to contain it rested on the broad shoulders of civil servants, according to a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry. The Civil Services Day events have been deferred due to the coronavirus lockdown. The Prime Minister's awards for excellence in public administration 2019 and 2020 will now be presented on October 31 to mark the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, the statement said. Singh complemented the civil servants for their support to the government's COVID-19 relief operations by offering one-day salary to the PM-CARES Fund. "It is also pertinent to mention here that civil servants for their support to government's COVID-19 relief operations in various ministries of the central government have contributed more than Rs 4,227 crore to the PM CARES fund so far by offering one day salary and through CSR contributions," the minister added. Singh, the minister of state for personnel, public grievances and pensions, said “minimum government, maximum governance” has been the motto of the Modi government. In the past 6 years the nation has witnessed significant civil service reforms in reorganising and rightsizing of government institutions, recruitment reforms like lateral entry at joint secretary level, improved delivery of public services with emphasis on providing e-services, as also several initiatives with the citizens at the centre, he said. The publication of the good governance index and the national e-services delivery assessment in 2019 represented India's endeavour to bring its civil service on par with global best practices, according to the statement. "India's governance model has been widely recognized as promoting meritocracy and constitutional values," it said. Singh also expressed satisfaction that so far more than 1,44,736 persons have enrolled at the Department of Personnel and Training e-learning platform (https://igot.gov.in) to combat the virus and 96,268 candidates completed the course. The Government of India celebrates April 21 as Civil Services Day to commemorate the day when the first home minister of independent India, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, addressed the probationers of Administrative Services Officers in 1947 at Metcalf House, Delhi. He referred to civil servants as the 'steel frame of India'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-prospects-to-contain-covid-19-rest-on-broad-shoulders-of-civil-servants-says-jitendra-singh-828198.html
21-04-2020||National||Indian companies win praise in US for helping coronavirus fight||“Thank you to the Mahindra Group for rising to the occasion and using your facilities to manufacture life-saving equipment,” Mike Pompeo, the US Secretary of State tweeted. The Mahindra Automotive North America (MANA) is producing not only face-shields in its facility at Auburn Hills in Michigan, but also aspiration boxes from the plastic polycarbonate otherwise used to make windshields for the vehicles manufactured by it. The aspiration boxes protect the nurses and doctors from being infected by the COVID-19 while attending patients at the hospital. The aspiration boxes produced by the MANA have been in high demand due to innovative ease-of-use design. Not only the MANA, the other Indian companies operating in the US too have started contributing to fight against the COVID-19 or to help local authorities and people deal with the impact of the lockdown and other curbs imposed to contain the pandemic – be it by providing food and accommodation to the healthcare professionals or by offering Information Technology solutions for teachers to take online classes for students. With over 80% of the schools in the US shut due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the teachers are adapting to virtual classes and many families have been forced into homeschooling children. The Infosys Foundation in the US has responded to the need for well-curated content, utilizing the existing infrastructure of the online platform of its “Pathfinders Institute” initiative – a national professional development program for hundreds of public school teachers from underserved school districts across the US. ﻿The Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) is also offering its flagship STEM education programs, virtually and free to access, for all students and teachers across the US. The OYO Hotels in the US are offering free stays to medical professionals and first responders fighting the COVID-19, so that they can sleep, shower or just get some rest and recharge. “All of us at OYO are grateful for the bravery and sacrifices all the medical personnel are making to save lives and stop the spread of COVID-19,” Ritesh Agarwal, founder and Group CEO, OYO Hotels & Homes, was quoted saying in a document compiled by Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in North America.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-companies-win-praise-in-us-for-helping-coronavirus-fight-828214.html
21-04-2020||National||NHRC notice to Maharashtra Police on Palghar lynching incident||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday sought a report from Maharashtra Police over the mob lynching of three persons in Palghar saying, the incident was indicative of negligence by public servants. Acting on a complaint, the NHRC asked the Maharashtra Director General of Police to submit the report within four weeks. The report should have details of action taken against the culprits and relief granted to the next of kin of the deceased persons. "The incident is apparently indicative of negligence by the public servants. The death of three persons in such a cruel manner by the unruly mob that too during the countrywide lockdown, under extra vigil by the administration and police, amounts to gross violation of the right to life of the victims," it said. The victims, Sushil Giri and Kalpavriksh Giri belonging to a sect of Sadhus, were going to attend a funeral when they along with the driver of their car were attacked on April 16 by an unruly mob on suspicion that they were thieves. The video of the attack on the deceased persons went viral on April 19, which showed that police personnel was also present when the victims were being attacked, the NHRC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-notice-to-maharashtra-police-on-palghar-lynching-incident-828217.html
21-04-2020||National||Army readying teams for Bangladesh, Bhutan, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan to combat coronavirus||The Indian Army is readying separate teams to be deployed in Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Afghanistan to help those countries boost capabilities to deal with rising cases of coronavirus, official sources said on Tuesday. A 14-member Indian Army team was sent to the Maldives last month to help the island nation set up coronavirus testing laboratories and train local medical professionals to fight the pandemic. Earlier this month, India dispatched a 15-member team of Army to Kuwait as part of bilateral cooperation between the two countries. The sources said the teams for Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Afghanistan are being readied as part of India's policy of extending helping hand to all friendly countries in the region to fight the pandemic. India has also been playing a key role in pushing for a common framework in fighting the pandemic in the SAARC region. At a video conference on March 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi pitched for formulating a joint strategy to fight COVID-19 in the SAARC region and proposed an emergency fund with an initial offer of USD 10 million from India. It is understood that India has already made the contribution. The South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) is a grouping comprising Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. All the SAARC member nations are reeling under the adverse social and economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic. As part of its policy to help friendly countries to deal with the pandemic, India is also supplying anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine to 55 countries. A number of countries including the US, Mauritius and Seychelles have already received the drug. Hydroxychloroquine has been identified by the US Food and Drug Administration as a possible treatment for COVID-19 and it is being tested on more than 1,500 coronavirus patients in New York. The demand for the drug has swelled rapidly after India decided to lift a ban on its export. In the neighbourhood, India is sending the drug to Afghanistan, Bhutan, Bangladesh Nepal, Maldives, Mauritius, Sri Lanka and Myanmar, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-readying-teams-for-bangladesh-bhutan-sri-lanka-afghanistan-to-combat-coronavirus-828219.html
21-04-2020||National||Centre suggests special certificates for voluntary blood donors||Amid reports of the shortage of blood, Centre has asked states to encourage donors by offering them special certificates to recognise their contribution during the time of crisis. In a letter to state Health Ministers, Health Minister Harshvardhan urged them to issue public appeals for blood donation in the name of the respective chief ministers and organise mobile donor sessions. He termed the availability of blood in blood banks as 'essential' and urged chief ministers to ensure adequate stocks in blood banks. The minister urged the use of the e-Raktkosh portal as a single point for maintaining records of donors as well as providing real-time information on the status of current stocks of each blood group. “The prospective blood donors may be asked to register on the portal. Blood Banks in your state may also be directed to update blood availability in the e-Raktkosh portal regularly,” Harshvardhan said. He said the donors may be asked to come in a staggered manner for blood donation and social distancing norms are maintained. “All voluntary donors may be given passes for smooth movement and such donors donating blood during this critical time may be given Special Certificates,” Harshvardhan said. “We are also cognizant of the situation that due to restrictions, it may not be possible to organize blood donation camps. However, at the same time, it is necessary to ensure sufficient availability of blood, especially for people needing regular blood transfusion on account of blood disorders such as Thalassemia, Sickle Cell Anemia and Hemophilia, etc,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-suggests-special-certificates-for-voluntary-blood-donors-828220.html
21-04-2020||National||No COVID-19 deaths in Delhi, 75 fresh cases reported||While the death toll remained at 47, the total number of cases has risen to 2,146. On recovery, the medical bulletin said, 180 people were discharged during the day, taking the total to 611. At present, there are 1,498 cases. Daily house to house surveillance and sanitization of area under is being done in 87 containment zones in the capital. Approximately a population of over 3.23 lakh is covered under various containment zones. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also announced free COVID-19 testing for journalists in the capital following reports of media persons testing positive for the virus infection in Mumbai and Chennai. He also said that 2,000 each food coupons will given to 70 MLAs and 10 MPs from the capital to ensure that even people with no ration card or any other identification cards to avail ration. At present, Delhi government is allowing people with no ration cards to take free ration during the period of COVID-19 if they have Aadhaar card. The MPs and MLAs can distribute these coupons to needy people, he said. Kits with essential items, including oil, sugar and spices, will also be distributed along with free ration from next month, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-covid-19-deaths-in-delhi-75-fresh-cases-reported-828222.html
21-04-2020||National||SC asks Centre to look into plea for uninterrupted food supply, medical check up in zoos||A bench of Justices N V Ramana Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai disposed of her PIL, saying, "we direct the Government of India to treat this writ petition as a representation." In her plea, she sought a direction to ensure regular supply to zoos as essential service. She also wanted medical check up of the animals. In a status report, the Central Zoo Authority has informed the court that it has issued instructions to monitor regularly and initiate fortnightly COVID-19 testing of the suspects among mammals and carnivores especially cat, ferret and primates. Zoos in India have been asked to remain on high alert in view of a Tiger having been found COVID-19 positive in New York. The USA Department of Agriculture's National Veterinary Services Laboratories, in a statement on April 5, 2020, has confirmed SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) in a Tiger housed in the Bronx Zoo, New York, it pointed out. The Central Zoo Authority comes under Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. The response has come on the PIL by Dogra seeking urgent steps to take care of the animals housed in zoos across the country, on emergence of COVID-19 pandemic. In the report about measures being undertaken, it said samples of suspect cases would be sent to the designated animal health institutes while following all biocontainment and safety measures required to handle this high risk pathogen as per the ICMR guidelines. The designated centre are National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD), Bhopal, MP,National Research Centre on Equines (NRCE), Hisar, Haryana, and Centre for Animal Disease Research and Diagnostic (CADRAD), Indian Veterinary Research Institute, (IVRI), Izatnagar, Bareilly, UP. Giving further measures, it said, "Zoos in the country have been asked to remain on highest alertness, watch animals on 24X7 basis, using CCTV for any abnormal behavior or symptoms, keepers or handlers not to be allowed in the vicinity without safety gear preferably PPE (Personal Protective Equipment), isolate and quarantine sick animals, and have least contact while providing feed." It has asked all zoo personnel to strictly adhere to safety and disinfection protocol issued by the government, time to time, on the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19). Zoos were further advised to coordinate with designated nodal agencies of the government responsible for public health response and permit screening, testing and surveillance, the authority said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-look-into-plea-for-uninterrupted-food-supply-medical-check-up-in-zoos-828233.html
21-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Mobile recharge shops, bread factories allowed to function||Caregivers of senior citizens residing with them, prepaid mobile recharge utilities and food processing units in urban areas are exempted from the Covid-19 lockdown norms, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) clarified on Tuesday. This was clarified by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla in a letter to states after receiving "some queries" regarding exemptions of specific services and activities within the categories already allowed in the guidelines issued on April 15 for the extended period of lockdown till May 3. The letter said the exemption for the social sector include "bedside attendants and caregivers of senior citizens residing in their homes". Under utilities, recharge facilities for prepaid mobile connections and undersupply of essential goods, food processing units such as bread factories, milk processing plants, flour mills and dal mills located in urban areas also have exemptions. "As specified in the lockdown measures, the National Covid-19 Directives and Standard Operating Procedure for social distancing for offices, workshops, factories and establishments must be ensured," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-mobile-recharge-shops-bread-factories-allowed-to-function-828234.html
21-04-2020||National||Housekeeper employed with Lok Sabha Secretariat tests COVID-19 positive; hospitalised||A housekeeper working with the Lok Sabha Secretariat has tested positive for COVID-19 and admitted to hospital, sources said here. The infected man had not attended office the last few days. He had symptoms of fever, cough and breathing problems and was found to be COVID-19 positive, they added. "The infected housekeeper, who still has two years to retire, has been admitted to the special ward at the Safdarjung hospital here," a Lok Sabha official told PTI.  Eleven members of his family have been tested for the virus and the results are awaited. The sources said that his son, who was also tested, is a contractual employee of the Electronics Corporation of India Limited (ECIL) and is engaged in the annual maintenance of security gadgets at the Lok Sabha. "The Lok Sabha Secretariat is expected to do contact tracing and route mapping of his son also," he said. Local civic authorities have quarantined his house in central Delhi, the sources added.  They said the infected housekeeper had visited the RML hospital to get a routine check-up, including for heart ailment, around 10 days ago. It was probably during this visit to the hospital that he got infected, his family members feel. Incidentally, the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariats had on Monday resumed work after a gap of almost three weeks, ever since the lockdown came into effect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/housekeeper-employed-with-lok-sabha-secretariat-tests-covid-19-positive-hospitalised-828244.html
21-04-2020||National||13 test positive for COVID-19 in Bihar, total count 126||Thirteen people tested positive for COVID-19 in Bihar on Tuesday, taking the total number of such cases to 126 in the state, a top health department official said. Principal Secretary, Health, Sanjay Kumar said of the fresh cases, seven were reported from Munger district, four from Buxar and one each from Patna and Rohtas. Other details of the patients were not immediately known. Bihar had reported its first couple of coronavirus cases on March 22. However, nearly a quarter of the total number of cases so far in the state has been reported in the last 24 hours.  On Monday, 17 people from Bihar Sharif, the headquarters of Nalanda district, had tested positive for the dreaded virus. Only 15 of the 38 districts in the state have reported COVID-19 cases. Siwan (29), Nalanda (28) and Munger (27) account for two-thirds of the coronavirus cases in Bihar.  Forty-two patients, one-third of the total number of cases so far, have recovered, while two patients have died. The number of samples tested in the state till date is 11,999, Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/13-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bihar-total-count-126-828294.html
21-04-2020||National||Raghuram Rajan cautions against giving communal colour to coronavirus||Cautioning people against giving communal colour to the coronavirus pandemic, former Reserve Bank Governor Raghuram Rajan has said such behaviour could explode and make it much harder for different communities to get along. Rajan's comments come in the wake allegations that Tabligh-e-Jamat members violated social distancing guidelines and ignored all instructions by organising a massive gathering last month at their centre in Nizamuddin area of Delhi. The gathering is believed to have emerged as a super-spreader of coronavirus with thousands of cases across the country linked to Jamat members. So far, coronavirus has infected around 19,000 people and took over 600 lives in the country. "We see in India that some allegation that this was a Muslim plot. I mean, that kind of behaviour can explode and make much harder for her communities to get together within her country,” Rajan said while speaking at the University of Chicago's virtual Harper Lecture series. Rajan along with 11 others has recently been appointed to an external advisory group of IMF MD Kristalina Georgieva to provide perspectives from around the globe on key developments and policy issues, including responses to the exceptional challenges the world now faces due to the coronavirus pandemic. Rajan, 57, who headed RBI for three years until September 2016, said nationalism that was already pretty strong before the virus is getting accentuated by the effects of COVID-19. Citing an example, he said, "China points finger at the US and says that was US intelligence plot and the US points finger at China and says that this was concocted by China." Rajan, who is currently working as a professor at the prestigious University of Chicago, said no part of the world is immune to COVID-19. "Everywhere in world is going to be affected, (and) global supply chain has been disrupted for some time. In the second quarter of calendar year 2020, we can see decline in GDP by 30-40 per cent," he said. Despite rebound in economic activities in the second half of 2020, global economic growth will still be negative for the year, he said. "I see (global) economic recovery underway a year from now," he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/raghuram-rajan-cautions-against-giving-communal-colour-to-coronavirus-828306.html
21-04-2020||National||Kits rolled out from South Korean company's unit in Haryana to come in handy amid doubts over ones from China||India may soon have a steady supply of COVID-19 rapid test kits across the country from a facility near its own national capital, even amid growing doubts on the accuracy of the ones it earlier imported from China. The SD Biosensor Inc. of South Korea has of late started production of rapid COVID-19 test kits in its facility at Manesar in Haryana. The facility currently has a weekly production capacity of 500,000 rapid test kits, but the company is likely to augment it over the next few weeks. The first batch of COVID-19 rapid antibody testing kits already rolled out from the facility on Sunday. Such a pleasure to visit the sparkling facilities of SD Biosensor,” Sripriya Ranganathan, New Delhi’s envoy to Seoul, posted on Twitter after visiting the company’s manufacturing facility at North Chungcheong province of South Korea. “SDB’s Manesar unit has started producing rapid test kits to support #IndiaFightsCoronavirus. A fine example of profitable India-ROK collaboration that helps the world @MEAIndia @MOFAkr_eng,” she added. Ranganathan earlier had a meeting with the Chief Executive Officer of the SD Biosensor Inc. Lee Hyo-Keun.  “This is an excellent example of India’s ‘Make in India for World’ as the company plans to ramp up production to meet growing demand in India as well as other parts of the world,” the Embassy of India in Seoul stated. The kits produced by the South Korean company are likely to come in handy amid doubts over the ones India imported from China last week. India on April 16 procured 550,000 rapid test kits from Guangzhou Wondfo and Zhuhai Livzon companies of China. The kits were distributed to the states over the past few days.  The second consignment of about 300,000 rapid test kits came from the communist country for Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu on April 18.  The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), however, on Tuesday suspended the use of the test kits across the country for two days, after receiving complaints from several states that they were not delivering accurate diagnostic results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kits-rolled-out-from-south-korean-companys-unit-in-haryana-to-come-in-handy-amid-doubts-over-ones-from-china-828312.html
21-04-2020||National Politics||Don't politicise Palghar mob lynching incident: NCP to BJP||Maharashtra NCP president Jayant Patil on Monday asked the BJP not to politicise the Palghar lynching incident in which three persons were beaten to death by a mob apparently on suspicion that they were thieves. Referring to a tweet of BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra, Patil, a Cabinet minister in the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in the state, said the NCP had no involvement into the incident. In his tweet, Patra shared one of the videos of the Palghar lynching and asked people of Maharashtra to identify a person seen in it. Replying to Patra, Patil tweeted, "Stop misleading. Gadchinchale Gram Panchayat in Palghar is ruled by BJP and the Sarpanch Chitra Chaudhari was present at the time of incidence. NCP has no involvement in the incident. A party worker had gone to venue on the police request. Stop politicizing the issue". The state government has already ordered a high-level inquiry into the incident that took place on the night of April 16 when three Mumbai residents who were on their way to Surat in Gujarat in a car were lynched by villagers in Palghar district on the suspicion that they were thieves/ child- lifters. The Congress has accused the BJP of trying to give communal colour to the incident, as two of the three deceased are believed to be seers. Earlier in the day, senior BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah called up Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and said there was no communal angle to the mob lynching incident. Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant also accused the BJP of playing "communal politics" to derive a political mileage from the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-politicise-palghar-mob-lynching-incident-ncp-to-bjp-827940.html
21-04-2020||National Politics||India heaven for Muslims; their economic, religious rights secure: Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi after OIC criticism||Days after the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation expressed concern over alleged incidents of "Islamophobia" in India, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Tuesday said Muslims are prosperous in the country and those trying to vitiate the atmosphere cannot be their friends. The Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) on Sunday urged India to take "urgent steps" to protect the rights of its minority Muslim community and stop the incidents of "Islamophobia" in the country. Asked about the OIC criticism, Naqvi said, "We are doing our job with conviction. The prime minister whenever he speaks, he talks about the rights and welfare of 130 crore Indians." "If somebody cannot see this, then it is their problem. India's Muslims, its minorities, all its sections, are prosperous and those people trying to vitiate this atmosphere of prosperity, they cannot be friends of Indian Muslims," he told reporters. The minority affairs minister asserted "secularism and harmony” is not a "political fashion", but a "perfect passion" for India and Indians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-heaven-for-muslims-their-economic-religious-rights-secure-mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-after-oic-criticism-827997.html
21-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: Political slugfest over Central teams visit to West Bengal||Addressing a virtual media conference Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Derek O’ Brien asked why the Centre did not send teams to states like Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu where the number of persons infected with the novel coronavirus is much higher. The TMC MP dubbed the visit of Central teams to West Bengal as “adventure tourism.” “Why not a single district from Gujarat, from Tamil Nadu? These are the questions we need to be answered. All the states together are fighting an all-out battle against coronavirus but we are sad to note that the Central government is fighting a battle against some states,” said O’ Brien.  Referring to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the TMC MP also said that the Central team arrived in the state hours before Banerjee was informed about their visit by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. He also urged the Centre to set aside politics for now and focus on tacking the health emergency in hand. “We would urge the Central government to put the health emergency first and nothing else matters. You can do all the politics you want when things improve,” said O’Brien.  Without directly naming him, the TMC MP also took a dig at West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar for his tweets in criticism of the state government. “Mamata Banerjee is the elected Chief Minister of Bengal. She is not one Twitter-happy Governor of a state who is nominated whom the Centre nominated...She did not become Chief Minister from Bengal because someone from Delhi or Gujarat gave her a nomination,” said O’Brien. Soon after his comments, BJP MP and Union Minister Babul Supriyo lashed out at the West Bengal government and dubbed it as a “ dangerous virus.” “We R just not fighting #COVID2019 but fighting a more dangerous VIRUS in West Bengal &that’s the WB Govt led by @MamataOfficial & @AITCofficial. It’s just a matter of time that the antibodies against the virus called Didi will start working in West Bengal@BJP4India @BJP4Bengal,” tweeted Supriyo.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-political-slugfest-over-central-teams-visit-to-west-bengal-828011.html
21-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus Lockdown: BJP attacks Congress over liquor 'smuggling'||The BJP on Tuesday took a dig at the Congress after its youth wing functionaries were caught allegedly smuggling liquor, saying this has exposed the opposition party's "character". The Indian Youth Congress president Srinivas B V dubbed the arrest a "conspiracy" which, he claimed, was aimed at defaming his organisation's relief work to help the poor during the ongoing lockdown. According to the Delhi Police, Shravan Rao (34) and Manish (24) were arrested on Sunday night from near the Delhi-Gurgaon border with illicit liquor. The BJP has claimed that they are associated with the youth Congress. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said while lakhs of his party workers are busy bringing food to the needy during the nationwide lockdown, the "national office-bearers of the Congress are smuggling expensive liquor" in the national capital. "This is the character of the Congress... What a strategy Rahul ji," Patra tweeted, taking a dig at the former Congress president. BJP youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha's media in-charge Rohit Chahal tweeted that vehicle being allegedly used for liquor sale was given permission to distribute food. Two functionaries of the youth wing of the Congress have been caught, Chahal said, targeting the opposition party. Hitting back, Srinivas B V said "our crime" is that food and medicine have been provided by us to lakhs of people". This will neither stop nor scare his organisation, he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-bjp-attacks-congress-over-liquor-smuggling-828012.html
21-04-2020||National Politics||Shivraj cabinet expansion: Small size, big trouble||Nearly a month after he took the oath of chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday inducted five ministers including two Jyotiraditya Scindia supporters in his cabinet, leaving other aspirants high and dry. Governor Lalji Tandon administered the oath of office and secrecy to the five ministers in a short function at Raj Bhawan where the signs of social distancing due to the pandemic were unmistakable. Interestingly, none of the five faces inducted in the cabinet is considered close chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Tulsiram silawat and Govind Singh are Scindia supporters, who were ministers in the Kamal Nath government as well. Narottam Mishra, a close aide of Amit Shah, was a key player in the game for toppling the Kamal Nath government. Kamal Patel, a former minister, had been marginalised by Shivraj Singh in the party after he had tried to flex political muscle. Ms Meena Singh, another former minister, is apparently chosen by the party high command because she is a tribal. Given strength of the Madhya Pradesh house, the chief minister may induct 29 more ministers. But till that happens, he is likely to have hard time placating the ministerial aspirants. In view of the massive challenges posed by the pandemic, next cabinet expansion is unlikely any time soon. More than Shivraj Singh, it is Jyotiraditya Scindia who faces daunting challenge of soothing ruffled feathers of the supporters who staked their political career for him but have been denied reward in the shape of ministerial berths. The BJP will have to contend with anger of four other rebel Congress MLAs, who had joined the Scindia supporters in resigning from the party on assurance of being made ministers in the next government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shivraj-cabinet-expansion-small-size-big-trouble-828040.html
21-04-2020||National Politics||India heaven for Muslims; Their economic, religious rights secure: Naqvi after OIC criticism||Days after the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation expressed concern over alleged incidents of "Islamophobia" in India, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Tuesday said India is heaven for Muslims and those trying to vitiate the atmosphere of prosperity cannot be their friends. Asserting that the social, economic and religious rights of Muslims are secure in India, Naqvi said "secularism and harmony" is not a "political fashion", but a "perfect passion" for India and Indians. His remarks come after the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) on Sunday urged India to take "urgent steps" to protect the rights of its minority Muslim community and stop the incidents of "Islamophobia" in the country. Asked about the OIC's criticism, Naqvi said, "We are doing our job with conviction. The prime minister whenever he speaks, he talks about the rights and welfare of 130 crore Indians." "If somebody cannot see this, then it is their problem. India's Muslims, its minorities, all its sections of the society, are prosperous and those people trying to vitiate this atmosphere of prosperity, they cannot be friends of Indian Muslims," he told reporters. On criticism of India by scholars in Gulf nations, Naqvi said, "India is a heaven for Muslims and minorities." The social, economic and religious rights of Muslims are more secure and stronger in India than in other countries, he said. "If somebody is saying something with a prejudiced mindset, then he should look at the ground reality of this country and accept it," the minister said. "In this country, there is such a large population of Muslims. An analysis of their educational, social and economic conditions in the last five years should be looked at, their share in government jobs has increased and they have been educationally and economically empowered," Naqvi said. Muslims ave had an equal share in the progress of all sections and if India is progressing, the community is also progressing, he asserted. "We should ensure that our strength of unity in diversity' is not get weakened under any circumstances, he said. "Professional bogus bashing brigades" are still active and conspiring to spread misinformation, Naqvi said. "We should remain cautious of such evil forces and we need to work unitedly to defeat their nefarious misinformation propaganda," Naqvi said. He also cautioned against fake news and conspiracies aimed at spreading misinformation, he said. The authorities have been working for safety and well-being of all citizens of the country and such type of rumours and conspiracies are a "nefarious design" to weaken the fight against coronavirus, Naqvi said. "Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the entire country is united in fight against coronavirus by breaking all barriers of caste, religion and region," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-heaven-for-muslims-their-economic-religious-rights-secure-naqvi-after-oic-criticism-828042.html
21-04-2020||National Politics||It's BJP vs Left in Palghar mob lynching case||Its turning out to be a BJP vs Left battle in Palghar district - days after the brutal mob-lynching incident in which two sadhus and a driver were killed. The Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi government has handed over the probe to State-CID. On social media platforms, right-wing-activists are demanding that the probe be handed over to the CBI or NIA. State BJP President Chandrakant Patil wrote to Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, demanding the removal of Home Minister Ajit Pawar. The Gahdchinchale village in Dahanu tehsil of Palghar district, where the incident took place, is 120 km off Mumbai. The CPI(M), however, has come down heavily on the BJP. "The Gadachinchle village where the killings took place has a BJP gram panchayat for the last 10 years. It is the base of the BJP. The present Sarpanch is of the BJP," said CPI (M) leader Narasayya Adam, who is party's Maharashtra state secretary and central committee member. "In this background, to whom are the ringleaders of the killings connected? Who was spreading rumours in this area for the last several days? These and other matters will become clear in the police investigations," he said. According to him, BJP leaders Sambit Patra and Sunil Deodhar have made statements defaming the CPI(M) without any basis whatsoever.  "We have begun the process of preparing a list that includes Sambit Patra, Sunil Deodhar, Prakash Gade, the admin of the 'I Devendra' Facebook page and other BJP supporters who are forwarding such posts on various WhatsApp groups and on Facebook. The CPI(M) has decided to begin legal proceedings against all the above, for defamation and rumour-mongering," he says. Meanwhile, BJP leaders said local Gram Panchayats in the area where Sadhus were murdered by mob in Palghar district in presence of police are controlled by Communist Party of India (M) and local members of Zilla Parishad and Panchayat Samittees belong to Nationalist Congress Party and yet Congress party is making a baseless allegation that the most of the accused arrested belong to BJP. "Congress party was trying to signal the police about how they should proceed in investigation of the case and divert the same, said Madhav Bhandari, chief spokesperson of Maharashtra-BJP.  He said that failure of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi alliance government in maintaining law and order in the state has been highlighted due the incident of mob lynching.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/its-bjp-vs-left-in-palghar-mob-lynching-case-828111.html
21-04-2020||National Politics||Centre v/s Bengal: MHA says state hindering central teams' work; TMC asks why not sending teams to UP, Gujarat||The full-blown confrontation is raging over sending central teams to West Bengal for on-the-spot assessment of COVID-19 situation with the Centre on Tuesday saying the state was preventing their work while Trinamool Congress upped the ante asking why "adventure tourists" are not being sent to states like BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. A day after West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee shot off a terse letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Trinamool Congress fielded its Parliamentary leaders Sudip Bandyopadhyay (Lok Sabha) and Derek O'Brien (Rajya Sabha) in a digital press conference to question the BJP-ruled Centre while Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla shot off a letter to the West Bengal government saying it was on the wrong side of law. Congress Treasurer and senior MP Ahmed Patel too questioned the Centre, saying the exercise should not be limited to "selective" states so that all affected states must benefit Centre's "constructive inputs" and urged that similar teams should be sent to Gujarat, "given the rising cases and lockdown violations in Gujarat, similar teams should be sent there too. In his letter, Bhalla said the teams sent to Kolkata and Jalpaiguri have "not been provided requisite cooperation by the state and local authorities and "in fact, they have been specifically restrained from making any visits, interacting with health professionals and assessing the ground level situation". This amounts to "obstructing the implementation" of the orders issued under Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the "equally binding direction" of the Supreme Court that the states should "faithfully comply" with the Centre's decisions on fighting COVID-19, he said. The Supreme Court had observed that the states will "faithfully comply" with the Centre's orders on COVID-19 and Bhalla said it must be treated as a "direction". The MHA has sent six teams led by Additional Secretary level officers to 11 districts -- seven in Bengal, two in Maharashtra and one each in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh -- citing that the situation in these places were "especially serious". Two teams each have already reached Bengal and Maharashtra and one each in Rajasthan and MP. MHA Joint Secretary Punya Salila Srivastava said the central teams which went to the states other than Bengal were getting full cooperation from the state administrations. "But the feedback we have received from the two teams in Kolkata and Jalpaiguri is that the state and local administrations are not cooperating," she said responding to an online question during the daily COVID-19 press conference. "Sad to note Centre is fighting a battle against some states. Is this the spirit of federalism? Is this enshrined in the Constitution? We really do need to know the basis on which the teams are sent to Bengal. What are the criteria for selecting these districts. In Kalimpong, the last case was reported on April 2. In Jalpaiguri, the last case was reported on April 4. Look at the number of cases and hotspots in Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu etc. Why no teams were sent to these states," O'Brien said. Asked whether it has become a political fight, Bandyopadhyay said Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee told Prime Minister that the central team is welcome if they are obeying the spirit of cooperative federalism but what happened was the opposite. "We have no problem if somebody is not included. But these actions suggests there is more to it," O'Brien said adding it was an "obvious observation" that the order was aimed at targeting the Opposition-ruled states as the districts chosen were under non-BJP government except for Madhya Pradesh's Indore. "Anybody who have to come is welcome. But there is a process. Sending adventure tourists without informing authorities is not the way," he said. O'Brien said, "you can do all the politics you want when the situation improves after Diwali or may be after winter. There’s no room for complacency. Long COVID-19 battle lies ahead...When we wore masks to Parliament you said it’s gimmicks. Onus is now on the Centre to make us understand why the teams have been sent in those seven districts. Just because not seeing home minister in public, is he pulling strings from the back?" The Trinamool Congress-led government had raised the pitch over the Centre's decision on Monday itself with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee shooting off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying the order was "unclear" and the "unilateral action" was "not desirable". She had also tweeted that it would be difficult to cooperate as the orders were "unclear" on how these districts were chosen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-v/s-bengal-mha-says-state-hindering-central-teams-work-tmc-asks-why-not-sending-teams-to-up-gujarat-828139.html
21-04-2020||National Politics||Why is govt not passing on benefit of reduced oil prices to consumers, Congress asks govt||The Congress on Tuesday asked the government why it was not reducing the prices of petrol and diesel in the country when crude oil rates have plunged to record lows. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi asked when would this government listen and reduce the prices of petrol and diesel, which continued to sell at Rs 69 and Rs 62 per litre respectively in India. "Prices of crude oil have fallen to unexpected levels in the world, yet why is petrol in our country sold at Rs 69, diesel at Rs 62. It is good that prices have fallen in this disaster. When will this government listen," he asked in a tweet in Hindi. Voicing similar views, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said oil prices have fallen below USD 0, yet this government is silent and not reducing the prices of petrol and diesel. "WTI Crude Oil price plunges below USD 0 per barrel! We, the People, are still paying Rs 69.59 for Petrol Rs 62.29 for Diesel. (Delhi) "Why is Modi Government mum? Will 'Self Styled Nationalists' at least now become 'Rationalists' and demand relief?," Surjewala tweeted. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera asked what was holding the government from reducing cwhen their prices have fallen drastically low internationally. He said last night was a "historical moment" that saw unprecedented fall in the international crude oil prices, as manufacturers have no storage capacity left.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-is-govt-not-passing-on-benefit-of-reduced-oil-prices-to-consumers-congress-asks-govt-828150.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Two more deaths, 78 fresh cases in Delhi||Two more deaths and 78 fresh cases were reported in the national capital on Monday while 141 people were discharged from hospitals. With this, the total number of deaths has risen to 47 and the cases to 2,081. The number of those recovered has risen to 431. The two persons who died were in the age group of 50-59 years. In the past 24 hours, 1,397 samples were tested. A total of 25,900 samples have been tested so far of which results of 2,711 are still pending. A total of 5,560 samples have been collected from containments zones, which has risen to 84 with the addition of six new localities. Delhi government also asked Medical Superintendents of all state-run hospitals to create a media cell to monitor social media and traditional media to present a "correct position before people".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-more-deaths-78-fresh-cases-in-delhi-827919.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Policemen save life of pregnant woman in southeast Delhi||A pregnant woman, whose baby died inside the womb, was saved by police who rushed her to a clinic in southeast Delhi's Zakir Nagar area, officials said on Monday. Nirmala was seven months pregnant and was having extreme pain since past few days. Three days ago, she got an ultrasound done at Badarpur, following which a doctor informed them that the baby has died inside the womb and advised them to get her operated soon, they said. When they were unable able to find a clinic for her operation, she remembered about a doctor named Nahida Fatima, where she had visited two years ago for pregnancy-related treatment and told her husband to take her there, said R P Meena, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast). She along with her husband reached Zakir Nagar area on Sunday to see the doctor. Nirmala fell unconscious when she reached Gali No 13 in the area, he said. Some policemen noticed them and learnt about her critical condition, following which the staff of the Jamia Nagar police station contacted the doctor, who agreed to open her clinic. She was rushed to the clinic by police in their private vehicle, the DCP added.  On checking, Fatima found that the baby in the womb was dead and the life of patient was in danger so she informed ACP, New Friends Colony, Jagdish Yadav about the condition of the woman and proceeded with an emergency operation, he said. "The woman is doing fine and has been discharged from the clinic," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/policemen-save-life-of-pregnant-woman-in-southeast-delhi-827936.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||New Madhya Pradesh cabinet under Shivraj Singh Chouhan to be expanded on Tuesday?||The much-awaited expansion of the single-member Madhya Pradesh cabinet under Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan might take place on Tuesday, sources said on Monday. "The Cabinet expansion will take place tomorrow (Tuesday) around noon," official sources said, adding that the size of the ministry is likely to be kept small. The exact number of probable inductees is not known yet. The cabinet has not been expanded since Chouhan took oath as chief minister for the fourth time on March 23, after his predecessor Kamal Nath of the Congress stepped down. However, Chouhan could not get time to set up the council of ministers amidst the coronavirus pandemic. "Since March 23, Chouhan has served as the lone member of Cabinet for the 28 days, which is a record of sorts in the country," BJP sources said. They said that five to six ministers are likely to be inducted into the cabinet. Opposition Congress has been slamming Chouhan and the BJP over absence of council of ministers at a time when the state is battling surge in COVID-19 cases. Senior Congress leaders Kapil Sibal and Vivek Tankha on Monday petitioned President Ram Nath Kovind, arguing that Chouhan government in its current format is unconstitutional. They also slammed absence of a full-time Health minister in Madhya Pradesh amidst the coronavirus crisis. For BJP, it will be a tightrope walk to accommodate six loyalists of former Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia who had joined the BJP. All six were ministers in the erstwhile Kamal Nath government. It is likely that only two-three leadersfrom the Scindia camp might be taken on board by Chouhan, sources said, adding that the name of former Health minister Tulsi Silavat is doing rounds. Besides the then six ministers, 16 other MLAs of the Congress had also resigned from the party, which eventually culminated into the collapse of Nath government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-madhya-pradesh-cabinet-under-shivraj-singh-chouhan-to-be-expanded-on-tuesday-827941.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Deport Rohingyas, Bangladeshis as they are 'most vulnerable' to COVID-19 spread: J&K BJP||The Jammu and Kashmir BJP on Monday urged the central government to take immediate steps for the deportation of Rohingyas and Bangladeshis as they are "most vulnerable" to the spread of coronavirus. Senior BJP leader Kavinder Gupta said, "As Rohingyas and Bangladeshis are mainly associated with the Rehri and hawking business, there is every likelihood of their spreading the virus to the localities they visit to sell their products." "The central government should take immediate steps for the deportation of Rohingyas and Bangladeshis, who are illegally settled in Jammu, as they are most vulnerable to the spread of the deadly coronavirus," he added.  Amid the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the central government should forthwith work out for deporting illegally settled Rohingyas and Bangladeshis from Jammu and Kashmir "to save local residents", Gupta said. "The demographic and security threat posed by them has reached a boiling point as these people are most vulnerable to the spread of coronavirus, many of these Rohingyas are associated with the Rehri and hawking business," he asserted. Gupta alleged that there is a well-funded and politically-backed conspiracy to settle them across the province and trigger Hindu migration. "In November 2017, the United Nations High Commission for Refugees visited at least five Rohingya habitations in Jammu and asked them to leave, promising funds to settle elsewhere. They refused, saying they won't leave as they are used to Jammu and know everyone over here. "That, in a nutshell, sums up their comfort levels in Hindu-majority Jammu, as opposed to living with their co-religionists elsewhere," the BJP leader said.  "Groups advocating accommodation of Rohingyas in India fail to consider the burden they are bound to put on the country's strained national resources, including the overall socio-economic indicators such as public health, employment, crime, rehabilitation of internally displaced. Jammu and Kashmir should learn lessons from illegal migration into Assam from Bangladesh," he said.    He said that the influx of illegal Bangladeshi immigrants into Assam is posing a "serious security threat" to the Assamese identity. "It has adversely affected the social, economic and political environment of the state, creating law and order problems, particularly in areas where immigrants are present in large numbers," Gupta added. Keeping in mind the critical geography of the state and its sensitive communal environment, it is necessary that New Delhi treads carefully and explores all the alternatives before arriving at any long-term solution to the issue, Gupta added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/deport-rohingyas-bangladeshis-as-they-are-most-vulnerable-to-covid-19-spread-jk-bjp-827968.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Woman staying in President's Estate in Delhi tests positive for COVID-19, 115 familes in quarantine||A Rashtrapati Bhavan statement said no employee of President's Secretariat has tested positive for COVID-19 till now and the Secretariat, along with the local administration, is taking all the preventive measures required under the government guidelines. The woman, who tested positive for the virus infection four days ago, is not an employee but stays with her mother-in-law and other family members in a staff quarters in the around 1,300-acre President's Estate. The employee along with the family is a resident of Pocket 1, Schedule A area of the President's Estate.   Her mother had contracted COVID-19 and had died recently. After the woman tested positive, the quarters they lived in were sealed and the family was kept in quarantine since Saturday. "After contact tracing of the deceased, it was found that a family member of an employee of the President's Secretariat had been in contact with the deceased. As required under the guidelines, all the seven members of this family were moved to the quarantine facility at Mandir Marg on April 16," the statement said. All other family members, including the employee of the President's Secretariat, have tested negative. Following this, it said, 115 houses in Pocket 1, Schedule A area of the President's Estate were identified for movement restriction and residents have been advised to remain indoors. The residents of these houses are being provided doorstep delivery of essential commodities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-staying-in-presidents-estate-in-delhi-tests-positive-for-covid-19-115-familes-in-quarantine-827989.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Jammu and Kashmir’s doubling rate stands at 11.5 days||According to Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) figures, Jammu and Kashmir stands in the list of 18 states/union territories which have shown improvement as compared to the national average, as on April 19. The national average of COVID-19 doubling is 7.5 days.  Jammu and Kashmir figures in the list of nine States and UTs whose doubling rate is less than 20 days. However, the spurt in the number of Red Zones in Kashmir is becoming a serious concern for the administration. From 45 Red Zones on April 6, the number has doubled in Jammu and Kashmir during the last two weeks. Majority of the Red Zones – 84 are in Kashmir valley while seven are in Jammu division.  Eight districts of J&K have been identified as COVID-19 hotspots by the MoHFW. Of them, six have been classified as hotspots with a large outbreak of COVID-19 and two as hotspots with clusters. Srinagar, Jammu, Bandipora, Baramulla, Udhampur and Kupwara districts have been identified as hotspots with a large outbreak of COVID-19 cases while Shopian, Rajouri have been identified as hotspots with clusters. As many as 368 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in Jammu and Kashmir over the past one month.     Divisional Commissioner Kashmir, Pandurang Pole said that the “Red Zone Management Plan” formulated by the government last week, was being followed thoroughly.     “The immediate focus is to increase our capacity to do contact tracing and collect samples for testing of COVID-19. Teams of healthcare professionals have been formed block-wise and trained to collect samples,” Pole said.   He said even though there was an increase in the number of positive cases, the manpower available with the administration was sufficient to deal even with an extremely worst situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-jammu-and-kashmir-s-doubling-rate-stands-at-115-days-827996.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Gujarat's coronavirus tally crosses 2000-mark, toll at 77||Giving the updates, Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi said that since Monday evening, 127 fresh cases were reported in the state that included 69 from Surat and 50 cases from Ahmedabad, among other districts. The list of affected districts in the state also increased to 28, out of 33, with Tapi and Valsad districts in south Gujarat reporting their first two cases each. What is worrying the state health officials is the rising number of deaths. Among the six deaths, five died in Ahmedabad while one patient succumbed to infection in Bhavnagar. The patients were between the ages of 72 and 50 years. Ravi said that 19 patients were on ventilators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gujarats-coronavirus-tally-crosses-2000-mark-toll-at-77-828000.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court gives more time to Jammu and Kashmir to respond to plea for 4G Internet service||The Centre, led by Attorney General K K Venugopal, however, opposed the plea citing militancy. He said the funeral of a militant killed recently was attended by 500 people. "It is a very serious issue. Militancy is still there. When a militant was killed, about 500 people came for the funeral. They are being made into martyrs," he said. A bench, presided over by N V Ramana, said whatever the Centre and Jammu and Kashmir administration wanted to say, they should do it through affidavit. The court put a batch of petitions for further consideration on Monday, April 27.     Senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, appearing for 'Foundation for Media Professionals', contended internet restrictions should not be extended to the entire area. "The schools all over the country have resorted to online classes. But in the absence of 4G services, all students in Jammu and Kashmir are at a disadvantageous situation," he said. The counsel highlighted the importance of 4G services for doctors and medical professionals and its use for video conferencing. Another petitioner contended the future of 27 lakh students were at stake. They had laptops and tabs but no internet connection. During the hearing, the court sought to know if the Jammu and Kashmir HC was also hearing the similar issue. To this, the counsel said the High Court had taken Suo Motu cognisance of several other issues. But here the issue was limited to the access of 4G services. The PIL, filed by the foundation through its president and noted journalist Paranjoy Guna Thakurta, earlier this month, contended the people in Jammu and Kashmir were unable to access the latest information, guidelines, advisories, daily updates and restrictions on COVID-19 pandemic. Two other petitions --- by Soayib Qureshi and Private Schools Association J and K -- were also filed for a similar purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-gives-more-time-to-jammu-and-kashmir-to-respond-to-plea-for-4g-internet-service-828001.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: 5 ministers take oath in 1st expansion||Five BJP leaders on Tuesday took oath as cabinet ministers in the first expansion of the council of ministers in Madhya Pradesh. The five, including a womanand two ex-MLAs, were sworn in by Governor Lalji Tandon at a simple function in the Raj Bhawan amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was present at the ceremony. The state was without a cabinet since a month owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. Chouhan was sworn in CM on March 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-5-ministers-take-oath-in-1st-expansion-828004.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: This Ramzan Kashmiris to stay home, pray indoors||In Kashmir, the month of Ramzan is observed as more of a festival. Apart from fasting, people throng markets for shopping and attend gala Iftaar parties. Markets would be buzzing even before the commencement of the Ramzan as people would throng markets for shopping. Almost in all markets across the valley, shopkeepers and road-side vendors would decorate their shop fronts with dates before the commencement of the holy month indicating the arrival of Ramzan.  But as the COVID-19 pandemic has brought even most developed countries on its knees, this time people will have to remain confined to their homes during the fasting month. Like most Muslim countries, congregational obligatory Taraweeh (late evening prayers offered during Ramazan) have also been cancelled. In Kashmir, ulema (Muslim scholars) has advised people to offer Taraweeh prayers in their homes until the spread of COVID-19 is contained. Kashmir has seen a series of lockdowns in its long conflict history but no one would stop people from offering Taraweeh and other congregational prayers in masjids but this time, the lockdown is different. “We are so unlucky that we won’t be able to pray Taraweeh prayers in masjids this Ramazan,” Umar Bhat, a businessman from Srinagar, told DH. “If the lockdown continues even after May 3, there is every likelihood that people will not be allowed to observe Shab-i-Qadr in masjids and major shrines across the valley.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-this-ramzan-kashmiris-to-stay-home-pray-indoors-828006.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court declines to consider plea to reduce non-COVID-19 treatment charges||A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai rejected the PIL filed by advocate Sourjya Das, who claimed free treatment of other diseases was necessary to safeguard 'right to life' of every citizen. The petitioner contended numerous members of the public, including self-employed, businessmen and professionals, have suffered loss of livelihood and income due to the lockdown.   "The restrictions imposed on public life by following the COVID-19 outbreak has hampered public life in such a way that the public do not know when things will get back to normal or when offices, shops and usual means of income would resume, thus financially empowering members of the public on a daily basis," his plea said.  The petitioner said that it was necessary to consider that at such times, numerous members of the public will require non-COVID-19 and non-coronavirus related medical treatment services like chemotherapy, emergency transplants, colonoscopy, various tests and other various prescribed medical treatments which are of an immediate necessity to sustain the life of a member of the public. He said it was the duty of the government to ensure that private hospitals did not exploit members of the public and take steps to ensure that its patients do not suffer a financial crisis. He contended intervention of the top court was required to issue necessary directions in view of "paramount necessity created at such trying times".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-declines-to-consider-plea-to-reduce-non-covid-19-treatment-charges-828008.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir economy suffers Rs 270 crore loss per day due to COVID-19 lockdown||Acuite Ratings & Research Limited, a Credit Rating & Research company, has pegged per day losses on account of lockdown across India at Rs 35,000 crore. The company is registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), and accredited by Reserve Bank of India (RBI)  as an External Credit Assessment Institution (ECAI), for Bank Loan Ratings under BASEL-II norms. Taking its figures as a benchmark, the loss to J&K, which accounts for 0.77 per cent of India’s GDP, comes to Rs 270 crore of which Kashmir’s share is estimated at Rs 150 crore approximately as its contribution to state GDP is over 55 percent.   Jammu and Kashmir’s GDP is pegged at Rs 1.30 lakh crore per annum. After security and communication clampdown last year in the wake of revocation of Article 370, Kashmir economy suffered loss to the tune of Rs 17,878 crore in four months from August to November. The losses had been assessed based on Jammu and Kashmir’s gross domestic product of 2017-18.  Due to the continuous losses in Kashmir, borrowers of financial institutions have lost their capacity to fulfil their commitments and a substantial number of accounts have turned bankrupt with many business establishments having closed down or are contemplating closure. The tourism sector, one of the backbones of Kashmir economy, is in shambles while artisans and weavers are jobless.  Last year’s clampdown had also hit farming, horticulture and the arts and crafts that contribute the most to Kashmir’s export-oriented economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-economy-suffers-rs-270-crore-loss-per-day-due-to-covid-19-lockdown-828015.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath's father Anand Singh Bisht cremated||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's father Anand Singh Bisht was cremated on Tuesday on the banks of the Ganga at Phoolchatti in Uttarakhand's Pauri Garhwal district. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat laid a wreath on the body before it was consigned to flames at the ghat, around 16 km from Rishikesh. "The loss of a social worker like Bisht will be felt acutely by the people of the state and his contribution to the society will be remembered forever," he said. On Monday, Adityanath had said that he will not attend the funeral as he needed to be in UP for the fight against COVID-19. Bisht, 89, died at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi on Monday, officials said. He was admitted to the hospital after his health deteriorated. He was undergoing treatment at the gastroenterology department, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanaths-father-anand-singh-bisht-cremated-828016.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan ceases use of rapid testing kits as most results invalid||Rajasthan on Tuesday stopped using rapid test kits for coronavirus after receiving invalid and incorrect results for a large number of samples. Health Minister Raghu Sharma said the kits were giving mere five per cent correct or valid results and a report has been forwarded to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in this regard. Doctors at the SMS hospital here informed the state government that the rapid testing kits were mostly giving negative results even when conducted on COVID-19 patients who were already tested positive in laboratory tests. After the report from doctors, the state government has stopped using rapid testing kits and forwarded its report to the ICMR. "All the tests were conducted as per ICMR guidelines and there was no compromise. If the ICMR also suggests discontinuing the rapid testing, the kits could be returned," the minister said. Rajasthan was the first state to start rapid testing on Friday to detect coronavirus carriers in its hotspot areas. However, it was not a confirmatory test and PCR based tests had to be conducted for confirmation if anyone tested positive in the rapid test.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-ceases-use-of-rapid-testing-kits-as-most-results-invalid-828017.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||33 test COVID-19 positive in Rae Bareli, authorities link surge to Tablighi event||The number of coronavirus cases in this district jumped from two to 35 with several people testing positive after coming in contact with participants at a Tablighi Jamaat congregation, officials said on Tuesday. Till Monday, the district had only two coronavirus patients, both had attended the religious congregation in Delhi last month. The area where they lived was turned into a containment zone and people in their neighbourhood were quarantined, the officials said. According to Chief Development Officer Abhishek Goyal, the district reported 33 fresh cases in the last 24 hours. All the patients are admitted to Kripalu Institute in Munshiganj, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/33-test-covid-19-positive-in-rae-bareli-authorities-link-surge-to-tablighi-event-828026.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 patient given plasma therapy at private hospital shows improvement, weaned off ventilator||A critical COVID-19 patient admitted to a private hospital here has shown signs of improvement and was taken off ventilator support after he was administered plasma therapy, officials said on Tuesday. The 49-year-old had tested positive for coronavirus on April 4 and the same day he was admitted to the dedicated COVID-19 facility in East Block of Max Hospital, Saket, with moderate symptoms and a history of fever and respiratory issues. His condition deteriorated during the next few days and he soon required external oxygen to maintain saturation, hospital authorities said. "He soon developed pneumonia with Type I respiratory failure and had to be put on ventilator support on April 8," the hospital said in a statement on Monday. When the patient showed no improvement in his condition, his family requested the hospital for administration of plasma therapy on compassionate grounds, "a first of its kind treatment modality that was used for this disease in India," it said. This patient has shown positive results and was recently weaned off ventilator support, the hospital authorities said. Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, Group Medical Director, Max Healthcare, said, "We are delighted that the therapy worked well in his case, opening a new treatment opportunity during these challenging times. But it is important that we also understand that plasma therapy is no magic bullet". During the patient's treatment at Max Hospital, Saket, other standard treatment protocols were followed and one can say that plasma therapy could have worked as a catalyst in speeding up his recovery, he added. "We cannot attribute 100 per cent recovery to plasma therapy only, as there are multiple factors which carved his path to recovery," he said. Hospital authorities said the family came forward to arrange a donor for extracting plasma. "The donor had recovered from the infection three weeks ago and again tested COVID-19 negative at the time of donation along with other standard tests to rule out infections like Hep B, Hep C and HIV," the statement said. The critically ill patient was administered fresh plasma as a treatment modality as a side-line to standard treatment protocols on the night of April 14, it said. After receiving the treatment, the patient showed progressive improvement and by the fourth day, he was weaned off ventilator support and continued on supplementary oxygen thereafter, the hospital authorities said. He has been shifted to a room with round-the-clock monitoring at present. He has started taking oral feed since Sunday and is faring well, they said. Budhiraja said, "One donor can donate 400 ml of plasma which can save two lives, as 200 ml is sufficient to treat one patient". The patient is now doing well and his two consecutive COVID-19 tests have come negative, the hospital authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-patient-given-plasma-therapy-at-private-hospital-shows-improvement-weaned-off-ventilator-828038.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi LG visits shelter homes to take stock of arrangements amid coronavirus lockdown  ||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday took stock of the lockdown implementation in the national capital and visited temporary shelters for migrant workers and the homeless to review arrangements. According to an official, the lieutenant governor visited two schools at Ludlow Castle Number 2 that have been converted into shelter homes amid the ongoing lockdown to combat the coronavirus outbreak.  Baijal, along with top officers, also made a surprise inspection of a night shelter being run by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB). On Monday, the total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi rose to 2,081, with 78 fresh cases and two deaths being reported in a day. The country has been under a lockdown since March 25 to check the spread of the deadly virus. The shutdown will continue till May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-lg-visits-shelter-homes-to-take-stock-of-arrangements-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-828039.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court notes steps by Delhi govt on school fee amid coronavirus lockdown; disposes plea||The Delhi High Court has noted that the AAP government has barred private schools from demanding any charges except tuition fees which is justified, as teachers are taking online classes and discharging their functions during the lockdown period due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Disposing of a plea on the issue, the court perused the Delhi government's order that even those students who are unable to pay school fees due to financial crisis, will be provided with course-work and other material and they will be permitted to avail online classes. Justice Prathiba M Singh, who conducted the hearing on a plea through video conferencing, said the authorities have taken cognisance of the issue and as the matter is in the policy domain the court is not inclined to interfere. The court passed the order on Monday, uploaded Tuesday, while disposing of the petition seeking direction to the Delhi government to suspend fees in private schools or give relaxation on transportation and other charges, except the tuition fee, from April to June this year on account of the coronavirus or COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. Petitioner and Advocate Rajat Vats submitted that during the lockdown period, students of various private schools in Delhi ought not to be made to pay the transport charges, the fee for extra-curricular activities and other fees which are charged by the schools. He sought that since schools are not functioning, payment of tuition fee be also postponed. Delhi government standing counsel Ramesh Singh told the court that the authorities were fully conscious of the issues raised in the petition and on April 17, the Directorate of Education has already passed an order that no fees except tuition be charged. He said the government was conscious of such students who may have financial difficulties and course material and classes have been made available even to them. The court order said: “It is clear from the above that the authorities have already barred the charging of any fees except tuition fees. A perusal of points...show that even those students who are unable to pay school fees due to financial crisis, course-work and other material are being made available to them. “Such students are also permitted to avail of online classes. It is further clear that schools cannot deny access to online classes and other educational facilities due to non-payment of fees. Schools are also not permitted to charge any new head of fees,” it said. The court said however that charging tuition fee would be justified. It said: "Almost all the schools are conducting online classes and the teachers are discharging their functions by imparting course work over online platforms, checking project work online, correcting papers wherein students have already given examinations, preparing questions on lessons taught and supervising students to complete the work given etc. "There is also a burden on the schools to pay their staff during these months.” The petitioner also said some of the schools are demanding a consolidated fee, without distinguishing the various heads, that is, tuition fee, co-curricular activities fee and others. To this, the court said if there is any specific complaint against any particular school, the parents would be entitled to bring it to the notice of the Directorate of Education, which shall take steps in accordance with the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-notes-steps-by-delhi-govt-on-school-fee-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-disposes-plea-828043.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court dismisses plea seeking relaxing of medical expenses for non-coronavirus treatment||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to entertain a plea seeking directions to the Centre, states and Union Territories for taking immediate steps to relax all medical expenses of non-COVID-19 ailments during the coronavirus pandemic. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai dismissed the plea filed by lawyer Sourjya Das in which he said that due to the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of the virus, the means of livelihood and businesses of people have come to a halt resulting in financial crisis in numerous families. The top court also rejected another petition which sought making masks and sanitizers free of Goods and Services Tax (GST) to make it cheaper at the time of coronavirus. Das in his petition, said, “On perusal of the steps taken by the respondents (Centre, States and UTs), it is valid to infer that the respondents have not taken steps to relax/reduce non-COVID-19 related healthcare/treatment expenses during the COVID-19 outbreak. He submitted that such omission on the part of the respondents is a direct infringement of the ‘right to life’ under Article 21 of the Constitution, of the members of the public or the citizens of India”. The plea said the following halt in means of livelihood and income, people are spending out of their savings for food and shelter in daily life and the restrictions have hampered life in such a way that no one knows when things will get back to normal. The advocate said it needs to be considered that at this time, several people require non-COVID-19 related medical treatment services like chemotherapy, emergency transplants, colonoscopy, various tests and other various treatments. “(Thus), it is of paramount importance that non-COVID-19 related medical treatment expenses / fees are relaxed / reduced by the respondents to help the citizens of India to healthily cope with this world health pandemic with hope and dignity and with no fear of financial crisis in case a prescribed / emergency medical treatment had to be undergone by a member of the public,” the plea said. The petitioner had sought directions to Centre, all states and Union Territories to immediately issue orders to private hospitals / laboratories / nursing homes / clinics to relax / reduce non-COVID-19 related medical healthcare treatment services. The petition had also sought stay on all pending medical or healthcare bills of any patient till action is taken by the Centre, States and UTs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-dismisses-plea-seeking-relaxing-of-medical-expenses-for-non-coronavirus-treatment-828047.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||First batch of 57 Iran-returned pilgrims reaches Kargil after quarantine in UP||The first batch of 57 Iran-returned pilgrims reached here on Tuesday in a special Indian Air Force (IAF) flight after undergoing quarantine in Uttar Pradesh, officials said. However, they would not be going home just now as they have to undergo another phase of 14-day administrative quarantine for their own and others’ safety, they said. “The UT administration is happy to announce the homecoming of the first batch of 57 Iran returnees to Kargil post quarantine…,” tweeted the office of the Ladakh Divisional Commissioner and Secretary Saugat Biswas.  The flight carrying the pilgrims from Hindon Air Force Station in Ghaziabad (UP) landed at Kargil at 11:15 am and the administration is actively pursuing the return of the next batch on Wednesday, the tweet added. When contacted, Kargil District Development Commissioner Baseer Ul Haq Choudhary said they were among over 550 pilgrims hailing from Kargil who were evacuated from Iran in the last week of March in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The others are under quarantine in different parts of the country, he said. “There were over 850 pilgrims from Kargil who had gone for pilgrimage to Iran. About 300 are still in Iran,” he told PTI. He said the 57 pilgrims have completed their quarantine period in Ghaziabad and their arrival in Ladakh. However, before they are allowed to go home, the pilgrims would undergo an institutional quarantine as a precautionary measure for their own welfare, and the safety of others, he said. “They have come from high temperature areas, whereas the maximum temperature in Kargil is still very low. The difference in the temperature (between Ghaziabad and Kargil) might cause some health issues among the pilgrims. Therefore, to monitor them, it was decided that they will undergo another quarantine,” he said.  On April 17, the UT administration had decided that returning pilgrims would be sent to institutional quarantine for proper and strict medical surveillance in consonance with the protocols of the World Health Organisation and those of the Union Ministry of Health. The Kargil administration has already designated institutional quarantine facilities at 22 locations with more than 1100 beds, the officials said. They said the opening of the 434-km Srinagar-Leh National Highway and operation of flights after lockdown would throw new challenges in the fight against coronavirus. The need of the hour is to maintain extra vigilance and strict observance of protocols at all levels to contain the spread of the deadly virus in the district, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/first-batch-of-57-iran-returned-pilgrims-reaches-kargil-after-quarantine-in-up-828050.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Made from cloth for employees' uniforms, Northern Railways to deliver its first order of 2,000 masks amid coronavirus crisis||Having made face masks out of fabric meant for employees' uniforms, the Northern Railways has bagged its first order of 2,000 masks that are washable, cheap and even available in orange, the colour worn by trackmen on duty. A Delhi Residents' Welfare Association is the Northern Railways' first paying client and received the first batch of these masks on Tuesday. With the government making wearing of masks mandatory in public and at the workplace, these come at a cost Rs 5.94 each against the market price of Rs 7.50 and could well serve to meet the rising demand of masks in the coming days. Its USP of being a multi-use mask gives it a leg up from the ordinary masks which have to be disposed off after every use, making it an expensive affair for any household. Since the priority for railways is to cater to the needs of its employees, the masks made by the zone will first be distributed among its 1.3 lakh employees. The workshops under the zone have already manufactured 35,000 masks, officials said, adding that by May end the figure is likely to touch a lakh. "They are such a hit now that some RWA's have shown interest in them and are placing orders. They are made of surplus cloth meant for uniforms for our employees which remained unused. We have received orders from a RWA and we will be supplying them with the reusable masks," Arun Arora, Principal Chief Mechanical Engineer of Northern Railway told PTI. The zone will be fabricating 10,000 such masks every week, some of which will be given to railway employees while others will be given to associations which are requesting them on a payment basis, he said. The Jagadhri Workshop of northern railway has in fact also made disposable masks for the railways' medical staff, the cloth for which is being bought separately. The washable masks are currently in use in the five divisions of northern railway, RDSO Lucknow and by its own workshop staff, besides the railway hospitals where the disposable ones are being used. "We want people to know that we are making these masks, that they are available and we will ramp up production if needed," said Arora. However, it is not just masks that the zone is manufacturing to augment the government's efforts to fight coronavirus, specially in areas where there is a major shortfall. It has produced DRDO approved coveralls for medical staff and hand sanitisers for their staffers.  While the railways' coveralls come for Rs 447, similar pieces in the market are pegged at Rs 808. Similarly, railways has produced sanitisers for Rs 119 for a litre, while in the open market it costs Rs 468. Developed at the Jagadhri Workshop, the coveralls were approved by DRDO within five days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/made-from-cloth-for-employees-uniforms-northern-railways-to-deliver-its-first-order-of-2000-masks-amid-coronavirus-crisis-828053.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Inspector among five new COVID-19 victims in Madhya Pradesh; Death toll climbs to 80||The grim situation is likely to be grimmer as reports on 2638 samples sent from Bhopal to New Delhi for testing are awaited. Indore with 52 deaths tops in the state followed by seven in Bhopal. Bhopal collector Tarun Pithode said the administration fears big spike in the number of cases which had already reached 1485 till Monday night. A central team visited Indore and reviewed the administrative measures to enforce lockdown in the city where number of cases have surged to over 900. Meanwhile, the state government sent 150 buses on Tuesday morning to Kota to bring back nearly 3000 students stranded there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/inspector-among-five-new-covid-19-victims-in-madhya-pradesh-death-toll-climbs-to-80-828063.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Nursing staff of Sanjay Nagar hospital on protest demanding active quarantine amid coronavirus crisis||Infuriated nursing staff of district combined hospital Sanjay Nagar yesterday created ruckus inside the hospital premises and raised slogans against the health department officials. They were annoyed on the issue of their testing of coronavirus and active quarantine facilities. Some of the doctors are staying in the hotels for saving their families from infection. They also alleged that only the nursing staff is attending patients and doctors are escaping. A member of the nursing staff said on the condition of anonymity that the PPE (personal protective equipments) kits and masks provided to us are of sub-standard. The protesting nurses said they must also be kept in active quarantine in the rooms of the hotels inspite of our homes, after finishing the duty, so that our families may not catch the infection. The chief medical superintendent of the hospital Dr. Naresh Vij told PTI that only two patients of coronavirus were admitted here while we are having 100 beds facility. Just for two patients, the whole medical staff cannot be kept in active quarantine in the hotels. Department is providing pick and drop facilities by the hospital ambulance. Just to sort out their grievances samples have been taken and sent for testing to the laboratory. In case any nurse would come in the contact of coronavirus positive patient, she would be kept under active quarantine. They were appeased after getting assurance, CMS Vij added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nursing-staff-of-sanjay-nagar-hospital-on-protest-demanding-active-quarantine-amid-coronavirus-crisis-828065.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Let govt handle situation, says SC on plea to evacuate fishermen from Iran||A bench of Justices N V Raman, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai said the government should be allowed to handle the situation as per the prevailing conditions. The court, however, asked the Union government to "look into" and "attend to" grievances of the petitioner that fishermen were not able to get supply of essentials due to non payment of bills. "The situation has gone out of hand across the world. Indian Embassy should be informed about these issues and action should be taken," the bench said,.disposing of a PIL by Tamil Nadu woman Santha Muthulingam. Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayana, appearing for the petitioner, said there must be repatriation of fishermen from Iran as the government's status report stated that they were in a remote area and it was difficult to reach them. "Fishermen are not being given water, food etc. There needs to be some steps to give aid to them. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, however, said there was an inter provincial lockdown in Iran. "We are in touch with embassy of Iran. The Iranian authorities have been in touch with them. They are on a long term visa. In view of interprovincial lockdown in Iran, there were mpediments in travel to remote location," he said. Embassy officials have been in touch with over 1000 Indian fishermen over phone, making arrangement for food and other supplies. Sankaranarayana, however, pointed out there was a memo, showing that bills for food was raised by the company given charge of supplying food three weeks ago. The company has not been paid by Indian embassy. There has been no food supply of food supplies to them for the last three weeks, he alleged. The counsel said the fishermen were stranded in their boats. Denying the charges, Mehta said the fighermen were not on boats. They are there on a long term visas. The woman-petitioner from Salem in Tamil Nadu asked the court to direct the government to evacuate 860 Indian fishermen, including her husband, stranded on boats, in life threatening situation, in the coast of Iran, following suspension of flights and travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/let-govt-handle-situation-says-sc-on-plea-to-evacuate-fishermen-from-iran-828067.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||47 staff members of AMU medical college quarantined after patient tests positive for coronavirus||Forty-seven staff members of a medical college attached to Aligarh Muslim University were quarantined after they came in contact with a coronavirus patient, an official said on Tuesday. The authorities at AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College have also suspended a doctor for negligence after he allegedly referred the patient to the emergency wing of its hospital instead of the isolation facility. The district authorities have served a notice on the institution to explain the lapse. They also cancelled the licence of a diagnostic centre where the patient got his X-ray done three days ago on the recommendation of a private doctor who was treating him for chest-related problems for the past several days. Chief Superintendent of the AMU hospital Prof Shahid Siddiqi said the staff members, including eight doctors, had “inadvertently” came in contact with the man, who was brought to there on Monday in a serious condition. The man,in his 40s, was referred to the hospital’s emergency department by Dr Anjum Chugtai after preliminary examination, for which he has been suspended for negligence, as per a medical college notification. He, along with his entire family, has been quarantined. Meanwhile, District Magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh said they have sent a notice to the medical college hospital to explain how the patient landed at the emergency wing instead of the isolation facility. The hospital authorities have been asked to explain why the matter was not immediately brought to the notice of the district administration when the patient with coronavirus symptoms was admitted. The DM said the licence of Mittal Diagnostics has been cancelled for not informing the district authorities about the X-ray report of the patient. The district heath authorities and the medical college also held a meeting on Monday in a bid to streamline the procedure for attending to suspected coronavirus cases. There are presently two confirmed cases of coronavirus in this district and the district authorities have enforced extensive precautionary measures for the prevention of the any major outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/47-staff-members-of-amu-medical-college-quarantined-after-patient-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-828084.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||30 Jamaati, including Allahabad varsity prof, 16 foreigners arrested: SP||An Allahabad university professor has been arrested along with 29 persons, including 16 foreign participants of Tablighi Jamaat meet at Nizamuddin in New Delhi, an officials said on Tuesday. City Superintendent of Police Brijesh Kumar Shrivastava said Prof Mohammed Shahid was arrested on charges of arranging the shelter for Indonesians among the foreigner Tablighi Jamaat members in a mosque here and not informing the police about them. One of the Indonesians had earlier tested positive for coronavirus infection and had undergone treatment for it at Kotwa Bani in Allahabad district, he said. Shrivastava said other arrested included nine Thailand nationals, one each from Kerala and West Bengal besides eleven others associated with Abdullah mosque and Hera mosques at Kareli in the city. While the professor has been remanded to judicial custody after the arrest, others have been kept in isolation, the SP said, adding those arrested have been booked on charges of violating the Foreigners Act and colluding with each other for providing shelter to foreigners and shielding information about them from the police. The SP said during the investigation, it transpired that Prof Shahid had attended the Tablighi Jamaat met at Nizamuddin in New Delhi last month along with many of these foreigners and had shielded this information from the police, besides arranging for the foreigners’ stay in local mosques. Shrivastava said it also transpired that all 16 foreigners had come to India on tourist visa visa but had been indulging here in propagating their religion Islam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/30-jamaati-including-allahabad-varsity-prof-16-foreigners-arrested-sp-828095.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||83 new coronavirus cases total climbs to 1,659 in Rajasthan||Rajasthan recorded 83 fresh coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the total number of COVID-19 positive cases to 1,659 in the state, an official said. The state has so far seen 25 deaths due to the virus, with Jaipur accounting for 13 deaths. "Eighty-three fresh cases have been reported in nine districts of the state, including 63 in Jaipur," Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said. He said test results of the 4000 samples, sent to a private lab in Delhi, have started coming and these are being captured in the report. Hence, the number of positive cases is expected to rise. Singh said of the 83 fresh cases, 63 were from Jaipur, five from Jodhpur, four from Bhilwara, two each from Kota, Tonk, Dausa and Jaisalmer and one each from Swai Madhopur, Nagaur and Jhunjhunu. A total of 1,659 cases of the virus have been reported in the state so far. He said so far 327 patients have tested negative for the infection and after treatment, 97 have been discharged from hospitals. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran. They are at Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/83-new-coronavirus-cases-total-climbs-to-1659-in-rajasthan-828099.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Infected with coronavirus, Punjab Police SI still wants to join duty after treatment||Down with coronavirus, Punjab Police Sub-Inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal is still keen on joining her duty after getting cured of the infection. In a motivational video message, she urges police personnel to stay strong and take precautionary measures. Her message has earned the praise of state DGP Dinkar Gupta who shared her video clip on his Twitter handle. The 27-year-old Station House Officer of the Basti Jodhewal police station in Ludhiana had contracted the disease after coming in contact with ACP Anil Kohli, who died of the infection on April 18.  “I want to say that I am alright and will soon join my duty after being cured,” Grewal said in the video clip. Grewal had tested positive for coronavirus on April 17. She thanked Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, DGP Gupta and other senior police officers for their moral support. In a message to police personnel, she said, “I want to give a message to the police force that they should stay strong. We will win the fight against COVID-19.” She asks them to take precautionary measures while on duty. “Wash your hands regularly, wear mask and use sanitisers. Also take care of your diet. You do not have to skip your meal. Have healthy food and take proper rest,” she advises. In a message for public, the SHO urged people to stay indoors. “Stay home, stay safe. Your lives are precious,” she said.  The SHO prayed for speedy recovery of Assistant Sub-Inspector Sukhdev Singh and the late ACP Kohli's driver and constable Prabhjot Singh, who also contracted coronavirus. Expressing grief over the ACP's death, Grewal said she had learnt a lot from him. “His death is a loss to the entire Punjab Police," she said. DGP Gupta tweeted, “Am absolutely amazed @ how our young Sub-Inspector Arshpreet, SHO Jodhewal, Ludhiana, is coping with the coronavirus. All of 27 yrs& yet so brave, mature& inspiring. She's raring to get back to her work.Listen to her to find out what's she made of!” Meanwhile, a video of constable Prabhjot Singh doing push-ups in a Ferozepur hospital was shared widely on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/infected-with-coronavirus-punjab-police-si-still-wants-to-join-duty-after-treatment-828103.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Housekeeper employed with Lok Sabha Secretariat tests COVID-19 positive; hospitalised||A housekeeper working with the Lok Sabha secretariat has been found positive for COVID-19 and admitted to hospital, sources said. The infected man has not attended office for the last few days. He had symptoms of fever, cough and breathing problems and was found to be COVID-19 positive, sources said. They said he has been admitted to the special ward at the Safdarjung hospital here. Eleven members of his family have also been tested for the virus and the results are awaited. Local civic authorities have quaratined his house in central Delhi, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/housekeeper-employed-with-lok-sabha-secretariat-tests-covid-19-positive-hospitalised-828105.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||115 families at President's Estate in self-isolation as sanitation worker's relative tests coronavirus positive||Anxious moments were witnessed at the President's Estate after a kin of an employee, working in the housekeeping department, was detected with the COVID-19 disease-promoting authorities to keep 115 families under "self-isolation" as a "preventive measure". Spread over 330 acres from the famous Raisina Hill till South Avenue, the Rashtrapati Bhawan houses nearly 1,000 families who are engaged in various duties which include maintenance of the majestic palace with 340 rooms, a central lawn, Ashok Hall and Durbar Hall. The detection of the COVID-19 case from the premises of the President's Estate prompted Rashtrapati Bhawan to issue a statement in which they clarified that "no employee of the President's secretariat has tested positive for COVID-19 and the secretariat along with the local administration is taking all the preventive measures required under the government guidelines." A COVID-19 positive patient from central Delhi, who was neither an employee of the President's secretariat nor a resident of the President's Estate, died on April 13, 2020 with co-morbidities at the B L Kapoor Hospital in New Delhi, the statement said. After contact tracing of the deceased, it was found that a family member of an employee of the President's Secretariat had been in contact with the deceased prompting the authorities to shift the employee along with the family, residents of Pocket 1, schedule A area of the President's Estate, to a quarantine facility at Mandir Marg on April 16, the statement said. "Subsequently, one of the family members who was in contact with the deceased tested positive. All other family members including the employee of the President's Secretariat have tested negative," it said. Adhering to the instructions and guidelines under the Disaster Management Act, 115 houses in Pocket 1, schedule A area of the President's Estate were identified for movement restriction and residents have been advised to remain indoors, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said. "The residents of these houses are being provided doorstep delivery of essential commodities," it added. Spread over 2.5 kilometres, the estate provides residential accommodation to employees posted with the President's Secretariat which includes the home and office of the President, a museum complex and famous gardens - The Mughal Gardens, Herbal Garden, Musical Garden and Spiritual Garden. It is a virtual city within a city which has its own post office, places of worships, schools, medical and cultural centres besides an auditorium where special screenings of movies are held for the President.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/115-families-at-presidents-estate-in-self-isolation-as-sanitation-workers-relative-tests-coronavirus-positive-828107.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi violence: Police books Jamia students under UAPA||Delhi Police has booked Jamia students Meeran Haider and Safoora Zargar under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, said a lawyer. Haider and Zargar, arrested for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to incite the communal riots in February, are in judicial custody. While Zargar is the media coordinator of Jamia Coordination Committee, Haider is a member of the committee.  The police has also booked Jawaharlal Nehru University student leader Umar Khalid under the UAPA in the case, said advocate Akram Khan who is representing Haider in the case. Haider (35) is a PhD student and the president of RJD youth wing's Delhi unit, while Zargar is an MPhil student of Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) university. In the FIR, the police has claimed that the communal violence was a "premeditated conspiracy" which was allegedly hatched by Khalid and two others. The students have also been booked for the offences of sedition, murder, attempt to murder, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion and rioting. Khalid had allegedly given provocative speeches at two different places and appealed to the citizens to come out on streets and block the roads during the visit of US President Donald Trump to spread propaganda at international level about how minorities in India are being , the FIR alleged. In this conspiracy, firearms, petrol bombs, acid bottles and stones were collected at numerous homes, the FIR claimed. Co-accused Danish was given the responsibility to gather people from two different places to take part in the riots, the police alleged. Women and children were made to block the roads under the Jafrabad metro station on February 23 to create tension amidst the neighbourhood people, it said.  Over 20 film personalities, including Anurag Kashyap, Vishal Bhardwaj, Mahesh Bhatt and Ratna Pathak Shah, on Sunday had released a statement raising their voice against the arrest of the students and activists by Delhi Police for protesting against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and demanded their release. Following this, the police had said investigations into the JMI violence and northeast Delhi riot cases were done impartially, and arrests were made after analysis of forensic evidence. In December last year, the police had allegedly entered the JMI campus after protests over the CAA, being held a few metres away from the varsity, turned violent. Rajya Sabha MP and RJD leader Manoj Jha had tweeted, "Delhi Police called him for investigation and then received orders from above and arrested Meeran Haider, who has been helping people during the time of coronavirus outbreak." The Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC), a group comprising students and alumni from the varsity, had condemned the arrest and demanded his immediate release. "The country is facing a massive health crisis, however, the state machinery is busy harassing and framing student activists in false cases to suppress voices of dissent," they said. The JCC said Haider was diligently working to provide ration to the needy during the lockdown. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-police-books-jamia-students-under-uapa-828145.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||World's most polluted city sees clean sky, air amid COVID-19 lockdown||Residents of New Delhi are experiencing the longest spell of clean air on record, according to government data, as a stringent lockdown to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus drastically cuts pollution in the world's most polluted capital. With all transport and construction suspended, good air has emerged as one of the few positive byproducts of the lockdown to stem the virus, that has infected more than 17,000 people and claimed over 500 lives in India. A combination of industrial, agricultural and vehicle pollution blankets New Delhi and dozens of other Indian cities with a thick grey smog for several months of the year. Delhi was the world's most polluted capital for the second year running in 2019, according to IQ AirVisual, a Swiss group that gathers air quality data globally. But during the first 25 days of the lockdown that began on March 22, the concentration of poisonous PM2.5 particles in a cubic metre of air averaged at 44.18, according to a Reuters analysis of government data, indicating a rare "good" rating, the safest level on the scale. That is sharply down from an average concentration of 81.88, recorded between March 22 and April 15 of 2019, according to the analysis of data gathered by the state-run Central Pollution Control Board. IQ AirVisual said New Delhi's average annual concentration of PM2.5 in a cubic metre of air was 98.6 in 2019. "Clean air has come as a boon," said Rakesh Singh, a computer engineer who lives in Noida, a satellite city of New Delhi. "Breathing good air will only boost my immunity against the coronavirus." The reading is the best on record for the city since the government began collecting detailed data. New Delhi had few pollution monitors before 2016, making like-for-like comparisons before then difficult. Vehicular exhaust and dust from construction work significantly contributes to air pollution in New Delhi. India's sprawling capital city has nearly 10 million vehicles, more than the other three major cities - Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata - put together. Shutting down India's $2.9 trillion economy has also significantly cut India's fuel and power demand, helping pollution levels plummet. As power demand plunged, 11 of the 12 coal-fired plants situated within a 300 km (185-mile) radius of New Delhi have closed their operations, said Sunil Dahiya, an analyst at the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA). Consumption of diesel is down by nearly a quarter year-on-year, he added. But while the 20 million inhabitants of New Delhi will be breathing good air ahead of Earth Day on Wednesday, the respite from the pollution could be short-lived. Experts warn that air quality will drop sharply once the government lifts the lockdown, that is scheduled to run until at least May 3. "After the lockdown, we'll see new stimulus packages and revival plans for the economy, and my biggest fear is that the environment will be the first casualty," said Vimlendu Jha, an environmental expert who founded the activist group Swechha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/worlds-most-polluted-city-sees-clean-sky-air-amid-covid-19-lockdown-828173.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Five accused of Moradabad stone-pelting incident test positive for coronavirus||Five of the 17 people arrested for attacking a medical team in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad last week have tested positive for coronavirus, an official said on Tuesday. Apart from them, 10 more people were found infected with the virus in the district. Police had attested 17 people after they allegedly attacked health workers, who had come to the Moradabad’s Nawabpura area to take family members of a coronavirus victim into isolation. They hurled stones at an ambulance, injuring four people. CMO Dr Milind Garg said samples of all accused of the Nawabpura incident were sent for testing to Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences. Five of them tested positive for the virus on Monday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-accused-of-moradabad-stone-pelting-incident-test-positive-for-coronavirus-828178.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: UP starts issuing online clearances to industry to minimise human interface||"With a view to kick-start resumption of industrial units and investment attraction for setting up of new industries in the state for much-needed economic revival and job creation, we are issuing clearances with Nivesh Mitra portal," Mahana said. The web launch of the services was done on Monday in which the minister also interacted with more than 80 industrialists and apprised them about features of the web portal, which will ease out and fasten the process of acquiring various approvals from the UPSIDA. Infrastructure and Industrial Development Commissioner, Alok Tandon said that integration of above 21 new services of UPSIDA with Nivesh Mitra will enable additional one stop accessibility of services to entrepreneurs. It will accelerate the new economic opportunities within the state and shall trigger the rapid industrial development to augment the Gross State Domestic product (GSDP) of Uttar Pradesh. A new online grievance redressal facility will soon be integrated with Nivesh Mitra portal to ensure swift resolution of issues at district, division and state level Udyog Bandhu, he said. These new services are provided by to enterprises and industries within its industrial areas across the state. Principal Secretary, Infrastructure & Industrial Development, Shri Alok Kumar informed that with the addition of 21 new services of UPSIDA, the total number of online services being provided by 20 departments through Nivesh Mitra is now 146, which makes it one of the largest and comprehensive single window clearance system in India. UPSIDA CEO Anil Garg said that the authority has so far provided online facilities for land allocation and building plan approval to over 2,500 industrialists through online single window portal Nivesh Mitra without any physical visits required. He said that THE authority's robust GIS tagging had enabled availability of an illustrated description of all industrial areas of the authority on the portal. Executive Director of Udyog Bandhu and Secretary, Infrastructure & Industrial Development, Neena Sharma said, "Since the launch of upgraded version in February 2018 by Prime Minister, a total of 1,26,191 (75 per cent) clearances have been issued through Nivesh Mitra single window portal so far with a whopping 75 per cent user feedback as 'satisfactory'." 'Udyog Bandhu', the investment facilitation agency of the State government is the nodal agency for the management of Nivesh Mitra. The new 21 online services of Nivesh Mitra Team (Udyog Bandhu) included, requests for addition of products within same premises, for lease deed execution and registration, for restoration of plot after cancellation, for recognition of legal heir after death of Allottee besides others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-up-starts-issuing-online-clearances-to-industry-to-minimise-human-interface-828184.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh records total 1,294 coronavirus cases||Uttar Pradesh has reported a total of 1,294 COVID-19 cases, out of which 1,134 are active cases, an official said on Tuesday. "Till now, 1,294 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the state, of which 1,134 are active cases. These have been reported from 53 districts of the state. However, nine out of these 53 districts have zero active cases now. In other words, the active cases are presently in 44 districts of the state,” he said. Prasad said 140 patients have been discharged. He said containment exercise is going on in the state through “surveillance, testing, lockdown, quarantine and treatment”. The official also stated that ‘pool testing’ was being undertaken in the northern state.  "Pool testing is also going on in the state. It is usually done where chances of coronavirus cases are low such as the area outside containment zones,” he said. Pooling of samples involves testing them in batches and when pooled sample tests positive, then individual samples are assessed. Pool testing reduces the number of test kits used, and therefore, increases testing capacity.  “Pool testing is being done at King George's Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow. Other laboratories in the state should also undertake pool testing," Prasad added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-records-total-1294-coronavirus-cases-828206.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Examine plasma therapy in coronavirus treatment, promote its use: Yogi Adityanath to medical authorities||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yog Adityanath on Tuesday asked the state’s medical authorities to promote Plasma Therapy for the treatment of COVID-19 patients after examining its efficacy. The chief minister, while chairing a high-level meeting of officials to take stock’s of the UP anti-coronavirus fight, also stressed upon the need for thorough testing of people living in and around the areas declared hotspots, said Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi. He said the chief minister also appealed to the people, visiting hospitals for emergency treatment, to go to the only to the hospitals approved by the Medical and Health Department. Awasthi said “the chief minister has pointed out that several news items on positive results of plasma therapy in the treatment of COVID-19 patients have appeared in media recently.” "In view of this, the efficacy of the new treatment protocol should be examined and promoted in the state,” said Adityanath, while chairing the meeting in which, he also instructed officials to ensure availability of oxygen for the COVID-19 patients. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has recently allowed states to start clinical trials of the plasma therapy for COVID-19. Nearly 100 institutes have shown interest to study how safe and efficient is Plasma Therapy in treating COVID-19 patients. Several states like Kerala, Gujarat and Punjab have already started using Plasma Therapy for the corona-infected patients. Convalescent Plasma Therapy is an experimental procedure for COVID-19 patients. In this treatment, plasma from a cured COVID-19 patient is transfused to a critically ill coronavirus patient. The idea behind this therapy is that immunity can be transferred from a healthy person to a sick patient using convalescent plasma. This therapy uses antibodies from the blood of a cured coronavirus patient to treat another critical patient. The recovered COVID-19 patient's blood develops antibodies to battle against COVID-19. Once the blood of the first patient is infused to the second patient, those antibodies will start fighting against the coronavirus in the second person. The process for donating plasma is similar to donating blood and takes about an hour. Several countries around the world including the United Kingdom and the United States have also started plasma therapy trials. While the meeting, the chief minister also issued directions to halt inter-district and inter-state transportation and ensure that ration is available to one and all, said Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awasthi. Talking about the need to visitonly approved hospitals for emergency treatment, Awasthi said, "If anyone falls ill, he/she should go to the hospitals, only approved by the medical and health department, and not to any other place. Do not go to non-approved hospital for emergency.” “Going to the emergency units of non-approved hospitals will also pose a danger to the lives of other patients. Emergency services have been allowed in only those hospitals, where there are sufficient equipment and trained staff," he said. He said the chief minister has also directed that people in areas which have been declared COVID-19 hotspots should be thoroughly tested, and so should be the people living in the vicinity of hotspots. "Pool testing can also be done in areas, where it is needed. Special arrangements should be made for testing in Kanpur, were the burden of testing is high," he said. CM Adityanath also laid stress on the need for the people, put in quarantine, to follow the social distancing norms, said wasthi. Referring to COVID-19 cases in Rae Bareli, Awasthi said, "People placed under quarantine in Rae Bareli had first tested negative, while in the second test, they were tested positive for COVID-19." Seeking to promote the use of Aarogya Setu app, Awasthi said the app keeps one aware of one’s surrounding and the possible coronavirus threat. “Aarogya Setu app has been downloaded by nearly one crore people in the state. This is a big achievement. The app generates alert, and almost 200 alerts have already come. This will be used by the health department and concern district magistrates," he said. Sanitisation of shelter home and community kitchens too should be done regularly, and medical tests of those working here should also be done. Adherence to the home quarantine by students, who have returned to their home in the state from Kota, should be informed on the '1076' Mukhyamantri helpline, a statement issued by the UP Government said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/examine-plasma-therapy-in-coronavirus-treatment-promote-its-use-yogi-adityanath-to-medical-authorities-828215.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Lockdown: Chhattisgarh CM writes to PM, demands Rs 30k cr package||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Tuesday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide financial assistance of Rs 30,000 crore to the state in the next three months to operate relief and welfare schemes. A state government release said Baghel also sought exemption for functioning of electronic items and vehicle showrooms, sweet shops, and construction activities in cities during the lockdown for the coronavirus outbreak.  "In a letter to the Prime Minister, Baghel said due to the long period of lockdown, economic activities have come to standstill and revenue collections declined to almost zero in the state. In view of the current scenario, there is also possibility of a big reduction in the amount that the state receives from Central taxes," the release said. The state government needs additional resources to ensure livelihood of 56 lakh poor families, who have no means of income left, it said. "The state should be given financial assistance of at least Rs 30,000 crore from the Centre in the next three months, out of which Rs 10,000 crore should be released immediately, so that industry, business, service and agriculture sectors can be provided monetary aid," Baghel wrote in the letter. "Exemption should be given to the operation of sweets shops, so that dairy farmers can sell milk there. Operation of showrooms of vehicles, registration of sale and purchase of properties, construction work in cities, outlets of air conditioners, coolers and fridges in view of summer season and all repairing works should also be allowed," it said. It would be appropriate to allow retail works in all districts identified as green zones during the lockdown, the CM said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-chhattisgarh-cm-writes-to-pm-demands-rs-30k-cr-package-828221.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police constable flags lack of hygiene at coronavirus hospital||A Delhi Police constable, undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at a hospital in Najafgarh, alleged "lack of hygiene" in the facility. On Tuesday, the constable attached with Tilak Vihar police post shared a video alleging that around 20 patients, who are being treated in the same floor, shared a common bathroom and if anyone complained of soar throat or fever, they were not provided medicines. He further alleged that none of them is served hot water and since Monday, their bed-sheets have also not been changed and the pillow he was given is also dirty. He claimed that they were not provided sanitiser either.  The constable alleged it had been four days since he was tested for the virus, yet his children who are at home have not been tested for coronavirus. Police, however, said they were following the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to carry out tests at the earliest as it takes at least four-five days in some cases to show symptoms. Through the video, the constable urged the authorities for help and requested them to admit him at a private hospital since he is a beneficiary under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS). Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Deepak Purohit has assured they will take care of the well-being of their staff and family and are following procedures and guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research. A day after he was taken to hospital, a hand sanitiser and kettle for warm water was provided to him from the police station by the Delhi Police, he said. DCP Dwarka, Anto Alphonse, under whom the designated hospital falls, has also visited the hospital and spoken to the administration to ensure the cleanliness of the pillow and toilet, he added. The constable was tested on April 17 at the DDU dispensary in Tilak Vihar and his result came positive on April 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-constable-flags-lack-of-hygiene-at-coronavirus-hospital-828223.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||When world fighting coronavirus pandemic, terrorists making attempts to disrupt peace in J&K: DGP||Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh on Tuesday said when the entire world is fighting the novel coronavirus outbreak, Pakistan-backed terrorists are making attempts to disrupt peace in the Union Territory. A recent report suggested that many terrorists at their training centres and launching pads in Pakistan and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir are suffering from coronavirus infection, the director general of police (DGP) said. He said that Pakistani agencies are helping the terrorists infiltrate into India through the International Border (IB) and the Line of Control (LoC).  Singh and R R Bharnagar, the advisor to Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu, on Tuesday held a meeting with senior police officers via video-conferencing to review the security situation as well as the COVID-19 crisis in Kashmir Valley. Referring to the recent terror attacks, the DGP said, "When the entire world is making efforts to fight the coronavirus pandemic, Pakistan and its sponsored terrorists are making all-out attempts to disrupt the measures being taken to safeguard the lives of the people in J-K." He said that even during the present health crisis Indian forces would continue to consolidate peace while maintaining good security and law and order grids. He said that Pakistan agencies are engaged with various activities at their launching pads in Pakistan and PoK to push in terrorists this side both from IB and LoC to further its nefarious designs of disturbing peace and normalcy and lives and livelihoods of the people. Bhatnagar appreciated the role of the police and other security forces in tackling the coronavirus situation and assisting the civil administration and the health department in combating it. He said Jammu and Kashmir Police along with the other security forces are contributing in a big way and added that all the necessary measures are being taken to contain the spread of pandemic. Addressing the meeting, the DGP said Jammu and Kashmir Police along with the other formations and departments are involved day and night in fight against the pandemic and added that it is important to ensure that government orders and the health protocols are followed on the ground.   The DGP asserted that no unauthorized traffic and movement of the people be allowed except in cases where such movement is exempted.  He appreciated the efforts of police officers and jawans for providing the necessary help to the people in need at their doorstep.  He also complimented the large number of volunteers who have come forward to assist the police in extending a helping hand to the needy people.  He thanked social and religious leaders for their significant contribution along with police and administration in sensitizing general people about the dangers of COVID-19 and need for strict adherence to social distancing norms and advising them not to gather or participate in any religious or social congregations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/when-world-fighting-coronavirus-pandemic-terrorists-making-attempts-to-disrupt-peace-in-jk-dgp-828230.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh CM seeks Rs 30,000-crore assistance from Centre to combat coronavirus||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding the assistance of Rs30,000 crore for the state to deal with the economic fallout of the coronavirus lockdown. He requested the prime minister to immediately release Rs10,000 crore of the total amount so that assistance could be given to industry, business, service and agriculture sectors. He said the assistance would be for the next three months for the operation of relief and welfare schemes and relaxation in the economic activities related to revenue generation in the state. The chief minister also requested for immediate exemption in a few sectors to restart economic activities. Baghel urged the PM that exemption be given for the operation of sweets shops so that it can be possible to sell milk of milk-producing farmers. He said operation and registration of showrooms of vehicles, including the exemption of registration and purchase of properties, operation of construction works in cities, air conditioners in view of the summer season, operation of showrooms of coolers and fridges, be also given. It would be appropriate to allow repair work and open all types of retail works in all green zone districts. Every effort will be made by the state government to ensure the wearing of masks and social distancing of all individuals, he said. Baghel told the PM that due to long period of lockdown, revenue collections have come down to almost zero. In the current economic scenario, there is also a big reduction in the amount that the state receives from central taxes, he said. On the other hand, the state government is needing additional resources for the livelihood of the 56 lakh poor and needy families of the state, who have no means of income left, he said. Baghel said if the above activities are not given permission immediately, then normal operations of the state will not be possible. "It is requested to take the trouble of providing immediate approval to the demands of the state," he urged the prime minister. He wrote that the main sources of income of the state are mining activities, excise, GST, registration of properties, registration of vehicles and forest wealth. But permission has been granted by the Centre to conduct only economic activities related to urgent services from April 20 to May 3, which will not provide any special assistance in revenue receipt of the state. "It is certain that economic activities in the country will take a long time to return to normal. In such a situation, it will be very difficult to conduct development and welfare schemes for the state," he said. The chief minister said the coronavirus outbreak in the state is comparatively better than other states. As of April 21, only 36 COVID-19 patients have been found, out of which 25 have recovered and the remaining 11 are being treated. Around 400 people are being tested every day in the state. No new COVID-19 infection has been found in the last five days, Baghel said, adding that of 28 districts in the state, not a single person has been found infected in 23 districts, while 4 districts where 8 were found infected, no cases have been reported in the last 3 weeks and 11 active infected people of the only district are yet to be treated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-cm-seeks-rs-30000-crore-assistance-from-centre-to-combat-coronavirus-828231.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Adityanath's father cremated in Uttarakhand, CM pays tribute at home||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's father and social worker Anand Singh Bisht was cremated Tuesday on the banks of the Ganga at Phoolchatti in Pauri Garhwal district. Adityanath, who had announced that he would not attend the funeral, observed two minutes of silence at his official residence here with some officials joining him in the tribute to his father.  At Gorakhnath temple in Gorakhpur, where Adityanath is the chief priest, the management and staff of the “math” paid homage. Adityanath father died at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi on Monday. He was 89. The chief minister was in a meeting with officials at his Lucknow home, discussing the coronavirus crises when he learnt about the death. Officials said he continued with the meeting. Later, in a statement, Adityanath said he will not attend the funeral as he was duty-bound to remain in his state due to the coronavirus outbreak. The funeral pyre in Uttarakhand’s Phoolchatti was lit by Anand Singh Bisht’s eldest son Manvendra Singh Bisht. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat attended the last rites, laying a wreath before Bisht was consigned to the flames.  Rawat said the loss of a social worker like Bisht will be felt acutely by the people of the state and his contribution to society will be remembered forever. Uttarakhand Assembly Speaker Premchand Aggarwal, Pauri Garhwal MP Tirath Singh Rawat, ministers Madan Kaushik and Dhan Singh Rawat, Parmarth Niketan’s Chidanand Muni and yoga guru Baba Ramdev were among those who attended the cremation. At the Gorakhnath temple, the “pujaris”, management, employees and some "sadhus” paid tributes with two minutes’ silence. Temple officials said social distancing norms were maintained. The temple’s office secretary, Dwarika Tiwari, said, "Maharaj ji's father was very simple, soft-spoken and very direct person. He accepted his son's decision to offer his life to social welfare, when he became a yogi." Flowers were offered at Bisht’s photograph at MP Ravi Kishan's office, where BJP’s zonal vice president Satyendra Sinha and zonal secretary Pradeep Shukla were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/adityanaths-father-cremated-in-uttarakhand-cm-pays-tribute-at-home-828248.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Arrested Tablighis, others suspected of being corona-positive to be kept in temporary jails: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday ordered to keep the Tablighi arrested Jamaat meet participants and others, suspected of being coronavirus-positive, in temporary jails and not in regular ones. For housing such persons, 23 temporary jails have been set up in the state, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said here in a statement. He said the chief minister has also instructed authorities to ensure uninterrupted supply of essential items to people during the holy month of Ramzan. “In view of the arrests of Tablighi Jamaat members and others for security reasons amid the coronavirus-led lockdown, the chief minister has instructed to keep them in temporary jail and not in regular ones,” said Awasthi. He said the instructions regarding this have been sent to all divisional commissioners, district magistrates and superintendents of police of all districts, besides the police commissioners of Lucknow and Gautam Buddh Nagar. Awasthi said such arrested people, who are suspected of being corona positive ether due to their association with the Tablighi Jamaat, including the foreigners among them or those having come in contact with any infected person during their medical treatment in any hospital have to be kept in temporary jails and not the normal ones. “As many as 23 temporary jails have been set up in the state, and testing of inmates is being done," he said. Awasthi also said if any person from the state dies outside it, the administration will make arrangements to bring his body to the state. On the basis of the eligibility of the family, the administration will also arrange for the maintenance allowance, ration card and a house under any particular scheme, he said. He also said through construction activities in Purvanchal Expressway, Bundelkhand Expressway and Gorakhpur Link Expressway, around 8,500 people have been provided jobs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arrested-tablighis-others-suspected-of-being-corona-positive-to-be-kept-in-temporary-jails-yogi-adityanath-828255.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Medico among 12 test positive for COVID-19 in J&K, toll reaches 380||Twelve new COVID-19 cases were reported from Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday taking the Union Territory tally to 380. “12 new cases- 11 from Kashmir 1 from Jammu division (Kathua). 10 recoveries too. Total cases now 380. Jammu Division-56 and Kashmir Division-324 (sic),” J&K government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal, tweeted. Officials said that among today's 12 cases, ten are from south Kashmir’s Shopian district, one from northern Baramulla district and another from Kathua district of Jammu region. The person who tested positive in Baramulla, according to reports, is a doctor. For the past one week, COVID-19 curve in Kashmir has stabilized. While on 14 April, the number of cases reported from Kashmir stood at six, a day later on 15 April 18 cases were reported from the division. The number, since, has remained steady ranging between 12 and 14 cases per day. On Sunday and Monday, the number of new positives reported from Kashmir was 14. Dr Parvaiz Koul, head department of internal and pulmonary medicine at territory-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar called the trend encouraging but warned against deducting meaning from these numbers on face value. “The people who have and are testing positive are contacts mostly – immediate and high risk,” he said and added that surveillance of red zones would give a “fairer estimate” of the toll of the virus in J&K.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/medico-among-12-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-jk-toll-reaches-380-828256.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt to give 2000 food coupons each to MPs, MLAs for distribution among the needy, says Arvind Kejriwal||The Delhi government will give 2,000 food coupons each to every MLA and MP in the city for distribution among the needy in their constituencies amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday. Addressing the media online, Kejriwal said 47 people have died of COVID-19 so far, adding that 83 per cent of the deaths were related to co-morbid conditions. Kejriwal also said the government will start COVID-19 testing for media persons from Wednesday. "We have set up a centre. All media houses and journalists will be informed about it. Interested media persons can undergo tests from tomorrow morning at the centre," he said. The chief minister said his government has also decided to provide free-ration to around 30 lakh people who do not have ration cards, asserting that there are currently 71 lakh beneficiaries of the public distribution system and they are being provided free-ration by the government. The government will also distribute kits of daily-use items such as soap, oil, sugar, turmeric and salt along with ration for the month of May, he said, adding that it will start it from April 27 or April 28 onwards. "The Delhi government has prepared a plan of food security for the needy. We will provide free-ration to around one crore people and it means we will be providing ration to half the population of Delhi," Kejriwal said. The chief minister said the government has also decided to give 2000 food coupons each to every MLA and MP for distribution among the needy in their respective constituencies. "Every MLA and MP will distribute food coupons to those who did not have ration cards and could not apply for the same online. Those people getting e-coupon will also be given kits of daily-use items," he also said. There are 1,603 active coronavirus cases in Delhi, while 47 people have died of COVID-19 so far, Kejriwal said, adding that 83 per cent of the deaths were related to co-morbid conditions. He said with a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases, the Delhi government will procure 60 new ambulances and an order has been issued for the same. Out of 1,397 samples taken, 78 were found infected with COVID-19 on Monday, he said. Kejriwal requested people to take extra care of senior citizens those aged above 60 and not to allow them to step out of houses. He said 47 people have so far died of COVID-19, adding that 80 per cent of people, who died, were aged more than 50. The total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi rose to 2081 on Monday, with 78 fresh cases and two deaths being reported in a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-give-2000-food-coupons-each-to-mps-mlas-for-distribution-among-the-needy-says-arvind-kejriwal-828263.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Indore mob attack: 2 doctors give saplings, signal forgiveness||Two women doctors who were part of a group that got assaulted by a mob in Taatpati Bakhal in Indore in Madhya Pradesh on April 1 returned to the area on Tuesday to offer saplings as a sign of moving on through forgiveness. They were welcomed with loud claps and cheering by those present in the locality, and videos of the two giving saplings to 48 people discharged from an isolation centre, went viral soon after on social media.  Doctors Trupti Katdare (40) and Zakia Syed (36), who were part of a five-member team that had gone to quarantine relatives and acquaintances of a COVID-19 patient, were injured when stones were pelted by a mob on April 1. "It was an emotional moment giving saplings to those returning after 14-day isolation period as a precautionary measure. We have forgiven and forgotten the stone pelting incident. People here are now cooperating with health officials to fight the coronavirus outbreak. The bitterness is gone," Dr Katdare said. Indore is among the cities in the country worst hit by the virus outbreak, with 915 COVID-19 cases, and 52 deaths from the infection. Indore is one of the cities where the COVID-19 situation was "especially serious", the Centre had warned on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indore-mob-attack-2-doctors-give-saplings-signal-forgiveness-828274.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Yamuna cleaner during lockdown due to increase in fresh water, lesser effluent generation: NGT panel||The water quality in the Yamuna here has "improved significantly" during the lockdown due to an increase in fresh water availability and absence of industrial effluent, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC). The National Green Tribunal-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee (YMC) had earlier this month asked the CPCB and the DPCC to conduct tests to ascertain if the water quality in the river had improved due to the lockdown. The committee said there was a significant increase (5 to 6 fold) in fresh water availability downstream of Wazirabad during April which helped in the dilution of the pollution caused due to waste water from major drains like Najafgarh and Shahdara.  For improvement in water quality, availability of fresh water in significant quantities is important, the panel comprising retired NGT expert member Bikram Singh Sajwan and former Delhi chief secretary Shailaja Chandra said. Industrial effluent, from 28 industrial clusters and industries in non-conforming/residential areas, also remained absent during the lockdown. Residential areas are estimated to have more than 51,000 industries. Preventing any industrial effluent going into the drains and eventually the river has contributed to the improvement in the water quality, the panel said. Other factors are stoppage of human activities such as throwing of puja material, solid waste disposal, bathing and washing of clothes etc., which were minimised during the ongoing lockdown, it added. The CPCB analysis suggested the water quality at "Palla, Nizamuddin and Okhla (downstream) and 16 major drains has improved significantly". "In fact, biological oxygen demand (BOD) at Nizamuddin and Okhla has increased by as much as 80 to 90 per cent with similar increases in chemical oxygen demand, though dissolved oxygen levels were still low," it said. The waste water quality in two major drains -- Najafgarh and Shahdara -- which contribute about two-thirds of the hydraulic load of all the drains, also showed improvement of about 30-45 per cent in BOD. However, the BOD levels in the two drains were 56 mg/L and 89 mg/L despite the improvement. The CPCB report also pointed out that the fresh water availability in the Yamuna, which was less than 1,000 cusecs prior to the lockdown, increased more than fivefold downstream of Wazirabad during the lockdown. "Besides, all the industries, which contribute about 36 million litres per day of effluent, remained closed. This also helped improve water quality," the panel said. The DPCC report -- based on samples collected at nine stations along the river and at 20 stations on the drains -- said the BOD concentrations improved from 20 to 33 per cent at ITO, Nizamuddin, Agra canal Jaitpur, Okhla barrage (upstream) and Okhla. It also suggested that the water quality has deteriorated at Palla, Surghat, Khajuri Paltoon Pool (downstream of Najafgarh drain point) and Kudesia Ghat barrage. The DPCC compared the data from water samples collected on April 6 with the corresponding data for the year 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yamuna-cleaner-during-lockdown-due-to-increase-in-fresh-water-lesser-effluent-generation-ngt-panel-828275.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Punjab Speaker seeks monetary support to fight coronavirus||Punjab Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana K P Singh on Tuesday sought monetary support and the required health infrastructure including test kits from the Centre to fight the COVID-19 pandemic in the state. He raised the demand during a video conference of presiding officers of All India Legislative Bodies, an official statement said here. Apprising about the situation in the state, Singh appreciated the initiative of Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla for listening their views. He also urged the Lok Sabha Speaker to impress upon the Central government to provide extra financial support and health infrastructure to Punjab particularly to win the battle against the pandemic. Singh assured all his counterparts that all migrants stranded in the state due to the lockdown are safe and the Punjab government is taking good care of them and all arrangements have been made for their screening and safe stay. Stressing on the need for a long-term policy for monetary support to states, the Punjab Vidhan Sabha Speaker pointed out that the Centre has not yet provided any special financial help to Punjab particularly to fight the virus.  He said only 10,000 test kits have been provided to the state against the requirement of one lakh test kits. He also raised the issue of safe transit of Punjabi pilgrims stuck in Maharashtra, who had gone to pay their obeisance at Takht Hazur Sahib (Nanded Sahib) . During the discussion, it was decided that a control room in each legislative body will be set up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-speaker-seeks-monetary-support-to-fight-coronavirus-828280.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Swiggy to downsize private brand kitchens, to impact around 900 employees amid coronavirus crisis||Food ordering and delivery platform Swiggy is planning to downsize operations of its private brand kitchens due to COVID-19 pandemic, which could impact around 900 employees, according to sources. As per the sources in know of the matter, around 900 employees would be affected by the decision of the company. The company, however, refrained from sharing any details about the number of employees likely to be impacted. "As COVID-19 disrupts daily life across the country, the hospitality industry has come under severe pressure. As the lockdown gets further extended, we are evaluating various means to stay nimble and focused on growth and profitability across our private brand kitchens," a Swiggy spokesperson said in a statement. These include renegotiating contracts with landlords, relocation of certain kitchens to more optimal locations and discontinuing operations at a few kitchens that have been severely impacted since the lockdown came into effect, it added. "This will, unfortunately, have an impact on a certain number of kitchen staff who will be fully supported during this transition," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/swiggy-to-downsize-private-brand-kitchens-to-impact-around-900-employees-amid-coronavirus-crisis-828285.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court asks Centre to consider including women shelter homes under coronavirus preventive guidelines||The Supreme Court Tuesday asked the Centre to consider extending the guidelines issued to prevent the spread of coronavirus in children's homes to Nari Niketans or women's shelter homes, wherever feasible. The top court asked the government to look for feasibility of implementing its April 3 guidelines, which included releasing of the inmates wherever possible to avoid overcrowding. During the hearing of a PIL through video conferencing, a bench of Justices N V Ramana, S K Kaul and B R Gavai said the Centre and state governments should assess the ground situation and take appropriate steps to prevent the spread of coronavirus at women's shelter homes. “The petitioner is directed to furnish a copy of the writ petition to the learned Solicitor General. Upon receiving the same, the Government of India is directed to look into the said petition and if it finds feasible extend the facility as granted in Suo Motu case… (COVID-19 containment in Child Care Homes) to Nari Niketans also,” the bench said in its order. The top court had on April 3, taking suo motu note of conditions and preparedness of children's homes across the country in view of pandemic, issued a slew of directions to Centre, state governments and the authorities concerned to prevent the spread of coronavirus, or COVID-19. Advocate Shoeb Alam, appearing for petitioner Rishad Murtaza, said that looking at the situation due to the pandemic, he was seeking extension of the April 3 guidelines to Nari Niketans or women's shelter homes.   He said several adult women were staying in these homes involuntarily and they should be released to prevent overcrowding in these shelter homes. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said however that even the accused in jails, who are being released, are facing difficulty in going home due to the lockdown protocols. The bench said that it is directing the government to look into the matter and concerns raised in the petition and wherever it is feasible, the women should be released after assessing the ground situation. The petition, filed through advocate Fauzia Shakil, said the deadly and extremely contagious coronavirus / COVID-19 outbreak has triggered a global pandemic and panic. "That the number of COVID-19 patients are increasing across the country. Most of these Nari Niketans /Women Shelter Homes are overcrowded and the residents live in sub-standard and un hygienic conditions. The health and wellbeing of the residents... are in jeopardy. There is an immediate need to take steps to prevent the contagion of COVID 19 in Nari Niketans/Woman Homes etc across the country,” it said. The plea said the living conditions at Nari Niketans are deplorable and unhygienic making women there vulnerable to the pandemic. It said that the overcrowding in Nari Niketans will make it difficult for the inmates to maintain social distancing. “It is submitted that like most of the viral diseases, the susceptibility of COVID-9 is greater in over-crowded places, mass gatherings, etc”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-asks-centre-to-consider-including-women-shelter-homes-under-coronavirus-preventive-guidelines-828287.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court dismisses PIL on giving relief to poor amid coronavirus lockdown||The Supreme Court, while hearing a PIL seeking immediate relief for the poor and homeless during the nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic, said on Tuesday that “this was not the situation” where it can direct the government to do certain acts in a particular way. A bench comprising Justices N V Ramana, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai, through video conferencing, was hearing the PIL filed by activist Swami Agnivesh seeking reliefs for the poor and the economically weaker sections during the lockdown. The bench after hearing the Centre, represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, and senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for the activist, disposed of the PIL after the law officer submitted that the implementation of the directions sought for will also be taken care of. During the hearing, Gonsalves said an application has been filed and it has been submitted that many states and UTs have not re-started the ‘anganwadi’ scheme for food distribution. The plea said that lactating mothers and their infants should be given food under the National Food Security Act. Referring to prevailing circumstances, the bench said, “This is a situation where we cannot say whether some task has to be done one way or another. You have suggestions and you can put them to the government for consideration.” The top court on April 15 had disposed of the PIL of Swami Agnivesh after taking note of the Centre's submission that it was taking steps to implement relief measures to help needy poor people during nation-wide lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic. The Solicitor General had said that the government was monitoring the situation and implementation of the guidelines were being ensured for benefits of poor and needy people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-dismisses-pil-on-giving-relief-to-poor-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-828298.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Another scribe booked for ‘anti-national’ social media posts in J&K||A day after a female freelance photojournalist was booked for her objectionable Facebook posts under the Unlawful Activities and Prevention Act (UAPA), Jammu and Kashmir police booked another freelance journalist from the valley for “unlawful activities.” In a statement, a police spokesperson said that the Srinagar Cyber Police Station received information through reliable sources that a Gowher Geelani was indulging in ‘unlawful activities’ through his posts and writings on social media platforms, which are being referred to as ‘prejudicial to the national integrity, sovereignty and security of India.’  “The unlawful activities include glorifying terrorism in Kashmir Valley, causing disaffection against the country and causing fear or alarm in the minds of public that may lead to commission of offences against public tranquility and the security of State,” the spokesperson said. “Several complaints have also been received against the said individual for threatening and intimidation. A Case FIR No. 11/2020 under the relevant sections of law has been registered and investigation initiated,” the spokesperson added. The police in its statement have not mentioned that Geelani was a journalist. He is also an executive member of Kashmir Press Club (KPC) and freelances with several organisations. The FIR against Geelani comes a day after Masarat Zahra, a woman photojournalist, was booked under the UAPA. She was questioned by the police on Tuesday and later allowed to go home. “Since there is an FIR, questioning is part of the legal proceedings. She was questioned by the Investigating Officer (IO) concerned. She hasn’t been detained,” Superintendent of Police Cyber Police Wing Kashmir Tahir Ashraf, said. Booking the female journalist under ULPA evoked sharp criticism from Kashmir's fraternity of journalists, including the KPC. The press fraternity of Kashmir has demanded dropping of charges against the female journalist forthwith.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/another-scribe-booked-for-anti-national-social-media-posts-in-jk-828307.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||Use latest technology to ensure strict compliance in containment zones: Delhi LG asks DMs||Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday asked district magistrates to use latest technology like drones and hi-tech cameras to ensure strict compliance in COVID-19 containment zones in the national capital. Baijal, who chaired a high-level meeting attended by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and other top officials, observed that the enforcement within the containment zones will determine the overall outbreak situation as he urged the district administration to put in their best efforts. "The lieutenant governor also directed for a regular disinfection and cleanliness of the containment zones on war footing. DMs and DCPs were directed to ensure that supply of essentials is maintained in the containment zones," an official statement stated. It said that Baijal directed district magistrates (DMs) and deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) to ensure effective compliance of social distancing and strict vigil at vulnerable places like agricultural markets, night shelters, food distribution centres, all shops of essentials items, mother dairy and medical shops. On Tuesday, the total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital rose to 2,156, with 75 new cases and no fresh deaths reported. Of the total number of 47 deaths reported till date, 25 of the deceased were aged 60 and above, making over 53 per cent of the total death cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/use-latest-technology-to-ensure-strict-compliance-in-containment-zones-delhi-lg-asks-dms-828309.html
21-04-2020||North and Central||No new coronavirus case for 4th day in Himachal Pradesh||No fresh novel coronavirus case was reported in Himachal Pradesh for the fourth straight day on Tuesday, keeping the state tally at 40, even as 459 samples were sent for testing on Tuesday, a senior health official said. Of the samples sent for testing, 278 tested negative while reports of the rest were awaited, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) R D Dhiman said. The highest 119 samples were taken from Hamirpur, followed by Shimla (79), Solan (72), Kangra (51), Una (42), Mandi (40), Bilaspur (15), , Chamba (14), Sirmaur (11), Kullu (9), Lahaul-Spiti (5) and Kinnaur (2), he added. These tests are being conducted at Tanda's Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC); Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), Shimla; and Central Research Institute (CRI) in Solan. So far 40 coronavirus cases have been reported in the state. The number of active cases rose from 22 to 23 as a cured patient retested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. While 11 of 40 confirmed cases have recovered, two COVID-19 patients died. The fatalities include a 70-year-old Delhi resident who had stayed at a factory's guest house in Solan's Baddi and died at the Chandigarh's PGIMER on April 2. Four patients were shifted to a private hospital outside Himachal Pradesh on their request.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-new-coronavirus-case-for-4th-day-in-himachal-pradesh-828310.html
21-04-2020||Opinion||Strengthening food security measures during coronavirus lockdown ||The current Public Distribution System (PDS) structure comes from the National Food Security Act, 2013. The Act covers 81 crore citizens, identified by respective States/Union Territories to obtain subsidised rice, wheat and coarse cereals at highly subsidised prices of Rs 3/2/1 per kg, respectively. PDS benefits are availed locally at over five lakh fair price shops all over the country. These are linked to the beneficiary’s ration cards. The benefits under the Act were augmented in the PMGKY relief package by an allocation of an additional five kg food grains per person and one kg pulses per family, free of cost for the next three months.  Improving PDS outreach  According to the Economic Survey of 2016-17, there are approximately 100 million migrant workers in India. Migrants don’t have geographical access to their local fair price shops and also their ration cards, presumably left behind with their families. The government had taken cognisance of this anomaly even before pandemic hit. Over 12 states were already in the pilot phase of ‘One Nation One Card’ scheme which would allow migrants to avail this benefit wherever they ordinarily reside for their work. This pilot is scheduled to be scaled across the country by June 2020. However, present circumstances call for an immediate rollout of access to benefits envisaged under this scheme with proactive support from States/ UTs.  As opposed to the market price for wheat and rice, which ranges between Rs 32 to Rs 45 respectively, the Union government has allowed NGOs and State governments to buy extra stocks from FCI at Rs 20 and Rs 22, for the same. Earlier, any sale outside the PDS network was available only to bulk purchasers and states through online bidding. Allowing for this additional procurement will ensure States and NGOs are able to distribute it to beneficiaries (which would include migrants) for free or at a highly subsidised rate.  State government efforts Along with the Union government’s efforts, there have been substantive efforts by many States/UTs to cover a larger net of citizens for PDS benefits. At the States’ level, delinking the need of ration cards for availing PDS benefits and reaching out to specific marginalised beneficiaries has been one key component of this strategy. Delhi has bolstered PDS benefits by 50 percent and has decided to extend these benefits to non-ration cardholders along with the usual beneficiaries benefiting over seven million people.  Uttar Pradesh is providing 20 kg of wheat and 10 kg of rice per household to a list of beneficiaries which include 16.5 million construction workers and daily wage labourers. The state has also recently announced universalisation of PDS. This universalisation strategy for the interim period is being resorted to by the states of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Rajasthan and Telangana as well. Telangana has doubled the monthly supply of rice for beneficiaries in the unorganised sector who are being identified based on a comprehensive survey done last year. Further, there has been a directed effort to reach out to migrants in the state for availing food safety benefits. Kerala, which is being lauded for its control of the pandemic, has also taken a substantive ground-level effort to reach out to migrants. Given that identification of beneficiaries under PDS is the State government’s prerogative, these models may be emulated across states to reach out to migrants.  What more needs to be done Beyond these measures, there is a need to build an immediate framework at the state level for reaching out to distressed migrants. First, the State governments must aggressively build capacity for self-identification of migrants for augmenting the beneficiary list under PDS. They must set up an immediate institutional mechanism that migrants can apply to for accessing PDS benefits. Given the extraordinary circumstances, in the immediate term, States may even err on the side of over inclusion.  Second, PDS benefits can be temporarily de-linked from ration cards while relying on other ID documents such as Aadhaar cards to give out benefits. Third, there should be a continuation of calibrated cash transfers. This will ensure that migrants can access the market where PDS fair price shops aren’t available. For instance, the Bihar government has enabled downloading of a weblink for registration by workers only outside the state. This was followed by transferring money to 10.11 lakh workers. Fourth, public spaces such as government schools, anganwadis and volunteered private spaces may be allocated to NGOs to set up ration distribution centres to maximise scale.  Fifth, large scale community kitchens should be set up with the help of philanthropic organisations. Here, care needs to be taken while distributing food to the distressed, by maintaining adequate safeguards and following norms of hygiene, social distancing, wearing masks etc.  Finally, a mass awareness campaign must be imminently envisaged to reach out to migrants regarding any measures that the State and Union Governments have envisioned for their relief.  The Iranian American Novelist Dina Nayeri once wrote, “It is the obligation of every person born in a safer room to open the door when someone in danger knocks.” For the marginalised migrants, the “safer room” today is the welfare net of the state. New doors need to be built and kept open to ensure their accessibility and availability to food in these difficult times. (Dr Yogesh Suri and Satwik Mishra are associated with the NITI Aayog. Views are personal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/strengthening-food-security-measures-during-coronavirus-lockdown-828020.html
21-04-2020||Panorama||Tell us your ‘Corona kathe’||A week into the lockdown, I got a call from the daughter of a deceased man. She wanted my help to reach her native place in Udupi district, Karnataka, from Mumbai, where she lives along with her sister and family. I somehow managed to get permission for the sister from local officials in Karnataka, but due to strict guidelines in Mumbai, they could not make it to their father’s funeral. The daughters could not see their father’s face one last time. The lady told me, “Anil, this is not easy to live with, this feeling of helplessness that you don’t even get to perform your father’s last rites. It will take us a long time to come to terms with.” This tragedyled me to start a platform called ‘Corona Kathe.’ The idea is to collect all such experiences of the lockdown period in one place in the form of stories.   Conversation and storytelling is the very foundation of human society. We invented language to be able to share all that we experience. I believe that in times like these, we must encourage people to share their stories without fear so that we, as humanity collectively, can learn from them and improve ourselves. We like to believe that we are a civilised society that is based on reasoning. Every life is sacred. The coronavirus does not discriminate against anyone based on caste, religion, economic or social status. A few privileged are airlifted and brought to safety; vast numbers of poor migrant labourers are sprayed with chemical disinfectants. Such incidents must be told so we can correct our mistakes as a society. In fact, we need not hide anything. Good stories or bad stories, we must be brave to tell it all and hear it all. I believe whenever there is communal violence, we must bring local communities together to have a conversation around the incident so that we can heal bad memories and build resilience. Doing so may not be good for somebody’s politics, but for the sake of harmony in society, we must encourage people to talk about such incidents so that they don’t happen again in that place. We must constantly strive to build resilience in society. And that’s what we must do during the lockdown, too. Talk about it. In the times we live in, I can’t help but imagine how lucky a generation we are. We haven’t had to fight a major war, face famine or have had to struggle for freedom. Perhaps for the first time in the lives of many of us, we are facing a crisis due to an invisible enemy. Covid-19 has impacted our lives in every way possible. Families are distanced, supplies are disrupted and the economy is in a standstill. Let’s hear each other’s stories. The world wouldn’t have known what Indians underwent during Partition nor what the Jews suffered during the Holocaust, but for the stories shared by communities, which later became books and movies that educated generations to come. Such stories not only build resilience but also give us a purpose -- to strive for the progress of humanity. Soon, this, too, will pass, and we will head back to normal. But what will remain etched in our memories are the stories that we hear from those who went through unforgettable pain, loss and anguish. We will also hear stories from those who tested positive but fought on and emerged victorious over the virus. Sometimes, all you need to do is listen. It is up to us to provide a shoulder to those in distress. It is imperative that we hear stories from healthcare workers, volunteers, policemen, civic officials and even political leaders. We must also express our gratitude by sharing stories of those who have exhibited extraordinary courage and kindness in helping out fellow citizens in distress. It is time to heal. I hope these stories serve as lessons as well as inspiration for not just our generation, but for future generations, too. They should know what we underwent and what we did in these times. They should know what they can do when they are faced with a calamity.   #CoronaKathe is a platform on which people from across the country can share their stories. Many already have.  Please do share your story, too, by recording it on this toll-free number: 9048490484 (The writer is Founder, Nav Bharat Party)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/tell-us-your-corona-kathe-828236.html
21-04-2020||Second Edit||Free water should not be tokenism||At a time when personal hygiene is acknowledged as the best way to combat Covid-19, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has taken a wise decision whereby individual households consuming upto 10,000 litres of water per month need not have to pay for the same. The scheme is aimed at the economically weaker sections and will not be available to houses which already utilise 10,000 litres or more. The move will benefit about 2.5 lakh families, including those in villages which were added to BBMP limits about 10 years ago. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared drinking water as a basic human right while several international forums have stressed the importance of water, sanitation and hygiene in safeguarding health and development. While the BBMP has moved in the right direction to meet this objective, it should also be ensured that households have water connections in the first place. However, what is more important than quantity is the quality of the water. Several tests have indicated that the water supplied in Bengaluru is contaminated, to the extent that it is unfit for human consumption in many areas. The recent outbreak of cholera in the city is a case in point. WHO has often warned that contaminated water can transmit diseases such as diarrhoea, cholera, dysentery, typhoid and polio. The poor cannot afford water purifiers and the Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) will be doing great injustice to them if it is unable to provide clean potable water, especially in times like these when the importance of hygiene cannot be overstated. Another question that arises is, from where will the BWSSB source water as the current supply is hardly adequate to meet the city’s requirement with many apartments in new layouts depending on borewells or tankers? Even households receiving Cauvery water have to do with only intermittent supply. Under the circumstances, one hopes the promise of free water does not turn out to be a gimmick. The civic authorities have also consistently failed to see the bigger picture, with no steps being taken to conserve water and ensure its optimum utilisation. Even against the backdrop of acute scarcity, drinking water continues to be used for tertiary purposes like gardening and washing vehicles. Long-term solutions like revival of lakes, rainwater-harvesting and ground water recharging have largely remained on paper. Schemes like supplying water to the poor are laudable, but they amount to only scratching the surface. Adhocism and tokenism offer a temporary solution, but it is high time the government took a holistic view on water management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/free-water-should-not-be-tokenism-828209.html
21-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: 27 employees of TV channel test COVID-19 positive in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu on Tuesday reported the highest number of discharges since the Covid-19 outbreak with 178 patients leaving various hospitals in the state after recovery. This is certainly good news for the state, which now has 1,596 positive cases, including 76 that were reported on Tuesday. Of the 76 cases, 55 are from this metropolis alone of which 27 are employees of a Tamil television channel, including reporters and sub-editors. Three journalists belong to two television channels and a Tamil newspaper had tested positive on Sunday. The health bulletin said that of the 55 who tested positive in Chennai, two are primary and 53 are their contacts. Sources said that 27 employees of a Tamil television channel have tested positive for Covid-19 adding that all of them have been quarantined, while their family members will be tested. The television channel said it has suspended operations for now due to an “extraordinary situation” and will only telecast pre-recorded programs. The channel’s office is located in Royapuram, which has reported more than 90 Covid-19 positive cases, and the management said that it will cooperate with government authorities in containing Covid-19. More than 250 journalists were tested for Covid-19 on Monday. Results of several others are pending, the sources added. The channel employees were tested after a sub-editor, who lives in the police quarters in Royapuram, tested positive for the virus. In good news, the state saw the highest number of discharges on Tuesday at 178, taking the number of patients discharged from hospitals to 635. The state government has been using the number of discharges every day to claim that the situation is under control. For the second time in a row, the number of discharges is higher than the total number of positive cases for the day. “Till now 53,045 samples have been taken and sent for testing. 1,596 persons are tested positive till date, while 43,582 samples are tested negative. Testing of 1,990 samples are under process and 5,877 samples are repeat samples of same persons,” an update from the Health Department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-27-employees-of-tv-channel-test-covid-19-positive-in-tamil-nadu-828085.html
21-04-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Tamil Nadu govt asks IT firms to continue 'work from home' till May 3||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday advised information technology companies operating in the state to adhere to the government's decision of extending lockdown till May 3 and directed employees to continue to take up work from home. Minister for revenue and disaster management R B Udhayakumar, who also holds information technology portfolio, met senior department executives and top officials from the IT industry here and held a review meeting.  During his brief interaction, the minister referred to the decision of the Karnataka, Punjab, Telangana, Maharashtra and Gujarat governments of extending the shutdown till May 3. Noting that the state government too,based on the recommendations of an expert committee, decided to extend the lockdown till May 3, he said, IT companies considering the intensity of the virus should adhere to the Chief Minister's order (by remaining shut). "I urge that IT employees should continue to follow the earlier order of working from home till May 3," he said. He said people's lives assume greater significance since it has been identified that 80 per cent of COVID19 cases remain asymptomatic in the country. On Monday, the Union Health Ministry had said that 80 per cent of the COVID19 patients were either asymptomatic or show mild symptoms, indicating that it is a major area of concern. "The industry can be revived from this crisis later," Udhayakumar said and appealed to the companies to extend their support for the lockdown.  On Monday, the state government said prohibitory orders enforced in the state to implement the ongoing coronavirus-triggered shutdown will continue till May 3 so as to take stringent measures for checking its spread. However, due decisions would be taken based on prevailing situation on inputs constituted by an expert committee the government had said. As many as 1,520 persons have been affected due to coronavirus in Tamil Nadu while 17 people have succumbed to the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-tamil-nadu-govt-asks-it-firms-to-continue-work-from-home-till-may-3-828124.html
21-04-2020||South||Kerala HC seeks details of Sprinklr deal; CPM to review later||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday sought explanation from the Kerala government on the deal with US-based firm Sprinklr for COVID-19 data analytics. Considering a public interest litigation, the court reportedly expressed concerns over the allegation of risking privacy of health data of the people collected as part of COVID and also the provision in the agreement with the US firm that  legal jurisdiction of deal would be in the US only. The case will be considered again on April 24. Meanwhile, even as the CPM Kerala state committee on Tuesday flayed that the opposition was raising the allegation to defame the government, it maintained that all initiatives being made during the time of COVID would be reviewed once normalcy was restored and adequate measures would be taken if required.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-seeks-details-of-sprinklr-deal-cpm-to-review-later-828134.html
21-04-2020||South||Now, robot is part of Kerala's fight against coronavirus||Not just in China, but in Kerala also robot is now playing a key role in the health workers' fight against COVID-19, thanks to the innovative spirit of a group of young minds and the support of the state Health Department. Named "Nightingale-19", the robot is deployed to provide food and medicines among patients at the district coronavirus centre in Ancharakandi in Kannur district where a large number of cases have been reported. The special display facility, attached to it, also allows patients to communicate with health workers and their relatives if necessary, the health minister's office here said. Designed by the students of Chemberi Vimal Jyothi Engineering College with the support of the Health Department, the remote control-operated robot can carry food and water for at least six persons at a stretch. The machine, which can travel up to one kilometre, distributes food, water and medicine in each room, a department statement said. The robot would be disinfected after each use, it said. Health Minister K K Shailaja inaugurated the new venture from here recently through the robot's video facility, the statement added. Robots have been put to use in other parts of the country to help in the health workers' fight against COVID- 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/now-robot-is-part-of-keralas-fight-against-coronavirus-828155.html
21-04-2020||South||Kannur emerging as new COVID-19 hotspot; 19 fresh cases in Kerala||Kannur district neighbouring Kasargod has emerged as a hot spot of COVID-19 with 102 cases being reported so far of which 54 are still live. Kasargod which was earlier leading the tally now with 176 positive cases so far has only 26 active cases now. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that lockdown norms in Kannur were made stringent in view of the increasing trend of COVID-19 cases in the district.  Health department sources in Kannur said that as many as 23 persons in the district were tested positive after 14 days and only a few of them were showing some symptoms. Hence there were high chances of their immediate family members also getting infected. About 10 members of a family in the district were found infected. Among the 19 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, 12 were people who arrived from abroad, while three were found to have come from Tamil Nadu. Surveillance along the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border would be enhanced, said the Chief Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kannur-emerging-as-new-covid-19-hotspot-19-fresh-cases-in-kerala-828158.html
21-04-2020||South||Telangana transforms 14-storey tower into COVID-19 hospital in 20 days  ||It just took 20 days for the Telangana government to convert a 14-storey tower at Gachibowli sports complex here, into a 1,500-bedded COVID-19 special hospital. About a 1,000-strong workforce sweated it out to convert the tower, part of the sports complex, constructed in 2002, into a full-pledged coronavirus hospital with 50 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, a senior official of the Telangana government involved in the execution of the healthcare centre, said adding the facility is ready to accommodate patients. The official said the state government proved that not only China which has reportedly built a makeshift 1,000-bedded hospital in just ten days in Wuhan at the peak of coronavirus spread, Telangana can also do wonders in terms of making quick decisions and execution of plans.  Telangana State Medical Services Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSMSIDC) undertook the task and finished it in less than three weeks. As on Monday, Telangana has 663 active cases of COVID-19 and 23 people died of the virus. "It is a refurbished hospital. They used the first seven floors a decade ago. The remaining six floors were in semi-finished condition and never put to use. As soon as we got the nod from the state government we started working on that made it ready in 20 days. The hospital is now ready to take patients," the official told P T I. There were either no basic facilities or poor amenities such as water, sanitation and plumbing at the complex when the infra corporation took up the task, the official added. All the verticals of TSMSIDC such as surgical and amenities wings worked in unison on a floor-management basis. "We took up each floor as a unit and finished the building. At the same time other necessities such gas and oxygen pipelines were simultaneously connected. The work was done in coordination with the Medical and Health department," the official said. The hospital currently has four lifts and another three or four will come into use in a few days.  Another official said as many as 400 doctors and double the number of nursing staff can work at the new facility. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had on April 19 said the hospital will later be converted into a super- specialty hospital known as Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS). Chandrasekhar Reddy, managing director of TSMSIDC, said it was a turnkey project taken up on emergency basis to convert thesports tower into a hospital with all necessary infrastructure. Reddy said after the COVID-19 upsurge comes down the TSMSIDC will start working on the plans to convert it into a super specialty hospital as envisaged by KCR. The sports complex named after former Lok Sabha Speaker GMC Balayogi hosted the Afro-Asian Games in 2003. A stadium, part of the sports complex, has a seating capacity of 30,000 people. Some floors of the tower provided accommodation to sportspersons and others during the World Military games in 2007. Complimenting the Health Minister Etela Rajender and his team for converting the tower into a hospital in just 20 days, IT and Industries Minister KT Rama Rao said in a tweet the hospital will be later converted into a multi-specialty hospital with PG institutions focused on providing medical services and research. "My compliments to Health Minister @Eatala_Rajender Garu & his team on a fabulous job of converting the sports tower into Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences with 1500 beds. All this done in less than 20 days. Initially will be exclusive to #TelanganaFightsCorona, he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-transforms-14-storey-tower-into-covid-19-hospital-in-20-days-828210.html
21-04-2020||South||Eight booked for offering Namaz in Kannur, four held and shifted to COVID-19 observation centre||Cases were registered against eight people who offered namaz at a mosquein New Mahe in Kannur violating the stringent lockdown norms, police said on Tuesday. They had offered prayers at the New Mahe Jumma Masjid at 5.30 am. On seeing police, four of them fled, while the remaining, including two in their sixties, were arrested and taken in an ambulance to a COVID-19care centre in Kannur, police said.  Kannur district, which reported 10 coronavirus cases on Tuesday, has emergedas thelatest hotspot for the virus in the state and government has put in stringent measures to enforce lockdown with three Superintendents of Police put in charge of the northern district. Police haswarned of stern action, including arrest, against those stepping out of their homes unnecessarily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/eight-booked-for-offering-namaz-in-kannur-four-held-and-shifted-to-covid-19-observation-centre-828224.html
21-04-2020||South||Kerala government orders inquiry into deal with US firm||The Kerala government has constituted a two-member expert committee of retired IAS officers to examine the deal with US firm Sprinklr for COVID-19 data analysis. The inquiry was ordered in the wake of allegations raised by opposition Congress that procedures were flouted in entering into the deal with the firm and privacy of health data of individuals was compromised. The Kerala High Court had also expressed concerns over the deal and sought a report from the government. Former civil aviation secretary M Madhavan Nambiar will be the chairman of the committee and former Kerala additional chief secretary Rajeev Sadanandan will be the member.  The committee will examine whether personal and sensitive data of individuals were protected as per the agreement with Sprinklr, whether procedures were followed in inking the agreement with Sprinklr and deviations, if any, could be justified considering the critical situation the state was facing owing to COVID. The committee should give report in one month, said the order issued by Chief Secretary Tom Jose. The order also said that the Kerala IT Department initiated steps for COVID data analysis and decided to use big data analysis service of Sprinklr in order to face any exigency due to surge of COVD-19 in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-orders-inquiry-into-deal-with-us-firm-828278.html
21-04-2020||State||Karnataka: 80-yearr-old dies from COVID-19; death toll rises to 17||An 80-year-old COVID-19 patient has died in Karnataka's Kalaburagi district, taking the death toll in the state to 17, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said on Tuesday. The elderly person was suffering from Parkinson's disease for the last three years and died at a hospital on Monday, the minister said in a tweet. "The person had developed fever on Sunday and was admitted to the hospital. The patient passed away yesterday at 9 am. Last night at 9 pm the death report came, which confirmed that the person was COVID-19 positive," Sudhakar tweeted. The total number of COVID-19 infections in the state has crossed the 400-mark, according to last evening's bulletin by the Karnataka health department||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-80-yearr-old-dies-from-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-17-827956.html
21-04-2020||State||Baby showers for migrant labourer women performed||The taluk administration held a baby shower for five migrant labourer expecting mothers currently housed at the Hanumanthapura hostel.   Woman police personnel performed Aarathi to them and taluk level officials presided over the function.   These women are among the 316 migrant labourers who have come from various districts in search of work. They were picked up by the administration and housed in the hostel when they were found walking back home due to the lockdown. Arrangements were made to take these women back home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/baby-showers-for-migrant-labourer-women-performed-828240.html
21-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government on ordinance path after attack||In the wake of the vandalism in Padarayanapura, Bengaluru, the Cabinet on Monday decided to promulgate an ordinance that will give the government special powers to enforce containment measures and also provide protection to frontline health workers. The ordinance will be on the lines of what Kerala and Uttar Pradesh governments have promulgated, Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said. “Through the ordinance, a State Epidemic Act will be enacted to protect health workers and any non-cooperation with the government will be punishable,” Madhuswamy said. “Also, any attempt to deliberately spread a disease or float rumours will attract action.” On Sunday evening, a mob ran amok and vandalised police barricades to allegedly prevent authorities from quarantining suspected Covid-19 cases in Padarayanapura. Earlier this month, an ASHA worker, while carrying out surveillance work following a report of a COVID-19 case, was allegedly manhandled by a group of 40-50 people in Sadiq Nagar of Saraipalya. “This (ordinance) won’t need Presidential assent. We decided on the need for this after going through the ordinances passed by Kerala and Uttar Pradesh,” the law minister said. For instance, the ordinance passed by Kerala prescribes a two-year imprisonment as penalty with or without a fine of up to Rs 10,000. This seems more stringent when compared with the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897. According to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, the ordinance will empower any government department or officials appointed by it to handle an epidemic. “We are also thinking of a provision to attach or seize the assets of those who destroy public property, but this hasn’t been finalised. It has been sent to the law department for vetting,” Bommai said. On Monday, the police arrested 67 miscreants for destroying barricades and a checkpost set up to monitor the implementation of sealing orders in Padarayanapura.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-on-ordinance-path-after-attack-827911.html
21-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||In another U-turn, Karnataka says no lockdown relaxation till May 3||The Karnataka Cabinet on Monday said that lockdown measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 will continue “as is” till May 3 with no relaxation, in a decision that supersedes Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s announcement on April 18 that some economic activities will be permitted after April 20.  The latest U-turn, one among many, reflects the absence of coordination in the government and has put Yediyurappa in a tight spot. “The same status will continue till May 3,” Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said, briefing reporters after the Cabinet meeting. “We are awaiting fresh guidelines from the Centre and if any relaxation can be given, the chief minister and the task force will discuss in 3-4 days. But in principle, the lockdown will continue till May 3 and there will not be any relaxation for now.” According to Madhuswamy, ministers expressed concern that allowing economic activity will result in movement of people that might become difficult to control later on. “The opinion was that the situation now is good and we shouldn’t interfere,” he said. “So, at least for another 3-4 days, there won't be any relaxation. After that, the task force will take a call.” Madhuswamy reiterated that there was no restriction for the agriculture and horticulture sectors.  “The question before us was about the manufacturing sector and industries," the Law Minister explained. "Can we give relaxation in rural areas, urban areas or where there aren’t any cases? Since everything is interlinked, raw materials, transport, food etc, the entire state can’t be treated as one unit because some districts have a problem and some don’t. So, be it MSMEs or manufacturing, we have decided not to allow anything for now, given the prevailing situation.”  The Cabinet resolved to mount pressure on the Union Ministry of Commerce & Industry on the need for Karnataka’s spices and coffee to be exported. “All markets have closed, so it was decided to raise this with the commerce department so that buyers can be arranged,” Madhuswamy said. For the IT/BT sector, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said the curbs may be relaxed in a week's time depending on the Covid-19 situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-another-u-turn-karnataka-says-no-lockdown-relaxation-till-may-3-827913.html
21-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Railways saves child by bringing crucial medicine from Pune to Belagavi||The Railways has saved the life of a child by bringing crucial medicines from Pune to Belagavi, thanks to the intervention of Minister of State for Railways. In a release, the SWR said that on April 11, a request was received at the office of Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi at Belagavi. "A 5-year old child from Belagavi was undergoing treatment from a doctor based at Pune. The medicine, said to be critical, was to be transported to Belagavi from Pune. The appeals (by child's parents) to the Maharashtra state authorities to permit their relatives based at Pune to drive their vehicle to Belagavi to bring the medicine had gone in vain," the SWR said. Following this, the parents requested the minister's help. The minister immediately directed the concerned railway officials in Pune to assist in the matter. "The medicine was brought to Pune railway station, and thereby it was transported through a goods train, which was due to pass through Belagavi. The staff of the train ensured that the medicine reached Belagavi safely the very next day," the SWR said. As Belagavi was also in lockdown, the railway staff of Belagavi took the initiative to take the medicine closer to the home of the patient because the approach roads of the station were blocked due to the lockdown. The medicine reached the child eventually and turned out to be a saviour of the child.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/railways-saves-child-by-bringing-crucial-medicine-from-pune-to-belagavi-828037.html
21-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Arab outrage: Banglore South MP Tejasvi Surya’s old tweet goes viral||A 2015 tweet by Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya, which he later deleted, has gone viral it in the wake of outrage from the Arab world over Islamophobic remarks by Indian nationals. Screenshots of the controversial tweet, in which he claimed to have quoted right-wing intellectual Tarek Fateh, went viral on social media, evoking widespread condemnation. Demands of action against the MP were also heard. Mejeb-al-shrika (@MJALSHRIKA), from the Kuwait Institute of Law and Legal Studies, in a tweet sought action against Surya. "Respected Prime minister Narendra Modi, India's relation with the Arab world has been that of mutual respect. Do you allow your parliamentarian to publicly humiliate our women? We expect your urgent punitive action against Tejasvi Surya for his disgraceful comment," he said, attaching a screenshot of the deleted tweet. According to another Kuwaiti lawyer Mona Alarbash (@MonaAlarbash), "The Indian Parliament(arian)’s deletion of this comment will not forget us of the heinous insult from it. We demand urgent and immediate accountability from Parliament and the government." Another handle, @MJALSHRIKA wrote: “Respected Prime Minister Narendra Modi your silence on the most outrageous act of your parliamentarian Tejasvi Surya unfolds the cultural norm of your govt. If humiliating Arab women is the new normal, let the Arab world know where our relationship with India stands.” Surya told DH that the tweet in question was five years old and that it was wrongly attributed to him. “Must I even react to something from when I was not in public life? The same happened even during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. So, I guess this is going to be an annual fixture,” he said.  Surya also found support in Mysore-Kodagu MP Pratap Simha. In Surya’s defence, Simha tweeted: “It’s sick to see Islamic-Liberal ecosystem trying to defame Tejasvi Surya...1. It is not Tejasvi's statement. It is the Tarek Fatah quote against the barbaric practice of female genital mutilation. 2. It is a tweet of 2015, five years before he became MP. 3. Clearly shows mischief..." 1. It is not TS statement. It is Tarek Fatah quote against barbaric practice of female genital mutilation. 2. It is tweet of 2015. 5 years before TS became MP. 3. Clearly shows mischief||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/arab-outrage-banglore-south-mp-tejasvi-surya-s-old-tweet-goes-viral-828041.html
21-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Government employees in Karnataka may not face pay-cut this month||As of now, there is no problem with April salary and we can manage. But if May also turns out to be a wash-out (in terms of revenue collection), then the situation is going to be very tough, a senior Minister told PTI. Ministers and members of Karnataka Legislature are taking a 30 per cent pay-cut for a year from April 1 this year. Opposition Congress in the state has vehemently opposed any possible move to cut salaries of government employees.  You just cant even imagine, the Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had told PTI in an interview earlier this month on the economic impact of the lock-down on the state's finances. Yediyurappa had also said that the government is now not in a position to implement Budget proposals, barring important ones, with all kinds of revenue collections having completely stopped following the lockdown.  The government recently said it proposes to regularise unauthorised properties in the state by imposing penalty, and also auction more than 12,000 corner sites belonging to the Bengaluru Development Authority, as part of resource mobilisation drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-government-employees-in-karnataka-may-not-face-pay-cut-this-month-828056.html
21-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Notice to Dharward education commissioner over SSLC exam confusion||The Additional Commissioner (Dharwad region) for Department of Public Instructions, who had recommended to promote SSLC students without examinations, has received notice from the government for creating confusion among students. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar issued a notice to him seeking an explanation. Minister Suresh Kumar said, "Such decisions do not come under his powers and we have issued a notice seeking explanation for conducting a meeting and for submitting recommendations." This recommendation by the Dharwad region officials has created confusion among students and parents as it was circulated among several social media platforms. Taking this seriously, the minister issued notice. The minister also clarified, "There is no need to give importance to such a recommendation as the officers are authorised to implement the orders issued by the government and not to take any such decisions or to conduct any such meetings."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/notice-to-dharward-education-commissioner-over-sslc-exam-confusion-828120.html
21-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Five Padarayanapura residents scare villagers ||The visit of five people from Padarayanapura in Bengaluru, considered as the hotspot for Covid-19, has scared residents of Shillangere village in the district. All the five came to the village on Monday night. A man, his wife, child, father-in-law and mother-in-law, who hail from the village, reside at Padarayanapura. Due to vandalism on Sunday night and increasing number of Covid-19 cases, they came to the village without informing anybody. The local residents alerted about the visit to Asha workers and gram panchayat members. The health department staff and the police rushed to the house and kept all the five and four others at the house under home quarantine. The blood and throat swab samples of the 9 members have been sent to Bengaluru for a report. Members of the family broke locks of the door and came outside protesting the home quarantine. They also had arguments with the health department officials. Additional forces of police were deployed at the village following the incident. A probe has been ordered to ascertain how the five managed to enter the district as there is strict vigil at checkpoints. The primary enquiry revealed that the five travelled by a goods vehicle and entered the district either through a checkpoint at Ramasandra on National Highway-75 or Tornahalli checkpoint in Malur taluk. It has come to light that the police at these checkpoints did not check the vehicle properly. There is a dereliction of duty on part of the staff at the checkpoints. Notices will be slapped on them, deputy commissioner C Satyabhama said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-five-padarayanapura-residents-scare-villagers-828175.html
21-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Anganwadi workers launch 'silent protest' for relief package||Anganwadi, Asha, midday meal workers, pourakarmikas, construction workers, porters, beedi and transport sector workers launched a 'silent protest' on Tuesday demanding a special relief package from the government. They held placards with slogans to make their demands known. They opposed the government's move to increase the working hours from eight hours to 12 hours. The nomads among them must be given shelter and food, they asked. They also demanded personal protection equipment to stay safe from the virus. They opposed the government's move to cut wages or lay off people.  They pointed out that other labour class people like contract and temporary workers, street vendors, tailors, barbers, dhobis and drivers should be included in the relief package.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/anganwadi-workers-launch-silent-protest-for-relief-package-828195.html
21-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sanitisers: Dharwad med stores to collect purchaser's info||Collection of details, including name and mobile number, is now mandatory for medical store owners in the district while selling hand sanister. Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan issued an order in this regard after cases of consumption of alcohol-based hand sanister as an alternative to liquor came to light. Isopropyl (colorless, combustible liquid), ethanol (volatile, flammable, colorless liquid with a slight characteristic odour) and other chemicals are used in preparing the hand sanitiser which is strictly meant for external use. Consumption of such sanitiser may result in multiple organ failure, she stated in the order. The owners of medical stores should to sell hand sanitisers carefully. They should compulsorily collect names and mobile numbers of customers buying the hand sanitisers. Certain brands of sanitiser should not be sold, the order stated. Based on the directions of the deputy commissioner, the management of private sugar factory has now changed colour, nature and packing of its sanitiser.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sanitisers-dharwad-med-stores-to-collect-purchasers-info-828245.html
21-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Tomato finds new use in times of lockdown||When tonnes of tomatoes are getting wasted in the fields of Kolar, a village in Mulbagal taluk is trying to help the farmers of its neighbouring village by adding value to this major crop of the region. Forty nine families of Honnasettihalli are making sun dried tomato flakes and have used half a tonne in the last two days. "We have seen farmers struggling due to a steep drop in the demand. We thought we could support them by utilising two resources that are abundant now - the sun and the time," said Girija M S of Gram Vikas, an organisation that is supporting these villagers with training and supply of tomatoes.   Girija and her team bought tomatoes from the neighbouring village at a rate of Rs 4 per kg as quoted by the farmers themselves. While there is no market for tomatoes, even those who could sell got only Re 1 per kg in the market.  Each family has processed 10 kg of tomatoes maintaining hygiene all through. Tomatoes are cleaned, sliced, sun dried with a pinch of salt and turmeric sprinkled over them. After three days, the flakes are  stored in airtight containers. Along with individual families, over 10 youngsters from the village work in a community space experimenting with different value-added products.  "We had harvested tomatoes before the lockdown began so didn't find it difficult to market. We couldn't see our neighbours suffering losses. If they can't sell their produce they won't be able to grow their next crop," says Radha, a villager.  Next, they are planning to make sun dried onion flakes and tomato pickles. While the products will be consumed locally in the beginning, these enthusiasts are exploring the possibility of marketing the product. "We want to preserve as much as we can. Now other villages are also showing interest," says Navyashri.  The organisation acknowledges the support extended by people from across cross sections in this venture.  "Dried tomato flakes can be used in a variety of dishes from pizzas and pasta to rasam. It is ideal to use solar driers for the process. Care should be taken to maintain hygiene to avoid microbial contamination. It is a must to get the product certified by FSSAI if they intend to market the product,” said Svati Bhogle, one of the scientists who developed the process of drying tomatoes. She also said that 100 kg of ripe tomatoes yield 5 kg of dried flakes. MVN Rao, executive director, Gram Vikas, said that they are making the best use of the situation and they have tried sun drying tomatoes in the past as well. "Dried flakes is one of the options farmers can explore. It is most suited for local consumption. There are also some other post-harvest technologies which can be put to use now. While local efforts are important, they can't be the sole solution in the time of crisis. Processing can match production only if big food companies pitch in," says horticulture scientist B S Harish.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tomato-finds-new-use-in-times-of-lockdown-828247.html
21-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rise in home quarantine cases worries people||The rise in the number of home quarantined persons has created anxiety among the people of Mandya. Around 2,185 people, all secondary contacts of the Malavalli patients and Mandya Covid-19 patients were home quarantined on Tuesday. Compared to the last three days, the number of home quarantine persons has increased four times on Tuesday. The people, who were happy that no fresh cases were identified in the district, are a little worried now. Around 2,133 people, who were in contact with the 11 infected persons from Malavalli and 52 people connected with the lone Covid-19 infected persons from Mandya are under quarantine. The Health department is closely monitoring them. With the 11 patients, who were in contact with the religious clerics of Delhi, testing positive, the number of secondary and tertiary contacts are on the rise. There are possibilities of more cases testing positive, it is said. The areas, where the corona infected were present were totally sealed down and the secondary contacts were traced. The areas of their movement was also checked and strict measures were taken. On Sunday, 577 people were under home quarantine and on Monday it was 582. However, on Tuesday, it increased rapidly to 2,185 people, according to District Health Officer Dr H P Manchegowda. However, reports of 113 people tested negative on Tuesday. The district administration has collected 842 samples and has sent for tests to the lab in Mysuru. The results of 360 people are still awaited. Those who complete 28 days of quarantine are also closely observed. In case, they develop any health issue, they will be again subjected to tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rise-in-home-quarantine-cases-worries-people-828249.html
21-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown effect: Calls from anxious kids, parents flood helpline||A recent incident in Mangaluru, of a teenager trying to smuggle his friend into his apartment in a suitcase, is an illustration of how the nationwide lockdown has impacted children. Over the past few weeks, helplines in the state have received numerous calls from depressed children or their parents who are unable to cope with social isolation. Take the instance of Narayan (name changed), a Hassan-based agriculturist and the parent of a nine-year-old, who sought help. "Ever since the lockdown, my son began exhibiting signs of depression as he was unable to go out to play or meet his friends. I had noted down a helpline number from a television show and immediately reached out to them,” the parent told DH. Narayan spends most part of the day in his farm. “I sometimes take him along, but it’s not feasible always,” he narrated. After a few sessions with the children’s helpline run by city-based Child Rights Trust (CRT), his son fared better, he added. This is but one instance. Helplines are counselling both parents and children to cope with the crisis. “Many cases pertain to adolescents. Sometimes children themselves call us to share their anxieties. Some of them are worried about pending exams, others say they have nightmares about the pandemic,” Nagasimha G Rao of CRT said.   Their helpline recently got a call from a class 10 student who was secretly smoking during the lockdown to cope with anxiety. “He was anxious as SSLC exams have been postponed. After a few sessions, he's better now, albeit exhibiting withdrawal symptoms,” Rao said. To help children cope with the stress, Rao narrates stories, reads out from books and gives them pep talks. The Makkala Sahayavani (Parihar) helpline located in the Bengaluru police commissioner’s office, too, has received many calls. “We're conducting counselling over phone for both domestic abuse and children-related cases. When it is specifically related to children, we either refer it to Childline or to the CRT helpline,” said Parihar in-charge Rani Shetty. In an advisory, Dr Shekar P Seshadri, a senior professor at the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry in Nimhans, urged parents to structure their children’s days to help them cope with the situation. “Children have a loss of routine. They have questions about how long this will go on,” he said, advising parents to encourage hobbies, physical activities and family time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-effect-calls-from-anxious-kids-parents-flood-helpline-828250.html
21-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'60 Covid-19 testing labs by May-end'||Karnataka may have two Covid testing laboratories for each district by May-end, said Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar here on Tuesday. Addressing media persons, he said, there are 17 labs that can test samples of Covid-19 suspects across Karnataka, at present. “By the end of April, in another week, the number of labs will be increased to 30. By the end of May, there will be 60 labs across Karnataka, two for each taluk,” he said. “The incidence of Covid-19 cases is on the decline in the southern part of Karnataka. Of late, the cases are increasing in northern districts. So, more samples have to be tested there,” he said. Dr Sudhakar said, “The state government has launched tele-ICU facility, besides the earlier tele-medicine. A team of 10 expert doctors are monitoring the Covid-19 patients in ICUs across the state in four shifts from Bengaluru.” “There are complaints that the state does not have sufficient ICUs and ventilators to handle Covid-19 patients, in case the number of cases spike up. However, over 90% of Covid-19 positive patients do not need admission to ICU. Out of this 10% patients, who need ICU, only 5% need ventilators. Thus, 1% or 2% of the total Covid-19 patients would need ventilators. Still, we have sufficient ventilators to treat needy patients. We have also ordered more ventilators,” he said. The Health Education minister said, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa would launch the Apthamitra Sahayavani mobile application, in association with Infosys in Bengaluru on Wednesday, to address Covid-related issues. “The people can also call on helpline number 14410. Over 2,000 health professionals will address the problems of the people on the helpline,” he said. “The Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) has already trained 56,000 health professionals to tackle Covid-19. Besides, over 36,000 health professionals have downloaded the mobile application of RGUHS for self-orientation. RGUHS has also conducted special orientation to pediatricians as the infection of Covid-19 among children would be dangerous for their lives,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/60-covid-19-testing-labs-by-may-end-828251.html
21-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'Mysuru may be coronavirus free district soon'||Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar expressed hope that Mysuru would soon become a Covid-free district, going by the recent trends. He was speaking to media persons here on Tuesday. It has to be noted that only two positive cases were reported on Tuesday, while no new case was confirmed on Monday. As on Tuesday, April 21, the total number of persons observed were 4,645 while the total number of persons, who have completed 14 days of isolation are 2,442. The total number of persons isolated at home for 14 days are 2,148. Out of the total 86 persons, who had tested positive for Covid-19, 31 have completed treatment and have been discharged from hospital. Thus, there are a total of 55 Covid-19 positive patients in Mysuru, undergoing treatment. Out of the total of 86 patients, who tested positive, 70 are related to Nanjangud-based Jubilant Life Science company. While 55 of them are residents of Nanjangud town and neighbouring villages, 14 are residents of Mysuru and one is a resident of Bengaluru. Ten of them are related to Tabliqi Jamaat of New Delhi. Two of them are Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) patients. Sudhakar said that out of 473 primary contacts and 1,625 secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients of Jubilant Life Science, 1,998 persons have been subjected to tests and the remaining 100 would be tested soon. He said that if the tests give negative results, there would be relief soon. However, the minister said, “Even post-lockdown, the people need to be careful. It is better to wear masks and maintain social distance. Our ancient hygienic etiquettes, like washing one’s, hands, legs and face, before entering one’s house, was forgotten due to various reasons. We have to follow our tradition, in maintaining cleanliness to stay safe and healthy. Especially, senior citizens should be careful.” “I will urge District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar to support the district administration to supply groceries and vegetables to such families, with only senior citizens,” he said. He appealed to all citizens to download Arogya Sethu App of the Union government, to stay safe. It alerts about the presence of any Covid-19 positive person in the vicinity, so that one can take precautionary measures and maintain a safe distance, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mysuru-may-be-coronavirus-free-district-soon-828252.html
21-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Testing times for Kalaburagi as 1 positive case reported every 19 hrs||In the last 21 days, one Covid-19 positive case is reported every 19 hours in Kalaburagi district, going by the daily state bulletin.  A total of 26 people tested positive for Coronavirus in the district from April 1 to 21, setting off an alarming bell. This includes three deaths. After sporadic positive cases until March 31, the virus infection witnessed a steady rise from April 1 to April 21. Kalaburagi had hit national headlines after nation's first Covid-19 death on March 10. The people of the district had heaved a sigh of relief as not even a single positive case was reported from March 18 to 30. From March 12 to 31, four positive cases, including one death, were reported. An official on condition of anonymity said the situation was under control in the district till the return of those who took part in the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi. When the list of those who attended the religious congregation came out, the situation went out of control as the returnees did not voluntarily come forward to undergo medical check-up for Covid-19. A majority of the positive cases reported this month are primary contacts of the Tablighi returnees, he said.  Dr Manjunath Doshetty of the city told DH that since the source was being pursued by the officials, there is no need to panic about the pandemic.  Since the positive cases are reported from two clusters only and there are no reports of increase in pneumonia cases requiring ventilator in Kalaburagi, community transmission has been ruled out, he said. Several positive cases being reported in the district are from a cluster where those who came in direct contact with the Jamaat returnees live, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-testing-times-for-kalaburagi-as-1-positive-case-reported-every-19-hrs-828265.html
21-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government launches portal for Covid-19 relief efforts||Overwhelmed by the response from civil society groups and nonprofits, the state government has put in place a web portal called ‘Sankalpa’ to coordinate relief efforts during the Covid-19 pandemic.  A committee headed by Additional Chief Secretary Mahendra Jain to coordinate with the NGOs and the private sector has asked all the deputy commissioners to get nonprofits working in their districts to upload details of the work they have done for better coordination.  Karnataka’s fight against Covid-19 has witnessed a significant jump in nonprofits and individuals that have joined hands with the state government.  Because of the government’s massive outreach, the number of NGOs involved in the relief effort was 761 as on April 15, which has gone up to 859, according to data. In the same period, the number of expert volunteers is up from 388 to 971. Likewise, the government, through NGOs, was able to increase its relief count from 16,302 persons in distress to 21,174 in that time span.  “We not only get offers from NGOs and corporates in our fight against Covid, but also information from citizens regarding people in distress due to the lockdown and reach out to them providing necessary relief,” Jain told DH.  Medical supplies The government has received a huge amount of medical supplies from civil society - 5.63 lakh N-95 masks, 1.50 lakh triple-layer masks, 1,745 PPE kits, 6,000 pairs of hand gloves, 15 lakh soaps, 50,000 units of insulin, 67,200 strips of Peridol tablets, andso on.  “All medical supplies received from corporates are sent to the Drugs and Logistics Warehouse for testing and appropriate distribution to the districts or the agencies in Bengaluru,” Jain said.  Data also shows that civil society groups have outdone the government on several aspects of relief work during the Covid-19 pandemic. For instance, NGOs alone have cooked 2.80 lakh meals till date and have provided 1.68 lakh ration kits.  CM’s personal appeals Also, following Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s personal appeals for donation, the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund, has garnered Rs 141.32 crore to fight the Covid-19pandemic.  “The work of coordinating voluntary response to Covid-19 is primarily anchored in our committee, but because of court orders and other advisories, several other institutions are trying to do things,” Jain said. “More the merrier, in a way. As long as, through one or the other, help reaches the needy.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-launches-portal-for-covid-19-relief-efforts-828284.html
21-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records ten more coronavirus cases, tally jumps to 418||The state reported 10 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday as the total count jumped to 418. It also reported a death, an 80-year-old man from Kalaburagi, taking its death toll to 17. The day also saw three more patients being shifted to ICU.  On the bright side, 17 patients were discharged from across the state on Tuesday. So far, 129 people have recovered from the illness. The number of active cases in the state stands at 272. Vijayapura and Kalaburagi reported three cases each on Tuesday. All three positive cases from Vijayapura are primary contacts of Patient 306. Among three cases reported from Kalaburagi. Two cases are from the Nanjanagud pharma cluster and secondary contacts of Patient 52. Dakshina Kannada and Belagavi reported one case each. “We tested 2,773 people for Covid-19 on Tuesday, the highest so far for a single day. Earlier, we used to test 500 samples per day, which was ramped up to 1,000, 1,500, 2,000. Now, we are testing more than 2,500 per day,” said S Suresh Kumar, Karnataka in-charge of Covid-19 media briefings.  “All Group A and B staff of 18 departments will attend work from Wednesday. 33% of Group C and D will also work,” Kumar, also the Education minister said.  “All private medical colleges have been instructed to set up fever clinics. The respective deputy commissioners will have control over these clinics,” Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-ten-more-coronavirus-cases-tally-jumps-to-418-828288.html
21-04-2020||West||FACT-CHECK | Coronavirus lockdown: Palghar lynching incident falsely communalised on social media||On April 16, three men were lynched by an armed mob near Gadchinchale village which comes under the Kasa Police jurisdiction in Maharashtra’s Palghar district. Three days later, videos of the incident on social media were amplified with an insinuation that it was a communally-motivated crime committed by members of the Muslim community. इस वीडियो के लास्ट में बहुत ध्यान से सुनें, साफ़ साफ़ एक लड़का बोल रहा है, “ मार शोएब मार “    Also viral with a Christian angle An image of the two deceased men was also shared on social media with a graphic that accuses “the goons of Christian missionaries” for the attack. No “Shoaib” in the video After listening to several videos of the same incident taken from different angles, Alt News found that the men are saying,  “Bass oye bass (Stop hey stop)”.  In the video posted below, the same can heard. Thus, the claim that one of the perpetrators involved in the incident was Shoaib is baseless. No communal angle Maharastra’s Home Minister took to Twitter and informed that the incident has no communal angle and that the accused and the victim were not from different faiths. CM Uddhav Thackeray has also ruled out any communal angle in the incident and said that it had occurred as rumours about thieves roaming in the area were making the rounds. Prominent social media users like Suresh Chavhanke and Ashoke Pandit attempted to give the incident a communal colour by claiming that the men involved in the lynching were members of the Muslim community. The accused and victims both hail from the same religion. There is no communal angle to the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fact-check-coronavirus-lockdown-palghar-lynching-incident-falsely-communalised-on-social-media-827988.html
21-04-2020||West||Unending struggle for Maharashtra family after 5 members hit by COVID-19||A 35-year-old man, whose father died of coronavirus in Pune over 10 days back and four other family members are still in hospital after contracting the disease, is in a state of shock and not able to muster courage to inform his mother about the father's demise. The man, who is into vegetable business here in Maharashtra, is also saddened by the insensitive approach of people around, who stopped interacting with his family in this hour of crisis. His 60-year-old father died at the state-run Sassoon General Hospital in Pune on April 9. The deceased had co- morbid health conditions as he was diabetic and paralytic, according to health officials. While his father was undergoing treatment, the 35- year-old man's wife, his two daughters and brother also tested positive for the viral infection and are currently admitted at an isolation facility in the city. The man said after his father was diagnosed pneumonia, the latter was referred to the Sassoon Hospital where he tested positive for coronavirus on April 6. "Later, swab samples of 12 other family members and high-risk contracts were taken and among these, my wife, brother and my two daughters tested positive. The rest of us, including me, my one-year-old son, and mother were sent back and quarantined at a health centre," he said. On April 9, he got the shocking news of his father's death and could not believe it. "It was unexpected as he was stable. We are still not able to come to terms with this. The saddest part is no one from the family could see him for one last time after his death and we could not even attend his last rites," he said. The last rites of his father were performed by members of social outfit Mulnivasi Manch, led by Anjum Inamdar, at a city-based burial ground, he said. The man had requested Inamdar to click some photos and videos of the last rites so that the family could see it. "Since four of my family members are still in the hospital, I don't have the courage to tell my mother that our father is no more. Though we are going through lot of stress, I am trying to behave normal in front of my mother who is already shaken by what the family is going through," he said. Follow the latest updates on the coronavirus outbreak in India here. The man said he might break the news of his father's death to his mother once the other family members recover from the deadly disease and return home. "We are trying to cope up with the situation, but what has saddened me more is the indifferent approach of people towards our family after my father tested positive for coronavirus," he said, adding that many people known to him stopped interacting or communicating with his family. The family of another Pune resident, who works as an electrician, is also suffering due to the COVID-19 outbreak. His 50-year-old mother died of coronavirus at the Sassoon Hospital on April 14.  "It seems lives of all our family members have turned upside down after my mother's death. I am the sole breadwinner of my family. Since the lockdown, I am at home and trying to somehow managing our finances," he said.   Razi Khan, member of the Popular Front of India whose volunteers are closely working with the civic administration to perform last rites of coronavirus victims from the Muslim community, said till now they have buried 20 bodies in Pune. "We are burying the bodies which are not claimed by their family members as they are either quarantined or are kept in hospitals. In some of the cases, we managed to make the bereaved family members part of the last rites rituals through video calls," Khan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/unending-struggle-for-maharashtra-family-after-5-members-hit-by-covid-19-827992.html
21-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Gujarat hospital develops device to boost capacity of ventilators||A kidney hospital here in Gujarat has developed a multiplexer device to augment the capacity of ventilators, which are in great demand in view of the rising number of coronavirus cases. Designed and developed by the Ahmedabad-based Institute of Kidney Diseases and Research Centre (IKDRC), the four-way multiplexer splits oxygen supply from a single- source ventilator to four patients through inspiratory limbs or pipes simultaneously. Similarly, the expiratory limbs or pipes take back exhalation from the patient and merge into another set of multiplexer connected with the ventilator machine, IKDRC Director Dr Vineet Mishra said. "If there is a sudden rush of coronavirus patients for ventilatory support, then the use of multiplexer increases the capacity of machines available. Using this simple device, one ventilator can be used for four patients," he said. It is not an ideal way but a practical solution to address any future emergency, Mishra said. Ventilators with higher capacity of tidal volume can be used to provide support to as many as eight patients from a single machine by adding extra set of multiplexers, he said.  "If not ideal, it is certainly a better ventilation support technique than the manual AMBU bag resuscitators, he said, adding that the technique has been favoured by various hospitals in the US to handle the rise in number of COVID-19 patients. Through this technique, the oxygenation levels and volume for all four patients could be maintained by adjusting the tidal volume level of the ventilator machine in use, without compromising on the quality of the ventilatory support offered, the official said. In the COVID-19 infection, the virus severely breaks down the red blood cells (RBCs), which in-turn develop clots that further block alveolar (air sacs) of the lungs, a pneumonic condition, he explained.  Such patients require 24-hour ventilatory support to fight back the pneumonic condition as along as the virus intensity remains high, Mishra said. The idea to develop a homegrown multiplexer was conceived after observing the trends and analysing the empirical data of COVID-19 patients for ventilatory support in the intensive care units (ICU) across Europe and US-based hospitals, he added.    The government-aided IKDRC is India's largest dedicated transplant and kidney cure hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-gujarat-hospital-develops-device-to-boost-capacity-of-ventilators-827994.html
21-04-2020||West||19 nurses, 6 other staff of Pune's Ruby Hall Clinic contract COVID-19||Nineteen nurses and six other paramedical staff members of the Ruby Hall Clinic in Pune have tested positive for coronavirus, authorities said on Tuesday. All of them are currently asymptomatic and stable, Ruby Hall Clinic's Chief Executive Officer Bomi Bhote said. Last week, a nurse working in the general ward of the leading private hospital here in Maharashtra tested positive for COVID-19. The hospital subsequently screened 1,000 of its staff members.     "The test reports of 19 nurses and six other staff members, including clinical assistants, came out positive. All of them are asymptomatic and absolutely stable," Bhote said. All the staff members who have tested positive for COVID-19 have been quarantined at an isolation facility and all their primary contacts have been traced and tested. "As a precautionary measure, we have dedicated an entire building within the hospital only for potential COVID- 19 cases. Our collective, coordinated and comprehensive approach has ensured that not a single (non-coronavirus) patient in the hospital got infected," he added. "This highlights that thevirus lurks at large amidst us even without obvious visible symptoms. These persons have now been isolated from potential contacts to further break the chain of coronavirus spread," Bhote said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/19-nurses-6-other-staff-of-punes-ruby-hall-clinic-contract-covid-19-828024.html
21-04-2020||West||Rohit Pawar lends helping hand to Maharashtra COVID-19 battle, , distributes 40,000 litres of sanitiser||The sanitiser has been manufactured by Baramati Agro Limited, of which Rohit Pawar is the CEO. The sanitiser is given free of cost to medical institutes, hospitals, religious institutions, government bodies and corporations all over the state. In the biggest crisis the state has faced, Rohit Pawar has stepped up and reached out to help people in the most crucial of times. Pawar said, "Sanitiser is packed in cans of five litres each and distributed in every corner of Maharashtra. Right from manufacturing to distribution, everything is taken care of by us and made available to people free of charge. The effort is to make sure every citizen gets access to sanitizers in the battle against the coronavirus." As far Mumbai Metropolitan Region is concerned, Rohit Pawar sent over 9,000 litres of sanitiser in different parts of Mumbai, 500 litres in Mantralaya, 1,200 litres were made available to Thane people and 1,000 litres were sent to the people in Navi Mumbai.  Rohit Pawar has helped distribute the sanitiser cans in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Pune, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Satara, Sangli, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Kolhapur and Baramati among others which would help lakhs of urban as well as rural people have access to free sanitation. From government medical colleges to religious institutions and district health departments to hospitals, the sanitiser is distributed through networking to local leaders or representatives and ultimately made available to people without any cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rohit-pawar-lends-helping-hand-to-maharashtra-covid-19-battle-distributes-40000-litres-of-sanitiser-828027.html
21-04-2020||West||Maharashtra Palghar lynching: CPI(M) slams BJP for communal claims||The CPI(M) Maharashtra State Committee condemned the lynching of three persons, including two sadhus, at Gadchinchale village in Palghar district of Maharashtra and denounced the BJP's attempts to give a communal colour to the killings. The incident took place on April 16 night when three men from Kandivali in neighbouring Mumbai were travelling to Surat in a car. The vehicle was stopped and the trio was beaten to death with sticks by a mob on suspicion that they were thieves. In an official release on Monday,the CPI(M)'s state committee demanded strict action against the accused and an inquiry into the incident. The party said it denounced the BJP-RSS's false claims of communal angle in the killings and alleged that the saffron party was indulging in a smear campaign to discredit the state government. "We also strongly denounce the lies and canards that are being spread on Facebook by RSS-BJP leaders Sambit Patra, Sunil Deodhar and others. They have said that the Dahanu Assembly constituency, where the incident occurred, is a CPI (M) stronghold and alleged that the CPI(M) is behind these killings," the party release alleged. Gadchinchale village, where these killings took place, was under BJP for the last 10 years and party member Chitra Choudhari was a sarpanch there, the CPI(M) stated, alleging that several accused in the case were in fact BJP men. The CPI(M) also claimed that the police had gone into overdrive by arresting innocent people from other villages, in a bid to cover up their negligence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-palghar-lynching-cpim-slams-bjp-for-communal-claims-828048.html
21-04-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Inhuman to give communal colour to Palghar lynching, Shiv Sena says in mouthpiece 'Saamana'||Condemning the lynching of two sadhus in neighbouring Palghar district, the Shiv Sena on Tuesday said the incident was an attempt to malign Maharashtra's image and it was "inhuman" to give it a communal colour. An editorial in the party mouthpiece 'Saamana' stated that residents of Gadchincle village in Palghar had killed the two sadhus over rumours that thieves dressed as holy men had entered the village taking advantage of the lockdown. The victims wanted to cross the state borders and travel to Gujarat amid the COVID-19 lockdown, the article stated. "The local administration sent them back, despite their saffron robes. If they had been held back there itself and the state government had been informed, the matter could have been resolved," the paper observed. Coming out in support of Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, the article stated that the police had taken prompt action and said both the victims and accused belonged to the same religion so there was no communal aspect to the case. Seeds of communal discord were sown through the social media, but Maharashtra has remained peaceful, it said. "Some expressed concern about how Hindu sadhus could be killed in the state of Hindu Hriday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray. But reasons for such concerns are different," the paper said. Criticising the leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis, the paper said, the former Chief Minister had shed tears over the incident on social media. When similar mishaps had taken place in Dhule and Chandrapur during Fadnavis' tenure, wasn't Maharashtra the land of Balasaheb Thackeray then? the paper asked. Irrespective of whether victims were Hindus or Muslims, lynching was a perversion and can never be supported, the editorial said.  The paper further pointed out that Gadchincle has been a BJP bastion for the last 10 years and even the village sarpanch belongs to the saffron party. The opposition was not angry over the killing of sadhus, but was upset as it had failed to create a communal discord following the incident, it stated. "It is true that Maharashtra's tradition and culture have been hurt by the incident. Was the incident a deliberate attempt to tarnish the state's image?" the editorial questioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-inhuman-to-give-communal-colour-to-palghar-lynching-shiv-sena-says-in-mouthpiece-saamana-828058.html
21-04-2020||West||Healthy baby born to COVID-19 positive woman at Nanavati Hospital||A 35-year-old COVID-19 positive pregnant woman from South Mumbai gave birth to a healthy baby girl at Nanavati Super Speciality Hospital on Sunday. The successful childbirth has become a cause of jubilance not only for the family but for doctors and healthcare workers who are striving to save lives in the face of a worldwide COVID-19 pandemic. The woman, being in 38th week of gestation, was admitted in a South Mumbai based private hospital for antenatal care. Though she had no symptoms, as per the protocol, she was tested before her delivery to confirm her COVID-19 status. Unfortunately, the woman tested positive on April 18. Since the hospital didn’t have an obstetrics unit for COVID-19 positive patients, the woman was shifted to Nanavati Hospital. “The family was extremely stressed after she tested positive for COVID-19 and we were informed that she needs to be shifted to some other hospital. Our treating doctors referred us to Nanavati Hospital. We were relieved only after we were counselled by doctors and coordinators at Nanavati Hospital on the whole procedure,” said the patient’s husband.  A detailed Standard Operating Procedure created by the hospital after examining international case studies,guidelines by obstetrics and gynaecology department,infectious disease experts and paediatric department was put in action well before the patient was admitted. “Only a handful of such surgeries are performed in India so far, thus a special obstetrics unit, suitable to the infection control protocols was created. We kept the surgical staff number to minimum and trained them for use of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE). Special COVID Corridors were created for safe transportation of the mother and baby,” said Dr Suruchi Desai, Senior Consultant, Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Nanavati Hospital. The surgical unit took additional care to ensure there was no contact between the mother and the child. Immediately post the successful delivery of the baby girl, a team of neonatologists headed by Dr.TusharManiar, Head of Paediatrics Unit, shifted the baby girl to a special isolation Intensive Care Unit. The COVID 19 status of the baby will be checked on third and eighth day. Doctors said the baby is stable and completely healthy. According to WHO, women with COVID-19 can breastfeed if they wish to but should practice hygiene during the feeding, where a mask where available, wash hands before and after touching the baby and routinely clean and disinfect surfaces they have touched. ManpreetSohal, Director and Chief Operating Officer (COO) of Nanavati Hospital congratulated the surgical unit for a successful surgery and wished the baby girl a healthy life ahead. “This successful childbirth, amidst such adverse period, has infused new energy in our hospital’s frontline COVID warriors. We are successfully performing various procedures in-spite ofcomplication added by COVID 19 infection. We will stay committed to our fight against this pandemic,” said Sohal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/healthy-baby-born-to-covid-19-positive-woman-at-nanavati-hospital-828059.html
21-04-2020||West||Rajasthan ceases use of Chinese coronavirus rapid testing kits as most results invalid||The Rajasthan government on Tuesday stopped using the China-made rapid testing kits for coronavirus after they delivered inaccurate results. The state's health minister Raghu Sharma said the kits gave only 5.4 per cent accurate results against the expectation of 90 per cent accuracy and therefore the kits were of no benefit, adding that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has been informed about the issue.  "We have written to ICMR asking what to do. We are waiting for their response. The rapid test results were negative even on patients who tested positive in lab tests," the minister said. A committee comprising heads of medicine and microbiology departments at the Sawai Man Singh government hospital here was set up by the government to examine the accuracy of the kits and it found that only 5.4 per cent test results were accurate. "As per the advice of the committee, we have stopped testing from the rapid testing kits," the minister said. He said 168 tests were conducted through rapid testing kits that were also used for testing of patients who have already tested positive for coronavirus in PCR based tests and the result was negative in their case too, which, the minister said, raised questions about the credibility of these kits. "If the ICMR's response comes in our favour, the kits could be returned," he said.  Rajasthan had started conducting tests through rapid testing kits on Friday in the state's hotspots, starting from Jaipur. Additional chief secretary medical and health Rohit Kumar Singh said the kits are China made. The state government got 30,000 kits through ICMR for free while 10,000 kits were purchased at a cost of Rs. 540 plus tax per kit. The rapid testing kits, through which blood samples are tested, were aimed at speeding up screening and detection of suspected coronavirus patients as they take less time to show results in comparison to the swab-based tests carried out in pathology labs. The rapid kit test was not a confirmatory test and PCR based test was required for confirmation of a positive result.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-ceases-use-of-chinese-coronavirus-rapid-testing-kits-as-most-results-invalid-828070.html
21-04-2020||West||Gujarat hospital ties up with ICMR for plasma therapy study to treat coronavirus||The Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Hospital here has signed an MoU with the Indian Council of Medical Research to carry out the study on the safety and efficacy of convalescent plasma to limit coronavirus-associated complications in a patient, an official said on Tuesday. The civic-run hospital recently got permission from the ICMR to carry out plasma therapy trials on COVID-19 patients, and the plasma collected from a recovered person was administered to a patient at the medical facility here for the first time on Monday, Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra said. Now, the Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Hospital (SVP) will carry out ICMR's multi-centric collaborative study for phase-2 open level randomised control trial to assess the safety and efficacy of convalescent plasma to limit COVID-19 associated complications in moderate disease, he said. "An MoU has been signed between ICMR and SVP Hospital, and a fast-track approval for the study centre, the first in the country, has been granted," Nehra said. Transfusion of plasma collected from a recovered person into a coronavirus patient will be the first subject to be studied at the centre, he said. "It is not to be done on one or two patients, but detailed research will be carried out and is a complicated process. We have been in constant touch with ICMR on this," Nehra said. The SVP Hospital recently secured permission from the ICMR to carry out plasma therapy trial on COVID-19 patients. The plasma extracted from a person who recovered from coronavirus was administered to a COVID-19 patient on Monday, Nehra said. Meanwhile, the SVP Hospital has identified a second donor for the study, and plasma collected from the person would be administered to a potential recipient, he said. The ICMR recently announced that it will collaborate with eligible institutes for the study and will fund it. Convalescent plasma is an experimental procedure for COVID-19 patients. As per the guidelines, hospitals and institutions planning to provide this modality of treatment should do so as a clinical trial, with protocols which are cleared by the Institutional Ethics Committee. At this moment, the ICMR does not recommend this as a treatment option outside of clinical trials. In convalescent plasma therapy, antibodies from the blood of patients who have recovered from COVID-19 are used to treat severely infected patients. The study is aimed at assessing the efficacy of convalescent plasma to limit complications in COVID-19 patients, and to evaluate the safety of treatment with anti-SARS-CoV-2 plasma in coronavirus-infected patients. The ICMR recently said it has received 99 applications from institutes willing to take part in the study.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-hospital-ties-up-with-icmr-for-plasma-therapy-study-to-treat-coronavirus-828113.html
21-04-2020||West||With 19 casualties in 24 hours, Gujarat becomes second worst affected state with 90 deaths of COVID-19 patients||Gujarat reported deaths of 19 coronavirus infected patients in the past 24 hours on Tuesday evening, the highest so far in the time period, taking the death toll to 90 in the state which is the second-highest in the country after neighbouring Maharashtra where over 230 persons have succumbed to the deadly virus. Besides, the state also recorded 237 new positive cases in the same time period, taking the tally to 2,178 that is also the second-highest after Maharashtra. State's Principal Secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi said in her evening briefing that most of the casualties are the result of pre-existing diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, heart ailment, among others. She added 139 patients have been cured and discharged so far while 14 patients are on ventilators. She said that the government is taking efforts to control deaths like distributing ayurvedic medicines to boost immunity, among others. Out of 90 deaths, 53 patients have died in Ahmedabad alone while Surat has reported 12, Vadodara 7, Bhavnagar 5, while Anand, Bharuch, Gandhinagar and Panchmahals districts have reported two deaths each. Earlier in the day, Ravi said that the only case of Jamnagar district in which a 14-month-old COVID-19 patient passed away remains a mystery since his source of infection is still not known. Districts such as Patan, Kutch, Aravalli and Botad have reported one death each. Apart from the number of deaths at a mortality rate of 4.5% that is higher than the national average of about 3 per cent,  the number of new positive cases also past 2000 mark in the state with 196 cases recorded in the past 24 hours. The tally stood at 2,178 by Tuesday evening.  Five-star COVID-19 hotel After allowing three private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients on their own expense, the state government on Tuesday also announced the signing of a memorandum of understanding with a private five-star hotel in Ahmedabad where asymptomatic patients can get admitted. Jayanti Ravi said that the hotel will charge for room, food and other services, which will be under discount. She said that among the new positive cases the number of asymptomatic patients is higher and they don't need to get admitted in the COVID-19 designated hospitals.  Till April 16, Ahmedabad city had nearly 500 coronavirus cases which rose to 1,378 by Tuesday evening. Officials said that the rising number of cases is creating duress for beds in COVID-19 designated hospitals and that's why new facilities are being created. Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra on Tuesday announced that corporation run Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel hospital will have 1000 beds soon for the patients. He said that earlier the hospital had only 50 beds for such patients which was subsequently increased. Besides, a Haj House located in Kalupur area will also be turned into COVID-19 care unit. Meanwhile, the state government deputed seven more IAS officers to oversee the districts which have recorded more than 10 cases. In the past couple of days, the list of affected districts has also increased to 28 of a total 33 districts in the state. A day before the Vijay Rupani led government had ordered eight senior IAS officers to take over supervision in the worst affected cities and districts. Their responsibilities include supervising treatment, facilities in hospitals as well as providing food to migrant workers and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-19-casualties-in-24-hours-gujarat-becomes-second-worst-affected-state-with-90-deaths-of-covid-19-patients-828118.html
21-04-2020||West||PCI issues notice to Maharashtra govt over prohibition of door-to-door delivery of newspapers, magazines||The Press Council of India on Tuesday issued a notice to the Maharashtra government over prohibition of door-to-door delivery of newspapers and magazines in the state, seeking an explanation and expressing concern over the issue. The Maharashtra government on Saturday decided to stop door-to-door delivery of newspapers and magazines to contain the spread of coronavirus infection in the state.  The Press Council of India (PCI) Chairman C K Prasad noted with concern the order of the Maharashtra government, a PCI statement said. It said the order did not adhere to the central government's directive issued on March 23 to Chief Secretaries of all States and UTs to ensure operational continuity of print media in view of the threat of COVID-19 outbreak. The Press Council of India (PCI) had also advised all state governments and administrative authorities to take necessary measures to ensure the smooth functioning of media during the lockdown to combat the coronavirus outbreak.  "Taking suo-motu cognizance on the issue, the Chairman has issued a notice for comments to the Chief Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra," the PCI statement said. The production and sale of newspapers and magazines is allowed at stalls and shops established for the purpose but the print media sector has been asked to avoid home deliveries, the Maharashtra Chief Minister's Office had said in a series of tweets on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pci-issues-notice-to-maharashtra-govt-over-prohibition-of-door-to-door-delivery-of-newspapers-magazines-828129.html
21-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: No relaxation in Mumbai, Pune metropolitan areas||Rattled by large number of people stepping out, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday withdrew the relaxation order for the entire Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) and Pune metropolitan region (PMR). The MMR-PMR is the biggest industrial base of Maharashtra and India. On Tuesday, Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta issued a notification revising the guidelines.  "In view of large number of people commuting because of relaxation issued vide order dated 17 April, 2020 and also imminent threat of further pandemic it is hereby directed that in MMR and PMR area the previous orders will not apply...," the notification said. It, however, clarified that e-commerce companies, vehicle ised by e-commerce operators will be allowed to ply with necessary permission. E-commerce delivery of essential commodities, food, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment would be permitted. In fact, after reports of vehicles surfaced on social media and criticised the decision, the Uddhav Thackeray government decided to amend the order vis-a-vis MMR-PMR. Meanwhile, the MIDC has invited online application form units in green and orange zones to enable them to start activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-no-relaxation-in-mumbai-pune-metropolitan-areas-828132.html
21-04-2020||West||Coronavirus outbreak: Central team to visit in Mumbai, Pune||A five-member inter-ministerial central team (IMCT) are visiting Mumbai and Pune,  the two worst-affected places by Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-outbreak-central-team-to-visit-in-mumbai-pune-828154.html
21-04-2020||West||Maharashtra govt revises norms on doorstep delivery of newspapers||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday revised its last week's guidelines prohibiting door-to -door delivery of newspapers and magazines in the state and said the curb will be in force only in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune city, both COVID-19 hotspots. In its April 18 notification, the government had prohibited door-to-door delivery of newspapers and magazines across the state even while saying that the print media is exempted from lockdown norms from April 20.  Wherever door-to-door delivery of newspapers or magazines is done, it shall be with knowledge of the receiver. Personnel engaged in delivery shall wear mask, use hand sanitiser and follow social distancing norms, the government said in an order here. However, given the extent of COVID-19 spread in MMR and Pune city, door-to-door delivery is prohibited in these areas and also all containment zones, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-revises-norms-on-doorstep-delivery-of-newspapers-828166.html
21-04-2020||West||Truck with 60 migrant labourers intercepted in Maharashtra; two booked||An offence was registered against the owner and driver of a container truck, in which 60 migrant workers were being transported at Bhiwandi town in Maharashtra's Thane district amid the COVID-19 lockdown, police said on Tuesday. Several migrant labourers in the state have been rendered jobless since the lockdown was enforced to contain the spread of coronavirus and have been trying to get to their hometowns by any means possible. An offence was registered against the owner and driver of the container truck, in which 60 migrant labourers were allegedly being transported to Uttar Pradesh, deputy commissioner of police zone-II Rajkumar Shinde said. Officials of the Shanti Nagar police station spotted the truck near KB Chowkie late on Monday night and on checking the vehicle, found as many as 60 persons crammed inside it, he said. The duo was booked under sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC and provisions of the National Disaster Management Act, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/truck-with-60-migrant-labourers-intercepted-in-maharashtra-two-booked-828168.html
21-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Press Council express concern over Maharashtra ban on newspaper delivery||The Press Council of India on Tuesday expressed concern over Maharashtra government's decision to prohibit door-step delivery of newspapers and magazines as part of measures to contain Covid-19 spread. Taking suo motu cognizance of the matter, Press Council Chairman Justice C K Prasad issued notice to Maharashtra Chief Secretary seeking his comments on the matter. In a press statement, the Press Council said Justice Prasad was concerned about the Maharashtra government order, which went against the Centre's direction to ensure operational continuity of print media. The government had on Saturday issued consolidated guidelines in which it was said that door-to-door delivery of newspapers and magazines will be prohibited, given the extent of the spread, though print media has been exempted from the lockdown from April 20 onwards. The Aurangabad Bench of Bombay High Court has questioned the Maharashtra government's decision to ban the door-to-door distribution of newspapers while allowing people to step out and buy them from street stalls, PTI reported. Justice P B Varale on Monday took suo moto cognizance of the issue, seeking the government's reply by April 27. Earlier on Monday, the Nagpur bench of the High Court also had asked the government to file its reply on the issue in response to petitions filed by journalist associations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-press-council-express-concern-over-maharashtra-ban-on-newspaper-delivery-828181.html
21-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Fire at hotel-turned-quarantine facility in Mumbai||A fire broke out in a Mumbai hotel that has been turned into a quarantine facility. The hotel, Ripon Palace, a five-storey building, is located in the Mumbai Central area. Twenty-five persons who were quarantined were evacuated safely, the Mumbai fire brigade said.  The fire was confined to electric wiring, electric installations, beds, wooden furniture, AC on 1st floor of the building, which is now used as a COVID-19 quarantine center.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-fire-at-hotel-turned-quarantine-facility-in-mumbai-828199.html
21-04-2020||West||Dharavi reports 12 new coronavirus cases with 1 death: BMC||The Dharavi slum sprawl in Mumbai on Tuesday reported 12 new COVID-19 cases with one death, a senior BMC official said. With this, the total number of the coronavirus- afflicted people in this congested locality reached 180. The number of the deceased has gone up to 12 with a 62-year-old man succumbing to the coronavirus infection earlier in the day, the official said. The new cases, including three women patients, were found in Mukund Nagar, Madina Nagar, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, and Muslim Nagar localities of Dharavi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dharavi-reports-12-new-coronavirus-cases-with-1-death-bmc-828201.html
21-04-2020||West||Health Ministry issues guidelines for bringing home human remains of coronavirus patients||However, according to the guidelines, if human remains of suspected or confirmed cases of coronavirus arrive into India, the airport health officer will verify the death certificate mentioning the cause of death, 'No objection certificate' for the transportation of human remains issued by Indian missions and embalming certificate issued by an authorized agency.  The airline shall ensure that the external packing of human remains (coffin) is undamaged and the airport health officer will verify the documents and inspect the packing in accordance with the provisions under the Indian Aircraft (Public Health) Rules, 1954.  "If there are any obvious signs of damage to the external packing, the handlers shall use full PPE, cover the coffin in plastic sheets to avoid any contact with the body/ body fluids before hand-over of the human remains to the concerned authority for final burial/incineration," the guidelines stated. The personnel handling the human remains should follow the laid down procedures for donning and doffing of personal protective equipment and follow other protective measures for COVID-19, like hand-washing with soap and water to ensure that they remain protected during the procedure. The packaging (coffin) shall be buried/incinerated following the norms for burial/incineration for human remains with high risk pathogens. The handlers would be monitored for 28 days and the designated vehicle shall be disinfected. In all such cases, the airport health officer should direct the airline to carry out the disinfection of the aircraft as per the norms. In addition, the staff handling the cargo (human remains in question) shall be quarantined for 28 days. The ministry, however, clarified that the "ashes remaining after cremation pose no risk to the relatives who handle such mortal remains" and will be cleared in accordance with the provisions under the Indian Aircraft (Public Health) Rules, 1954. Any death on board during the pandemic, is to be suspected of COVID-19, unless proved otherwise and the pilot has to inform about the death on board to the airport health officer for appropriate measures, the guidelines mentioned. If the aircraft lands within the Indian territory, the crew will cover the body with sheets and blankets and move the passengers from nearby seats to other seats. If the remaining flight time is more than 8 hours, the pilot would seek permission to land at the nearest airport. The pilot has to mention in the general declaration, the details of any illness/symptoms reported/experienced by the deceased prior to death and submit it to the airport health officer. All passengers should disembark before the body is handled inside the aircraft, and trained staff from the airport, using full PPE, should move the deceased from the aircraft seat to a wheelchair. At the tarmac, a nasal swab will be taken by the state health authorities and sealed in triple layered package for testing at a designated lab. "Thereafter, the body shall be placed in an air-borne pathogen-resistant body bag and hermetically sealed and the relatives of the deceased, if not co-passenger(s), will be informed immediately. Further, the body would be transported in a designated vehicle to the burial ground or crematorium. and the guidelines for the disposal of a highly infectious dead body are to be followed. "The APHO should properly counsel the family members/ DSO (District Surveillance Officer) and Local Police officer, for careful handling and not to damage/temper/change the packaging of the human remains. Autopsy in confirmed COVID -19 cases is not recommended," the guidelines stated. If the report is COVID-19 negative, natural process as per law should be adopted. The disinfection and decontamination of the aircraft is to be done as per the approved procedures, the ministry said. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 590 and the number of cases climbed to 18,601 since Monday evening, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/health-ministry-issues-guidelines-for-bringing-home-human-remains-of-coronavirus-patients-828202.html
21-04-2020||West||Maharashtra govt withdraws coronavirus lockdown relaxations for Mumbai, Pune||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday withdrew its lockdown relaxation norms for Mumbai and Pune regions, both coronavirus hotspots, and revised its last week's guidelines prohibiting door-to-door delivery of newspapers and magazines in the state. The curb on doorstep delivery of newspapers and magazines will be in force only in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune city in view of the spread of coronavirus in these regions, the government said. Lockdown relaxation norms for Mumbai and Pune regions were withdrawn in view of a large number of people found commuting on April 20, it said.  In its April 18 notification, the government had prohibited door-to-door delivery of newspapers and magazines across the state even while saying that the print media is exempted from lockdown norms from April 20. The move had invited criticism from print media houses and also the opposition BJP. Wherever door-to-door delivery of newspapers or magazines is done, it shall be with knowledge of the receiver. Personnel engaged in delivery shall wear mask, use hand sanitiser and follow social distancing norms, the government said in an order here. However, given the extent of COVID-19 spread in the MMR and Pune Municipal Corporation areas, door-to-door delivery of newspapers or magazines is prohibited in these localities and also all containment zones, it said. The MMR comprises Mumbai and parts of its adjoining districts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad. On April 18, the government had said door-to-door delivery of newspapers and magazines will remain prohibited during the lockdown period. In its Tuesday order, the government saidother lockdown relaxations, meant for select activities, will not be applicable in the MMR and the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). The government said the decision has been taken in view of a large number of people found commuting because of certain relaxations which came into force on April 20.  Due to imminent threat of the spread of the pandemic, the orders issued on April 17, notifying relaxations, shall not apply in the MMR and the PMR, it said. However, guidelines pertaining to lockdown relaxations will be applicable in other parts of the state, the order said. Similarly, outside the MMR and the PMR, vehicles used by e-commerce operators will be allowed to ply with necessary permission and only delivery of essential commodities, food, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment by them will be permitted, it said. The earlier decision to keep confectioneries, snacks and sweet shops open in the state stands cancelled now, the government said. On April 17, the government had decided to allow select activities in non-containment zones. In Mumbai, earlier all urgent pre-monsoon-related works were allowed, but now that stands cancelled. The government had also allowed work in construction projects within municipal limits where workers are available on the site. However, this relaxation will not be applicate in the MMR and the PMR. Mumbai and Pune account for a bulk of the more than 4,600 coronavirus cases recorded in Maharashtra up to April 20. Mumbai alone accounted for 3032 patients and Pune 594.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-withdraws-coronavirus-lockdown-relaxations-for-mumbai-pune-828203.html
21-04-2020||West||Coronavirus cases in Maharashtra cross 5,000||Six weeks after the first Covid-19 case was detected in Maharashtra,  the western Indian state's toll mounted to 251 and positive cases crossed 5,000. On Tuesday, 19 deaths were reported pushing the total deaths to 251 while the positive cases increased by 251 rising to an alarming level of 5,218. Meanwhile, 150 patients were treated and discharged taking the numbers to 722. Of the total 19 deaths, 12 were reported from Mumbai. In Maharashtra, till the latest reports came in,  the total tests conducted were 83,111.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-cases-in-maharashtra-cross-5000-828211.html
21-04-2020||West||Palghar lynching: NHRC sends notice to Maharashtra DGP||The NHRC sent a notice to the Maharashtra police chief on Tuesday in connection with the lynching of three persons in Palghar district of the state, officials said. In a statement, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) said it has called for a detailed report in four weeks, including inputs on the action taken against the culprits and relief, if any, granted to the next of kin of the deceased. Based on a complaint in connection with the incident, a notice was issued to the Maharashtra director general of police (DGP) over the mob lynching of three persons in the presence of police personnel in Palghar district on April 16, the NHRC statement said. The commission has observed that the incident is apparently indicative of "negligence by the public servants". The death of the three persons in such a cruel manner by an unruly mob, that too during the ongoing countrywide lockdown under extra vigil by the administration and police, amounts to "gross violation of the right to life of the victims", it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-lynching-nhrc-sends-notice-to-maharashtra-dgp-828216.html
21-04-2020||West||Five Karwar residents booked for entering Goa illegally||The Goa Police on Tuesday filed FIRs against five persons who arrived in Goa, by flouting lockdown norms, from Karwar by fishing boats and via rail tracks, a government spokesperson said, adding that all five persons would also be placed in government quarantine facilities.  Out of the five persons, three landed in Goa from Karwar via fishing trawlers, while two walked into Goa along the Konkan Railway tracks. “The police department has registered FIR’s and is taking further legal action against all involved. The fisheries department would take steps, as per law, to cancel the license of the boat owners/fishermen,” the State Executive Committee which oversees COVID-19 related works in Goa said in a statement issued on Tuesday. The state Directorate of Fisheries has also issued show cause notices to the owners of the two fishing trawlers 'Sukne' and 'Sukne II', which had ferried the three persons -- who work as trawler deck hands -- from the Karwar fishing jetty to the Cutbona jetty in South Goa district. "They have also been fined Rs. 2.45 lakh each. The show cause notice is related to the suspension of their licence to operate which was served because they violated lockdown norms," a government spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-karwar-residents-booked-for-entering-goa-illegally-828226.html
21-04-2020||West||Maharashtra govt opens account to attract CSR donations like PM CARES||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday opened an account on the lines of PM-CARES Fund for companies to provide donations under corporate social responsibility (CSR) and claim tax benefits. The account, known as the Maharashtra State Disaster Management Authority, was set up after the Centre refused to give tax exemptions to donations made to the CM Relief Fund. It has been opened in State Bank of India's Wodehouse Road Branch in Colaba area of south Mumbai, with account number 39265578866, IFSC SBIN0000572 and MICR 400002087. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and Congress state spokesperson Sachin Sawant have maintained that the state government can set up a bank account offering CSR benefits. The Maharashtra BJP unit had come under severe criticism for announcing that its functionaries would donate to the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief In Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES) to combat the coronavirus outbreak instead of the CM Relief Fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-opens-account-to-attract-csr-donations-like-pm-cares-828242.html
21-04-2020||West||7 offer prayers amid coronavirus lockdown on Bhiwandi building terrace; booked||Seven people were booked for gathering on the terrace of a building in violation of lockdown norms for the coronavirus outbreak and offering namaz in Bhiwandi township of Maharashtra's Thane district, police said on Tuesday. The incident happened at around 7pm on Monday, said Deputy Commissioner of Police Rajkumar Shinde. "They have been booked under IPC, Maharashtra COVID-19 Rules, Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act by Bhiwandi town police," he said, adding that no arrests have been made in this connection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/7-offer-prayers-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-on-bhiwandi-building-terrace-booked-828269.html
21-04-2020||West||251 cases registered in Maharashtra for fake news, rumours amid coronavirus lockdown||At least 251 offences were registered by the Maharashtra police's cyber wing for rumours and misinformation spread on social media since the COVID-19 lockdown was imposed in the state on March 22, an official said on Tuesday. Of these 251 cases, 112 were registered in connection with objectionable WhatsApp forwards, he said. The state police's cyber wing, which monitors social media activities, observed that WhatsApp was the most popular medium used to circulate fake news, rumours and hate speeches, the official said. At least 87 offences were related to fake news and rumour-mongering posts shared on Facebook, he said. In a case of cybercrime registered at Dhule, an accused had written a post on Facebook alleging that a particular community was responsible for the coronavirus outbreak, thus spreading disharmony and hatred, the official said. Similarly, in Pune Rural, two persons were booked for circulating an objectionable message related to the pandemic on WhatsApp, he added. At least 50 persons were arrested for spreading rumours, misinformation, fake news and hate speeches since the lockdown was enforced on March 22 and over 31 objectionable posts were removed from social media platforms, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/251-cases-registered-in-maharashtra-for-fake-news-rumours-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-828290.html
