22-04-2020||Comment||Coronavirus outbreak: What the states must consider||A storm is gathering and a sense of disquiet is palpable amongst migrant workers stranded far away from home and family, in state after state. With the lockdown 2.0 in force, the long road to normalcy will bring further trials and tribulations to the considerable migrant population. An estimated nine million people migrate within India every year from endemically backward regions, to large cities in search of livelihood. In the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, it is the migrant workers that are the worst hit and face the severest privation. In the best of times, they are vulnerable to exploitative practices -- manipulation in wage rates, non-payment or withholding of wages, long work hours, and abysmal work conditions -- but now their problems are existential, and truly confound them.  The recent protests by migrant workers at the Bandra railway station, Mumbai, and in Surat, demanding trains to take them home, in open defiance of the lockdown, and in the face of the grave risk of being infected by coronavirus, should serve as a grim reminder that in the war against the pandemic, migrants are in danger of being left behind. Remember, too, that there were similar protests in Kerala and Delhi in March. ‘No state for migrants’ seems to be the cry amongst these poor, dispossessed workers. The underlying narrative is that the migrants who constitute the invisible workforce in our bustling and burgeoning cities, have been forsaken by their benefactors and rendered helpless. Faced with double jeopardy -- a decline in the wellbeing of their families back home and unable to meet their own basic needs in our vast, impersonal cities -- there are a million mutinies in the making, and should bring a sense of foreboding. The fragile sense of order in the midst of an aggressive pandemic can easily slide into disequilibria should governments fail to respond to their rights-based entitlements -- food, shelter, water and sanitation. Failure to act with urgent institutional measures can transform the sense of disquiet amongst the migrant workers into widespread social unrest. That this is a matter of concern became clear when the Union Home Minister, no less, spoke to the Chief Minister of Maharashtra to highlight the urgency to act. Other states would do well to respond with an equal sense of urgency. What might the states do in the immediate to short term? First, universalise the Public Distribution System to provide food security and access to essential commodities to migrant workers in urban areas and to other daily wage earners in the informal sector. There is no more extensive social welfare net that can provide at least calorie intake protection than the PDS network. Providing food coupons or temporary ration cards can help substantially, and this can be operationalised with little effort. By this, the states would demonstrate strong welfare responsibility for the poor and the disadvantaged. Of what use is the massive stock of food grains in the Food Corporation of India godowns -- often rotting, eaten by rodents, or simply pilfered -- if not drawn down at times like these? Second, expand the National Rural Employment Guarantee programme to include provision of work in the cities and the towns for the urban poor, including the migrant workers. The already widespread problem of unemployment, especially of those who are at the lower end of the skills value chain -- the uneducated, unskilled or low-skilled workers -- has exacerbated due to the lockdown and can morph into a humanitarian crisis. The harsh reality is that for the vast majority of these workers, there is no recourse but to State-supported employment guarantee to sustain their livelihood. There is no reason why the nature and scale of work offered under the programme should not be constructively interpreted in its spirit -- of providing livelihood wage labour for at least 100 days in a year to those most in need of it. Third, enlarge the scale and scope of social security pensions provided to the widows, the elderly and the differently abled. Unlike in the western world, India does not have a tax-funded comprehensive social security system that guarantees an unemployment allowance in times of need. This is perhaps the time when the states should consider a Direct Benefit Transfer of a minimum basic income to those below the poverty line in the urban and the rural areas alike, as an emergency facility, during and for the periods of unexpected crises such as the Covid-19 pandemic. The social protection benefits that are fragmented across several schemes and departments can be rationalised, consolidated, and with a specified top-up amount, transferred directly to beneficiaries. All three measures will require considerable resources. In these severely resource-constrained times, where will the states mop up the revenue from? The economic consequences of the pandemic will continue to affect us over the short to medium term. The states’ own tax and non-tax revenues will be severely hit. A revenue-led mobilisation strategy is not an option. Instead, states must seek to rationalise and prioritise expenditure. The focus in the current financial year should be entirely Covid-19-centric, and on committed expenditure that is absolutely essential, with all other expenditure guillotined. In most states, salaries and pensions account for between 33-40% of revenue expenditure, with many states running revenue deficits. It would be justified in this time of crisis for the states to consider a 10% cut in salaries and pensions of government employees, as a stopgap measure for the next three months. This will appear a harsh step, but we live in extraordinary times and we must share the burden together. After all, as Adam Smith famously said, “parsimony and not industry is the immediate cause of the increase of capital,” and the states must perforce learn the virtue of parsimony. (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/coronavirus-outbreak-what-the-states-must-consider-828669.html
22-04-2020||First Edit||Normal monsoon in abnormal times?||The forecast of a normal monsoon is good news for a country whose farm economy is largely dependent on it, though the larger economy is influenced by other major factors. The monsoon is important because it has a bearing on the lives and livelihood of the majority of people in the villages. So, the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) prediction that the country will have a normal monsoon this year is welcome, but the implications are likely to be different this year when the country is facing a serious threat from the Covid-19 pandemic. This is the IMD’s preliminary forecast and it has projected a total rainfall of 88 cm, which is 100% of the Long Period Average. It is not always that the IMD makes a correct forecast. Last year, it predicted a near-normal monsoon but the country had excess rainfall, which was the highest in 25 years. So, the prediction needs to be taken only as indicative.  Governments make preparations every year on the basis of the monsoon forecast, sometimes by planning steps to tackle floods or at other times by initiating early measures to mitigate the effects of droughts caused by the inadequacy of the monsoon. But this year, the situation is different because all the governments and their agencies are busy with the fight against Covid-19. The fight is bound to continue till June, when the monsoon is set to start in the subcontinent, and even beyond that. When the economy is in a bad state and the officials and even the whole population are involved in the campaign against the pandemic, there will be a lot of uncertainty about all other activities. Though the restrictions on agricultural activities have been eased, there are issues relating to transportation and labour shortages. Some farmers have not sold their rabi produce and are short of funds. Those who cultivated perishable produces have lost their capital. If the kharif sowing gets delayed because of the lockdown, the advantage of a normal monsoon may be lost.  These uncertainties have also got to be factored into the planning about the monsoon. This is the time when governments usually start their pre-monsoon work of resurfacing of roads, desilting, etc., to avoid accidents, flooding and other monsoon-related calamities. Seeds, fertilisers, etc., will have to be readied for distribution and farm equipment will have to be serviced for work. Governments will have to pay attention to all these even while they are busy with the task of containing the pandemic. In this situation, even a normal monsoon casts a lot of special responsibilities on governments. A deficient or above-normal monsoon will make things much more difficult.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/normal-monsoon-in-abnormal-times-828664.html
22-04-2020||In Perspective||Stop driving in the dark on Covid-19 spread||As lockdowns continue to be the most widely-resorted-to response strategy to the threat of Covid-19, governments the world over face a difficult trade-off between saving lives and saving the economy. In India, the lockdown has imposed debilitating economic hardship, borne disproportionately by migrant and informal sector employees, most of whom have weak safety nets at best. Data will be critical to decision-making even in these unprecedented times. We have tested approximately 200,000 individuals for Covid-19 or approximately between 15,000-20,000 individuals per day since mid-March. However, our current set of data is neither random (as only those with a travel history, symptoms or both are eligible for testing), nor sufficient, as our capacity lies somewhere between 150,000-200,000 tests per day, across 255 public and private laboratories. To address these shortcomings, the government needs to leverage the extended lockdown period to collect a large, representative, and random risk-weighted sample of data, which it can utilise to learn about the spread of the pandemic and to help it make an informed decision about a gradual relaxation of the lockdown. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in a highly positive move, recently announced scaling up to 100,000 tests per day. However, moving beyond symptomatic testing of individuals to population-based testing will require a more comprehensive strategy. This includes deeper integration with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s (MoHFW) ground-level containment strategy and better coordination with the larger scientific and research community to analyse the data. Leading the charge on the ground, the MoHFW is following a “cluster containment strategy” to isolate geographic areas reporting one or more positive cases. Local authorities in Mumbai for example, have identified 382 containment zones across 24 administrative wards. While this strategy is intended to contain the spread of the infection, it is not clear that it will, because it relies on one or a group of individuals first testing positive. In this current climate, it is not clear how one gets a prescription or reaches a testing centre. Moreover, from the limited data available, we already know that around 70% of the positive cases reported in Maharashtra were asymptomatic. A national-population based testing strategy will involve segmenting the entire country into non-overlapping clusters; determining a representative sample of the population within each cluster; screening and testing the sample on a periodic basis for Covid-19, using RT-PCR tests, potentially on pooled samples; and finally using statistical tools to infer prevalence rates with relevant error bands. This would need the government to collaborate with established statistical and scientific research institutions to outline a representative sampling strategy along with screening and testing protocols. India has extensive experience in collecting primary data. The National Family Health Survey (NFHS), for example, is a nationally representative survey, conducted every two years. Its findings, used to inform India’s national health policies, include prevalence of anemia and diabetes, for instance, which requires door-to-door collection of blood samples. We have the expertise, it’s up to us to channelise it towards a strategic response. India’s large network of ASHA workers and primary healthcare providers can be trained to conduct screening and testing activities. A number of governments are contemplating population-level testing measures to better understand how their populations are affected. Germany, for example, recently announced plans to implement a nation-wide antibody testing programme to learn how many Germans are immune to the virus, the progression of the virus, and to eventually decide how to phase out their lockdown which has been in place since March 22. As with any policy recommendation, this comes with its limitations. The biggest constraint to scaling-up testing will be imposed by a shortage of testing kits given the surge in global demand. To relax this, there is a need to accelerate the approval process for domestically manufactured as well as imported kits, including both the PCR and rapid anti-body varieties. There is also a need to make the approval process more transparent and streamlined, thus improving incentives to participate for India’s advanced biotechnology sector. Finally, the current strategy of empaneling a large number of private and public labs could be coupled with experimenting with pooled testing methods, and utilising tuberculosis testing machines which are bound to have a wider geographic spread. To questions on whether sampling and testing of the kind suggested here are feasible at all in the current scenario, we must note that the notion of large is variable. It has to be large-enough depending upon the risk-base and the availability of test-kits. The smaller the sample, the wider the error bands, but the approach would have to be of the type described here, failing which we will simply not have enough information about when and how to open up the economy. What we recommend is the most parsimonious way of using the available test kits, as opposed to the ad hoc individualised testing currently implemented, which leaves us entirely in the dark about the extent to which the virus has spread. India should be prepared for a long and arduous journey towards a complete recovery. The worse-hit amongst us globally, like the Chinese and the Italians, have experienced either complete or intermittent lockdowns for over three months now. Committing to short-term, ambitious goals like implementing population-based testing measures can be a first step, enabling the government to make evidence-based decisions about a phased re-opening of the economy. (Madraswala studies Economics and Public policy at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government; Mor is a Visiting Scientist at The Banyan Academy of Leadership in Mental Health) (The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/stop-driving-in-the-dark-on-covid-19-spread-828666.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru City Police commissioner interacts with families of 'Covid Warriors'||Mangaluru City Police commissioner Dr P S Harsha held a special video conference to interact with families of 'Covid Warriors' from city police.  The police commissioner has been honouring police on duty with 'Covid Warrior' title daily considering their hard work during lockdown, either in enforcement of law or in helping people who are in distress. "Many of the family members are staying far away in many districts of North Karnataka. I explained the good work of these real heroes and thanked them on behalf of the society. They felt extremely emotional about the good work of their family members and gave motivation to them to work on ground," Harsha said. The Commissioner explained how these police personnel are engaged in monitoring home quarantined people along with Asha workers, and how they helped people in supplying essentials including medicines to the needy.  The Commissioner also appealed to the family members to stay at home to check the spread of COVID-19 and make use of hand sanitisers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-city-police-commissioner-interacts-with-families-of-covid-warriors-828379.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru based Interventional Cardiologist's helpline number comes handy in lockdown||A helpline started by Mangaluru based Interventional Cardiologist a few months ago has been helping the people across the country during the lockdown.   According to Dr Padmanabha Kamath, a patient from Gorakhpur called the helpline at 11 pm on Tuesday frantically asking for help. Their relative had sustained massive heart attack and also suffered from low BP. The helpline guided them to seek correct advice and medical attention in addition to boosting their morale. Patient is admitted to a hospital in Lucknow undergoing treatment now. Further, he said on Wednesday at  6:30 am, another patient with heart attack called from Bengaluru. The patient was also suffering from kidney ailment. The helpline guided them to seek attention at a hospital in Whitefield and the patient is improving now. The helpline 97432 -87599 has been giving guidance on cardiac cases through WhatsApp.  Dr Kamath said the helpline has become more meaningful during this lockdown announced to check the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-based-interventional-cardiologists-helpline-number-comes-handy-in-lockdown-828394.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Mysuru detects 12 containment zones||Following the outbreak of COVID-19 in the city, the district administration has identified containment zones in 12 areas in Mysuru. Areas such as Meena Bazar, SVP Nagar, Teachers Layout, Janatha Nagar, Housing Board Colony, Kuvempunagar, Vijayanagara second and first stage, Gokulam, Jayalakshmipuram, Srirampura Second stage, JP nagar and Nazarbad, have containment zones.    According to Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar, urban areas, around 200 meters radius around the affected house, have been demarcated as no movement containment zones and five kilo metere radius is declared as buffer zones.  The survelliance will be intensive in containment areas, the DC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-mysuru-detects-12-containment-zones-828409.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two more test positive for coronavirus in Mysuru||Two more test positive for COVID-19 in Mysuru on Wednesday. With this, the active cases in the district are 55. Both the cases are linked to Nanjangud based Jubilant Generic. The fresh cases are designated as Patient (P) 426 and P 427. While P 426 is a 56-year-old male and contact of P 383, P 427 is secondary contact of P 52. Until now, the district has recorded a total of 88 positive cases. Of them, 33 recovered and discharged from hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-mysuru-828501.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Copra, tamarind exports allowed from tomorrow: JCM||Law and District In-charge Minister J C Madhuswamy said that the government will allow the export of copra and tamarind from Tumakuru to other states from April 24; but with certain conditions.  Speaking at the DC's office in the city on Thursday, he said that the truck drivers who transport the produce to other states will be quarantined mandatorily for 14 days on their return.   Deputy Commissioner K Rakesh Kumar said that all drivers of trucks going out of the state should be subjected to health checks and allowed to go only on the condition that they will be quarantined after they return. "They have to mandatorily use masks and sanitizers and eat only parcelled food in their lorries," he stressed. He added that the Health Department staff had been deputed to the APMC to check the health of lorry drivers.  He also said that from April 23, a door-to-door survey will be conducted to identify people with symptoms and 53 mobile squads had been formed for the purpose. District Health Officer Dr Chandrika said that a laboratory will be set up in the city and two teams of health workers had been sent to Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru for training.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/copra-tamarind-exports-allowed-from-tomorrow-jcm-828540.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Report on cold storages for all taluks submitted to CM: Agriculture Minister B C Patil||Agriculture Minister B C Patil said that he had toured most districts and found the need for cold storages for agricultural produce in many places. He added that he had submitted a report on it to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and indicated that cold storages were required at all taluk headquarters. He addressed a press meet in Tumakuru. He was in the city to discuss the commencement of agricultural activities in the district; especially pre-monsoon sowing. He reviewed the data presented by officials and directed them to assist farmers in their efforts.  He said that it had come to his notice that low-quality fertilizers and those that had exceeded the expiry date were being sold in the market. "The same is being said of seeds and pesticides. Three state-level teams of experts have been formed to check the sale of such sub-standard material. The teams include deputy directors and other officers. Criminal cases have been booked against rule violators in certain places in the state," he cautioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/report-on-cold-storages-for-all-taluks-submitted-to-cm-agriculture-minister-b-c-patil-828543.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Illicit liquor seized in Halekadu of Peraje village||Excise department officials seized around 200 litres of illicit liquor on Wednesday, during a raid at Niddemale in Halekadu of Peraje village. Reportedly, the liquor was being produced by N P Honnappa, using cashew fruits. A case has been registered. The raid was carried out under the guidance of Excise Inspector R M Chaitra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/illicit-liquor-seized-in-halekadu-of-peraje-village-828574.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||All home quarantined people complete term: DHO||District Health Officer Dr B R Chandrika said that 480 people who were in home quarantine in Tumakuru district, have completed their term. With this, all people in the district who were in home quarantine have completed their term, she added.   She said that 381 people are being treated in isolation and 1,002 throat swab samples have been sent for tests. Of this, 764 have come back negative and reports of 231 samples are awaited, she pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/all-home-quarantined-people-complete-term-dho-828620.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Plan to increase farm loan disbursal amount’||The government has planned to increase the loan disbursal amount of farmers, through cooperative societies, which was Rs 13,000 crore last year, said Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar. The minister was on Chamarajanagar district tour on Wednesday, visiting several Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) yards, interacting with the farmers, followed with meetings with the officials. Addressing media persons here, Somashekar said several meetings have been held with the department officials on the renewal of old loans and also on disbursing new loans to the farmers. Discussions will be held with the RBI (Reserve Bank of India) and NABARD (National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development) and ensure that the farmers are benefitted, he said. Media has been reporting that the private financiers and finance companies have been exerting pressure and seizing vehicles for default in repayment of loans. They have been clearly told not to create trouble for three months, the minister said. The farmers have complained that it has become difficult for them to transport their produce to the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC). They should not be inconvenienced for any reason. They can sell their produce wherever they want, the minister clarified. The Union government has given approval to purchase one lakh metric tonne of tur dal, under minimum support price of Rs 6,100 per quintal, from the farmers. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will soon announce a decision on relaxing the lockdown in nine districts in the state, including Chamarajanagar and Shivamogga, which have not recorded any Covid-19 cases so far. To a query, he said, though the government is facing huge loss, it has no idea of lifting the ban on liquor sale and it will continue till May 3. Reacting to the Padarayanapura incident in Bengaluru, the minister criticised the statements of MLA M Z Zaheer Ahmed Khan. “It is not right to involve in goondaism. The people should cooperate with the government and health department to keep the pandemic under control,” he said. Asha workers, doctors and policemen are rendering selfless service. Such incidents will not allow them to concentrate on their work. A probe is being conducted and the guilty would be punished,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/plan-to-increase-farm-loan-disbursal-amount-828621.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hassan has suffered Rs 97.21 crore crop loss: H D Revanna||“As fruits and vegetables were left unsold due to the lockdown, the district has suffered a loss of around Rs 97.21 crore,” said MLA H D Revanna. The farmers should be paid compensation, either under Central or State Disaster Management Relief Fund, he stressed. Addressing media persons here on Wednesday, Revanna said, “Vegetables were grown on 3,256 hectare, fruits on 591 hectare and flowers on 135 hectare. Besides, sugarcane was cultivated on 2,400 hectare area.” The juice variety cane, grown on 800 acres, has been left unharvested. Reports have been availed from the Agriculture and Horticulture departments and it would be submitted to the district administration soon, he said. “The price of vegetables, fruits and other food items have been hiked and middlemen and traders are earning profits. I visited Holenarasipur market and listened to the problems faced by the farmers,” Revanna said. “I purchased onions, garlic, tur dal, sugar and cooking oil from them directly and sold it through Milk Producers Cooperative unions, and other organisations, below market price. The government can also follow this method for the benefit of farmers,” he suggested. If the government is facing a financial crunch to buy agricultural produce directly from farmers, why is it beginning new development works? When the government does not have money for development works in Hassan, how could it release funds for other districts? he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-has-suffered-rs-9721-crore-crop-loss-h-d-revanna-828622.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Private schools flout orders, demand fee from parents||Even after a warning by the state government to private education institutions, not to collect fees or donation during lockdown due to the outbreak of Covid-19, a few schools in the city, are exerting pressure on the parents to pay the fees immediately. The schools are insisting the parents to pay the fee online for the academic year 2020-21. A few institutions have assigned the task to the respective class teachers to telephone the parents, asking them to pay the fees. A parent, whose son is studying in a reputed school, said, “The school authorities are repeatedly calling and demanding to pay the fees online. In addition, the school has been sending reminders frequently.” The parent, also a businessman, said, “I have closed business, following the order of lockdown. We get money only if we do business. Even though I explained about the situation, the school authorities are forcing me to pay the fees.” It has to be recalled that the Minister of Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar had warned private schools, affiliated to the CBSE, ICSE or state board, against collecting fees or donations for the academic year 2020-21. But, education institutions are not listening. A manager of a school denied the allegation and said, “We are working as per the orders of our management. We are not insisting the parents to pay the fee. But, we are requesting them to pay if it is possible.”  According to the authorities of the department of Public Instruction, the schools are served a circular to postpone the admission process and not to collect the fee for the academic year 2020-21, until further orders. Deputy Director for Public Instructions (DDPI) Panduranga said that any institution violating the government order will face the consequences. The department will initiate action under Education Act. The Act has provisions to impose fine and cancel recognition of the institution. In addition, criminal case will be registered under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1887, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/private-schools-flout-orders-demand-fee-from-parents-828623.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus lockdown effect on sales of liquor; fraudsters at work||In an attempt to encash the addiction of liquor, as the nation observes a 40-day lockdown due to coronavirus or Covid-19 fraudsters are advertising on social media to lure people and to swindle money. Due to the lockdown, opening of liquor shops and also online sales of liquor is banned, even though the governments are losing revenue. However, as people are addicted to liquor, sales in the black market is reported, despite strict action by officials of the Excise as well as Police departments. There have been reports on burglary of liquor shops in various parts of the state, due to lockdown of shops; on drinking of alcohol-based sanitisers due to unavailability of liquor; and also about looting of liquor shops in front of police personnel, who were trying to down the shutters of shops. The fraudsters have used the name of a Mysuru-based chain of liquor shops, for appearance in this region on social media. The swindlers have advertised door-delivery of liquor. The post reads: “24 home delivery available call me7896885440 payment online except (sic)”. The fraudster claims to provide door-delivery round the clock, on call, and agrees to accept online payment. The post pas received a few hundred likes and a few shares. The person who received the call on the advertised number speaks only Hindi. He said, “Door-delivery is confirmed, on advance online payment”. He does not agree for payment on delivery. The number is reported as spam on Truecaller, but, its location is not identified. Deputy Commissioner of Excise K S Murali said, earlier also, a similar post in the name of the same Mysuru-based retailer, but of Kuvempu Nagar location, was used. “Upon investigation, it was learnt that it was a fraudster. I have asked the inspector of the jurisdiction concerned, to investigate the case,” he said. Deputy Commissioner of Police A N Prakash Gowda said that the department has not yet received any complaint in this regard. “People who lose money should come and lodge a complaint. But, those who lose money will not come forward to complain, because buying of liquor is also illegal during lockdown. Still, we are keeping a watch on such fraudsters,” he said. R Lakshman, proprietor of True Spirits, said that he will file a complaint with the Police and also Cyber Crime department through his advocate, as the name of his chain of outlets have been misused by the fraudsters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-effect-on-sales-of-liquor-fraudsters-at-work-828624.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Civic worker engaged to spray disinfectant dies||A civic worker, who was involved in spraying disinfectants in villages under Kalkuni Gram Panchayat in the taluk, took ill and died on Tuesday night. Basavaraju (45) of Kalkuni village is the victim. He used to prepare the disinfectant solution and spray the same at the designated places.  The civic worker was complaining of headache and body pain for the past one week. But, he continued work after taking some tablets. Basavaraju was on duty on Tuesday, when he collapsed. He was rushed to Mandya District Hospital, where he failed to respond to treatment and died. It is suspected that he might have taken ill and died due to the prolonged exposure to disinfectants. However, the exact reason will be known after post-mortem. The deputy commissioner has ordered a probe, said District Health Officer Dr H P Manchegowda. Siddaraju, a local activist, said, traces of chemicals were observed in his blood sample reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/civic-worker-engaged-to-spray-disinfectant-dies-828639.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||3 more test positive for KFD in Uttara Kannada dist||Three more people in Siddapur taluk tested positive for Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD) on Tuesday.  Two men and a woman are confirmed to have contracted the disease.  Tahsildar Manjula Bhajantri said that with this, total number of KFD patients in the taluk has risen to 40.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-more-test-positive-for-kfd-in-uttara-kannada-dist-828641.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||RWA sets up care group to address seniors’ concerns||When 64-year-old Padmini Ravi heard about the lockdown, she didn’t know what to do. Her husband had just undergone angioplasty, her son was in Canada, her daughter-in-law was stranded in Chennai, while she was in Bengaluru. “We were all so apprehensive even about day-to-day things like getting vegetables, papers, medicines,” she says. At the Gopalan Aristocrat apartment complex in Kasturi Nagar,  where Padmini lives, senior citizens occupy a fifth of the 144 units. Her anxiety soon subsided. The residents’ welfare association, led by Anjali Menon and Sukanya Kuppuswamy, created a WhatsApp group to ensure senior citizens faced no problems. Its name, Caremongers, was a gentle jibe at scaremongers. “Our first priority was to reach out to seniors,” Anjali says. Like Padmini, many seniors live away from their children. The ‘task force’ formed by the welfare association ensured that young volunteers checked on senior citizens every day, asking them if they required anything. The WhatsApp group came in handy to connect the seniors with volunteers. Households where seniors live alone were given a list of volunteers available on each floor, with their contact numbers. The ‘care mongers’ also helped set up digital payment accounts, and familiarised the less tech-savvy to start using messaging apps. “They have done a great job,” Padmini says. By their own estimation, the Krishnaswamys are the “oldest couple living alone” in the apartment complex. Krishnaswamy, 90, and his wife, Lalitha (82) are academics, and continue to work online. “One gentleman religiously calls us at 11-11.30 to see if we require anything,” says Krishnaswamy. Like others in the complex, the Krishnaswamys, whose three children live elsewhere in Bengaluru and in cities abroad, have given their cook and maid paid leave. “It is also for their safety,” Krishnaswamy says. The professor attributes the arrangements to women being in charge of the welfare association. “They are looking after everyone here,” he says. He also has a light-hearted take, drawing comparison to the Ramayana. “We follow the ‘Lakshman Rekha’ principle,” he says. The ‘care mongers’ also keep seniors engaged and entertained with quizzes and games on a virtual platform. The highlight of the evening is singing on the balcony: one of the residents rolls out a karaoke machine and serenades the entire residential complex. The lockdown has brought the apartment complex together. “There is more unity; you feel the oneness,” Anjali says. Krishnaswamy describes it best: “Our apartment seems to be an island in this depressing ocean.” Prajwal Suvarna If you have a story to share, contact us at spreadkindness@deccanherald. co.in||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rwa-sets-up-care-group-to-address-seniors-concerns-828645.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Provisional online degree certificates for RGUHS students||The students, studying in the colleges affiliating to Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) can get their provisional degree certificates online. In a first-of-its-kind move, RGUHS has launched this facility for the benefit of students. Now, the students can apply and get provisional degree certificates and avoid coming to the university office physically. Every year, the university issues over 26,000 to 30,000 provisional certificates of various final year degree and diploma courses, including MBBS, BDS, Nursing and Allied Health Sciences. To get the certificates, the students can visit the university website and submit their applications.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/provisional-online-degree-certificates-for-rguhs-students-828646.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Revision classes for SSLC students from April 29||The revision classes for SSLC students will begin from April 29 through Doordarshan or Chandana channel. As the SSLC examinations were postponed due to Covid-19 pandemic and the nation-wide lockdown, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education is conducting revisionclasses. To reach out to students who are in rural areas, the department has selected Doordarshan/Chandana channel. The revision classes will be conducted between 3 pm to 4.30 pm from April 29. For the first 16 days, Mathematics and Science subjects will be covered. From the 17th day, model question papers of both the subjects will be provided and teachers will also help students acquire the techniques to solve thepapers.  From the 18th day, revision classes for social science will be held for six days following which language subjects will be taken up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/revision-classes-for-sslc-students-from-april-29-828647.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar warns medical colleges against staff pay cuts||Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar has directed medical college hospitals, including private unaided ones, not to cut salaries of the staff. After a recent circular by a private medical college in Bengaluru cutting salaries of doctors went viral on social media platforms, Sudhakar told college managements not to take such measures. He warned of legal action against medical college managements if they don't follow the directions from the government. Addressing the heads of all medical colleges via video conferencing on Wednesday, Sudhakar said, "There are complaints against some of the colleges about salary cuts. We understand the difficulty in running the institutions, but everybody is going through a hard time. Pay cut is not allowed during the pandemic situation." The minister directed colleges not to demand fees from students. "Medical students are working on the frontline in the fight against Covid-19 and colleges should not pressure them for payment of fees. I understand that running of medical colleges has become difficult. But the government will be with you. Don't pressure the students for fees," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/medical-education-minister-k-sudhakar-warns-medical-colleges-against-staff-pay-cuts-828649.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||BE students to take online test for internal assessment||Undergraduate engineering students will have to take online tests to get an internal assessment (IA) marks.  With colleges shut due to the Covid-19 lockdown, classes have moved online. While the semester exams are still about two to four months away, students do have to face internal assessment, which is conducted at the college level.  Several private unaided engineering colleges affiliated to Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) have issued circulars, asking their students to take the online classes seriously as the internal assessment marks will be calculated based on their performance in the online tests.  Another round of internal assessment may be conducted once the colleges reopen after the lockdown is lifted. A message sent to the students by a Bengaluru-based college reads: “IA marks will be calculated based on the online tests conducted and one IA will be conducted after reopening of the institution and students are advised to take online tests seriously (sic).” DH has seen a copy of the circular.  For its part, the VTU has asked the colleges to give the students a choice between taking the IA test online and submitting physical assignments once the colleges reopen. The second option must be given to students who are unable to take the online test.  Dr A S Deshpande, Registrar (Administration), VTU, said: “We have issued directions to all colleges about assignments and online classes. As regards reopening the colleges and holding exams, we will issue circulars based on the guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC).” Exams may begin in June Colleges expect the final-semester exams to be held in the second week of June while those of second, fourth and sixth semesters are likely in the last week of July or the first week of August. Before the exams are conducted and after the colleges reopen, classes will be held to make the students exam-ready.  Apply for revaluation For undergraduate engineering exams whose results were declared recently, students can apply for revaluation on the VTU website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/be-students-to-take-online-test-for-internal-assessment-828652.html
22-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka government okays commercial use of heritage buildings||The government will ‘incentivise’ the use of heritage buildings for commercial purposes by conditionally allowing their owners to part with a portion of the structures to become office spaces or hotels. This is a highlight of the Zonal Regulations (Amendment), 2020, which the government has notified. A heritage conservation committee (HCC) will be set up in every district to oversee the conservation of heritage buildings and grade them. Experts welcomed the new regulations; some found it ambiguous regarding its implementation in Bengaluru, a city where many heritage structures have vanished over time. In the case of heritage buildings falling in zones where office, commercial or hotel use is normally prohibited, the owner or lessee will be allowed “to convert part or the whole thereof of the non-commercial area, within such heritage building to commercial or office or hotel”. The owner or lessee has to give a written undertaking to preserve the heritage building in its existing state with due repairs.  Several commercial enterprises in Bengaluru are housed in heritage bungalows. Also, several of them were torn down, like the century-old Cash Pharmacy.   The HCC has 21 members who will prepare a list of heritage buildings, artefacts, precincts of historic, cultural or environmental significance or scenic beauty such as sacred groves, water bodies, open areas, etc.  These will be classified as Grade-I, II or III according to heritage value. While Grade-I will be for buildings of national or historical importance and all natural sites, Grade-II will be for buildings of regional or local importance. The state government will also create a separate ‘Repair Fund’ for heritage structures. In case a heritage structure is required to be demolished, the regulations also have a provision for grant of Transferable Development Rights. Meera Iyer, convenor, Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), welcomed the regulations, but said that the HCC composition was not ideal. “It is very large, too full of government officials and does not have enough of technical and other experts from outside the government,” she said. While incentives for owners of heritage properties — a long-pending demand — is welcome, they are too few and need to be strengthened and expanded considerably, she said. Naresh Narasimhan, urban architect, said the move will help preserve around 800 heritage buildings in Bengaluru alone. “They have also included natural features such as lakes and rivers as heritage structures,” he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-government-okays-commercial-use-of-heritage-buildings-828702.html
22-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||'Introduce weather-based crop insurance scheme'||DCC Bank President M Govinda Gowda on Wednesday requested the government to introduce weather-based crop insurance scheme for tomato farmers of the district. He was speaking at the meeting of horticulture department officials to discuss pros and cons of the government order on implementing Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bhima Yojana (PMFBY). He said, "The PMFBY doesn't benefit farmers of the district. The tomato farmers are earning profit by carrying out the cultivation. Under the scheme, the harvest is insured. Hence, none of the tomato farmer has been able to receive insurance amount in the last four years," he pointed out. He said that farmers were expected to pay Rs 4,800 per acre as premium, but there is no benefit. Hence, the PMFBY should not be introduced in the district.The deputy director of the horticulture department Gayatri said that a proposal had been submitted to the government seeking the introduction of the weather-based crop insurance scheme. "The department has facilitated farmers to supply 1.50 tonnes of vegetables at various apartments in Bengaluru. The department has taken the help of volunteers in this regard. About five farmers pack the produces. The farmers are getting reasonably better prices. More farmers will be brought under the network," she said. Gayatri said that the system saved the farmers from being tortured by middlemen. It also ensured the supply of fresh vegetables to consumers. "The deputy commissioner has granted permission to resume operations of food processing units at Malur, Vemagal and Srinivaspur. This will help procurement of produces. It will also stabilise prices," she added. The DCC Bank manager Ravi, assistant general manager Khaleem Ullah and Nagesh were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/introduce-weather-based-crop-insurance-scheme-828558.html
22-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||MP S Muniswamy to CMC: Ensure water pumping facility at borewells||MP S Muniswamy on Wednesday directed the City Municipal Council (CMC) officials to immediately ensure water pumping facility at borwells to overcome the drinking water crisis. ”The water pumping facility should be ensured at those borewells that have water,” he said after inspecting borwells at Ammerahalli and Maderahalli tanks. The MP added, ”The water is supplied from four borewells at Maderahalli tank at present. The five other borewells have been revived. Half of Kolar town will receive drinking water if the water pumping facility is ensured fixed at the five borewells.”   Muniswamy said that the K C Valley project water has flowed to the Maderahalli tank through Narasapur tank. However, the flow had stopped due to various reasons till recently. The tank was once again receiving the water for the last five days. Borewells in the neighbourhood would be revived if the tank was filled completely that would help redress drinking water crisis. “Once the Maderhalli tank is filled completely, water will flow to Ammerahalli and Kolaramma tanks,” the MP assured. He said that the Kolaramma tank was being developed at a cost of Rs 50 lakh. Farmers would be benefited if the Kolaramma tank was filled completely. The district was receiving 280 MLD of water from the K C Valley Project and he would bring pressure on the government to flow an additional 440 MLD of water. “Due to Covid-19 and lockdown, poor people and labourers are in distress. Foodgrains are supplied to them. Arrangements have been made to feed over 1000 people twice a day,” he said. “We are buying produces from farmers in the APMC which are distributed among poor people,” Muniswamy said. He said that the district had not reported any Covid-19 case due to strict vigil at checkpoints in border areas. Measures had been taken to contain the spread of novel coronavirus in the district. CMC commissioner Srikanth and executive engineer Ramamurthy were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/mp-s-muniswamy-to-cmc-ensure-water-pumping-facility-at-borewells-828582.html
22-04-2020||Mysuru||Coronavirus lockdown: Ban on liquor sale in Karnataka to continue till May 3, says S T Somashekar||Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar said that the ban on liquor sale will continue up to May 3, even though Karnataka is facing a huge loss. The minister was on Chamarajanagar district tour, visiting several Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee yards and interacting with the farmers and officials, on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/coronavirus-lockdown-ban-on-liquor-sale-in-karnataka-to-continue-till-may-3-says-s-t-somashekar-828415.html
22-04-2020||National||India ranks 142nd on global press freedom index||India has dropped two places on a global press freedom index to be ranked 142nd out of 180 countries in the annual Reporters Without Borders analysis released on Tuesday. 'The World Press Freedom Index 2020' said that with no murders of journalists in India in 2019, as against six in 2018, the security situation for the country’s media might seem, on the face of it, to have improved. "However, there have been constant press freedom violations, including police violence against journalists, ambushes by political activists, and reprisals instigated by criminal groups or corrupt local officials," it said. It attributed the decline in index to "pressure on the media to toe the Hindu nationalist government’s line." The "coordinated hate campaigns" waged on social networks against journalists who dare to speak or write about subjects that annoy Hindutva followers are "alarming", it said. "The campaigns are particularly virulent when the targets are women," it said. Paris-based Reporters Sans Frontieres (RSF), or Reporters Without Borders, is a non-profit organisation that works to document and combat attacks on journalists around the world. South Asia in general features poorly on the index, with Pakistan dropping three places to 145, and Bangladesh dropping one place to 151. Norway is ranked first in the Index for the fourth year running. China at 177th position is just three places above North Korea, which is at 180th.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-ranks-142nd-on-global-press-freedom-index-828314.html
22-04-2020||National||Health Ministry seeks ban on export of anti-TB drugs||The Union Health Ministry has sought a ban on the export of anti-tuberculosis drugs over concerns that the lockdown due to COVID-19 has affected the production of such medicines. Delay in production and receipt of supply may cause acute shortage of these drugs, Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan said as she requested an empowered group of government officials to direct the department of pharmaceuticals under the ministry of chemicals and fertilizers and commerce ministry for issuing necessary directions for prohibiting the export of anti-TB medicines. In a letter to Drinking Water and Sanitation Secretary Parameswaran Iyer, who is also the chairman of the empowered group for facilitating supply chain and logistics management, she said, "In view of the emergency measures undertaken, the availability of limited manpower and material to the pharmaceutical industry, the production capacity of the leading anti-TB drug manufacturers of India has been affected." Such a situation will worsen the treatment of TB patients within the country, she added. Sudan said suppliers have communicated that anti-TB drug supplies will be delayed because "force majeure" due to COVID-19 response activities, limited material (API), for production, limited manpower (because of restrictions) and limited transportation facilities. The leading anti-TB drugs manufacturers at present having contract agreement with National Tuberculosis Elimination Program (NTEP) are Macleods and Lupin. Major factories for these drugs are in Bharuch and Ankleshwar in Gujarat, Baddi in Himachal Pradesh and Daman and Diu. Under these circumstances, needless to emphasise that the situation calls for extraordinary measures to ensure that TB patients of the country simultaneously don't face any challenges in accessing either diagnosis or the treatment of tuberculosis across the country under the NTEP, Sudan said. "Therefore it is requested the Empowered Group may issue directions to Department of Pharmaceuticals, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers and Department of Commerce for their intervention in this regard and also issue direction for prohibiting the export of anti-TB medicines while considering mandatorily the need of the country as an overriding priority to ensure smooth supply of these drugs," she said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-seeks-ban-on-export-of-anti-tb-drugs-828350.html
22-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 22, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-22-2020-edition-828353.html
22-04-2020||National||Coronavirus state-wise India update: Total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 22||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 21,312 as of April 22.  States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 678       Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 3259 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-state-wise-india-update-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-22-828354.html
22-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Shops selling educational books, fans allowed to open, says MHA||A fresh order was issued by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla allowing these and other services, even as the MHA also clarified that caregivers of senior citizens residing with them, prepaid mobile recharge utilities and food processing units in urban areas are also part of the existing exemptions already announced.  The order, which adds more services to the revised guidelines was published on April 15 and additions and exclusions later on April 16 and April 19, provides more services under agriculture and commercial sectors as well as the movement of persons. Under the agriculture sector, facilities for export and import such as pack houses, inspection and treatment facilities for seeds and horticulture products are also allowed. Movement within and outside the state of planting materials and honey bee colonies, honey and beehive products are also allowed. Providing further relaxations in commercial and private establishments, shops of educational books for students and shops of electrical fans have now been permitted to function. The government has already asked educational institutions to start online classes while progressing summer has made authorities to relax operations of shops selling fans. Forest offices involved in activities like forestry plantation and related activities, including Silviculture operations are also allowed. The MHA also announced a Standard Operating Procedure for sign-on and sign-off of Indian seafarers at Indian Ports and their movement, noting that change of crew of a ship is an important measure for the operation of merchant ships. Earlier in a separate letter to states, Bhalla also said the exemptions already available allows exemptions to "bed-side attendants and caregivers of senior citizens residing in their homes". This was clarified by the MHA after receiving "some queries" regarding exemptions of specific services and activities within the categories already allowed in the guidelines issued on April 15 for the extended period of lockdown till May 3. Under utilities, recharge facilities for prepaid mobile connections and supply of essential goods, food processing units such as bread factories, milk processing plants, flour mills and dal mills located in urban areas also have exemptions. "As specified in the lockdown measures, the National COVID-19 Directives and Standard Operating Procedure for social distancing for offices, workshops, factories and establishments must be ensured," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-shops-selling-educational-books-fans-allowed-to-open-says-mha-828361.html
22-04-2020||National||No last goodbye for Gulf migrant workers lost to coronavirus pandemic||The body of the Indian migrant who died from coronavirus far from home was kept inside the ambulance in front of the crematorium in case a friend came by for a last goodbye. But nearly an hour later no one had appeared, and the workers in protective suits had to carry out their grim task. In silence, the four men carefully moved the body, wrapped in a white plastic bag, to a furnace where it was reduced to ashes that were placed in a silver box. Millions of foreigners work in the United Arab Emirates and across the other wealthy Gulf nations, providing the backbone of the workforce in hospitals and banks, as well as on construction sites and in factories. Many have spent decades toiling to provide for their families, with the hope of returning one day to open a business or build a house. But a death from coronavirus means that the body cannot be sent home, and that it has to be cremated or buried in the country where the person dies. "The whole world is changing. Nobody comes anymore, nobody touches, nobody says goodbye," said Ishwar Kumar, a manager of the Hindu Cremation Ground located in a desert area south of Dubai. Before coronavirus "people would come here, around 200 to 250, to grieve and bring flowers. Now they die alone," he told AFP. The majority of the 166 deaths and 26,600 registered cases in Gulf countries so far have been foreigners, according to health ministries, most of them from Asian countries like India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal and the Philippines. A few hours before the cremation of the Indian man -- aged in his 50s and a partner at a tourist company in Dubai -- the body of another victim, a 40-year-old Filipino beautician, was also cremated at the facility. Both had one thing in common on their death certificates -- "covid pneumonia" as the cause of death. The silver boxes, bought from a hypermarket, are handed over to the next of kin if they are in Dubai, or to the embassy. "They work as labourers so most of them don't have family members. Sometimes their work colleagues come," said Suresh Galani, another manager at the facility. Despite halting commercial flights to stop the spread of the pandemic, governments in the region have been trying to lay on repatriation flights for foreign workers who are now out of a job as the economy grinds to a halt. But dealing with victims' bodies is another challenge, as the presence of the contagious disease means that burial or cremation has to take place immediately. In Saudi Arabia, according to a source in the health ministry who spoke to AFP on condition of anonymity, "until now all the families are asking to bury the bodies inside Saudi because they prefer so." Among them was Wazir Moahmed Saleh, a 57-year-old Afghan who worked and lived in the Muslim holy city of Medina since the 1980s after he fled his country during the war with the former Soviet Union. The stationery shop owner died of coronavirus last week. He had family in the holy city where the prophet's grave is located but had to be buried with only four people in attendance -- all his sons. His nephew Amed Khan, a sales agent born in the kingdom, could only look at photos and videos of his uncle's burial on a smartphone. "His dream was to be buried in Medina, and his dream came true," he told AFP. "There isn't a person who dies in Medina and would want to be buried elsewhere. This land is known to be part of heaven." At the Hindu cremation facility in Dubai, not all coronavirus-related deaths have the name of the virus on their certificates.  Vijay, an Indian national, said his 45-year-old brother Ram died of a heart attack after he sank into a severe depression during a 14-day quarantine following a direct contact with someone who had the virus. Standing near the body in the cremation room, under a white ceiling fan, four of his colleagues spread flowers on the body before it was reduced to ashes. "Ram tested negative after he stayed in a room for two weeks. He was mentally hurt and he got depressed because he stayed alone," Vijay explained. The laundry worker and father of three died in an ambulance while he was being taken to hospital after suffering severe chest pain. "We are going back tomorrow to collect the ashes. We will send them home once the flights are back," his brother said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-last-goodbye-for-gulf-migrant-workers-lost-to-coronavirus-pandemic-828382.html
22-04-2020||National||ICMR advises asymptomatic pregnant women likely to deliver in 5 days to get tested for COVID-19||“Asymptomatic pregnant women should be tested in the health facilities where they are expected to deliver and all arrangements should be made to collect and transfer samples to testing facilities. Women should not be referred for lack of testing facilities,” ICMR said. “Testing for pregnant women should be done as per the ICMR testing strategy. Pregnant women residing in clusters/containment areas or in large migration gatherings/evacuees centres from hotspot districts presenting in labour or likely to deliver in the next five days should be tested even if asymptomatic,” it said.  It said advisories would be updated periodically. Earlier, the ICMR had cautioned that pregnant women with heart disease were at highest risk. It had also noted that the COVID-19 outbreak increased the risk of perinatal anxiety and depression, as well as domestic violence. As per the previous guidelines, ICMR had stated that pregnant women do not appear more likely to contract the infection than the general population. However, pregnancy itself alters the body’s immune system and response to viral infections in general, which can occasionally be related to more severe symptoms and this will be the same for COVID-19. The ICMR had also asked hospitals to maintain a registry for all women admitted with confirmed COVID-19 infection in pregnancy. “Maternal and neonatal records including outcome should be completed in detail and preserved for analysis in future,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-advises-asymptomatic-pregnant-women-likely-to-deliver-in-5-days-to-get-tested-for-covid-19-828384.html
22-04-2020||National||Death toll due to COVID-19 touches 640; cases rise to 19,984||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 640 and the number of cases to 19,984 in the country on Wednesday, according to the Union health ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases is 15,474, while 3,869 people have been cured and discharged, and one patient has migrated, the ministry said. The total number of cases includes 77 foreign nationals. A total of 37 deaths were reported since Tuesday evening -- 19 from Maharashtra, 13 from Gujarat, three from West Bengal and one each from Tamil Nadu and Jharkhand. Of the 640 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 251 fatalities, followed by Gujarat at 90, Madhya Pradesh at 76, Delhi at 47, Rajasthan at 25, Telangana at 23 and Andhra Pradesh at 22. The death toll has reached 20 in Uttar Pradesh while Tamil Nadu has reported 18 deaths and Karnataka has registered 17 fatalities due to COVID-19. Punjab has registered 16 deaths while West Bengal has reported 15 fatalities so far. The disease has claimed five lives in Jammu and Kashmir, while Kerala, Jharkhand and Haryana have recorded three COVID-19 deaths each. Bihar has reported two deaths, while Meghalaya, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Assam have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry data. Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 22  However, a PTI tally of the figures reported by various states as on Tuesday evening showed at least 646 deaths in the country. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of deaths announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states. According to the health ministry's data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 5,218, followed by Gujarat at 2,178, Delhi at 2,156, Rajasthan at 1,659, Tamil Nadu at 1,596 and Madhya Pradesh at 1,552. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 1,294 in Uttar Pradesh, 928 in Telangana and 757 in Andhra Pradesh.  The number of cases has risen to 427 in Kerala, 423 in West Bengal, 418 in Karnataka, 380 in Jammu and Kashmir,  254 in Haryana and 245 in Punjab. Bihar has reported 126 coronavirus cases, while Odisha has 79 such cases. Forty-six people have been infected with the virus in Uttarakhand followed by Jharkhand with 45 cases. Himachal Pradesh has 39 cases and Chhattisgarh has 36 while Assam has registered 35 infections so far. Chandigarh has 27 COVID-19 cases, Ladakh 18, while 16 cases have been reported from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases, while Goa and Puducherry have seven COVID-19 patients each. Manipur and Tripura have two cases each, while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported a case each. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website. It also mentioned that one case of Jharkhand has been reassigned to Bihar after reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-due-to-covid-19-touches-640-cases-rise-to-19984-828386.html
22-04-2020||National||Ransomware threats to Kolkata execs working from home, using Zoom||Two city-based professionals, who were working from home and using the Zoom video calling app, allegedly received ransomware threats, demanding payments in bitcoins, police said on Wednesday. The hackers demanded ransom to release the data which were encrypted from their computers, a senior officer of the Kolkata Police said. Both of them were using Zoom. They alleged of receiving emails from the hackers demanding payment in bitcoins. In the mail a specific link was also shared to purchase bitcoins, an official of the cyber-crime department said. It has been alleged that the hackers have also threatened that non-compliance to their demands would lead to a permanent loss of the data, the officer said. According to one of the complainants, the hackers have demanded USD 1,000 in bitcoin to decrypt the files, police said. Besides the cyber-crime department, the Special Task Force (STF) has also started an investigation into the matter, they said. These hackers target vulnerable computer systems and then attack them using ransomware to steal sensitive files. We are checking how the Zoom app was used in this crime. We are also checking the link sent in the mail to find out more about the matter, the officer said. There have been security concerns over the Zoom platform with the Centre stating that it is not safe and not to be used by government officials. The warning, earlier issued by Computer Emergency Response Team (Cert-In), was reiterated by the Cyber Coordination Centre (CyCord) of the Home Ministry in an advisory on April 16. Zoom became a popular application for executives working from home during the nationwide lockdown, announced by the central government to contain the spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ransomware-threats-to-kolkata-execs-working-from-home-using-zoom-828391.html
22-04-2020||National||Doctors call off symbolic protest as Amit Shah assures security||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Wednesday withdrew its 'White Alert' and 'Black Day' protests over the attack on doctors and other healthcare professionals fighting COVID-19 following Union Home Minister Amit Shah assuring them security and expressing concerns that their move could send out a "bad signal" as well as harm country's reputation internationally. The doctors' decision came following a video conference they had with Shah and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, two days after the IMA announced doctors and hospitals will send out a 'White alert" on Wednesday by lighting a candle and observing Thursday as 'Black Day' demanding a law to tackle violence against healthcare professionals. During the video conference, Shah assured the doctors that the government is with them and said that they should not go ahead with "even symbolic" protest. In a tweet, Shah said, "Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and I interacted with doctors & representatives of IMA through video conferencing. The way our doctors are performing their duties in these testing times is exceptional. I urge every Indian to cooperate with doctors in this fight against Covid-19." "Safety and dignity of our doctors at their work place is non-negotiable. It is our collective responsibility to ensure conducive atmosphere for them at all times. I have assured doctors that Modi govt is committed to their cause and appealed to reconsider their proposed protest," he had added. There were several incidents of attack on healthcare professionals involved in COVID-19 operations in Moradabad, Hyderabad, Indore and elsewhere when in Chennai, burial of a doctor was disrupted by locals. Doctors and nurses also faced trouble in localities where they stay with house owners and locals threatening them and asking them to leave the area. In some cases, relatives of patients also attacked doctors after COVID-19 patients died. Soon after the video conference, IMA President Rajan Sharma and Honorary Secretary General Dr R V Asokan said both Shah and Vardhan appealed them to "believe in this government and defer the symbolic protest". A statement said they were also in view that "in this period of global crisis, where each one of us is fighting on frontline for the very existence of human race, such protests will send out a bad signal for the unity of our country and will damage its image internationally". "Considering the immediate high level response of government and solid assurance given by the Home Minister himself, it is decided" that the protests "stands withdrawn to maintain the unity and integrity of our country", the statement said. The IMA said Shah was "very much aware and concerned" about the violence against health care professionals and assured that the Centre will come out shortly with relevant legislations to address the safety and dignity of doctors and healthcare givers. While giving the call for protest, the IMA had said they have "maintained utmost restraint and patience despite extreme provocations" even when doctors were "abused, beaten up, denied entry and residence". It also said the obstruction to cremation of doctor in Chennai was the "last straw that can bear" and "if dignity is denied even in death, our patience and restraint lose their value". On Monday, Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan had written to states asking them to take adequate measures to ensure safety of healthcare professionals, saying they were at the forefront in the fight against COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-call-off-symbolic-protest-as-amit-shah-assures-security-828393.html
22-04-2020||National||Coronavirus impact : 87% citizens believe their income to take hit in next 12 months||With nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19 pandamic and most business and offices shut, 87 per cent citizens believe their household earnings in the next 12 months will reduce in comparison to last year, says the latest survey. Percentage of citizens expecting earnings reduction in next one year has risen from 28 per cent to 87 per cent in just 45 days. 31 per cent state the reason for stress as job, business or finances, says survey conducted by LocalCircles, community social media platform. LocalCircles conducted a 2-poll survey to check the mood of the consumer in the current scenario and expected changes in income in the next one year. The survey received around 17,000 votes from 150+ districts of India. To a question on what is making them feel stressed during this time of coronavirus lockdown, 31 per cent said job, business or finances, while 11 per cent said procuring essential supplies for household. 26 per cent said the negative news coming in from everywhere is giving the stress and 24 per cent said the fear of getting infected is making them stressed.  Results of the survey show that Indians have more things to worry about and the fear of getting infected is not the biggest reason for their stress. Running the house, having a job and maintaining their business turns out to be the major reasons for stress for Indians. For 11 per cent people, the biggest source of stress is procuring essential supplies. The second question asked is how do they believe COVID-19 will impact their household income in the next 12 months. 26 per cent said they believe it will reduce by 50 per cent or more, while 25 per cent said it will reduce by 25-50 per cent. 12 per cent said it will reduce by up to 25 per cent and 24 per cent said it will definitely reduce but they are unsure by how much. Only 2 per cent respondents believe their income will rise in the next 12 months while 11 per cent said coronavirus will have no impact on their income. This means that 87% citizens believe their income in this financial year will reduce in comparison to the last 12 months. Even the developed countries are struggling with an excruciating rate of unemployment, says the survey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-impact-87-citizens-believe-their-income-to-take-hit-in-next-12-months-828404.html
22-04-2020||National||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat to deliver online address on April 26||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat will deliver an online address on Sunday on the current situation in wake of the COVID-19 crisis, the Sangh said on Wednesday. According to senior functionaries of the Sangh, this is for the first time in its history that such an address of its head is being held through a virtual platform. In a tweet, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh said, Bhagwat will address on 'Current Situation and Our Role' on April 26 at 5 pm. "All of you are invited to join this session along with family members and well-wishers," the Sangh said. The Sangh chief addresses only twice a year - once on Vijaydashmi, which sets the agenda and gives direction to RSS workers for the upcoming year and in the first week of June on the conclusion of the annual training session of the RSS for its workers. Sources in the Sangh said the focus will be on suggesting the way out from this crisis. And at the same time what changes are required in the aftermath of this crisis, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-to-deliver-online-address-on-april-26-828408.html
22-04-2020||National||CRPF jawan tests positive for COVID-19; admitted to Delhi hospital||A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) jawan, part of a battalion deployed in Jammu and Kashmir, has tested positive for COVID-19 in the national capital, a senior official said on Wednesday. The jawan, working as a nursing assistant, has been admitted to an isolation ward in a Delhi hospital, he said. The official said the constable was asked to undertake a coronavirus test in Delhi at the end of his leave period on April 7 before joining his unit, as per the standard operating procedure. He was already in 14-day quarantine and his result was reported positive on Tuesday, the official added. The jawan's parent unit is deployed in Kupwara district in north Kashmir. Early this month, a doctor of the paramilitary was found positive for COVID-19. The about 3.25-lakh personnel strong CRPF is the country's largest paramilitary or the Central Armed Police Force and is designated as the lead internal security force of the country for conduct of anti-Naxal and counter-terrorist operations apart from rendering regular law and order duties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-jawan-tests-positive-for-covid-19-admitted-to-delhi-hospital-828411.html
22-04-2020||National||India co-sponsors resolution calling for equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines||India has co-sponsored a UN General Assembly resolution that called for fair, transparent and equitable access to essential medical supplies and any future vaccines developed to fight COVID-19 that has claimed over 177,000 lives and infected more than 2.5 million people. The 193-Member General Assembly adopted the Mexico-drafted resolution 'International cooperation to ensure global access to medicines, vaccines and medical equipment to face COVID-19' by consensus on Monday. Pakistan was among the small minority of nations that did not sponsor the resolution. India was among the 179 nations co-sponsoring the resolution that called for ensuring "fair, transparent, equitable, efficient and timely access to and distribution of preventive tools, laboratory testing, reagents and supporting materials, essential medical supplies, new diagnostics, drugs and future COVID-19 vaccines" to all nations, particular developing countries. "India has proactively engaged in supporting the global availability of medicines and drugs by means of international cooperation and development partnerships. Also, we are facilitating the sourcing of global supplies of multilateral agencies such as UNICEF in the face of COVID-19. We were therefore glad to co-sponsor this important initiative," India's Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador Syed Akbaruddin told PTI. India has been at the forefront of sending essential medical supplies and medicines such as anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine to several nations, with UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres saying he "salutes" nations like India that are helping other countries in their fight against the devastating pandemic. A number of countries, including the US, Mauritius and Seychelles have already received the drug. In its neighborhood, India is sending the drug to Afghanistan, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Nepal, The Maldives, Mauritius, Sri Lanka and Myanmar.     Pakistan said it has some reservations on the resolution drafted by Mexico. "We regret that the draft resolution could not include reference to ensure access to information, preventive and other health care for all persons arbitrarily deprived of their liberty especially those in regions under foreign occupation," Pakistan said in its explanation of vote sent to the President of the General Assembly Tijjani Muhammad-Bande. The resolution, which received US support, was the second document to be adopted by the General Assembly on the COVID-19 pandemic. Earlier this month, the General Assembly unanimously adopted a resolution, co-sponsored by 188 nations including India, calling for intensified international cooperation to defeat the pandemic that is causing "severe disruption to societies and economies". The latest resolution also acknowledged the "crucial leading role" played by the World Health Organization, which has come under constant attack by the Trump administration over its handling of the outbreak. It recognised the importance of international cooperation and effective multilateralism in helping to ensure that all States have in place effective national protective measures, access to and flow of vital medical supplies, medicines and vaccines in order to minimise negative effects in all affected states and to avoid relapses of the pandemic. It encouraged Member States to work in partnership with all relevant stakeholders to increase research and development funding for vaccines and medicines, leverage digital technologies, and strengthen scientific international cooperation necessary to combat COVID-19 and to bolster coordination, including with the private sector, towards rapid development, manufacturing and distribution of diagnostics, antiviral medicines, personal protective equipment and vaccines, adhering to the objectives of efficacy, safety, equity, accessibility, and affordability. It calls on member states and other relevant stakeholders to immediately take steps to prevent, within their respective legal frameworks, speculation and "undue stockpiling" that may hinder access to safe, effective and affordable essential medicines, vaccines, personal protective equipment and medical equipment required to effectively address COVID-19. The resolution requested the Secretary-General, in close collaboration with the World Health Organization, to take the necessary steps to effectively coordinate efforts of the United Nations system to promote and ensure global access to medicines, vaccines and medical equipment needed to face COVID-19. According to estimates by Johns Hopkins University, there are more than 2.5 million confirmed coronavirus cases in the world and over 177,000 people have died from the virus. The US is the most hit by the pandemic, with more than 824,000 people infected and over 45,000 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-co-sponsors-resolution-calling-for-equitable-access-to-covid-19-vaccines-828413.html
22-04-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi seeks suggestions from public for economic stimulus package for MSMEs||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday sought suggestions from the public for an economic stimulus package for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) hit by the coronavirus lockdown. He said the party has launched a campaign for seeking suggestions from people, saying the MSME sector has been devastated due to COVID-19.  "COVID19 has devastated our micro, small and medium businesses (MSME). The Congress party needs your help. Send us suggestions and ideas for what a MSME economic stimulus package should cover on voiceofmsme.in or in our social media platforms," the former Congress chief said on Twitter using the hashtag "HelpSaveSmallBusinesses". The Congress has said it would submit a detailed revival plan for the MSME sector and a consultative group headed by former prime minister Manmohan Singh is working in suggesting such a plan to the government. The party has demanded an immediate relief to the sector, saying it is one of the largest employers in the country and needs to be helped in this hour of crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-seeks-suggestions-from-public-for-economic-stimulus-package-for-msmes-828416.html
22-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Decoding Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh's message to Indian Navy||By Cdr KP Sanjeev Kumar (Retd) As India entered the last week of a 21-day lockdown to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh, PVSM, AVSM, ADC, sent out a sobering message to all naval personnel and their families. In a video hosted on the navy’s official website on March 7, Adm KB Singh struck a grim but wise caution: “it can no longer be business as usual”. A timely signal The CNS address couldn’t have been more timely. The global pandemic has propagated across oceans within weeks, striking military personnel and civilians alike. At last count, two modern navies (USN and French Navy) have reported an outbreak of COVID-19 onboard their biggest warships. Nuclear-powered aircraft carrier USS Theodore Roosevelt leads the count with over 230 COVID-positive cases. Pentagon has confirmed that over 2000 serving USN personnel have tested positive even as they warned enemies “don’t test us”. Unlike US Department of Defense which has been largely transparent with their COVID updates, many countries have chosen to keep their COVID numbers out of public domain. A ‘war of words’ – breaching service protocols hitherto seen as sacrosanct – recently lead to ouster of Capt Brett Crozier, former Commanding Officer of USS Theodore Roosevelt, and resignation of then-Acting Navy Secretary Thomas B Modly (on whose orders Capt Crozier was relieved of command). Amidst such upheavals, Commander of US Pacific Fleet has published COVID-19 mitigation and prevention frameworks (read it here). Frontline Units cannot work from home Frontline units of the military that cannot ‘work from home’ can act like petri dishes for the virus. The effect of infectious disease outbreak is not same across services. Navies – and among them, blue water navies – are particularly vulnerable because they deploy around the world. A large outbreak can well render a ship out of service for extended period. Prescribed containment or ‘flattening’ strategies are incompatible with shipboard life and naval ships’ charter. Prevention may well be the only real option.Adm KB Singh’s 3-point agenda To this end, Adm KB Singh’s message is both prudent and sagacious. After speaking of ongoing efforts by the navy to support the nation in this period of crisis, KB laid out a 3-point agenda for his primary constituency – the naval community. This will carry through the rank and file of Indian Navy and shape response in the coming weeks. His call to action can be summarised as below:    Keep our personnel and families safe.    Continue to support the national efforts with innovation, spirit of generosity and attitude of selfless service.    Keep the guard up. Operational readiness must always remain an important priority.    Armed forces are the last bastion in this fight. If they as caregivers turn into care-seekers, we have a big problem on hand. KB did well to underline this aspect right at the outset. The signal is loud and clear. Services can be of immense help for Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR). But this crisis throws up some unique challenges. The enemy is a virus – invisible, highly infectious, and immune to traditional weapons in our arsenal. Unlike other forms of HADR where armed forces are called-in without due thought to their safety, here rules of the game are different. Without being suitably kitted or materially prepared, the virus can overwhelm an aircraft carrier quicker than it does a city like New York.Physically distant but socially cohesive The propensity for taking on challenges must be weighed against a scale of risk. Our operational assets – ships and submarines – must remain free from the coronavirus. KB reiterated that ‘social distancing’ may not be a feasible due to the very nature of life aboard ships. The US Navy learnt this the hard way. KB wisely advocates physical distancing, viz. keeping six feet from each other, where possible, while retaining the ‘socially cohesive’ way of naval life. This is brilliant signalling from top leadership that instils esprit-de-corps into rank and file even as the world screams out loud “keep away from people”. Navies are vulnerable during pandemics Navy is arguably the most disadvantaged service in this pandemic. Warship complement is derived from a manning plan dictated by weapons, sensors and duty stations that have to be manned during action. Ships bristling with weapons and sensors will thus be manpower-heavy. Any form of physical or social distancing at sea is admittedly difficult. Particularly for India, our ships, messes, bridge and upper decks are teeming with men, often more than other navies, as evident during multilateral exercises. Sailors and officers live cheek-by-jowl, sharing heads (washroom in naval lexicon), mess decks and work stations. A sizeable portion of the ships company includes bachelors and forced bachelors who live onboard (called ‘in-living’). Married personnel (called ‘bundlemen’ or MLR, acronym for ‘money in lieu of ration’) live ashore when not on duty. When ‘MLR libertymen to clean’ is piped at the end of a workday in harbour, homebound MLR sailors have to traverse public spaces to reach cramped quarters which, in the case of sailors, may even be shared due paucity of accommodation. Their lives are interlinked, woven around an eternal cycle of ‘red’, ‘blue’ and ‘white’ watches. In the rough and tumble of shipboard life, any form of distancing is at best a pipe dream.Don’t even get started on the third medium. How do you explain social distancing to submariners who patrol beneath the seas for months on end, living out of cramped spaces, two toilets for 70-80 crew members, all crew except CO hot bunking (sharing bunks on rotation)? Yet Versatile, Flexible & Resilient Vice Admiral Suresh Bangara, who retired as Commander-in-Chief of IN’s Southern Naval Command, has brought out many salient aspects of the naval community’s resilience in his blog. “When the cyclone Hudhud hit Vizag, I saw the generation we trained rising to the occasion. First, the family stood against the doors which were being blown away in the middle of the night, and having survived when every standing tree had been felled to the ground, they went through the real lockdown. No water or power for the next two weeks. Rationed by limited water tankers and most shops destroyed, the city jumped back to normalcy as if nothing had happened. That is leadership. But the generation after that hopefully learnt how not to whine or crib but to think of solutions and innovate“, he writes. Rear Admiral Sudhir Pillai (Retd), former naval aviator and Flag Officer Naval Aviation, tweeted that “the IN has time & again demonstrated reach & flexibility at home & across IOR in times of need, with HA/DR as a primary element in its vision“, highlighting the versatility of Indian Navy to take such crises on the bow. From deploying overnight for Tsunami relief (2004), stuffing missile containers with food packets for HADR, evacuating Indian and foreign nationals from strife-torn Yemen (2015), leading rescue efforts in cyclone-battered regions to acting as ambassadors of peace, the Indian Navy has time and again risen to the occasion. Yet, this ‘war’ is different, needing unique safeguards. A threat requiring counter-intuitive response On a warship, the first response to any external threat or imminent enemy attack is to sound ‘action stations’ and assume the highest degree of readiness. At this call, every single action post is manned with full complement; weapons ‘stand-to’ and sensors spring to life. But here is an enemy – a virus – that thrives when people come together. Though navies prepare for nuclear, biological and chemical attacks, no navy could have prepared for a pandemic outbreak. The greatest navy on earth stands humbled today within a month of COVID outbreak. I would benchmark our capability and vulnerability accordingly.To his credit, Adm KB Singh has spoken in words what other service chiefs have probably been rueing behind closed doors. I applaud his sage counsel and honesty of purpose. Go Navy! Tough times call for tough measures. As per ground reports, Indian Navy has pulled out all stops to contain the outbreak of COVID in its ranks. ‘Stay where you are’ is reportedly the diktat. All leave, temporary duty, training, sports and social activities have either been stopped or curtailed. The full ‘firepower’ of warships, bases, air stations, dockyards, and civilian workforce has been turned to stopping COVID-19 in its tracks through innovation, mobilization of medical resources, logistic support and manufacturing.KB also sounded a caution to keep guard up for traditional and asymmetric threats. This should inform lesser leaders who see COVID-19 as another opportunity for scoring brownie points and one-upmanship. KB is understandably proud of the unsparing efforts and innovations being churned out by the men in whites. His call to “use the lockdown to unlock our true potential, maintain spirit of innovation, attitude of selfless service and work with a sense of generosity” in the days to come could well be extrapolated to the society and the nation at large.Sham noh Varunah. May the lord of the seas be auspicious unto all of us. We shall overcome. (The author is a former naval aviator and Experimental Test Pilot)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-decoding-naval-staff-admiral-karambir-singhs-message-to-indian-navy-828421.html
22-04-2020||National||SC refuses to consider bail plea by extradited middleman in AgustaWestland scam||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to consider a plea for bail moved by Christian Michel James, an extradited middleman in AgustaWestland scam case, on his fear of contracting COVID-19 in jail here. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai upheld the Delhi High Court's order that the petitioner's case did not fall in the criteria for granting interim bail. In his application, Michel said that his age is 59 years and he has a history of bad health, making him vulnerable to the coronavirus.  He also relied upon a Supreme Court's order asking the States and the Union Territories to set up high level committees and determine prisoners who could be released on parole so as to avoid overcrowding in prisons in the wake of COVID-19. The Delhi High Court, however, has dismissed his bail plea terming his apprehension that he may contract the disease in jail as “unfounded”. The 59-year-old British national was arrested in the UAE and extradited to India on December 4, 2018. He had earlier failed in several bids to seek bail. He faced charges of corruption and money laundering in the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper purchase scam. Michel is among the three alleged middlemen being probed in the case by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The others are Guido Haschke and Carlo Gerosa. According to the CBI, there was an estimated loss of Euro 398.21 million (about Rs 2,666 crore) to the exchequer in the deal that was signed on February 8, 2010 for the supply of VVIP choppers worth Euro 556.262 million.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-consider-bail-plea-by-extradited-middleman-in-agustawestland-scam-828425.html
22-04-2020||National||Use biology labs to test COVID-19: Academicians to PM Modi||Eminent academicians from across the country have suggested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to recruit unemployed science graduates in the fight against COVID-19 and use biology laboratories to test the samples of persons suspected to be infected with the disease. A letter to this regard was sent to the prime minister on April 20. It was signed by more than 600 scientists, professors and research scholars from institutes across the country under the platform 'India March for Science', a release issued on Tuesday by the group's Kolkata organising committee said. A major chunk of the signatories is either from institutes in West Bengal or people from the state who are at present in different establishments across the country, a member of the organisation said. In the letter, they suggested that the unemployed science graduates be recruited and trained in the fight against the coronavirus outbreak and biology laboratories in the institutes be used to increase the testing of samples, the release said. The scientists also called for increasing the production of ventilators. "Many relatively inexpensive designs of ventilators, including mechanised Ambubags, may be arranged and Indian pharmaceutical companies and other manufacturers should be requisitioned to mass-produce such ventilators to meet the nation's requirement," the letter said.  Faculty members and students of several institutions also expressed their willingness to offer their services during the ongoing crisis, the release said. Professors Soumitro Banerjee of IISER-Kolkata, Alladi Sitaram of the Indian Statistical Institute, Debashis Mukherjee of the S N Bose National Centre for Basic Sciences- Kolkata, Parongama Sen of the University of Calcutta, Anupam Basu of the IIT-Kharagpur and Debabrata Bera of the Jadavpur University are some of the signatories, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/use-biology-labs-to-test-covid-19-academicians-to-pm-modi-828426.html
22-04-2020||National||I&B Ministry issues advisory, asks media persons covering coronavirus-related incidents to take precautions||In the wake of a large number of media persons contracting COVID-19, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting issued an advisory to print and electronic media on Wednesday, calling on journalists covering coronavirus-related incidents to take precautions. The advisory also asked the management of media houses to take necessary care of their field as well as office staff. "It has come to the notice of the Ministry that a large number of media persons have recently contracted COVID-19 while covering the happenings in certain parts of the country," it said. In view of the fact that media persons, including reporters, cameramen, photographers, etc. are covering incidents relating to COVID-19 in various parts of the country involving travel, amongst others, to containment zones, hotspots and other COVID-affected areas, it is advised that all such media persons may take due health and related precautions while performing their duties, the advisory said. "Management of media houses is requested to take necessary care of their field staff as well as office staff," it said. The advisory comes a day after the governments of Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Delhi decided to arrange COVID-19 tests for media persons. Some journalists from a Tamil news TV channel in Chennai tested positive for the infection in a fresh incident involving scribes. Also, during a special camp organised at the Azad Maidan in Mumbai on April 16 and 17 for COVID-19 testing of scribes, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) collected swab samples of 171 media persons, including electronic and print media journalists, photographers and cameramen. Out of the 171 media persons, 53 have tested positive for coronavirus. Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javdekar had expressed shock on Monday over the Mumbai incident involving media persons, and said an advisory is being issued to all newspaper and media establishments to ensure that adequate precautions are taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ib-ministry-issues-advisory-asks-media-persons-covering-coronavirus-related-incidents-to-take-precautions-828428.html
22-04-2020||National||Celebrations under coronavirus lockdown: About distances, home-baked cakes and promises instead of gifts||The ‘happy birthdays’ and ‘congratulations’ ring loud and clear, glasses clink to say cheers and the home-baked cake is often yum too. It’s a party alright but a distinctly surreal one with family and friends reduced to little squares on screens, cheering the online celebrations along. So there’s no one to smear cake on the birthday girl’s face and promises instead of gifts as every guest -- not half as many as most party hoppers would like -- is kept at a ‘you-can-see-but-can’t-touch’ distance, the party itself taking on a futuristic, other worldly quality to remember in a post coronavirus tomorrow. In middle and upper class homes, birthdays, anniversaries, festivals and even pre-wedding celebrations have gone virtual after March 25, when the pan India lockdown came into force. Reducing distances but also enhancing them, the shared parties are dependent, of course, on the partygoer’s broadband connection or mobile data package. Mohammad Omar, a Masters student at London’s School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS), who returned to India in March, had a 22nd birthday he will always remember. He said he was feeling really low on his birthday on April 3, but a video conference cheered him up. "All my cousins and friends arranged a video conference which I was unaware of. My cousin who lives next door called me over and I was stunned to see my friends and cousins waiting at a video conference on her laptop," the 22-year-old from Ghaziabad said. "They sang for me, we even danced on a few songs and I cut the cake baked by my mother, but missed being smeared with icing by my friends and cousins," he told PTI. Children are also trying to wrap their heads around the strange birthday celebrations. Parents are struggling to explain to their children why a mega bash is not possible this year. Shahana Datta, who turned eight on April 7, missed her friends and cousins who would come to her Noida home every birthday, but could not make it this time. "I felt very sad that I could not meet my friends and cousins on my birthday. But my mother made a cake for me and when I was cutting it, my cousins and friends joined in on a video call to sing for me," she told PTI. Shahana said her mother has promised her many gifts “once coronavirus dies” and the lockdown is over. The young ones just can’t figure out what the big deal about COVID-19 is. Neetu Thakur said her son Vedant was extremely upset on his seventh birthday on April 15 as he could not understand why his party couldn’t happen in a mall or a banquet hall like every other year.  "To cheer him up, I decorated the entire house with whatever material at hand, baked a cake for him and made him connect with his cousins and grandparents on video call," said Thakur, a resident of Srinivaspuri in Delhi. "I bought two-three small gifts from nearby shops and promised my son that when the lockdown opens, I will buy his favourite toys and lots of other gifts," she told PTI. The blues have hit other celebrations too. I H Rehman, an environment expert who lives in Ghaziabad, said his 24th marriage anniversary on April 15 was a sombre affair with a quiet dinner and a home-baked cake. The 53-year-old said he has promised to buy his wife a "big gift" once the lockdown is lifted. In a non-coronavirus year, Anindya Basu and his family would have rung in the Bengali New Year by going out for a series of feasts with friends and relatives in town. But the plans had to be tweaked this year. “This year, we spent a formidable amount of time calling up all the relatives and wishing them. The kids dressed up in new clothes, and were made to sit down for a detailed lesson on the significance of the day in our culture, after which we treated ourselves to a homemade gala lunch,” the Kolkata-based Basu said. Basu and his wife Madhushree, both foodies, whipped up an exquisite menu comprising quintessential Bengali delicacies like ‘ghee bhaat’ (rice served with clarified butter) and ‘katla maccher kalia’ (Catla fish curry). Many others also took to Twitter to share how they are celebrating various special occasions. Prometheus School in Noida hosted a special morning assembly to celebrate Baisakhi, the harvest festival. In an online video chat, students and teachers dressed up in traditional attire and shook a leg to some Punjabi music tracks. A couple had to postpone their wedding due to the lockdown. However, they shared a post on how their friends threw them a virtual sangeet party to make the day memorable. Theatre actor Dipali Bhasin’s family chalked out an extensive itinerary for her “quarantine birthday”, a picture of which she shared on Twitter. It started with “breakfast in bed”, and had activities like “movie viewing”, “free/nap time”, “cocktail hour”, “dinner” and a “surprise at 6”, she said. Extraordinary times sometimes call for extraordinary gestures. Like this one from police in Punjab’s Mansa district which delivered a cake at the doorstep of a one-year-old. The warm gesture of the police personnel won many hearts and left the parents of the girl elated. There are also some who just can’t stick to online. A man in Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur district demonstrated birthday over-enthusiasm when he defied the lockdown with a big party on his 10-year-olld son’s birthday. Till such time when the shadow of the pandemic vanishes, "Happy birthday to you" on video may just become the new normal - for connected India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/celebrations-under-coronavirus-lockdown-about-distances-home-baked-cakes-and-promises-instead-of-gifts-828430.html
22-04-2020||National||Ajmer shrine spiritual head appeals to Muslims to offer prayers at home during Ramzan||The spiritual head of the Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti shrine in Ajmer has appealed to the Muslims to offer prayers at homes instead of visiting mosques during the holy month of Ramzan. He also exhorted them to maintain social distancing while offering 'namaz' at homes to combat the coronavirus threat. "The Muslims of the country should stay at homes and offer namaz there instead of going to mosques. They should maintain social distancing. Parents should make sure that after 'Roza iftar' (breaking of fast), their children should continue to stay at homes," the shrine's spiritual head or 'Dargah Deewan', Zainul Abedin Ali Khan, said. He said people should strictly follow the advisories and guidelines of the central as well as the state governments and also cooperate with the district administration during the ongoing lockdown period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ajmer-shrine-spiritual-head-appeals-to-muslims-to-offer-prayers-at-home-during-ramzan-828438.html
22-04-2020||National||UP govt exempts interest on amount payable by industrial, commercial institutions for 3 months||In a major relief to all industrial and commercial institutions during COVID-19 lockdown, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to exempt interest on the amount payable by these establishments under all heads from March 22 till June 30, 2020. The lockdown implemented for the prevention of coronavirus pandemic has resulted in the temporary closure of industrial, commercial and institutional units located all over the world, India and the state. This has a resulted in drastic slowing down of economic activities, Minister for Industrial Development of the State, Satish Mahana, said in a press note. In view of the financial crisis faced by these units and to spur the economic activity in Uttar Pradesh, the state government has allowed restarting of operations by certain industrial units, and has also decided to allow exemption in interest on dues of industrial and commercial institutions of the state for three months, the minister said. He expressed hope that the said exemption would provide some relief to the industries and enterprises of the state during the current crisis and they would be able to resume operations of their units by following the guidelines issued by the central and state government. In this regard, directives were issued to all major industrial development authorities of the state by the infrastructure and industrial development department on Tuesday, the press note said.     Principal Secretary for infrastructure and industrial development, Alok Kumar has issued a circular to Noida, Greater Noida, Yamuna Expressway, UP State Industrial Development, Gorakhpur Industrial Development Authority, Satharia Industrial Development Authority and the Integrated Industrial Township Greater Noida on Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor to exempt interest on late payment of all types of dues to be paid by the industrial, commercial and institutional units during the period from 22 March to 30 June 2020, from 30 June 2020. This exemption will be available to units that pay their dues by 30 June, 2020, the press note added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-govt-exempts-interest-on-amount-payable-by-industrial-commercial-institutions-for-3-months-828441.html
22-04-2020||National||Centre enacts tough law to protect doctors, healthcare workers||The Centre on Wednesday decided to promulgate an ordinance making attacks against healthcare professionals a non-bailable offence with a jail term of up to seven years, and stringent provisions to make the attacker pay damages tp property. The decision came at a time when doctors and healthcare workers engaged in the fight against COVID-19 were facing discrimination and even assaults are some parts of the country and had threatened to observe a ‘Black Day’ on Thursday. The Union Cabinet, at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, decided to amend the 123-year-old Epidemic Diseases Act to insert provisions to take action against those attacking doctors and health care workers.  “Such crime will now be cognizable & non-bailable. An investigation will be done within 30 days. Accused can be sentenced from three months-five years and penalised from Rs 50,000 up to Rs two lakh,” Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters here. He said in case of grievous injuries, the accused can be sentenced from six months to seven years in jail and a penalty ranging from Rs one lakh to Rs five lakh. “If the damage is done to the vehicles or clinics of healthcare workers, then a compensation amounting to twice the market value of the damaged property will be taken from the accused,” Javadekar said. Asked whether the legal protection to doctors would extend beyond the COVID-19 outbreak, Javadekar merely said that the Ordinance was approved to amend the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1987. “But it is a good beginning,” he said  “Our message is very clear. Attacks on doctors and healthcare workers will not be tolerated,” he said. The decision to promulgate the ordinance came hours after a delegation of the Indian Medical Association met Home Minister Amit Shah over the attacks on doctors and healthcare workers involved in the fight against COVID-19. They also flagged the instance of a Chennai doctor, who succumbed to COVID-19, was denied burial by two cemeteries and an ambulance carrying his mortal remains was attacked. On Wednesday, Shah also asked state governments to take strict action against those who obstruct the performance of last rites of medical professionals or frontline healthcare workers succumbing to COVID-19, while discharging their services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-enacts-tough-law-to-protect-doctors-healthcare-workers-828446.html
22-04-2020||National||India probes alleged dumping of flat rolled copper products from China, other Asian countries||India has initiated a probe into alleged dumping of copper alloy flat-rolled products -- used by auto and electrical industries -- from China, Korea, Malaysia, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Thailand, following a complaint. A domestic manufacturer Agrawal Metal Works Pvt Ltd filed an application before the commerce ministry's probing arm DGTR for anti-dumping investigation on imports of "copper and copper alloy flat products" imported from these six countries. The applicant has alleged dumping of the goods from these countries and requested for the imposition of the anti-dumping duties on the imports. The Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) in a notification has said that on the basis of prima facie evidence submitted by the applicant, "the authority, hereby, initiates an investigation". In the probe, the directorate would determine the existence, degree and effect of any alleged dumping in respect of the product under consideration from the six nations. If it would found that there is dumping and it is impacting the domestic manufacturer, it would recommend the amount of anti-dumping duty, which if levied, would be adequate to remove the injury to the domestic industry. While the DGTR recommends the duty, the finance ministry imposes the same. The period of investigation is from January- December 2019 (12 months). It would also look into the data of April 2016-19 period. The product under consideration is flat-rolled products of copper, such as copper sheets, copper plates, copper strips, and copper foils. These products are used in power distribution, electrical and electronic switchgears and devices, automobile terminal connector and automotive electronics, sanitary fittings, radiators and heat exchangers and key and locks, buttons and zippers. In international trade parlance, dumping happens when a country or a firm exports an item at a price lower than the price of that product in its domestic market. Dumping impacts price of that product in the importing country, hitting margins and profits of manufacturing firms. According to global trade norms, a country is allowed to impose tariffs on such dumped products to provide a level-playing field to domestic manufacturers. The duty is imposed only after a thorough investigation by a quasi-judicial body, such as DGTR, in India. In its probe, the directorate has to conclude whether the imported products are impacting domestic industries. Imposition of anti-dumping duty is permissible under the World Trade Organization (WTO) regime. These countries are members of this Geneva-based organisation, which deals global trade norms. The duty is aimed at ensuring fair trading practices and creating a level-playing field for domestic producers vis-a-vis foreign producers and exporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-probes-alleged-dumping-of-flat-rolled-copper-products-from-china-other-asian-countries-828457.html
22-04-2020||National||Make arrangements to send migrant labourers home: Mayawati to Centre||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati requested the Centre on Wednesday to send home migrant labourers stranded in various parts of the country due to the coronavirus-forced lockdown by making arrangements on the lines of the one made for Kota student. A couple of states have brought back students preparing for various competitive examinations in the coaching hub of Kota in Rajasthan in buses arranged especially for them. In a tweet, Mayawati said, "Lakhs of poor people and migrant labourers stranded mostly in states such as Maharashtra, Delhi and Haryana are facing unemployment and starvation due to the nationwide lockdown. They are not able to get a single meal properly and want to return home." "Under such circumstances, the centre is requested to look into their demand sympathetically and make arrangements for special trains and buses to send them home while properly adhering to lockdown norms, as was done for the Kota students," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/make-arrangements-to-send-migrant-labourers-home-mayawati-to-centre-828461.html
22-04-2020||National||'Way too early', says Odisha CM after praise on tackling COVID-19 outbreak||Armed with 'zero transmission' target against COVID-19 coupled with a proactive approach and multi-pronged strategy, Odisha seems to have slowed down the coronavirus spread, but the state government says it is ready for a long battle against the menace. Odisha drew appreciation from the Centre for being among the top two states in containing and combating the COVID-19 pandemic efficiently. Senior officials of the state, however, say there is no room for complacency and they must remain in a state of preparedness for months to come. According to the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare data between April 12 and 18, Odisha and Kerala have the best- performing doubling rates of positive COVID-19 cases. While COVID-19 cases doubled in Kerala in 67.2 days, it was 34.12 days for Odisha. Odisha was the first state to have declared COVID-19 as a disaster and imposed lockdown, a senior official said. “Way too early”, says the state government’s chief spokesperson on COVID-19, Subroto Bagchi, maintaining that the government, as well as the people, must remain alert for at least six months and strictly adhere to social distancing and norms of hygiene. Odisha has so far reported 82 cases. While 30 persons have recovered from the highly infectious disease, a 72- year-old man from Bhubaneswar died in the state.  Among the steps taken to contain the spread in the state were mandatory registration of foreign returnees, strict enforcement of lockdown guidelines, setting up of hundreds of quarantine and isolation centres, substantially increasing a number of tests, the establishment of dedicated hospitals for coronavirus patients in all districts, an official said. The state government has also raised the corpus of the contingency fund five-fold to Rs 2,000 crore to meet the expenses required during the battle against COVID-19. The challenge before us is to achieve zero transmission of COVID-19, National Health Mission (NHM) Director Shalini Pandit said. Stating that Odisha took off early in its fight, a senior health official said it put in place an "action plan" to deal with the menace early in March by setting up a COVID-19 helpline and creating a dedicated portal before the lockdown was clamped. Odisha made it mandatory for people returning from abroad to register on the portal or through the helpline and stay in quarantine for 14 days. Around 5,000 people got themselves registered, he said. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik stated that the provision of mandatory registration of people returning from abroad and their compulsory quarantine played a major role in keeping the disease under control in the state. The state government set up quarantine centres in each of the 6,798 gram panchayats in rural Odisha. Each centre can accommodate 50-100 persons. The state government also released Rs 44.50 crore from Chief Minister's Relief Fund to 30 districts for this, he said. Panchayat samitis and district authorities were asked to ensure that people returning from other states were put in a 14-day quarantine. “Around 60 hotels were roped in for providing quarantine facilities on payment in major urban centres, including Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Sambalpur and Puri, as part of measures to deal with the situation,” Patnaik said, adding around one lakh people were put in-home quarantine. The chief minister also said that lakhs of people of the state who are currently stranded across the country due to the ongoing lockdown will have to undergo compulsory quarantine for 14 days on return and the government will bear all the cost for their accommodation, food and treatment. An incentive of Rs 2,000 will also be provided on completion of the quarantine period, he said. The government incentivised work in public offices, including health sector, and announced advance release of salaries four months to its employees working in health sector, including doctors, paramedical staff and other healthcare workers. The chief minister also announced financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh each to health personnel who lose their lives in the fight against COVID-19 and said they will be regarded as "martyrs". Concrete steps were also taken to scale up COVID-19 tests in the state, Health Secretary N B Dhal said, adding samples were initially tested only at RMRC in Bhubaneswar, but later other centres like AIIMS-Bhubaneswar and SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack were also allowed to conduct the tests. Only around 200-300 tests per day could be conducted last month, while the number has now increased to more than 2,000, a senior Health and Family Welfare official said. This apart, the state government has sought one lakh rapid testing kits and already received 6,000 kits from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in the first phase, the Health Secretary said. Antibody rapid tests for COVID-19 has started in Bhubaneswar from Saturday with the help of the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation. The state government is targeting to set up 36 hospitals with a total bed capacity of at least 6,000 exclusively for the treatment of coronavirus patients in all the 30 districts, said an official. The number of COVID-19 cases which was confined to single digit at the beginning of this month has now shot up to 82 as a spurt was reported after entry of Tablighi Jamaat members and subsequently following the return of many people from West Bengal mainly to districts such as Balasore, Bhadrak and Jajpur, said an official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/way-too-early-says-odisha-cm-after-praise-on-tackling-covid-19-outbreak-828463.html
22-04-2020||National||Airlines selling flight tickets despite govt restrictions||By Anurag Kotoky India ordered airlines this week to stop selling tickets. Hardly any listened. Four of the country’s top six airlines, which together control 80% of the local market, are selling domestic flight tickets for as soon as the third week of May, searches on their websites showed. That’s despite the government saying no decision has been made on allowing flights after the end of the nationwide lockdown on May 3, which means airlines should refrain from selling tickets until authorities give them the go ahead. Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri reiterated that no commercial flights will be allowed to operate until the spread of the coronavirus has been controlled and that the lifting of restrictions will only be considered later. Market leader IndiGo, operated by InterGlobe Aviation Ltd., is selling tickets from June 1, as is Vistara, the local affiliate of Singapore Airlines Ltd., searches showed. SpiceJet Ltd., the nation’s second-biggest airline, and Go Airlines India Ltd., which has furloughed 90% of its staff, are selling tickets from May 16. Tickets weren’t available on the websites of state-run Air India Ltd. and AirAsia India, the local partner of Malaysia’s AirAsia Group Bhd. “We are working on that. Hopefully will find ways to resolve soon,” Arun Kumar, the head of India’s Directorate General of Civil Aviation, said in a text message when asked about the sales. Vistara declined to comment. Representatives at IndiGo, SpiceJet and GoAir didn’t immediately respond to requests for comments. InterGlobe’s shares slid 5% Wednesday and SpiceJet fell 3.5%. The benchmark Sensex index advanced 2.4%. InterGlobe is down 28% this year and SpiceJet has slumped over 60%. Airlines around the world are using ticket sales to generate cash flow as the coronavirus pandemic brings travel to a standstill, drying up revenue sources. Flybe Group Plc, Europe’s biggest regional airline, and Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd., have already collapsed after running out of cash, and analysts predict many more failures if governments don’t come to the rescue. India’s aviation industry could lose as much as $3.6 billion in the three months through June if planes are grounded for the period, according to Sydney-based CAPA Centre for Aviation. One of the world’s fastest-growing aviation markets, India is a notoriously difficult place to operate as provincial taxes push up fuel costs and cut-throat competition means airlines are often forced to sell tickets below cost. Most were offering customers credit instead of refunds for canceled flights to generate cash for day-to-day operations. The coronavirus continues to spread in India, rising 8% from Tuesday to Wednesday to reach 20,080 confirmed cases and 645 deaths. One month ago, there were only 315 confirmed cases in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/airlines-selling-flight-tickets-despite-govt-restrictions-828464.html
22-04-2020||National||Army jawan's wife sexually harassed in UP's Muzaffarnagar||A 30-year-old wife of an Army soldier allegedly faced sexual harassment from a man while alone at home in Luhsana village in Budhana area here, police said. The incident happened on Tuesday and a case was registered against the accused who is absconding, they said. According to the complaint lodged by the victim, it is alleged that the accused entered the house while alone and sexually harassed her. She cried out for help and the accused escaped. The woman's husband is an Army jawan is on duty, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-jawans-wife-sexually-harassed-in-ups-muzaffarnagar-828470.html
22-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Cabinet nod to ordinance to protect healthcare personnel from attacks||Against the backdrop of attacks on healthcare personnel fighting coronavirus, the Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved an ordinance making acts of violence against them as cognizable and non-bailable offences, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said. He said the proposed ordinance also provides for compensation for injury to healthcare service personnel or for causing damage or loss to property. The proposed ordinance will amend the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. It will help protect healthcare service personnel and their living and working premises against violence. Asked whether the new changes in the law will be applicable even after the threat of COVID-19 is over, Javadekar told reporters that the ordinance has been approved to amend the Epidemic Act. "But it is a good beginning," he said, without elaborating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cabinet-nod-to-ordinance-to-protect-healthcare-personnel-from-attacks-828472.html
22-04-2020||National||HC forms panel to create graded plan for courts functioning post coronavirus lockdown||The Delhi High Court has constituted a committee, headed its judge, to create a 'graded action plan' for dealing with the challenges, including "a deluge of fresh cases", to be faced by it and the trial courts after the lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus is withdrawn.  The high court said normalcy is not likely to return overnight and the court functioning can be resumed only in a structured or phased manner which would require formulation of a plan in advance keeping in mind social distancing norms and other restrictions. In a letter to all the district and sessions court judges as also principal judges (family court), the high court said that post-withdrawal of the lockdown there would be an imminent requirement to put in place a 'phased / graded restoration to normalcy plan' for courts in Delhi for which various issues need to be addressed. The letter said it may not be practicable to open the courts for everyone immediately after the lockdown is lifted as there are over eight lakh cases pending in the district courts here and around 80,000 in the high court. Delhi High Court Chief Justice D N Patel has constituted a committee, headed by Justice Hima Kohli, for creating a 'Graded Action-Plan' to meet all such challenges and other ancillary issues considering the urgency of the situation. The April 21 letter, issued by Registrar General Manoj Jain, has asked the district judges to take inputs from their bar associations and send the suggestions to the high court within a week.  Following the lockdown, the functioning of the high court and trial courts have been suspended till May 3 and only the matters of extreme urgency are being heard through video conferencing. “During such suspension of functioning, the hearing of the cases is limited to matters of extremely urgent nature or urgent nature. There has been negligible filing of fresh cases during the lockdown, it can be thus expected that there would be a deluge of fresh cases on return to normalcy which may be quite difficult to handle. All these problems pose a big challenge to the justice delivery system,” the letter stated.  It further said that at this juncture, it may not be possible to predict a definite cut-off date for resumption of normal functioning of the court system as there is no certainty when the threat of the pandemic would be over and the requirement of social distancing would no longer be necessary.   For the preparation of such a plan for the high court and trial courts, several issues are required to be addressed, including gradual expansion of the nature of cases to be put in 'urgent' category for hearing, ensuring availability of proportionate court infrastructure during all these phases till restoration of complete normalcy. The other issues highlighted by the high court are: making guidelines for restricting entry into courts; social distancing norms to be followed for all the stakeholders including Judges, court staff, lawyers and litigants; preparing guidelines for restricting entry into lawyers' chambers and social distancing norms to be followed in such areas. “Running of public utility services and canteen etc. in court complexes. Availability of Infrared Thermometer, Masks, gloves, sanitizers for all the stakeholders. Installation of sensor-based devices, wherever possible to ensure minimum hand-contact. Appropriate alternate to centralized air-conditioning system,” the letter stated. Further the issues to be discussed are on putting in place a mechanism for handling the deluge of fresh filing of cases once the suspension of functioning of courts is withdrawn, creation of well-equipped permanent video conferencing courts. The suggestions are also sought on the provision for e-issuance and e-service of court notices and summons, filing of e-pleadings and recording of evidence through video conferencing.  The letter further said: “Graded plan for resumption of work of registry in the high court and courts subordinate thereto for taking care of urgent administrative issues such as presence of required support staff for proper functioning of courts, recruitment process of judicial officers and staff and disciplinary proceedings. “Manner of resumption of training in Delhi Judicial Academy to conclude the Induction training to enable more officers to be available for taking care of the problem of mounting arrears.” The other issues are on the resumption of activities of the Delhi Legal Services Authority, Mediation Centre, Arbitration Centre to help restore normalcy in the functioning of the court system and creating a mixed model of 'virtual courts and actual courts' and running court in shifts to ensure least footfall at any given point of time. As the number of pending cases is huge, the footfall in the courts would be enormous, once the lockdown is lifted and also because of suspended functioning of the courts, most of the matters could not be filed by many advocates and litigants. “Therefore, the moment courts are thrown open, it would be difficult to control the rush for the purposes of ensuring all important and crucial aspects related to social-distancing. Obviously, the courts cannot be converted into hotspots,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-forms-panel-to-create-graded-plan-for-courts-functioning-post-coronavirus-lockdown-828477.html
22-04-2020||National||Arrange bail and online meetings for women prisoners: NCW||Warning that the COVID-19 situation may get worse for women prisoners, National Commission for Women (NCW) on Wednesday asked jail officials across the country to decongest women prisons by releasing even undertrials facing grievous charges on bail, augment medical facilities and arrange online meetings with family. NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma wrote to Directors General and Inspectors General of Prisons in states saying that the current situation arising out of the pandemic demands "special attention" to women wards in these facilities. To ensure that the inmates remain healthy, she also said they should be given masks, hand gloves and sanitisers and encourage them to wash their hands at regular interval and avoid touching their faces and make gatherings. Sanitation drives should be conducted in jail premises regularly besides, providing adequate number of toilets with running flush, bathrooms and wash basins with constant supply of water. “Any slackness on the part of the prison authorities may result in the situation of prisons getting out of hand posing a serious threat to the life of women inmates,” she wrote in the letter.   Pitching for immediate action for decongesting the "overcrowded" women wards of the prisons, Sharma said one way is to ensure prompt legal action to release them on bail as "very significant" number of undertrial prisoners languishing in jail. She suggested that State Legal Services Authority (SLSA) or District Legal Services Authority should be roped in to ensure that bail applications are filed before courts along with a "positive recommendation" from the prosecution. Sharma is of the view that even cases of undertrials who are facing charges that could lead to life imprisonment or death penalty need to be processed under Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), which provides for concession to women and children below 16 years in the matter of bail. Services of senior lawyers should be obtained specifically for this, irrespective of whether the undertrials sought any legal aid. Action for release of convicted prisons on parole should also be considered favourably, she said. With the lockdown putting a spanner, Sharma said authorities should also arrange meetings of prisoners with their families through video conferencing, as it it is “essential” for their psychological well-being. Asking jail authorities to adopt a therapeutic approach and treat women inmates with compassion, she said healthcare in jails should be augmented by providing medical check-up and arranging sessions with specialists like psychologists, psychiatrists, psychiatric Social Worker and gynaecologist on visit basis in the prison itself. Sharma also asked jail authorities to provide them beds with enough moving space in between the beds or in cases where raised platforms are provided in close vicinity, occupancy should be arranged in a manner that the norm of social distancing is maintained. Women prisoners should also be provided with clean bed sheets, pillow covers, pairs of clean clothes, sanitary napkins, under garments, basic cosmetics, soap in enough quantity, detergent for washing clothes, shampoo, hair oil and tooth paste among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arrange-bail-and-online-meetings-for-women-prisoners-ncw-828479.html
22-04-2020||National||Govt paves way for return of stuck seafarers to homes amid coronavirus lockdown, issues guidelines for crew change||The government has come out with guidelines for change of crew at Indian ports, a move that will put an end to hardships faced by stuck seafarers and pave way for them to return to their homes. Under the standard operating procedure (SOP), any seafarer would be allowed sign-on at the port of embarkation only after test for COVID-19 is found negative, failing which action as per guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare would be taken. Shipping Minister Mansukh Lal Mandaviya on Wednesday in a statement said, "Crew change at sea ports will be possible now with the issuance of the SOP by the Ministry of Home Affairs. This will put an end to hardships faced by thousands of seafarers." "Change of crew of ship (seafarers) is an important measure for operation of merchant ships. The Ministry of Home Affairs has issued SOP... This SOP has been formulated to streamline the sign-on/sign-off of Indian seafarers at Indian ports for merchant shipping vessels," the shipping ministry said in the statement. For sign-on, ship owner and recruitment and placement service (RPS) agency will identify the Indian seafarers for joining a vessel, according to the SOP. "The seafarers will intimate their travel and contact history for last 28 days to the ship owner /RPS agency by e-mail, as per the procedure laid down by DGS (Directorate General of Shipping). The seafarer would be examined by a DGS-approved medical examiner, as per the guidelines prescribed for this purpose. At the same time, the seafarer shall also be screened, and his travel and contact history examined for the last 28 days," according to the SOP. Local authorities in the area where the seafarer resides will be intimated about his clearance for sign-on and for issue of a transit pass from the place of residence to the place of embarkation on the shipping vessel, it said. "The transit pass for such movement by road, for the seafarer and one driver, may be issued by the government of the state/union territory where the seafarer resides. The transit pass (to and fro) will be issued for a fixed route and with specified validity and will have to be adhered to strictly. Such transit pass would be honoured/ allowed by the authorities of the state/ union territory along the transit route," it added. It said that social distancing and other hygiene norms, as per standard health protocol, would be followed by the vehicle transporting the seafarer to his destination. Likewise, for sign-off, the master of a vessel, coming from any foreign port, or a coastal vessel from any Indian port, while arriving at its port of call in India, shall ascertain the state of health of each person on board the vessel and submit the Maritime Declaration of Health to the health authorities of the port and to the port authorities. In addition, the information required by the local health authorities of the port, such as temperature chart and individual health declaration, shall also be provided by the master as per the directives of the health authorities of the port. Port health authorities shall grant pratique to the vessel prior to berthing as per necessary health protocols. "The Indian seafarer arriving on the vessel would undergo the COVID-19 test for confirmation that he/she is negative for COVID-19. After disembarking and till the time the seafarer reaches the testing facility, within the port premises, it will be ensured by the ship owner that all safety precautions as per standard health protocol are observed," as per the SOP. The statement said if the seafarer is found negative of COVID-19 and signed off, the local authorities in the area where the seafarer disembarks will be intimated about his/ her clearance for sign-off, and for issue of a transit pass from the place of disembarkation to the place of his/ her residence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-paves-way-for-return-of-stuck-seafarers-to-homes-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-issues-guidelines-for-crew-change-828482.html
22-04-2020||National||Exhume my husband’s body and rebury, deceased doctor’s wife pleads TN govt||The wife of a 55-year-old neurosurgeon, whose burial was conducted by his colleague with bare hands after protests erupted in a crematorium here, has made an emotional appeal to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami asking him to fulfil her husband’s “last wish” by “reburying” him in another cemetery. Anandi Simon, who could not even attend her husband’s burial due to protests from locals as they though burying a dead COVID-19 patient would lead to spread of the virus, made the appeal in a video released on Tuesday night. In the video, Anandi says her husband had called from his hospital bed and told her that “I should be buried according to our customs in case if something happens to me.” She also complimented the Chief Minister for his government’s COVID-19 efforts that have kept the death rate in the state very low. “My husband is buried in a sealed casket. The casket should be taken out and reburied at the Kilpauk cemetery. Doing so will not spread the virus. I appeal to the Chief Minister to kindly heed to the request from myself and my two children to fulfil my husband’s last wish,” Anandi said with tears rolling down her cheeks. Responding to Anandi Simon’s appeal, the Archbishop of Madras and Mylapore Rev. Dr. George Antonysamy said the diocese will extend all cooperation to rebury Dr Simon’s body in the Kilpauk cemetery. Dr Simon Hercules, the Managing Director of New Hope Medical Centre, died on April 19 after the treatment for COVID-19 failed. Protests erupted at Vellangadu crematorium on Sunday night after local converged there and attacked those who gathered for the deceased doctor’s burial in which two ambulance drivers and others were injured. The Vellangadu crematorium was chosen after protests erupted at the Kilpauk Cemetery, where Anandi wants her husband buried now. After the protest, Dr Simon’s colleague Dr K Pradeep Kumar had dug the grave himself and buried his senior with help from two ward boys of the hospital. “There was none to push sand into the grave. I did it with my bare hands. I was scared for two reasons – one is the fear of the mob arriving again and the other is the need to give him (Dr. Simon) a proper burial. He needs to rest in peace,” the Arthroscopy Surgeon had told DH on Monday. Dr Simon is survived by Anandi, a daughter, who is a doctor herself and currently recuperating after testing positive for also COVID-19 positive, and a son who is studying medicine. Meanwhile, Palaniswami spoke to Anandi and asked her to be “brave” in the interest of her daughter and son.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exhume-my-husband-s-body-and-rebury-deceased-doctor-s-wife-pleads-tn-govt-828483.html
22-04-2020||National||No impact of lockdown on sepatage collection: DJB to NGT panel||Septage from pit latrines in the national capital is being collected on a daily basis and the ongoing lockdown has not impacted the operation, the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) has told a panel appointed by the National Green Tribunal to monitor pollution in the Yamuna. The Yamuna monitoring committee, comprising retired NGT expert member Bikram Singh Sajwan and former Delhi chief secretary Shailaja Chandra, had sought a report from the DJB on septage collection during the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus. "During the lockdown, it was apprehended that septage evacuation may be abandoned altogether and after the lockdown was lifted it may be collected and dumped into the Yamuna, water bodies and forest areas," the panel said. According to the DJB, "Septage collection is unhindered and the quantum being collected is more or less the same.” Sharing weekly data with the panel, the DJB said it collected 47.50 lakh liters of septage from March 16 to March 22 (before the lockdown); 49.12 lakh liters from March 23 to March 29 and 55.35 lakh liters from March 30 to April 5. "Since septage collection through licensed vendors is unhindered, there was no need for issuance of curfew passes. Licenses issued by the DJB are being allowed by police authorities," the DJB told the panel. Septage from houses in unauthorised colonies with no sewer connections or where a conveyance system is still to be laid is required to be collected by registered vendors and deposited in designated sewage pumping stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-impact-of-lockdown-on-sepatage-collection-djb-to-ngt-panel-828485.html
22-04-2020||National||PM Modi ranked top among global leaders in fight against coronavirus: JP Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda on Wednesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been ranked top amongst world leaders in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has the highest popularity among the global leaders as per a recent analysis done by pollster Morning Consult. As of April 14, his net approval rating is 68, according to the pollster. “Our Honourable Prime Minister Narendra Modi leads the world in combating COVID-19. Ensuring safety and security for the Indian people on one hand and lending all necessary support to other nations on the other, he has been ranked number one amongst world leaders in the fight against the pandemic,” Nadda said in a tweet. Many Union ministers and other party leaders also tweeted about the highest approval ratings of Modi amidst the global fight against the pandemic, saying the country has full confidence in his leadership at the time of this crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-ranked-top-among-global-leaders-in-fight-against-coronavirus-jp-nadda-828496.html
22-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: UP man cycles 850 km to get married, ends up in quarantine home||Braving the heat and overcoming numerous difficulties on the way amid the lockdown, 25-year old Sonu Chauhan, a resident of Uttar Pradesh's Balrampur district, about 200 kilometres from here, who worked in Ludhiana town in Punjab, had almost made it to his home. Sonu's wedding was scheduled to be solemnised last week and he and a few friends of his had decided to cycle their way to Balrampur, around 850 kilometres away, as there was no transport available amid the lockdown. All he wanted was to reach his native village of Pipra Rasoolpur a few days before the wedding. But as luck would have it Sonu, who managed to pass through several barriers and check-posts without any difficulty, was intercepted by a police team, when he entered Gonda district, barely a few kilometres away from his village.  Sonu and his friends were put at a quarantine home in Gonda. They would have to spend at least 14 days there. ''Had I reached home, the marriage would have been solemnised in the presence of two-three people,'' he said. Sonua would now have to wait for the lockdown to end to get married. Thousands of migrant workers, who had fled from their work places in Delhi, Mumbai, Gujarat and other places and tried to trek to their villages in UP, ended in quarantine homes before reaching home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-up-man-cycles-850-km-to-get-married-ends-up-in-quarantine-home-828502.html
22-04-2020||National||Robots to mop floors, assist doctors in AIIMS' COVID-19 ward||Now, a robot will mop the advanced COVID-19 ward in the premier All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in the national capital while another will help doctors to monitor and interact with patients. An artificial intelligence-powered robots -- iMap 9 and Humanoid ELF -- developed by consumer robotics brand Milagrow will be deployed in AIIMS on a test basis. Milagrow iMap 9 is a floor disinfecting robot that navigates and sanitise the floors without any human intervention. The makers claim that it can destroy COVID-19 spores on floor surfaces using sodium hypochlorite solution as prescribed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). A statement by Milagrow said the robot moves around autonomously without falling, avoiding obstruction while planning its own path, guided by LIDAR and advanced SLAM technology. "Its Real-Time Terrain Recognition Technology (RT2RT) scans at 360 degrees, six times per second to make a floor map in real-time with an accuracy of up to 8mm over a 16m distance. This enables the iMap 9 to perform successfully in the first attempt, whereas other robots can take twice or thrice the time. Additionally, the robot can do zoning, virtual blocking of avoidable areas and sequential cleaning of zones based on specific needs," it said.  Armed with 60 sensors and 3D tracking and HD cameras, the 92-cm tall Humanoid ELF enables doctors to monitor and interact with patients remotely with no person-to-person contact, which significantly reducing the transmission risk. Patients can also interact with their relatives from time to time through this robot. "The Humanoid ELF can navigate around the ward independently and record the activities in high definition video and audio. Offering 8 hours of battery life, it can travel about 2.9 km per hour...The advanced humanoid features eyes with emotion, Open API for further development, and customization. Both the Milagrow iMap 9 and Humanoid ELF come with the auto charging feature," it said. AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria was quoted as saying in the statement, “Milagrow Floor Robot iMap 9.0 and Milagrow Humanoid will be tried at AIIMS."  Milagrow founder Chairman Rajeev Karwal said countries like the United States, China, and Italy have already successfully implemented AI-based robots at health facilities to minimize human intervention in treating COVID-19 patients, and India can replicate the same to provide some relief to its frontline healthcare workers in their battle against coronavirus. As the outbreak continues to rise alarmingly, our state-of-the-art robots will help check the virus spread and protect the doctors, nurses, and caregivers from getting infected.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/robots-to-mop-floors-assist-doctors-in-aiims-covid-19-ward-828503.html
22-04-2020||National||With 27 new positive COVID-19 cases, J&K’s tally jumps to 407||Twenty-seven people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, the second-biggest single-day rise in COVID-19 cases in the Union Territory, taking the toll tally to 407. “27 new cases reported today. All from Kashmir Division. Total now 407. Jammu-56 and Kashmir-351,” J&K government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal, tweeted. On Tuesday, a doctor from Baramulla district was among 12 persons, who tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease. Reports said panic gripped among health workers posted at government medical college Baramulla (GMC) after their colleague tested positive for COVID-19.  The health workers at GMC Baramulla said that they fear contraction of the virus after their colleague tested positive for the virus as the government had allegedly failed to provide them adequate personal protective equipment (PPE). They alleged that the equipment provided to them lacked proper specifications and was not effective against the deadly virus; thereby putting them at greater risk of contracting the virus. They also said that no protocol is being followed by the concerned authorities and this negligence may land them in trouble. The total number of coronavirus cases is now 407 in Jammu and Kashmir, of which 321 are active, 81 have recovered while have died.   More than 62,000 people have been kept under surveillance, including 6032 who are either in the government established quarantine facilities or in-home isolation, 248 in hospital quarantine, 294 in hospital isolation, and 17421 under home surveillance. Besides, 38493 persons have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-27-new-positive-covid-19-cases-jk-s-tally-jumps-to-407-828509.html
22-04-2020||National||COVID-19: India gifts 23 tonnes of essential medicines to Nepal||India on Wednesday sent 23 tonnes of essential medicines to Nepal to help it fight the coronavirus pandemic which has infected 45 people in the country. Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli thanked his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi for the “generous support”. "I thank Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi ji for India's generous support of 23 tonnes of essential medicines to Nepal, to fight COVID-19 Pandemic. The medicines were handed over to the Minister for Health and Population today by the Ambassador of India," Oli said in a tweet. As part of the ongoing bilateral cooperation to fight the coronavirus, India’s ambassador Vinay Mohan Kwatra handed over the consignment to Minister for Health and Population Bhanubhakta Dhakal, the Indian mission here said in a statement. "The consignment, as a gift from the people of India to people of Nepal, includes 8.25 lakh doses of essential medicines, 3.2 lakh doses of Paracetamol and 2.5 lakh doses of Hydroxychloroquine,” it said. The initiative manifests the continuing cooperation between India and Nepal in all situations and circumstances, the statement said. “Indian and Nepali health professionals are collaborating their efforts on ground to contain and stop this pandemic. India is committed to prepare, act and succeed together in partnership with Nepal and other South Asian partner countries in this hour of challenge,” the Indian embassy added. Meanwhile, the total number of coronavirus cases in Nepal has reached 45, a Health Ministry spokesperson said.     Three patients were discharged from hospital. So far, seven persons have been cured while 38 people undergoing treatment in different hospitals. Last month, Prime Minister Modi held a video conference of SAARC leaders and offered all possible assistance to the neighbouring countries, pledging USD 10 million to SAARC COVID-19 Emergency Fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-gifts-23-tonnes-of-essential-medicines-to-nepal-828517.html
22-04-2020||National||Indian Railways offers to supply 2.6 lakh meals daily to states||Railways has offered to supply 2.6 lakh meals daily from its various kitchens to all those districts which are willing to pick up cooked meals and distribute among the needy, the ministry said on Wednesday. This has been communicated to district authorities all over the country, it said. "Details of zone-wise kitchen in charges have also been communicated to the states. The offer of 2.6 lakh meals per day is based on the kitchen capacities of the earmarked initial locations. If the need arises, more such locations can be ramped up to boost the supply. These meals will be available at just cost basis at Rs 15 a meal. Payments settlement can be done by the state governments at a later stage," it said. Clarifying about the amount, railway officials said states will be charged if they want railways to cook additional meals for them. IRCTC has agreed to ramp up the number of cooked meals as per demand. Nearly one lakh free hot cooked meals are already being distributed by Indian Railways daily.      The IRCTC kitchens gearing up to serve the needy persons in case of demand include Gaya, Deen Dayal (Mugalsarai), Rajinder Nagar (Patna), Samastipur, Dhanbad, Hajipur, Katihar, Guwahati, Ranchi, Balasore, Tatanagar and Howrah in East Zone; and New Delhi and Prayagraj in North Zone. Vijayawada, Khurda Road, Visakhapatnam and Raipur in South Central Zone; Bangalore, Hubli, Tiruchirappalli, Katpadi, Ch Engalpa Ttu and Madurai in South Zone; and Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Bhusaval in West Zone are also gearing up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-offers-to-supply-26-lakh-meals-daily-to-states-828521.html
22-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: India readying rapid response teams for Bangladesh, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and Afghanistan||India is readying separate rapid response teams for dispatching to friendly neighbouring countries like Bangladesh, Bhutan, Sri Lanka and Afghanistan in spirit of its commitment to help them deal with the coronavirus pandemic, official sources said. A 14-member rapid response team was sent to Maldives last month to help the island nation set up coronavirus testing laboratories and train local medical professionals to fight the pandemic. Earlier this month, India sent a 15-member team, comprising healthcare personnel from the Army, to Kuwait as part of bilateral cooperation between the two countries. Three weeks back, India gifted a 10-tonne consignment of essential life-saving medicines to Sri Lanka in view of the COVID-19 crisis. India has assured all friendly neighbouring countries of all possible assistance to help them fight the pandemic. New Delhi has also been playing a key role in pushing for a common framework in dealing with the crisis. At a video conference on March 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi pitched for formulating a joint strategy to fight COVID-19 in the SAARC region and proposed an emergency fund with an initial offer of USD 10 million from India. It is understood that India has already made the contribution. The South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) is a regional grouping comprising Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. All the SAARC member nations are reeling under the adverse social and economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic. India is also supplying anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine to 55 countries. A number of countries including the US, Mauritius, Seychelles have already received the drug. Hydroxychloroquine has been identified by the US Food and Drug Administration as a possible treatment for the COVID-19 and it is being tested on more than 1,500 coronavirus patients in New York. The demand for the drug has swelled rapidly after India decided to lift a ban on its export. In the neighbourhood, India is sending the drug to Afghanistan, Bhutan, Bangladesh Nepal, the Maldives, Mauritius, Sri Lanka and Myanmar, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-readying-rapid-response-teams-for-bangladesh-bhutan-sri-lanka-and-afghanistan-828530.html
22-04-2020||National||DDCA secretary Tihara in Meerut jail for past 1 month, colleagues thought he had coronavirus||"A Delhi resident named Vinod Tihara was arrested by Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) wing of Noida on March 17 on allegations of violations of GST norms and is currently in Meerut jail," SSP Meerut, Ajay Sahni, told PTI. There was no immediate clarity on the exact nature of the violation he has been accused of committing. Tihara is Delhi cricket's representative at the BCCI and an influential figure in state's cricket body. Tihara had been "unreachable" since mid-March leaving DDCA officials, including members of his faction, flummoxed. "For the longest time, we were under the impression that Vinod ji has tested positive for COVID-19. One or two people who contacted his family members were told that he is under isolation. His phone is switched off for the past one month," a senior DDCA office-bearer told PTI. During a recent online hearing in a matter of financial misappropriation of funds, organised by DDCA ombudsman Justice (Retd) Deepak Verma via Skype, one of the body's lawyers, known for his proximity to Tihara, told the apex council members that he had tested positive for novel coronavirus. "We all freaked out as we had met Tihara till March 15 at various places. We told him that why weren't we informed as we all needed to quarantine ourselves. "He then changed track and said that if you people would have been COVID-19 positive, then you would have known by now. It was very suspicious," the Apex Council member who was suspended that day, said. In fact, some of the members are now wondering how did a letter signed by Tihara in support of one of the lawyers, whose service was being terminated, was submitted to Ombudsman, when all this while he had been in jail. It is understood that because of the elockdown, his bail plea has been deferred.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ddca-secretary-tihara-in-meerut-jail-for-past-1-month-colleagues-thought-he-had-coronavirus-828532.html
22-04-2020||National||Lockdown extension unlikely to contain surge in coronavirus infections: Fitch Solutions||India extending the nationwide lockdown by nearly three more weeks to May 3 is unlikely to stem the surge in coronavirus infections and economic and humanitarian crisis will exacerbate due to slow response by the government so far, according to Fitch Solutions. "We at Fitch Solutions have revised down our forecast for India's FY2020-21 (April 2020 to March 2021) real GDP growth to 1.8 per cent, from 4.6 per cent previously," it said in a note on Wednesday. "The key drivers behind our revision is slow and weak fiscal response and a worsening of the COVID-19 outbreak domestically, which we expect to cause both private consumption and investments to contract," Fitch Solutions said. Noting that the COVID-19 outbreak in India has worsened, it said in a span of about three weeks, confirmed cases in the country have ballooned to over 18,000, and deaths were over 500 as of April 20, from 700 cases and 20 deaths at the end of March. "Even at these numbers, we believe that India is nowhere near the peak of the infection given its large population of 1.3 billion," it said. "To be sure, according to data compiled by the University of Oxford, India's COVID-19 testing rate is only at about 257 per million people, as compared to 11,159 in the US, 5,539 in the UK, and 10,855 in South Korea," Fitch Solutions noted. While India's lockdown has been extended to May 3 from April 14 to stem the virus' spread, Fitch Solutions said it believes "this will fail to stem the continued surge in infections and also fail to flatten the infection curve."  It cited four reasons for its downbeat view, including that carriers of the virus can be asymptomatic, which means that many carriers can go undetected and still spread the virus. Secondly, large crowds of rural migrant workers have gathered at the transport depots in hopes of getting a ride back to their rural villages upon the announcement of the lockdown extension on April 14, and also back when the lockdown was first announced on March 24. "This, in itself, poses significant risk of contagion and could also spread to the rural areas which have poor access to healthcare," it said. Thirdly, squalid living conditions in many parts of India such as in the shanty towns also put the residents at high risk of contagion despite lockdown measures being in place, Fitch Solutions said. "Finally, the low number of cases in India relative to its large population is likely due simply to a low testing rate thus far, with cases very likely to surge as testing is increased over the coming weeks," it added. Further, Fitch Solutions said that over the short term, however, the slow response by the central government thus far will also exacerbate the economic and humanitarian crisis, with the delayed response likely raising the amount needed to get the economy out of the debacle. It has also revised its private consumption growth forecast to a 2.5 per cent contraction, from a 3 per cent expansion previously. Citing data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) regarding unemployment, Fitch Solutions said the resultant income loss by a large part of the population due to job losses and business closures, particularly in the MSME segment will constrain private consumption over the coming quarters. CMIE had said that India's unemployment rate surged to over 20 per cent after the nationwide lockdown implementation on March 24, from 6.7 per cent just a week before that. While the government dole of free foodgrain, cooking gas and cash transfers to some poor was barely sufficient, the loan moratorium and deferment of working capital interest will do little to prevent business closures, expecially among MSMEs, Fitch Solutions said. "As such, we still expect many businesses to close and layoffs to be heavy across the country. We have revised our investment growth forecast from a 2.0 per cent contraction to a 3.6 per cent contraction," it added. With a worsening COVID-19 outbreak in India, extended lockdowns nationwide, and a subdued economic outlook, cash conservation is expected to be the priority for companies at this juncture so as to be financially nimble amid market uncertainty. "A likely large number of job losses and business closures due to the virus' impact will take a significant toll on the Indian economy. Limited fiscal space and poor monetary transmission will also hamper the effectiveness for fiscal and monetary stimulus to lift economic growth," Fitch Solutions said. "As such, we cannot rule out an eventual revision to our real GDP growth forecast to a contraction for FY2020/21 at this juncture and we will update our forecast as more data feeds through over the year," it noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-extension-unlikely-to-contain-surge-in-coronavirus-infections-fitch-solutions-828534.html
22-04-2020||National||121 years before COVID-19 Swami Vivekananda suggested ways to fight plague||As the world battles the COVID-19 pandemic about 121 years ago when another pandemic plague broke out in Kolkata and other parts of India Swami Vivekananda wrote an unique advisory for the Kolkata residents called the Plague Manifesto. The booklet was written in 1898 soon plague broke out in Kolkata. Vivekananda emphasized on not panicking, maintaining personal hygiene and boosting immunity to keep the plague at bay; almost the same practices emphasized by public health experts to battle COVID-19. He also urged people to join forces with those who are trying to find a way to fend off the menace. “We humbly pray to you — please do not panic due to unfounded fear...” stated Vivekananda. Urging people to “live pure and clean lives” Vivekananda advised them to keep their house and adjoining premises clean along with things of their daily use. “Always keep the house and its premises, the rooms, clothes, bed, drain, etc., clean,” he said.  Healthy eating was a key point in his advice. He pointed out that weak health makes one more vulnerable to diseases. Vivekananda urged people not to eat “stale, spoiled food” and have a “fresh and nutritious” diet. He also tried to dispel several rumours regarding plague at that time such the colonial British Government will vaccinate everyone by force and clarified that only those who are willing will be vaccinated. “Do not pay any heed to rumours. The British government will not vaccinate anyone by force. Only those who are willing will be vaccinated,” stated Vivekananda in the Manifesto. He also said that the then government was active in helping the people and there was nothing to be afraid of. “The government authorities have also been particularly helpful to us. So what is there to fear?” stated Vivekananda.     However, his efforts were not limited to just giving advices. According to the May 2006 edition of Prabuddha Bharata, a monthly journal published by Advaita Ashrama, a publication Centre of the Ramakrishna Math in West Bengal’s Belur, the headquarters of the Ramakrishna Mission two of his eminent disciples Sister Nivedita and Swami Sadananda started a major cleaning drive in the city which later received huge public support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/121-years-before-covid-19-swami-vivekananda-suggested-ways-to-fight-plague-828535.html
22-04-2020||National||Many COVID-19 patients in Kerala remain positive longer than usual||Apart from instances of asymptomatic persons under observation for COVID-19 testing positive even after around 28 days in quarantine, instances of persons being remaining positive for more than 40 days. It can be noted that a 62-year-old woman in Pathanamthitta district remained positive on the 42nd day. Also, over around two dozen patients in Kerala took more than 20 days for getting cured, while many are still awaiting results. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the patterns of Coronavirus were quite confusing and are causing concerns, hence detailed studies are required.  A health department source said that even as some patients were being tested positive forCOVID-19 for about three weeks and more, they were not having any other illness. There were reports from other countries, including China, that even as the lifespan of Coronavirus in the human body is around ten days, there were many instances of patients testing positive for the infection for up to 21 days.  In the case of the woman in Pathanamthitta, who was suspected to have got infected through a local contact, was tested negative on Wednesday. But, the result of the sample taken in the 24-hours gap is still awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-covid-19-patients-in-kerala-remain-positive-longer-than-usual-828537.html
22-04-2020||National||Power Ministry asks states to allow construction activities at thermal, hydro plants outside municipal limits amid lockdown||The power ministry has asked states to allow construction activities at thermal and hydropower plants falling outside the municipal corporation limits during the lockdown. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has allowed construction of hydropower plants outside the municipal limits in the states from April 20 in its directive issued on April 15, 2020. The Centre has given some relaxations in the lockdown guidelines based on the assessment of the situation in different areas across the country. In an advisory to states, the Ministry of Power stated, "It is requested to allow the construction activities in thermal/hydropower generation projects outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities as per para 16(i) of the MHA order on April 15." The ministry also asked the stated to allow the intrastate and interstate movement of construction materials, equipment, spares and consumables, etc, for these under-construction power projects. The resumption of project works at sites may be carried out while taking all mandatory precautions and norms of social distancing as well the advisories issued by MHA and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare from time to time with regard to COVID-19, the ministry stated in its advisory issued to states on April 20, 2020. The advisory has been issued to all the state/UT secretaries of power, district magistrates, police commissioners/ superintendent of police and CEOs of urban local bodies (ULBs) of all states and UTs in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-ministry-asks-states-to-allow-construction-activities-at-thermal-hydro-plants-outside-municipal-limits-amid-lockdown-828538.html
22-04-2020||National||After the 'Nizamuddin shock,' no COVID-19 positive case in Assam in the past 7 days||No COVID-19 positive case has been reported in Assam in the past seven days as the state inched closer to mop up the "shock" provided by the Nizamuddin incident. "Fortunately, no positive case has been reported in the past seven days. Out of the 34 positive cases we received, 19 has been discharged from the hospitals and we hope to release the rest of them soon. We all just hope that no fresh case comes up," health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told reporters here on Wednesday. The state has tested over 5,700 samples so far.  Till March 31, the state reported no COVID-19 positive case but Nizamuddin incident came as a shocker with 33 of those who returned from Nizamuddin or their family members tested positive thereafter. Only one person, who did not have any connection with Nizamuddin incident tested positive in the state. The health department and the state police went into a tizzy as soon as the Centre and Andhra Pradesh government shared a list of over 800 persons from the state on March 31, who returned from Nizamuddin congregation but did not go to health centres for COVID-19 screening for quarantine. Some of them responded to the state government's appeals and visited hospitals but more than 200 went into hiding. This forced the state government to take help of the clerics, Masjids and the gaonburhas (village headmen) to identify and bring them to health centres. The state police also issued a warning to register FIR against those refusing to come to the hospital.  Conditional relaxation:  The state government has decided to allow conditional relaxation for travel of those who are stuck across the state due to the lockdown, for three days between April 25 to 27.  The relaxation, however, will be granted subject to clearance from the deputy commissioners.  Those who are stuck elsewhere will be granted permission to return (one time) to their home or office. Similarly, employers who need to transport their workers to the workplace, which have been allowed to resume work, will also be allowed to do so after necessary permission from district authorities. "The relaxation will be granted on the humanitarian ground but the protocols issued by the union ministry of home affairs will be strictly followed," Sarma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-the-nizamuddin-shock-no-covid-19-positive-case-in-assam-in-the-past-7-days-828542.html
22-04-2020||National||COVID-19 effect: Kerala to defer one-month salary of govt employees in five installments||The Kerala government has decided to defer one month's salary of government employees in five monthly installments as well as to cut 30 percent salary of all cabinet members, MLAs, local body representatives, and all chairpersons of various boards and corporation. The deferred salary would be released as and when the government's financial situation improves. Exception from salary deferring would be given only to those drawing less than  Rs. 20,000 per month. Six days salary would be deducted every month for all other sections of government employees for five months, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan.  The decision taken by the Cabinet on Wednesday triggered strong resentment mainly from doctors and health workers and a section of government employees especially since there was no definite assurance on when the deferred salary would be released. Some of the service organisations already decided to approach the court against the decision to defer salary payment.  Even as there was a proposal to urge government employees to contribute one month's salary in ten monthly installments, similar to the one-month salary challenge after the 2018 floods, it was called off owing to resistance. Moreover, during the salary challenge in 2018, only nearly 60 percent of employees contributed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-effect-kerala-to-defer-one-month-salary-of-govt-employees-in-five-installments-828549.html
22-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: No compromise on safety of healthcare personnel, says PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday asserted that there can be no compromise on the safety of healthcare professionals fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, and said the ordinance approved by the Union cabinet shows the government's commitment in this regard. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved an ordinance which proposed stringent punishment for those harassing or attacking healthcare personnel involved in discharging their duties in containing the pandemic. He said the ordinance will ensure the safety of our professionals.  "There can be no compromise on their safety!," Modi tweeted and added that the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 manifested the government's commitment to protect each and every healthcare worker who is bravely battling COVID-19 on the frontline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-no-compromise-on-safety-of-healthcare-personnel-says-pm-narendra-modi-828555.html
22-04-2020||National||Mamata slams Centre over sending teams, faulty testing kits||West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday lashed out at the Centre for sending teams to evaluate the implementation of lockdown measures. Addressing the media at the state secretariat, the Chief Minister further alleged that defective testing kits were sent to the state. “Every day they (Centre) are telling what to do and what not to do. They are sending teams to see our preparations to fight the COVID-19 pandemic,” said Banerjee. Referring to the Centre’s letters to the state government in this regard the Chief Minister said that they were sending strongly worded letters and the state government can do the same.  “They are sending us strongly worded letters. We can also do that. But that is not the point,” said Banerjee. She also said that all the rapid testing kits sent to the state have been withdrawn. “Even as our Health Department has made previous orders but we do not know when we will get them,” said Banerjee. “Tests have to be conducted in time or else people may die...The supplier of these kits is ICMR and NICED and we don’t have enough mediums. I cannot understand their planning ( of the Centre),” said Banerjee.  Meanwhile, the number of active COVID-19 cases rose to 300 in Bengal while the death toll remained 15. So far 79 persons have been discharged after being cured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-slams-centre-over-sending-teams-faulty-testing-kits-828566.html
22-04-2020||National||Cabinet okays Rs 15k cr for 'India COVID-19 emergency response, health system preparedness package'||The Cabinet on Wednesday okayed Rs 15,000 crore for 'India COVID-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package' to mount an urgent response for containing the spread of the virus in India through development of dedicated treatment facilities and setting up laboratories among others. The fund will be utilized in three phases. Rs 7,774 crore, has been provisioned for COVID-19 Emergency Response and the rest for medium-term support, ranging from one to four years to be provided under mission-mode approach. "The key objectives of the package include mounting emergency response to slow and limit coronavirus infection in India through development of diagnostics and COV1D-dedicated treatment facilities, centralised procurement of essential medical equipment and drugs, strengthen and build resilient national and state health systems, setting up of laboratories and bolstering surveillance activities and pandemic research," an official statement stated. These interventions and initiatives would be implemented under the health ministry. In the first phase, the health ministry with the support of all the other line ministries has already undertaken several activities. An additional Rs 3,000 crore under the package has been released to states and Union Territories, for strengthening existing health facilities as COVID-19 dedicated hospitals, dedicated COVID-19 health centres and dedicated care centres for the disease. Detailed guidelines, protocols and advisory for quarantine, isolation, testing, treatment, disease containment, decontamination, social distancing and surveillance have been issued. Hotspots have been identified and appropriate containment strategies are being implemented, the statement said. "Diagnostic laboratories network has been expanded and our testing capacity is increasing every day. In fact, leveraging on the existing multi-disease testing platforms under National TB Elimination Programme, orders for procurement of 13 lakhs diagnostic kits have been placed to augment COVID-19 testing," it said.  "All health workers, including community health volunteers (ASHAs) have been covered under the 'Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package: Insurance Scheme for Health Workers lighting COVID-19'. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), N95 masks and ventilators, testing kits and drugs for treatment are being procured centrally," it stated.   A major share of the fund will be used for mounting robust emergency response, strengthening national and state health systems followed by strengthening pandemic research and multi-sector national institutions and platforms for one-health, community engagement and risk communications and implementation, management, capacity building, monitoring and evaluation component, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-okays-rs-15k-cr-for-india-covid-19-emergency-response-health-system-preparedness-package-828568.html
22-04-2020||National||Death toll due to COVID-19 touches 652; cases rise to 20,471||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 652 and the number of cases climbed to 20,471 in the country on Wednesday, registering an increase of 49 deaths and 1,486 cases since last evening, according to the Union health ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 15,859. While 3,959 people have been cured and discharged, and one patient has migrated, the ministry said. Thus, over 19 per cent of the cases have recovered so far, a health ministry official said. The total number of cases includes 77 foreign nationals. A total of 49 deaths were reported since Tuesday evening. Of these, 19 fatalities were reported from Maharashtra, 18 from Gujarat, four from Madhya Pradesh, three from West Bengal, two from Andhra Pradesh and one each from Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-due-to-covid-19-touches-652-cases-rise-to-20471-828571.html
22-04-2020||National||Indian pharmaceutical firms will play important role in fight against COVID-19 pandemic: Amb Sandhu||Indian pharmaceutical companies, well-known for producing affordable low-cost medicines, will play an important role in the global fight against the coronavirus pandemic that has affected over 2.5 million people across the world, India’s top diplomat here has said. India's Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu also underlined that as global strategic partners, India and the US are prepared to face this public health crisis together. India, one of the largest producers of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, has seen a spurt in demand in recent weeks. India has sent the drug to over 50 countries over the last few days, including the United States, he said on Tuesday. Hydroxychloroquine has been identified by the US Food and Drug Administration as a possible treatment for the COVID-19 and it is being tested on more than 1,500 coronavirus patients in New York. "Indian pharmaceutical companies are global leaders in producing affordable low-cost medicines and will play an important role in the fight against this pandemic,” Sandhu said in his virtual conversation with Asia Society Policy Institute Senior Fellow Puneet Talwar. In fact, India and the US have robust partnership in the area of health and scientific research, which will be critical in the fight against this disease that has killed over 171,000 people and affected over 2.5 million globally. "Perhaps the most successful tangible example of our successful bilateral cooperation in recent years was the development of the rotavirus vaccine, which saves thousands of lives every year,” he said. Rotavirus vaccine is a vaccine used to protect against rotavirus infections, which are the leading cause of severe diarrhea among young children. "Our network of scientific institutions, including the Indian Council of Medical Research and NIH (National Institute of Health) and the CDC (Center for Disease Control) in the US are in touch with each other. This is part of our longstanding cooperation, which has been energised in the context of this pandemic,” Sandhu said. Indian and the US companies are also collaborating in the co-development of a vaccine. The US India Science and Technology Endowment Fund has called for proposals that would enable scientists to collaborate, to carry out joint research and to also work towards the development of new technologies, to fight COVID-19.  Observing that the shape of the world that will emerge from the pandemic may be unfamiliar, he said “we need” to navigate through this crisis through a coordinated response and individual countries need to rely on their strengths.   “As global strategic partners India and the US are prepared to face this together. We are ready to deploy a full sprint of our partnership to fight this pandemic as Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) has said,” Sandhu added. The outbreak of coronavirus is an unprecedented challenge in an increasingly interconnected world. The US has been badly affected by the deadly coronavirus as it has claimed 45,000 lives and infected over 824,000 people in the country. “The rapid spread of virus across the globe in a relatively short period of time showed that the virus was ahead of us,” he said, noting that governments across the world are making efforts to slow the spread and flatten the curve so that the medical infrastructure is not overburdened. Responding to a question, Sandhu said that given the transnational nature of this pandemic and India's responsibility as a first responder in the region, which it has always done in the time of crisis, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took the initiative to invite the other seven South Asian country leaders for a video conference on March 15. The prime minister took the initiative to establish a SAARC emergency response fund with an initial contribution of USD 10 million from India. This has since become operational, he said, adding that all the other countries have also contributed subsequently. Nepal and Afghanistan pledged USD 1 million each, Maldives committed USD 200,000, Bhutan USD 100,000, Bangladesh USD 1.5 million, Sri Lanka USD 5 million and Pakistan pledged USD 3 million to the fund. Founded in 1985, the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) is a regional intergovernmental organisation and geopolitical union of Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. “We are working to create a SAARC platform and we are regularly sharing ideas and proposals for diagnostics and medical interventions with other countries,” he said. In the extraordinary virtual G-20 summit, Prime Minister Modi had taken the initiative and has also underlined the responsibility of the G-20 countries in combating this disease, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-pharmaceutical-firms-will-play-important-role-in-fight-against-covid-19-pandemic-amb-sandhu-828583.html
22-04-2020||National||How two Andhra Pradesh districts remained COVID-19 free, when two other account for close to 400 cases||Two rows on the daily COVID-19 bulletins of Andhra Pradesh remain distinctive from the alarming figures reported on the same datasheet from elsewhere in the state. The two northernmost districts - Srikakulam and Vizianagaram - have so far reported no positive case, even as two other districts - Kurnool and Guntur together account for about half of the state’s 813 cases (as of April 22, Wednesday morning). Speaking to DH, the medical and health officer of Srikakulam Dr. M Chenchaiah lists the reasons for their comforting figures amid the gloomy numbers. “Compared to other districts, Srikakulam has less urbanization, no big cities and we received only a few foreign returnees. Besides, we took several quick measures like early identification of suspects, rapid tests, strict implementation of quarantine rules,” Dr. Chenchaiah says. According to the official, another advantage was none from the district attending the Tablighi Jamaat’s Delhi Markaz held in the middle of March. According to the 2011 census, Srikakulam has a Muslim population of just 0.33 percent. “Though 27 people from Srikakulam were traced as present in Delhi during that period, none of them were found to have attended the Markaz. The Muslim population here is very low,” Dr. Chenchaiah said. Whereas in neighboring Vizianagaram, with 0.7 percent population as Muslims, barely 15 had traveled for the Markaz. “However, only four of them have returned and all of them have tested negative,” Dr. M Chamanthi, deputy DMHO, Vizianagaram says. “We have set up a thorough screening mechanism for anyone entering our district and tests conducted on all suspects. We have 162 people in quarantine now,” she said. In total contrast to Srikakulam and Vizianagaram are the Kurnool and Guntur districts which have reported 203 and 177 cases respectively, forming 47 percent of the total cases in Andhra Pradesh. According to a senior AP government official involved in COVID-19 mitigation measures, at least 70 percent of the state's cases are connected to Markaz. “Kurnool and Guntur are among the districts with highest number of Markaz returnees and their public contact prior to strict lockdown helped the numbers spike there,” the official said Kurnool has 16.5 percent population as Muslims and Guntur 11.5 percent, explaining the high Markaz attendance. “Whereas in Srikakulam-Vizianagaram, no Markaz returnees, few foreign returnees, border sealing, and other efficient measures helped control public movement and thus the virus spread.” Of the 56 cases reported in AP on Wednesday, Kurnool and Guntur constituted 19 each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-two-andhra-pradesh-districts-remained-covid-19-free-when-two-other-account-for-close-to-400-cases-828585.html
22-04-2020||National||India to airlift 220 tonnes of essential medical cargo from China over next 3 days: Hardeep Singh Puri||India will airlift 220 tonnes of essential medical cargo from China over next three days, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Wednesday. The National Carrier, Air India, has lifted about 300 tonnes of essential medical cargo so far this month through the China-India aerobridge, the minister said on Twitter. "It is planned that Air India along with SpiceJet and Blue Dart will airlift another 220 tonnes of this critical cargo in the next three days," he said.   India has been under a lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, which has infected more than 20,000 people and killed over 600 in the country till now. All commercial passenger flights have been suspended for the lockdown period, which is scheduled to last till May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-airlift-220-tonnes-of-essential-medical-cargo-from-china-over-next-3-days-hardeep-singh-puri-828589.html
22-04-2020||National||Bill Gates lauds PM Narendra Modi's leadership in combating COVID-19 in India||Microsoft founder Bill Gates has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi commending for the leadership role in fighting COVID-19 in India by adopting national lockdown and expanding focused testing to identify hotspots for isolation among other things. He said he was glad to know that the Indian government was fully utilising its exceptional digital capabilities in its COVID-19 response and has launched the Aarogya Setu digital app for coronavirus tracking, contact tracing, and to connect people to health services. "We commend your leadership and the proactive measures you and your government have taken to flatten the curve of the COVID-19 infection rate in India, such as adopting a national lockdown, expanding focused testing to identify hot spots for isolation, quarantining, and care, and significantly increasing health expenditures to strengthen the health system response and promote R&D and digital innovation," Gates said in the letter.  Gates also said he was grateful to see that Modi was seeking to balance public health imperatives with the need to ensure adequate social protection for all Indians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bill-gates-lauds-pm-narendra-modis-leadership-in-combating-covid-19-in-india-828591.html
22-04-2020||National||Australia lauds India's efforts in containing coronavirus pandemic||The coronavirus pandemic is stretching much of the world's governmental capacity and terrorists are likely to exploit the situation including by fostering communal tension, Australian High Commissioner-designate Barry O'Farrell said on Wednesday. In an address at the National Defence College through video-conference, O'Farrell also said India may be one of the most successful developing countries in managing the pandemic and lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi's global outreach to deal with it. He said Modi is also one of the leading voices shaping the G20 into a body instrumental in leading the world into post-COVID-19 recovery, and was an early voice advocating for reforms to the World Health Organisation. "We've seen some remarkable leadership from India since this crisis began. The world is facing an unprecedented health challenge for which no government has a perfect answer," O'Farrell said. It's laudable not just that the Indian government acted so quickly to stem the virus's spread, but also that it continues working to mitigate the lockdown's impact on India's most vulnerable. It's an enormous challenge for the world's most populous nation," he added. The diplomat said it was Modi who led nations of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation to coordinate pandemic responses - and establish the SAARC COVID-19 Emergency Fund - almost as soon as the crisis began. Talking about impact of the coronavirus crisis on geo-politics, O'Farrell said it will take time to play out, but said, "I see a US far more cautious about exercising global leadership than in the past." He said current pandemic is stretching much of the world's governmental capacity. "...And of course there's no shortage of terrorists who would exploit insecurity and diminished government capacity for their own ends - and would look to foster communal tension amid a crisis," said the diplomat, without specifying the terror groups. Referring to the situation in the Indo-Pacific, he said the region will continue to be the engine of the global economy in the decades to come. At the same time, O'Farrell said the crisis will not necessarily change the nature of threats facing the region, but it will hasten the pace at which they are developing. "I believe this crisis will bring Australia and India even closer together as two Indian Ocean democracies with complementary values," he said. India, the US and several other world powers have been talking about the need to ensure a free, open and thriving Indo-Pacific in the backdrop of China's rising military maneuvering in the Indo-Pacific region. In November 2017, India, the US, Australia and Japan gave shape to the long-pending "Quad" coalition to work closely in the region. The move was seen as an attempt to contain China's growing influence in the region. In September, the four countries held talks at the foreign ministerial level, signalling "significant elevation" of the cooperation. The US, Japan and Australia have also been pressing for a greater role by India in the Indo-Pacific region. "India is the natural major power in the region, and Australia looks to it as a strategic partner with complementary interests." said the Australian High Commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/australia-lauds-indias-efforts-in-containing-coronavirus-pandemic-828595.html
22-04-2020||National||Centre vs. West Bengal: Provide us a detailed presentation on the coronavirus situation, IMCT tells WB govt||In a letter to Sinha, the IMCT leader Additional Secretary Apurva Chandra also said the state administration should arrange field visits to hospitals, hotspots and market places with "relevant" locals officials and not with just a police officer who may have no clue about any measures taken to tackle COVID-19 apart from implementation of lockdown. Chandra's letter comes after the Centre and West Bengal government indulged in a high-pitched battle over the visit of two central teams to the state with the latter initially saying that it could not cooperate unless the criteria for selecting seven districts be made clear. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also questioned the Centre for keeping the state in the dark over sending the teams to the state.  After the state government sought to de-escalate the confrontation, Chandra, whose team landed in Kolkata on Monday, said that since the state government has now decided to extend "full cooperation", the Health Department should give them a detailed presentation. The presentation should have emphasis on a variety of points, including special emphasis on points like whether the level of testing is adequate, whether the testing facilities available in the state are being used in full and whether the protocol adopted for testing and the level at which conduct of Covid-19 test is approved, the letter said. The fresh demand came as Health Department did not give a scheduled presentation on Tuesday morning even as Sinha gave an overall briefing about the situation in the evening. Earlier, Sinha wrote a letter saying, "it is not a fact that central teams have not been provided any cooperation by West Bengal.”  Chandra said the presentation should also have special emphasis on availability of PPE and masks and its distribution to healthcare professionals in Covid-19 and non Covid-19 hospitals, availability of oxygen beds and supplies, ICU beds and ventilator as well as the number of surveillance teams and persons surveyed per day in hotspots and containment zones. Chandra also said they would also like to know about the arrangements in place for identifying and quarantining people, supply of essential commodities and condition of relief camps as well as enforcement of lockdown procedure and social distancing. After "full appreciation of the status of the preparedness" of the state government, Chandra said, the team would also like to visit some hospitals, quarantine centres, hotspots and market places and directly interact with health professionals, inmates and general public in Kolkata, Howrah, 24 North Parganas and East Midnapore. "It is also requested that keeping in view the threat of exposure of Covid-19, necessary equipment like PPE etc may be arranged for IMCT prior to its visit to such places," the letter said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-vs-west-bengal-provide-us-a-detailed-presentation-on-the-coronavirus-situation-imct-tells-wb-govt-828611.html
22-04-2020||National||100% reservation for STs in scheduled areas impermissible: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declared that providing 100 % reservation in favour of the Scheduled Tribe candidates for the post of teachers in scheduled area of Andhra Pradesh is impermissible and violative of the fundamental rights of citizens. "It is an obnoxious idea that tribals only should teach the tribals. When there are other local residents, why they cannot teach is not understandable. The action defies  logic and is arbitrary. Merit cannot be denied in toto by providing reservations," it said. A five-judge bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra said all the citizens do have equal rights, and the total exclusion of others by creating an opportunity for one class is not contemplated by the founding fathers of the Constitution of India.    "Equality of opportunity and pursuit of choice under Article 51¬A cannot be deprived of unjustly and arbitrarily," the bench said. In its 152-page judgement, the top court declared an order issued by the AP government in 2000 for 100% reservation to the ST candidates on the post of teachers in scheduled areas as wholly impermissible and constitutionally not valid. Holding that depriving the opportunity of employment to other categories cannot be said to be a method of achieving social equilibrium, the bench said there were no such extraordinary circumstances to provide a 100 % reservation in scheduled areas.  The court also pointed out that the order was a case of tinkering with the percentage (50%) of reservation permissible as per the dictum of the Indra Sawhney judgement (Mandal Commission by 9-judge bench) (1992). It pointed out when a similar attempt made in 1986 to give 100% reservation did not withstand the legal challenge, there was no occasion for the state of Andhra Pradesh to resort to such illegality once again. The bench, also comprising Justices Indira Banerjee, Vineet Saran, M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose, however, decided not to disturb the appointments made under the 2000 government order. "In the peculiar circumstance, we save the appointments conditionally that the reorganised states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana not to attempt a similar exercise in the future. If they do so and exceed the limit of reservation, there shall not be any saving of the appointments made, w.e.f. 1986 till date. We direct the respondents states not to exceed the limits of reservation in future," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/100-reservation-for-sts-in-scheduled-areas-impermissible-sc-828616.html
22-04-2020||National||PM Narendra to hold video conference with CMs amid coronavirus lockdown on April 27||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers via video conferencing on April 27 morning on the way ahead in the fight against coronavirus, official sources said on Wednesday. This will be the third video conference of the prime minister with the chief ministers after the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. In the last interaction on April 11, several chief ministers had recommended extension of the 21-day lockdown by two weeks, which was slated to end on April 14 earlier. On April 14, the prime minister announced that the lockdown is being extended till May 3. Before the lockdown was announced on March 24, Modi had interacted with the chief ministers on March 20 to discuss ways and means to check the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-to-hold-video-conference-with-cms-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-on-april-27-828619.html
22-04-2020||National||To tide over Coronavirus crisis, Modi seeks blessings of 106-year old ex-UP MLA||For the 106-year-old former Uttar Pradesh legislator Shree Narayan alias Bhulai Bhai, it was a moment he would cherish forever.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday dialled the former MLA, who lives in Pagar in UP's Kushinagar district and spoke for about three minutes. Modi enquired about his well-being and told him that he sought his guidance while performing his duties toward the nation. ''Yuhin man kar gaya ki sankat ke samay apka ashirvad le loon....apse jo sikha hai woh desh ke kaam aye to achcha hai,'' (I felt like seeking your blessings in this time of crisis....it would be good if what I have learnt from you is be useful to the nation), the prime minister said.  Shree Narayan, who won the Nebua Naurangiya assembly seat, twice, in 1974 and 1977, contesting as member of the Jansangh (now BJP), later said that he had met Modi five decades ago at the RSS office in Nagpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/to-tide-over-coronavirus-crisis-modi-seeks-blessings-of-106-year-old-ex-up-mla-828627.html
22-04-2020||National||Come together as singular force to overcome COVID: Religious leaders ask communities||Describing religion as “probably the most powerful means for mobilising human conscience to serve common good”, over 20 spiritual gurus of different faiths on Wednesday jointly urged people to “come together as a singular force” to overcome COVID-19 pandemic. They also strongly condemned unscientific beliefs and practices being propagated in the name of religion, exposing thousands to the virus and vitiating “public discourse with half-truths, falsehoods, conspiracy theories and doomsday narratives”. "Today, the spread of coronavirus provides a testament to the oneness and inter-connectedness of the human family where the well-being of one is dependent on the well-being of all. "As the past few weeks have shown, among the biggest obstacles that stand in our way as we strive to find a way out of this crisis, is the tendency to be selfish or self-centred whether as an individual, a community or a nation," the statement said, “This tendency has proven to be a dangerous and life-threatening delusion,” it added. As many as 22 leaders and representatives of various religious and interfaith organisations in the country issued the joint statement on the constructive role religion should play in uniting people of all faiths in the fight against coronavirus, said the Baha'i office of public affairs, that initiated this initiative. The statement was issued in response to the urgent need for all religions in the country to “speak with one voice” in emphasising the importance of unity, service to the common good and the need to follow scientific prescriptions at such a difficult time, the Baha'i office of public affairs said. Calling for clarity of thought, the religious leaders emphasised that true religion is in harmony with science and reason and it does not endorse superstitious and fanatical beliefs. Discussing the principle of oneness of religion, they said this principle provides “the foundation on which people of all religions can learn to draw upon a common spiritual heritage to fight collective challenges” and to reject religious prejudices which, as recent events in the country have shown, can flare up during times of crisis and aggravate social tensions. "To be religious then is to be an active servant of humankind here and now, to use one's talents and capacities to address contemporary challenges and to contribute to the well-being of all without distinction,” the religious leaders said. No greater embodiments of this spirit of selfless and sacrificial service can be found than those doctors, health workers, policemen, media persons and government functionaries who, at great risk to their personal lives, are carrying out their duties," they said in a joint statement.  "Finally, a word of clarification is in order about the cases of religious fanaticism, superstition and contempt for science that are being expressed in the name of religion in the context of the pandemic," it said.   “These have done incalculable harm not only by exposing thousands to the virus but also by vitiating public discourse with half-truths, falsehoods, conspiracy theories and doomsday narratives which hang as a thick cloud of gloom over the hearts and minds of people and obscure clarity of thought,” the statement said. "Our faith in an all-loving creator and in the nobility of the human race convinces us that humanity will emerge from this ordeal stronger and more united, with a deeper appreciation of its inherent oneness and inter-connectedness," the religious guru said in the statement. The statement has been signed by noted representatives of Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Bahá'í, Jewish, Buddhist, Jain and Sikh communities and interfaith organisations including Swami Chidanand Saraswati of the Parmarth Niketan Ashram; Imam Umer Ahmed Ilyasi, Chief Imam, All India Imam Organisation; Anil Joseph Thomas Couto, Archbishop of Delhi and Rabbi Ezekiel Malekar of the Judah Hayam Synagogue. Swami Shantatmananda, of the Ramakrishna Mission, Goswami Sushil Ji Maharaj of the Bhartiya Sarv Dharm Sansad, Acharya Lokesh Muni of Ahimsa Vishva Bharati, Paramjeet Singh Chandok of the Bangla Sahib Gurudwara, Swami Agnivesh, Geshe Dorji Damdul of Tibet House and the Bahá'í Office of Public Affairs are also among the signatories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/come-together-as-singular-force-to-overcome-covid-religious-leaders-ask-communities-828629.html
22-04-2020||National||Pak pushing COVID-19 positive militants into Kashmir, claims J&K police chief||Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh on Wednesday claimed that Pakistan was pushing COVID-19 positive militants into the Valley from across the Line of Control (LoC). “Some serious inputs are coming to the fore that Pakistan is pushing COVID -19 positive patients into this part of Kashmir to spread the virus further,” he told reporters after visiting a police quarantine center in Ganderbal district. “This is a serious issue and we need to take strict precautions to foil this move and prevent the further spread of the virus,” the police chief said. He said there were some policemen, who had come in contact with the positive patients, “but all of them are doing fine and there is no need to worry.” It is pertinent to mention that so far two policemen have been tested positive in Kashmir and all their contacts have been traced and put under quarantine. As per sources, both are doing fine and are recovering. So far, 407 people have tested positive for novel coronavirus in J&K. While 92 patients have recovered so-far, there are 310 active positives while five have died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pak-pushing-covid-19-positive-militants-into-kashmir-claims-jk-police-chief-828634.html
22-04-2020||National||Chhattisgarh bets on Mahua flowers for hand sanitisers||Chhattisgarh minister T S Singhdeo on Wednesday pitched for the use of Mahua flowers, used by tribals to brew liquors, to manufacture hand sanitisers which has emerged as a key weapon to combat COVID-19. The musky-scented Mahua flowers are in full bloom across the tribal-state and are being collected and sold as natural forest produce. “The Mahua spirit also has high liquor content and can be an alternative for alcohol used in the manufacture of hand sanitisers,” Singhdeo said during a press conference through video link. He said the flowers were in bloom and several tribes in Chhattisgarh and adjoining states trade the forest produce that is used as a staple food by certain communities and also brewed to produce liquor. Sampling of the fresh Mahua flowers of the season is celebrated by tribal communities that observe the Chaitra Mahaparv in the first month of the lunar calendar. Trading of Mahua flowers is a significant component of the tribal economy, but it is now hit hard due to the lockdown to arrest the spread of COVID-19. Besides liquor, Mahua flowers are also used by tribals to prepare jams, cakes, and other food items that are sold as minor forest produce.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-bets-on-mahua-flowers-for-hand-sanitisers-828654.html
22-04-2020||National||Amid doubts over its coronavirus kits, Chinese firm says fast tests more reliable only after incubation period||The Government said it would soon take a call on future imports of COVID-19 rapid test kits from China, as Indian Council of Medical Research already suspended the use of the ones it imported from the communist country last week.  The ICMR acted on the complaints from state governments about variations and inaccuracies in the rapid test kits procured from the two Chinese companies.  One of the companies, Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech Company Limited, however, defended its product, arguing that the rapid test to detect presence of Covid-19 antibodies in the blood of infected people was expected to give accurate results only after the “incubation period”.  It also underlined that the rapid tests, designed to detect the antibodies to the virus, should be used “as a supplement to nucleic acid detection testing or virus culture identification methods to increase the likelihood of an accurate result”    The test kits of the Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech Company Limited earlier this month came under scanner for allegedly inaccurate results in the United Kingdom too.   New Delhi is in touch with Beijing as it is weighing its options to decide whether it should still continue importing the diagnostic equipment from the neighbouring country, a senior official told DH on Wednesday.     The State Government of Haryana, however, already dropped its plan to import 1.1 lakh rapid test kits from China and instead opted to procure it from SD Biosensor Inc of South Korea.  The South Korean company started producing the diagnostic equipment at its facility at Manesar in Haryana and the first batch was rolled out last Sunday.   India started importing rapid Covid-19 diagnostic kits from China on April 16. The first consignment to arrive in New Delhi had 300,000 kits from Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech Company Limited and 250,000 kits from Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics Inc. The kits were later distributed among the states. A second consignment of about 300,000 came on April 18 for Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu.  The Indian embassy in Beijing played a key role in procuring the kits from the two companies. New Delhi apparently had plans to procure more rapid test kits from China, but the complaints about inaccurate results triggered the higher echelons of the Union Government to rethink their decision, which is also looking for alternate sources to procure the diagnostic equipment. The ICMR asked the State Governments to suspend the use of the equipment for two days.  The Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech Company Limited on Tuesday issued a statement, refuting media reports about inaccurate diagnosis caused by its kits in the United Kingdom.  “There is an incubation period after infection by the virus which causes Covid-19. During the incubation period, the virus could be detected through Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) testing and antigen testing,” it said, adding: “We know that the incubation period varies from person to person, and that sometime after the incubation period, the immune system creates specific antibodies to the coronavirus.” The company argued that its rapid tests would be “more sensitive and reliable” after the creation of the antibodies to the Covid-19 virus following the “incubation period”. It also underlined that the antigen tests, designed to detect the presence of a live virus, would be less reliable after the “incubation period”, because of the presence of the antibodies.” It said that its “SARS-CoV-2 Antibody Test (Lateral Flow Method)” obtained the certification from National Medical Products Administration (NMPA) of China on February 22 and was also approved by the European Union.  The ICMR too cleared the kit produced by the Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech Company Limited and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics Inc. for import to India in the first week of April.   “Noticed reports concerning rapid testing kits,” Ji Rong, a spokesperson of the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi, posted on Twitter, shortly after the ICMR suspended the use of the test kits imported from the communist country. “#China attaches great importance to the quality of exported medical products. Will keep close communication with #Indian concerned agency and provide necessary assistance,” she added in her post late on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-doubts-over-its-coronavirus-kits-chinese-firm-says-fast-tests-more-reliable-only-after-incubation-period-828657.html
22-04-2020||National||Govt asks state drug controllers to ensure availability of drugs, medical devices amid coronavirus||The government on Wednesday asked all state drug controllers to ensure availability of essential medicines and medical devices required in the treatment of COVID-19. In a meeting with the state drug controllers, Union Pharma Secretary P D Vaghela asked them "to provide all support  to manufacturing units with the help of local administration and concerned authorities by regular interaction so that there is no shortage of medicines and medical devices". They were also requested to ensure the utilisation of manufacturing capacity to full extent so that sufficient stocks without any hindrance can be made available at all levels, the ministry of chemicals and fertilizers said in a release. They were instructed to ensure that hoarding and price escalation of drugs and medical devices do not happen and to initiate action in such cases, the release said. The pharma secretary also asked them to monitor the availability of the hydroxychloroquine, azythromycin and paracetamol formulations, the release said. The state drug controllers were also asked to monitor the list of essential drugs circulated by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare on regular basis and to provide the data, it added. They were asked to provide information of drugs and devices manufacturing units in their states, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-asks-state-drug-controllers-to-ensure-availability-of-drugs-medical-devices-amid-coronavirus-828660.html
22-04-2020||National||Govt duty-bound to revise list of SC/STs to extend reservation to needy within classes: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that it was imperative for the government to revise the list of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes so that benefits of reservation can be extended to the needy and the deserving ones among them. A five-judge bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra noted that there is a struggle within reserved classes of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and other backward classes, as to worthiness for the entitlement. "Now there is a cry within the reserved classes. By now, there are affluents and socially and economically advanced classes within Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. There is voice by deprived persons of social upliftment of some of the Scheduled Castes/Tribes, but they still do not permit benefits to trickle down to the needy," the bench said. The top court agreed to a contention by senior advocate Rajeev Dhawan that the government was required to revise the lists.  "It can be done presently without disturbing the percentage of reservation so that benefits trickle down to the needy and are not usurped by those classes who have come up after obtaining the benefits for the last 70 years or after their inclusion in the list," the bench, also comprising Justices Indira Banerjee Vineet Saran M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose, said.    The court said the government is duty-bound to undertake such an exercise as observed in Indra Sawhney (1992 Mandal case by nine-judge) and as constitutionally envisaged.  "The Government (is) to take appropriate steps in this regard," the bench said. The apex court made this recommendation on Wednesday as it declared that providing 100% reservation in favour of the Scheduled Tribe candidates for the post of teachers in scheduled area of Andhra Pradesh was constitutionally impermissible, arbitrary, unreasonable and violative of the fundamental rights of citizens. Citing the Indra Sawhney judgement, the top court pointed out that it was held that the State Lists adopted to provide reservations by the government are not meant to be sacrosanct and unalterable.    There may be cases where Commissions appointed by the State may have, in their reports, recommended modification of such lists by deletion or addition of certain castes, communities, and  classes. Where such reports are available, the state government is bound to act on that basis with reasonable promptitude, the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-duty-bound-to-revise-list-of-sc/sts-to-extend-reservation-to-needy-within-classes-supreme-court-828674.html
22-04-2020||National||India, Ireland to strengthen partnership to address challenges of post-coronavirus world: PM Narendra Modi||India and Ireland will work together to further strengthen their partnership in health, and science and technology to jointly address the challenges of the post-COVID world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday. "Discussed COVID-19 pandemic with Ireland's PM, Mr. @LeoVaradkar. India and Ireland share similar approaches on many global issues," Modi wrote on Twitter. He said the two countries will work together to further strengthen “our partnership in health, science and technology, to jointly address challenges of the post-COVID world”. An official statement later said Modi and Prime Minister Leo Varadkar discussed the state of the COVID-19 pandemic and the steps being taken by the two countries to control its health and economic impact. Varadkar appreciated the role being played by Indian-origin doctors and nurses in fighting the infection in Ireland. Prime Minister Modi thanked PM Varadkar for the care and support being extended to the Indian citizens present in Ireland, and promised reciprocal treatment for Irish citizens in India. The two leaders agreed that India and Ireland can leverage their strengths in the pharmaceutical and medical fields to contribute to the global fight against the pandemic. They also deliberated on the potential for strengthening India's cooperation with Ireland, as well as with the European Union, in the post-COVID context. The leaders agreed to remain in touch and consult each other on the evolving dimensions of the crisis, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-ireland-to-strengthen-partnership-to-address-challenges-of-post-coronavirus-world-pm-narendra-modi-828680.html
22-04-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to interact with village panchayats via video link on Friday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address village panchayats across the country on Friday to mark the National Panchayati Raj Day. Due to coronavirus-induced lockdown, he will interact with the participants through video-conference, according to an official issued on Wednesday. To mark the occasion, the prime minister will launch a unified e-GramSwaraj portal and a mobile app. The unified portal is a new initiative of the Ministry of Panchayati Raj to provide the village panchayats with a single interface to prepare and implement their gram panchayat development plan (GPDP). PM Modi will also launch the Swamitva Scheme on the occasion, the statement said. The scheme provides for an integrated property validation solution for rural India.  The demarcation of inhabited land in rural areas would be done by the use of latest surveying methods -- drone technology with the collaborated efforts of the Ministry of Panchayati Raj, State Panchayati Raj Department, State Revenue Department and the Survey of India. To mark the occasion, every year the Ministry of Panchayati Raj has been awarding the best-performing panchayats, states and Union Territories under the Incentivisation of Panchayats in recognition of their good work for improving delivery of services and public goods. This year, three such awards --  Nanaji Deshmukh Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Puraskar (NDRGGSP), Child-friendly Gram Panchayat Award (CFGPA) and Gram Panchayat Development Plan (GPDP) Award have been finalised, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-interact-with-village-panchayats-via-video-link-on-friday-828681.html
22-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Supreme Court Bar Association resolves to contribute money for purchase of PPE kits for frontline workers||The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) on Wednesday passed a resolution to contribute money for purchase of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, masks and gloves for frontline workers like doctors and policemen in the fight against COVID-19. It said doctors and hospital staff are putting their lives at great risk as they are forced to re-use masks and gloves while treating coronavirus patients due to the acute shortage of PPE kits. The SCBA said it is unfortunate that hospital and sanitation workers, security staff, technicians, police and municipal corporations' employees are not getting sufficient protective gear, essential to combat COVID-19. "SCBA vide its resolution passed on April 22, 2020, has resolved to contribute money for the purchase of PPE kits for some of the government hospitals and masks with gloves to (for) police stations and corporations' employees on behalf of Supreme Court lawyers. "SCBA has taken this initiative as the Bar of the highest court of the country to set an example and to serve the front warriors in this pandemic crises. Executive Committee also resolved to request the members to make contributions for this purpose precisely. They would be given the benefit of 80G certificate," the bar said in a release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-supreme-court-bar-association-resolves-to-contribute-money-for-purchase-of-ppe-kits-for-frontline-workers-828690.html
22-04-2020||National||Use rapid test kits for surveillance purpose, RT-PCR test a must for coronavirus detection: ICMR||A day after advising states not to use the newly distributed rapid testing kits to detect coronavirus infection for the next two days, the ICMR issued a protocol reiterating their usage for surveillance purpose while stating that RT-PCR tests must be continued vigorously as the principal diagnostic test for COVID-19. In view of the issues raised by a few states about the rapid test kits, Additional Director General of Indian Council of Medical research (ICMR), Dr GS Toteja in his letter to Chief Secretaries of states and UTs on Wednesday said ICMR has always emphasised that RT-PCR test of throat and/or nasal swab is the confirmatory test for detection of COVID-19 at an early stage. It said that in its advisory dated April 17, the apex medical research body had clearly laid down the scope, purpose and usage of the rapid antibody tests. "I would like to reiterate that antibody rapid tests are largely to be used as a tool for surveillance with respect to formation of antibody in persons exposed to the virus," Toteja said. He further said that globally also, the utility of this test is evolving and it is currently being used for detection of antibodies in individuals. "These test results are also dependent on field conditions. We have been given to understand that many states have procured such kits and on state request, ICMR has also arranged and made available rapid antibody test kits with a clear understanding that these kits cannot replace the RT-PCR test diagnosis for COVID-19 cases," he said in his letter. "However, to further assist the state, ICMR will continue to collect data from various states to assess the scope and extent of utility of these rapid antibody tests in field conditions of our country and will keep advising the states on regular basis," the letter added. He advised the states to follow the prescribed protocol for these tests and use it for the purpose for which these kits are meant. "It is reiterated that to contain coronavirus infection, RT-PCR tests must be continued vigorously as the principal diagnostic tests," Toteja stated. At a press briefing held on Tuesday, Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at the ICMR, Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, advised states to stop using the rapid antibody test kits procured from China for the next two days till it examines their quality in the wake of complaints that they are not fully effective. He also said the companies which supplied the kits will be asked to replace them if the kits are found to be faulty. "High variations ranging from 6 to 71 per cent have been reported between the results of the rapid tests and RT-PCR tests. We will advise states not to use these testing kits for the next two days," he had said. These kits will be tested and validated in the field by teams from our eight institutes after which we will issue a clear-cut advisory for the states, Gangakhedkar had said. Last week, India procured five lakh rapid antibody test kits from two Chinese firms and they were distributed to several states reporting rising cases of coronavirus infection. The Rajasthan government on Tuesday said the kits were giving out inaccurate results. At present, the government uses the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests to detect coronavirus from throat or nasal swab samples of people. These take around five to six hours to show the results. In the rapid antibody tests, the blood samples of suspected patients are taken, and it normally takes around 15-30 minutes to give the result. The government has recommended the use of rapid antibody tests in hotspot areas. According to the ICMR protocol, officials said only those showing symptoms of influenza-like illness such as fever, cough and cold for seven days or more in hotspot areas should be made to undergo a rapid antibody test. Those who will be found positive must be quarantined at least for seven days and contract tracing should be initiated. Those who test negative should also remain under home quarantine for at least seven days. "The RT-PCR test should be performed to confirm diagnosis of COVID-19 if clinical suspicion is high," an official had said. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 652 and the number of cases climbed to 20,471 in the country on Wednesday, registering an increase of 49 deaths and 1,486 cases since Tuesday evening, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/use-rapid-test-kits-for-surveillance-purpose-rt-pcr-test-a-must-for-coronavirus-detection-icmr-828693.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Encounter starts in Kashmir's Shopian||An encounter broke out between security forces and militants in south Kashmir's Shopian district on Tuesday evening. Sources said on a "specific inputs" about the presence of militants, a Cordon-and-Search-Operation (CASO) was launched by a joint team of Army's 55 Rashtriya Rifles and J&K Police in Melhoora village of Zainapora, Shopian, 56 kms from here. During the searches, the hiding militants fired upon forces, which was retaliated, triggering an encounter, they said. Two to three militants are believed to be trapped in the area, sources added. IGP, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar confirmed that the encounter was going on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-starts-in-kashmirs-shopian-828340.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 test mandatory for Indian crew on merchant ships leaving or entering India||Those tested negative would be allowed to proceed to their destinations -- either to their homes or to the port depending on whether they are signing up or signing off. The SOP came on Tuesday night after the MHA allowed signing on and signing of Indian crew in merchant ships as part of fresh relaxations allowed during COVID-19 lockdown. "Change of crew of the ship (seafarers) is an important measure for the operation of merchant ships. This SOP has been formulated to streamline the sign on/sign off of Indian seafarer at Indian ports for merchant shipping vessels," the MHA said in the SOP. For those vessels coming from any foreign port or a coastal vessel from any Indian port, the master of the vessel will have to ascertain the state of health of each person on board and submit Maritime Declaration of Health. They will also have to provide a temperature chart and individual health declaration also. The Indian crew arriving on the vessel would undergo COVID-19 test for confirmation that he or she is negative for virus infection. Till the time the results come, the crew should be kept in quarantine facility by the port or state health authorities.  "If the seafarer is tested as positive for COVID-19, he/she will be dealt with as per the procedure laid down by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare," it said. For those tested negative, a transit pass for the seafarer and one driver to his residence will be provided. Similarly for those who join the vessels, the ship owner or the Recruitment and Placement Service agency would identify them. The seafarers will have to provide details of their travel and contact history for the past 28 days to the ship owner by email. The crew will also be examined by a doctor approved by the Director General of Shipping. They will be screened and those who are found to be asymptomatic for COVID-19 will be allowed to proceed for sign-up. Local authorities will provide transit pass for him and a driver for him to reach the port. "At the port of embarkation, the seafarer shall be tested for COVID-19, the seafarer would be ready for sign-on only if the COVID-19 test is negative, failing which action as per guidelines of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare would be taken," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-test-mandatory-for-indian-crew-on-merchant-ships-leaving-or-entering-india-828357.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Four militants killed in Kashmir’s Shopian||Four militants were killed in an overnight encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Wednesday. The encounter erupted after a joint team of Army’s 55-Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Malhura, Zanpora village in Shopian, 56 kms from here, on Tuesday night following ‘specific information’ about the presence of militants in the area. A police official said as the search operation intensified, the hiding militants opened fire at the security forces, who retaliated, triggering a gun battle. “While two militants were killed in the initial exchange of firing at around 5 am, two more were neutralized later at around 8:30 am,” he said. Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, while confirming the death of four ‘unidentified’ militants in the encounter said they have sent their DNA samples. “We are conducting the burial in the presence of a magistrate,” he told DH. “So far, the family of one of the militants killed has come forward and if they identify him, then two to three people will be allowed to participate in the burial. Those who claim later on, their DNA samples will be taken for future course of action,” the IGP added. However, sources said, the slain militants were locals and identified them as Basharat Shah, Wakeel Dar, Tariq Bhat and Uzair Bhat. “The slain militants were affiliated with Hizb-ul-Mujahideen, Jaish-e-Mohammad and Lashker-e-Toiba outfits, but had of late joined Ansar Gazwat-ul-Hind (AuGH), an affiliate of Al Qaeda in Kashmir,” they revealed. Sources said due to the coronavirus pandemic and the rising cases in Kashmir new norms have been issued whereby the identity of militants will not be revealed and they will be declared as ‘unidentified.’ “This is to prevent mass gathering during funerals such as what happened at Sopore in Baramulla district earlier this month when hundreds of people joined the funeral for a Jaish militant,” they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-militants-killed-in-kashmir-s-shopian-828377.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Nitish suspends SDO who issued pass to BJP MLA for travel up to Kota||Nitish Kumar-led Bihar goverment has suspended the sub-divisional officer (SDO) of Nawada, Annu Kumar, who last week issued a vehicle pass to BJP MLA Anil Singh so that the legislator could visit Kota in Rajasthan and bring back his daughter. The suspension notification said that the officer had been found guilty of negligence in issuing an inter-State pass, which should not have been issued except extra-ordinary situations. Singh, the BJP MLA from Hisua in Bihar, said he procured special vehicle pass from the SDO as he had to go to Kota in Rajasthan where his daughter, who was preparing for the medical entrance examination, was stuck up due to lock-down. A day after getting the pass, Singh drove up to Kota on April 16 and returned to Bihar along with his daughter on April 18, although the pass was valid up to April 25.  The incident left Nitish red-faced as he had been vehemently opposing movement of people from one state to another state, “or else the purpose of lock-down will be defeated.” The Bihar Chief Minister, however, drew flak for being insensitive to children stuck up in different states. “While UP Chief Minister sent 300 buses to bring back children who were stuck up in Kota, the Bihar CM was opposing such move in his State,” lamented leader of the opposition, Tejashwi Yadav.  Meanwhile, the Nitish regime on Wednesday clarified that henceforth the authority to issue a vehicle pass will be only a District Magistrate (DM), not the SDO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nitish-suspends-sdo-who-issued-pass-to-bjp-mla-for-travel-up-to-kota-828385.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Despite COVID-19 pandemic, life going on as usual in human settlements within Jammu and Kashmir's Dal Lake||There is hustle-and-bustle within the settlement inside the Dal as people come out of their homes and trade from early in the morning like they would do pre-COVID-19 times. There is no disruption caused to the 100-year-old floating gardens that supply vegetables to Srinagar. Traders in their canoe, locally known as ‘naav’, gather at the centre of the lake at the break of dawn and finish up before the sun starts to rise from beyond the nearby mountains. During the day, the same vegetable sellers open up their groceries store, many of which have sprouted on the murky water of the Dal Lake. “Nobody, so far, has been infected (by COVID-19) here. A team of doctors had conducted tests here; they all came out negative. Police don’t come here often to make us observe the lockdown. Allah will protect us,” Ghulam Hassan, a resident of Leat Mohallah in the Dal interiors, said.  He said normal life never gets disturbed in the area. “Be it security clampdown in 2019, 2014 floods or unrest in 2008, 2010 and 2016 when all of Kashmir was locked, we were doing our work as usual,” Hassan said. The indifference, or call it defiance, to the lockdown, according to him, comes from the years of “built-up immunity” among the people. Arif Ali, a budding entrepreneur from Okhoon Mohallah, purchased a shop in the area and is now furnishing its interiors. Aware that the lockdown will remain for a long time in other areas, he saw an opportunity to open another shop. “Life in this area remains unchanged, come what may,” he said. “So, I thought of opening a shop here. I know it will be successful.” Most of the grocery, vegetable, tailor and fruit shops in Dal interiors remain open as usual. People from nearby localities (under lockdown) visit the place for buying groceries, and for getting hair-cuts. In the last century, a vast portion of the lake was converted into the land. About eight km of the shoreline has been lost, according to Tariq Ahmad, an activist working for preserving the water body.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/despite-covid-19-pandemic-life-going-on-as-usual-in-human-settlements-within-jammu-and-kashmirs-dal-lake-828407.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||64 fresh cases of coronavirus in Rajasthan||Rajasthan recorded 64 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the state's virus tally to 1,799, an official said. The state has so far seen 26 deaths due to the virus, with Jaipur accounting for 14 deaths. "As many as 64 fresh cases have been reported in nine districts of the state, including 44 in Ajmer," Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said. He said test results of the backlog 4000 samples sent to a private lab in Delhi have started coming and these are being captured in the report. Hence, number of positive cases is expected to rise today. Singh said of the 64 fresh cases, 44 were reported from Ajmer; six in Tonk and Kota; four in Jaipur; three in Jodhpur and one in Bharatpur. A total of 1,799 cases of the virus have been reported in the state so far. He said so far 371 patients have tested negative for the infection after treatment, of which 97 have been discharged from hospitals. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran to Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/64-fresh-cases-of-coronavirus-in-rajasthan-828422.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Second batch of 225 Iran returnees reaches Ladakh after undergoing quarantine in Rajasthan||The second batch of 225 pilgrims who had returned from Iran reached here on Wednesday in a special Indian Air Force plane after undergoing quarantine in Rajasthan, officials said. The returnees, 208 hailing from Kargil and 17 from Leh, were airlifted from Jodhpur to Leh and were subjected to screening by a medical team on their arrival at Leh airport, the officials said. They were evacuated from coronavirus-hit Iran by a special plane on March 25 and were put under quarantine at various facilities in Rajasthan. This was the second batch of the pilgrims who reached the Union Territory of Ladakh within two days. On Tuesday, the first batch of 57 pilgrims was airlifted from Hindon in Uttar Pradesh to Kargil. However, the returnees would not immediately join their families as the authorities have decided to put them under a 14-day institutional quarantine at Leh and Kargil towns as a precautionary measure. The UT administration has thanked the Centre, the army and the IAF for prompt consideration of the request for evacuation of the pilgrims from Iran and subsequently to Ladakh, the officials said. While nearly 600 pilgrims from Ladakh were evacuated from Iran in March, there are still about 300 more pilgrims who are stranded in the foreign country and 250 of them were reported to have tested positive for coronavirus. Meanwhile, senior BJP leader and MP Ladakh Jamyang Tsering Namgyal welcomed the return of the stranded pilgrims. "It shows the presence of good governance from Kargil to Kanyakumari under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi," he said.  The MP praised the Modi-led government and Home Minister Amit Shah for their active consideration of the plea made by the stranded pilgrims and their family members through him for their evacuation from Iran to their home country in a very short span of time. Namgyal also extended his gratitude to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Minister for Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan, Lt Governor of Union Territory of Ladakh R K Mathur and all the concerned officials as well as the Administration of Ladakh for all possible care and support in the evacuation of the stranded pilgrims. The MP said he was in constant touch with all the concerned officials pursuing the case of evacuation of the remaining pilgrims from Iran to India at the earliest besides the evacuation of others including patients and students from Ladakh who are stuck in different parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/second-batch-of-225-iran-returnees-reaches-ladakh-after-undergoing-quarantine-in-rajasthan-828448.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Uttar Pradesh police station turns marriage venue||For Anil and Jyoti, the nationwide coronavirus lockdown will be permanently etched in their minds and also find a place in their photo albums as the couple entered into wedlock in police station premises in UP's Chandauli district. Anil, a resident of Mahuji village in Chandauli district, and Jyoti, a resident of Ghazipur district, tied the knot in the presence of cops at the Shiva temple located inside the complex of Dheena police station in Chandauli on April 20. SHO of Dheena police station, Rajesh Kumar, told PTI, "It was a marriage with limited means and five persons each from the groom's side and from the bridegroom's side were present during the ceremony which took place on April 20 at the Shiva temple located in the Dheena police station compound." Kumar recalled that Anil had helped the police during a boat tragedy, which had taken place in February, by saving lives of a number of passengers who were travelling in the boat.         His role was lauded by senior officials of the police and district administration.  "Anil's marriage with Jyoti was already fixed for April 20. However, the imposition of the nationwide lockdown and its subsequent extension made him worried. He then contacted us and sought a solution. "Anil was told that since lockdown is in place, more than five persons are not allowed as a part of any marriage party or are allowed to gather at a particular spot," the SHO said.         "Anil then asked us whether his marriage could be solemnised in the Shiva temple inside the police station compound, and told us that only five persons from the groom's side and as many from the bride's side will participate. On this condition, we gave our nod," Kumar said.  He said that selection of the unique marriage venue was done barely a couple of days before the wedding. Senior police officials including the Additional Superintendent of Police, Circle Officer and in-charge of a police outpost were present during the marriage. "The event, though with limited means, was solemnised amidst chanting of Vedic mantras, while strictly adhering to social distancing norms. Unlike normal time-taking elaborate rituals in Hindu marriages, this marriage was relatively shorter," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-uttar-pradesh-police-station-turns-marriage-venue-828453.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Shivraj Singh Chouhan aide Narottam Mishra gets Home and Health portfolios||A day after expanding his cabinet, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday allocated portfolios to the five inductees. Narottam Mishra, a senior BJP leader and Chouhan's confidant, was allotted Home, Health and Family Welfare departments, an important assignment in view of the COVID-19 situation in Madhya Pradesh. Announcing the allocation of departments via a video release, the CM said Tulsi Silawat will be incharge of Water Resources Department and Govind Singh Rajput will head Cooperatives, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Welfare department. Silawat and Rajput had resigned as MLAs of Congress to join the BJP. Kamal Patel is entrusted with the Agriculture and Farmer Welfare portfolio while Meena Singh will look after Tribal Welfare department. Chouhan had assigned two divisions each to the five ministers, after they took oath on Tuesday, to deal with the COVID-19 situation. He, however, suggested that the arrangements could be temporary. "The current allocation of departments was made as per the requirement arising due to COVID-19 situation and the need to bring the situation under control," the CM said. He said the state cabinet will be expanded once the lockdown is lifted, and that departments will be reallocated after discussions. On Tuesday, Chouhan effected the first expansion of his single-member Cabinet since he took oath on March 23, after the Kamal Nath-led government collapsed due to rebellion by Jyotiraditya Scindia and resignation of 22 MLAs of the Congress. Till Tuesday evening, Madhya Pradesh had reported 1552 COVID-19 cases with 80 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shivraj-singh-chouhan-aide-narottam-mishra-gets-home-and-health-portfolios-828455.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Old tweets on Modi, Amit Shah resurface to ‘haunt’ police officer, District Magistrate in Kashmir||Amid controversy over registering FIRs against journalists for ‘anti-national’ social media posts, old tweets of head of the cyber cell of the Jammu and Kashmir Police and district magistrate, Srinagar have resurfaced on social media to ‘haunt’ them. The screen shots of 2013 tweets of Tahir Ashraf, Superintendent of Police of the cyber police wing, went viral on social media. In his tweet, the police officer had referred to an interview of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the 2002 Gujarat riots, in which he had said it would pain him “even if a puppy came under a car.” Responding to the statement, Ashraf had then tweeted: “Narendra Modi's puppy analogy on 2002 riots shows his real character... sadistic.” In another screen shot of his October 29, 2015 tweet, the officer is seen ridiculing Union Home Minister Amit Shah for calling those Pakistanis who do not support BJP-RSS. “so he means those who do not support BJP/RSS are Pakistani?” the officer tweets in response to Shah’s assertion “If BJP loses in Bihar, crackers will go off in Pakistan.” A 2014 tweet of Deputy Commissioner Srinagar, Shahid Iqbal Choudhary, is also doing rounds on the social media. “Mobocracy in name of Democracy !!! aap ka andaaz he Alag hai !!!” However, while re-tweeting it, Choudhary wrote: “Underlying reasons for digging out past tweets r well known. Want my friends to know: we're handling a bigger challenge than this; so, will not respond any further. Meanwhile, I stand by my thoughts: mobocracy/lynching is bad all the time. No question of then/now, there/here!” In response to Choudhary’s tweet, one Dar Manzor, tagged Ashraf and tweeted:  “Dear @Tahir_A have a look, We need a purification drive here too: Hum karien toh Seditation, Threat to National Integrity & Glorifying Militant activities. Ap karien toh Criticism, troll,freedom to expression, Sarcasm, satire Wah Deshbakhti Wah Wah hypocrisy wah (sic).” The old tweets of a police officer and a bureaucrat have started resurfacing at a time when J&K police have booked two journalists, including a female, under the strict Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for their “anti-national” social media posts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/old-tweets-on-modi-amit-shah-resurface-to-haunt-police-officer-district-magistrate-in-kashmir-828467.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh govt ropes in Bollywood actors to promote staying indoor amid coronavirus lockdown||In a bid to deter people from stepping out during the COVID-19 lockdown, the Madhya Pradesh government roped in Bollywood actors Ashutosh Rana and Rajpal Yadav to appeal to people, an official said on Wednesday. The Bollywood artistes took to the streets of Kotwali area in Jabalpur on Tuesday, asking people to remain indoors to stem the spread of coronavirus, an officer from the state's public relations department said. "People peeped out of the windows of their homes to catch a glimpse of the two actors, who urged them to practice social distancing whenever they stepped out," he said. Rana, who was born in Narsinghpur district, has won the Filmfare Award for his films 'Dushman' and 'Sangharsh', while Yadav has a host of strong performances under his belt, and is known for his comic roles. The actors distributed masks and sanitisers to policemen who were manning the streets, the official said. The duo praised police personnel for their dedication and honesty in performing their duty in these unprecedented times, he said. The actors were in Madhya Pradesh to meet their spiritual guru Pandit Dev Prabhakar Shastri, popularly known as Daddaji in the neighbouring Katni district. At least 27 people have tested positive for COVID-19 in Jabalpur, of which six have recovered from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-govt-ropes-in-bollywood-actors-to-promote-staying-indoor-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-828487.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||All 18 coronavirus patients discharged in Punjab's SBS Nagar COVID-19 hotspot||SBS Nagar was the first district in Punjab to report a COVID-19-related death last month. Now, it has become the first district in the state where all 18 people infected with coronavirus have been cured and discharged from hospital. A 16-year-old was the last among the total eighteen coronavirus patients to be discharged from the SBS Nagar civil hospital on Wednesday after the report of his second sample came negative, an official said. No infected patient is now left at the civil hospital, SBS Nagar civil surgeon Rajinder Prasad Bhatia told PTI. Seventeen coronavirus patients returned home earlier after they were fully cured of the virus. Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar, formerly known as Nawanshahr, a COVID-19 hotspot district, has so far reported 19 coronavirus cases including one death. It has not reported a fresh case since March 26. With the death of a 70-year-old man last month in SBS Nagar, Punjab had reported its first COVID-19 related casualty. The septuagenarian, a resident of Pathlawa village in the district, had returned from Germany via Italy and died on March 18. He had tested positive for the infection after his death. Officials had said he had infected 27 people who belong to SBS Nagar, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur. Among the 27, fourteen were his own family members including his two-year-old grandson. SBS Nagar Deputy Commissioner Vinay Bublani attributed the success in containing fresh cases and curing coronavirus patients to people's support and proper implementation of the containment plan, contact listing and door to door surveillance of the district. "People have been very supportive to our efforts and they know whatever we are doing is in their interest only. Without their support, it would not have been possible for us," said Bublani on Wednesday.  He said the containment plan was implemented effectively in the district, that has a population of about six lakh, and 15 villages were properly sealed to check the spread of coronavirus.   With the support of the civil administration staff, health workers, police and locals, the contact listing of positive cases was carried out extensively so that any patient whould not remain unattended, said Bublani, adding that at least 700 samples have been tested for coronavirus in the district so far. Taking good care of COVID-19 patients, keeping them in good spirit and giving them good diet was another step that helped in their speedy recovery, he further said. "Proper counselling of patients was done at the civil hospital so that they always remain in positive frame of mind. Our efforts have always been that they should not feel that they were acute patients. We always told them that they can be treated," the DC told PTI. Door to door surveillance of the whole district was another exercise which helped in checking the spread of coronavirus, he said, adding that the district administration was again going to carry out door to door survey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-18-coronavirus-patients-discharged-in-punjabs-sbs-nagar-covid-19-hotspot-828490.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: ITBP hands over 2,000 PPE kits, masks to CISF Delhi metro unit||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) on Wednesday handed over 2,000 personal protective equipment kits and masks to the Delhi Metro unit of the CISF for protection against COVID-19, officials said. The ITBP has set up a special facility at its camp at Saboli in Haryana's Sonipat district to prepare fabricated personal protective equipment (PPE) and masks for the use of its troops and for other organisations battling the pandemic on ground. These protection gears are meant for frontline workers of police, paramilitary forces and healthcare workers and not for doctors who treat the COVID-19 affected patients. "Over 1,000 PPEs and an equal amount of triple-layer face masks were handed over to the CISF metro rail unit today," an ITBP spokesperson said. "The PPEs and masks will enable the CISF to be prepared as and when they are deployed for Delhi Metro protection duties," he said. The ITBP, with about 90,000 personnel in its ranks, is primarily tasked to guard the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China. The Delhi Metro unit of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) is the largest deployment of the paramilitary in a single establishment across the country. About 12,000 women and men personnel of the CISF guard the Delhi Metro that has over 160 operational stations across the national capital region comprising Delhi, Ghaziabad, Noida, Gurgaon and Faridabad. These PPE KITS and masks will be used by personnel who frisk metro passengers and their baggage while some others deployed at vantage security positions in the station area with arms will also be donning them, a senior official said. The metro services have been suspended since the nationwide lockdown was imposed to combat the spread of coronavirus. The CISF is also preparing a set of standard operating procedures (SOPs) that will be deployed once the Delhi Metro decides to restart operations post the end of the lockdown, which began on March 25. The force is mulling to deploy temperature scanners, usage of 'Aarogya Setu' app (application) and contactless frisking in select cases while allowing passengers to travel in the rapid rail network. The about 1.62 lakh personnel string force is the national civil aviation security force guarding 63 airports and protecting other vital infrastructure in the nuclear and aerospace domain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-itbp-hands-over-2000-ppe-kits-masks-to-cisf-delhi-metro-unit-828491.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Ten people test positive for COVID-19 in Bihar; total reaches 136||The latest Khajpura patients include two women aged 30 and 57 years and four men in the age group of 28 to 62 years, the Principal Secretary added. Besides, one case each has been reported from Jagdeo Path, a kilometre away from Khajpura, and Salimpur which is in another part of the city, Kumar added. Contact tracing is on for the Jagdeo Path and Salimpur patients, he said. In addition, a 26-year-old woman from Bihar Sharif, the headquarters of Nalanda district, which had reported 17 cases earlier this week, has tested positive. Also, East Champaran district reported its first case a 25-year-old man who belongs to a village in Phenhara block and whose contact tracing is on. Out of the 136 cases, 42 have recovered while two one each from Munger and Vaishali districts have died. Nalanda has reported a total of 29 cases and it shares the top spot with Siwan. While 17 Siwan patients have recovered, Nalanda, the home district of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, is still left with 27 active cases. Munger has reported 27 cases, including a death and six recovered patients. Patna, with 16 cases, is the third worst affected district in Bihar. Five patients have, however, recovered. Out of 38 districts, only 16 have reported COVID-19 cases so far. Altogether 12,978 samples have so far been tested in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ten-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bihar-total-reaches-136-828505.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Seven workers trek home from Jhansi, walk 500 km amid coronavirus lockdown||Jobless in Jhansi after the coronavirus lockdown, seven migrant workers walked nearly 500 kilometres to reach their village here. The labourers said they remained 20 days without work in Jhansi after the nationwide lockdown was imposed. Then, as their savings ran out, they decided to set out on foot for their village, Khadar in Balrampur district’s Pachpedwa area. The trek home took seven days. They reached here on Monday and have been home quarantined by the authorities. Shiv Prasad was desperate to reach home also because of his sick mother. "I got information that my 80-year-old mother was ill. I was longing to see her and decided to head home,” he said. “We did not have any food with us. But hunger did not deter us. Our only aim was to reach our destination,” he added. “We faced difficult situations often but did not lose hope,” he said. They walked day and night, often just getting four or five hours of sleep, according to Shiv Prasad. Local people, and sometimes policemen, gave them food, he said. “Our only job was to walk. We would rest under a tree when we felt tired and after stopping for 10 or 20 minutes, we started again," he added. Prabhudayal is among those who accompanied him when they set out from Jhansi on April 14. “We had hoped to get a lift from some passing vehicle but had no such luck,” he said. “My mobile also fell somewhere while I was running after a vehicle." "We walked almost continuously for nearly seven days,” Prabhudayal said. Just the thought of their waiting families egged them on, he added. Superintendent of Police Dev Ranjan Verma said the seven labourers were screened and then sent into home quarantine for 14 days. A police team is keeping an eye on them to ensure that they do not mingle with others, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seven-workers-trek-home-from-jhansi-walk-500-km-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-828507.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||400 OPD mobile vans deployed in Rajasthan to treat other diseases amid coronavirus||People suffering from various diseases in Rajasthan will now be able to avail treatment closer home as the Ashok Gehlot government has deployed 400 OPD mobile vans across the state. "In order to ensure common patients do not face any trouble due to COVID-19, 400 OPD mobile vans will be operating across the state from today," Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said. "These mobile vans will be available at the subdivision headquarters as well as other important places and will reach the villages-towns to provide treatment of common diseases to patients," he said in a tweet. Gehlot said that if someone comes with a serious illness, higher authorities will be informed so that the patient can get treatment immediately.  Instructions have been given to the chief medical and health officers in this regard, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/400-opd-mobile-vans-deployed-in-rajasthan-to-treat-other-diseases-amid-coronavirus-828522.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||BHU profs plan clinical trial of ayurvedic drug against COVID-19||Professors at the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) have proposed to carry out a clinical trial of immunity-boosting ayurvedic drug fifatrol to check its efficacy in tackling the deadly COVID-19. However, the proposal is yet to be approved, official sources said. According to BHU professor and principal investigator for the proposed project Dr K N Dwivedi, the plan has been sent to a task force formed by the government for scientific validation of ayurveda and traditional medicinal formulas through research institutions in tackling COVID-19. The Interdisciplinary AYUSH Research and Development Task Force has members from the Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) as also ayush practitioners and others. Their job is to identify potential preventive therapy and therapeutic approaches from ayush systems in different stages of COVID-19 treatment. The AYUSH ministry had issued a notification on March 31, asking ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homoeopathy (AYUSH) practitioners and institutions to submit their suggestions on various therapies, and has received over 2,000 proposals. Experts say that fifatrol, enriched with immune-enhancing herbs, has been found to be effective in curing major bacterial infections such as staphylococcus species that causes fever, cough and cold, and skin diseases among others. AIMIL Pharmaceuticals, the company that produces fifatrol, said that drug is used to treat flu and viral infections of upper respiratory tract. But this is for the first time that experts have decided to determine if it can be helpful in combating the novel coronavirus. Head of the Department of Dravyaguna at BHU Dr Dwivedi said fifatrol is given to patients with symptoms similar to COVID-19. "So, we are now trying to evaluate this drug on critically-ill COVID-19 patients to check if it can help reduce mortality," he said.  "During a trial on dengue patients at AIIMS, Bhopal, the drug was found to have increased platelet count significantly. The study also established that fifatrol can strengthen the liver with no systemic side effects," the professor said.   In fact, researchers at AIIMS, Bhopal, in their preliminary results have found that the drug can be a suitable alternative to allopathic antibiotics without causing any side effects. "Fifatrol is an anti-microbial solution prepared from 13 key herbs including sudarshan vati, sanjeevani vati, godanti bhasma, tribhuvan kirti ras and mrityunjay ras, tulsi, kutki, chirayata, motha and giloy," Dr Dwivedi said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also urged AYUSH practitioners to pitch in to tackle the coronavirus pandemic. He has also been exhorting the citizens of India to fall back on traditional home remedies during times of such a global health crisis to boost their immunity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhu-profs-plan-clinical-trial-of-ayurvedic-drug-against-covid-19-828551.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir Police uses 'eye-in-the-sky' to enforce coronavirus lockdown||As a drone hovers over a coronavirus 'red zone' in Jammu and Kashmir, people walking in the narrow lanes run inside their houses, while those standing outside a ration shop quickly queue up keeping adequate distance between each other. After August 5 last year, when the special status of J-K was scrapped and the state was divided into two union territories, police had extensively used drones for surveillance to prevent any law and order problem. Now, as J-K faces the challenge of coronavirus outbreak, these unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) have become a vital tool for authorities in enforcing the lockdown to check the spread of the disease, especially in hotspots where multiple cases have been detected. "We are using scores of high-tech drones to keep vigil and electronic surveillance in most of the red zones across the union territory," a senior police officer told PTI here. Any place that has three or more cases is a red zone. The intention was to use technology to complement manual surveillance and strictly enforce the lockdown, he said. Drones have been increasingly used in Srinagar, Jammu, Baramulla, Kupwara, Pulwama, Shopian, Badgam, Rajouri, Udhampur and Kathua districts besides over the highways during the past fortnight. In videos shared by J-K Police, cops can be seen spreading the message via drones asking people to stay indoors and not come out unless it is necessary. There have been 380 coronavirus cases and five deaths in Jammu and Kashmir till now, according to Union Home Ministry data. At least 90 red zones have been declared. Police said drones allow them to keep an eye on a wider area. "Especially, in rural areas where people tend to gather in crowds or indulge in group activities, more than in urban areas. Using drones has definitely been a deterrent," an officer said. Drones can travel up to a distance of one to five kilometres and to a height of 500 metres, depending on the model, from where the operator is controlling the UAV. "It is proving efficient for surveillance and preventing lockdown violations," he said. This is not the first time that drones have been used in J-K to help police in surveillance, the officer said, adding, "We have used drones post abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir". During the 2014 floods, the Army too used drones in some selective locations in Srinagar to trace and help stranded people during rescue operations. While enforcing the lockdown in the union territory, police lodged 1,012 FIRs, action was taken against 1,295 shop and vehicle owners and 2,303 people were arrested for violations. In Kashmir zone, 568 FIRs have been lodged against people for violating government orders and 447 vehicles were seized. The J-K Police arrested 1,691 people for illegal movement and 1,683 were granted bail after detailed counselling on COVID-19. Similarly in Jammu zone, 444 FIRs were lodged for violating government orders. As many as 612 persons were arrested for not adhering to government orders, out of which 608 were released after counselling. In other states too, drones are being used to monitor public gatherings, ensure social distancing, for spraying disinfectants over villages, overseeing cargo, among other tasks. The drones were also used by China, where the disease was first reported, to detect people with fever in large gatherings using thermal images.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-police-uses-eye-in-the-sky-to-enforce-coronavirus-lockdown-828578.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus outbreak: Uncertainty over Amarnath yatra as SASB release announcing decision to cancel pilgrimage withdrawn||Within minutes of Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB) announcing the cancellation of the Amarnath Yatra due to coronavirus pandemic, the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Wednesday said the press note was "cancelled and withdrawn". However, nothing else was said, giving rise to uncertainty over the 42-day-long yatra which was scheduled to commence from the twin tracks of Pahalgam in Anantnag district and Baltal in Ganderbal district on June 23.              In an official statement titled "Shri Amarnathji Yatra 2020 cancelled due to outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic", a spokesman said that the decision was taken at the 38th Board meeting of the Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB) which met under the chairmanship of Lt Governor G C Murmu at Raj Bhavan here. However, he said the board decided that the Pratham Pooja' and 'Sampann Pooja' would be done with traditional fervour. Later, within half an hour, another official statement was issued which read, "The Press Note titled Shri Amarnathji Yatra 2020 cancelled due to outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic released vide No: PR/DI/19/7062/ may kindly be treated cancelled and withdrawn." Earlier, Murmu, who is also chairman of the SASB, had said there were 77 red zones identified in the Kashmir valley from where the pilgrimage passed. "Due to this pandemic, the establishment of langars, medical facility, camp establishment, material mobilization and snow clearance are not possible," he said. "Though Government of India extended the nationwide lockdown till May 3, it is highly unpredictable to know which direction it will take later. The safety of the pilgrims is of prime importance," he said. The spokesman said the board decided unanimously that in view of the pandemic, it wouldn't be prudent to organize the yatra. "It was also decided that the board would explore the possibility of telecasting the pooja and darshan of Shivlinga online and through other media for millions of devotees worldwide," he said, adding the board members noted that this should also set an example for all to avoid such congregations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-outbreak-uncertainty-over-amarnath-yatra-as-sasb-release-announcing-decision-to-cancel-pilgrimage-withdrawn-828587.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Six more contract COVID-19 in Punjab; total cases reach 257, active ones 188||Six more persons contracted coronavirus in Punjab on Wednesday, taking the total count of infected cases in the state to 257 and active ones to 188. As per the daily medical bulletin, five cases were reported from Jalandhar and one from Kapurthala. Out of total 257 cases, Mohali district continued to top the COVID-19 tally with 62 so far, followed by Jalandhar which reported 53 cases. Thirty one cases were reported from Patiala, 24 from Pathankot, 19 from Nawanshahr, 16 from Ludhiana, 11 each from Mansa and Amritsar, seven from Hoshiarpur, four from Moga, three each from Rupnagar, Sangrur, Kapurthala and Faridkot, two each from Fatehgarh Sahib and Barnala, and one each from Muktsar, Gurdsapur and Ferozepur, as per the medical bulletin. The bulletin described the condition of one patient is as critical. He has been put on ventilator support. Of total cases, 16 have died while 53 patients have been discharged from hospital so far. A total of 7,887 samples have been taken so far in the state with 7,100 samples out of them testing negative and reports of 530 being awaited. There are 188 active cases in the state, as per the medical bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-more-contract-covid-19-in-punjab-total-cases-reach-257-active-ones-188-828590.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Create helpline for elderly to during coronavirus lockdown, HC tells Delhi govt||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday directed the AAP government to create a dedicated helpline for senior citizens to address their problems and provide them assistance during the coronavirus lockdown. The direction was issued by a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad on a plea, heard via video conferencing, seeking that banking, health, groceries and other basic facilities be provided to senior citizens at their doorsteps during the lockdown. The bench directed the Delhi government, represented by its additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal, to create the helpline number on an urgent basis and to give it wide publicity. With the direction, the bench disposed of the petition by Ajit Kumar, a senior lawyer and also a senior citizen, who had also sought that elderly persons be relocated away from general public to protect them from being infected by COVID-19. Kumar had said that senior citizens often live alone and therefore, have to go out on their own to buy groceries or medicines or avail banking services. He had also said that with age the immune system weakens and thus, the elderly become more vulnerable to coronavirus infection when they venture out. Aggarwal, during the hearing, told the court that the government machinery at all levels is already doing its best to contain the spread of COVID-19. He also told the court that "reverse quarantine or isolation of senior citizens at dedicated areas in green zones", as sought by Kumar, was required in countries/ places where lockdown is not being observed and not in India which has been pro-active in declaring a lockdown.  He also argued that displacing senior citizens without there being any symptoms poses a greater risk of exposure during the mass relocation process and would cause panic and anxiety among the elderly.   The government lawyer further said that senior citizens all requests, including for groceries and medical supplies, are being addressed through the helpline no. 1291 provided by Delhi Police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/create-helpline-for-elderly-to-during-coronavirus-lockdown-hc-tells-delhi-govt-828600.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Police books suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain under UAPA for Delhi violence||Delhi police has booked suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, a lawyer said on Wednesday. Police has also arrested former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan and activist Khalid Saifi in the case, said advocate Akram Khan who is representing other accused in the matter. Hussain was arrested earlier in connection with the alleged killing of Intelligence Bureau official Ankit Sharma during the communal violence in northeast Delhi. Police has already booked Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) university students Meeran Haider and Safoora Zargar, arrested for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to incite communal riots in northeast Delhi in February, under the Act. While Zargar is the media coordinator of Jamia Coordination Committee, Haider is a member of the committee. In the FIR, police has claimed that the communal violence was a "premeditated conspiracy" which was allegedly hatched by former JNU student leader Umar Khalid and two others. The students have also been booked for the offences of sedition, murder, attempt to murder, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion and rioting. Khalid had allegedly given provocative speeches at two different places and appealed to the citizens to come out on streets and block the roads during the visit of US President Donald Trump to spread propaganda at international level about how minorities in India are being persecuted, the FIR alleged. In this conspiracy, firearms, petrol bombs, acid bottles and stones were collected at numerous homes, FIR claimed. Co-accused Danish was allegedly given the responsibility to gather people from two different places to take part in the riots, police alleged. Women and children were made to block the roads under the Jaffrabad metro station on February 23 to create tension amidst the neighbourhood people, FIR said. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-books-suspended-aap-councillor-tahir-hussain-under-uapa-for-delhi-violence-828604.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Cop accompanying medical survey team attacked in MP||A police officer was allegedly attacked in Madhya Pradesh's Sheopur district on Wednesday when he asked members of a family to produce a man so that he could be checked for coronavirus symptoms. Assistant Sub-inspector Shreeram Awasthi (52) sustained a head injury when a stone hit him, the police said. Four persons were arrested in the case and the stringent National Security Act would be invoked, said a senior official. Sub Divisional Officer of Police Virendra Kushwaha said a medical team went to examine Gopal Shivhare (21) after it learnt that he had returned from Indore, one of the major pandemic hotspots in the country. Gopal's father Gangaram told the team that his son was not at home and he was fine. He refused to summon his son. Team leader Dr Pawan Upadhyaya then rang up Daswami police station for help, Kushwaha said. ASI Shreeram Awasthi reached the spot with three policemen and asked Gangaram to bring his son for examination to Daswami, 140 km from the district headquarters, the SDOP said. There was an altercation, and Gangaram, his wife Geeta and their elder son Ashish allegedly hurled stones at the police. Awasthi was hit in the head leaving him profusely bleeding, the officer said. He was rushed to a hospital while four people including Gopal were arrested under relevant sections of the IPC, Kushwaha said. Awasthi was out of danger, said District Superintendent of Police Sampat Upadhyaya. "We are going to invoke the National Security Act against the prime accused to send a message to anti-social elements that such attacks will be dealt with sternly," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cop-accompanying-medical-survey-team-attacked-in-mp-828609.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Will allow homeward journey of people stranded in Uttar Pradesh: Yogi Adityanath||The Uttar Pradesh government will allow other states to take home their residents if they want, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday. “If the governments of other states wish to recall their citizens stranded in Uttar Pradesh because of the lockdown, our government will give permission and cooperate,” the Uttar Pradesh CM said during a review meeting on coronavirus with senior officials. He also said the students brought from Rajasthan's Kota should be told to stay quarantined in their homes through the CM helpline 1076. The CM said he will personally contact them and enquire about their well being. Taking stock of the situation, he also told officials to take strict action against those violating the lockdown and not adhering to the social distancing norms. "A lockdown means total lockdown,” he said. The CM told officials to take all necessary precautions for the holy month of Ramzan, beginning next week. He said it should be ensured that there is no gathering at the time of "sehri" and "iftar" (early morning and late evening meals), an official press release said. The chief minister was informed by officials that 10 districts, earlier affected by the disease, have no active case now. As of now, 32 districts of the total 75 are free from coronavirus, the CM was told. Adityanath, however, directed officials to remain extra vigilant and reiterated the need to test all those involved in the supply of essentials. Aligarh, Saharanpur and Moradabad districts are sensitive and so testing labs should be set up there, he said. The CM also directed to seal the private hospitals that do not follow safety norms and guidelines. The chief minister said industrial units in the districts not affected by the virus should be allowed to function as per the guidelines of the Centre. Permission should be granted for the transportation of the construction material, he said. He asked officials to ensure that no one faced a shortage of foodgrain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-allow-homeward-journey-of-people-stranded-in-uttar-pradesh-yogi-adityanath-828618.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||115 cases registered, over 3,000 people detained for defying lockdown norms in Delhi||Over 100 cases were registered and 3,392 people detained in the national capital on Wednesday for violating government orders during the lockdown imposed to control the coronavirus outbreak, police said. According to the data shared by the police, 115 cases were registered under section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code till 5 pm. A total of 3,392 people have been detained under section 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers) and 259 vehicles have been impounded under section 66 of the Delhi Police Act, they stated. A total of 493 movement passes have been issued, police said. Sixty cases were registered against people for stepping out of their houses without wearing masks. Since March 24, a total of 1,08,385 people have been detained so far for violating orders under section 65 of the Delhi Police Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/115-cases-registered-over-3000-people-detained-for-defying-lockdown-norms-in-delhi-828631.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama, Kishtwar become coronavirus-free||Pulwama and Kishtwar in Jammu and Kashmir have become coronavirus-free as all four patients in the two districts have recovered from the infection, according to a bulletin issued by the Union Territory's administration on Wednesday. While Pulwama had reported three cases of COVID-19, the disease caused by coronavirus, Kishtwar had one. All three coronavirus patients in Pulwama district of south Kashmir have now recovered from the infection, the daily bulletin of the Jammu and Kashmir administration said. Similarly, the lone coronavirus patient in Kishtwar district of Jammu division has also recovered, it said. With this, there are six coronavirus-free districts in Jammu and Kashmir, it added. In the neighbouring Union Territory of Ladakh, Kargil became coronavirus-free as all three patients in the district have recovered. Ladakh MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal said in a tweet, "Kargil becomes COVID-19 free District. Thanks all warriors!" The total number of coronavirus cases in Jammu and Kashmir rose to 407 on Wednesday as 27 more people tested positive for the infection, government spokesperson Rohit Kansal said. While 92 COVID-19 patients have recovered in Jammu and Kashmir, five have died due to the deadly disease. The number of active cases in the Union territory stands at 310. Bandipora has the highest number of active cases in the union territory at 78, followed by 51 in Srinagar. Baramulla (41), Shopian (40), Jammu (21) and Udhampur (11) are other districts with COVID-19 cases in double digits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmirs-pulwama-kishtwar-become-coronavirus-free-828661.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Aviation ministry employee tests positive for coronavirus||The Ministry of Civil Aviation on Wednesday said one of its employees who attended office on April 15 has tested positive for COVID-19. All colleagues, who came in contact with the employee, have been asked to go into self-isolation as a precautionary measure, it said. The B-block of Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan, where the office of the Civil Aviation Ministry is located, has been sealed for three days as it has to be sanitised thoroughly, senior government officials said. "All rooms, corridors and offices of B-block will be sanitised thoroughly during the next three days," they said. "An employee of the ministry who had attended office on April 15, 2020, has tested positive for COVID-19 on April 21. All necessary protocols are being stringently followed on the premises," the ministry tweeted. "Government of Delhi is seized of the matter. They are taking appropriate steps as per the laid protocol for contact tracing and risk profiling," it said. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, in a tweet said, "We stand by our colleague at Ministry of Civil Aviation who has tested positive for COVID-19 and have extended all possible medical help and support." "Those in contact have also been asked to follow the laid down procedures. I wish him strength and speedy recovery," he said. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to combat the spread of coronavirus, which has infected more than 20,000 people in the country. More than 600 people have died due to the deadly virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aviation-ministry-employee-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-828667.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||34 labourers reach Uttar Pradesh from Mumbai by hiding in fruit crates amid coronavirus lockdown, sent in quarantine||The district administration has caught hold of 34 labourers who arrived here from Mumbai by hiding in empty fruit crates during the nationwide lockdown and sent them to a quarantine facility, officials said on Wednesday. The labourers reached the district on Monday and were hiding in Kakrala area of Sadar tehsil, the officials said. District Magistrate of Badaun, Kumar Prashant, on Wednesday said a team of district administrative officials along with health department officials and social activists were sent to the village. "Initially, the villagers said that no one has come to their village from Mumbai. However, later they admitted that 34 labourers had come from Mumbai's Andheri area on April 20, and were staying in the jungle located in the vicinity of the village," he said. They have been quarantined at a school in the area, the DM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/34-labourers-reach-uttar-pradesh-from-mumbai-by-hiding-in-fruit-crates-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-sent-in-quarantine-828676.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Foreign arbitral award against NAFED unenforceable: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday held as "unenforceable" the international arbitral award of 1989 of the Federation of Oil, Seeds and Fats Associations Ltd (FOSFA) against India's NAFED for not supplying entire contracted quantity of 5,000 metric tonnes of groundnut to foreign firm Alimenta S.A in 1979-80. The National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED) and the Alimenta S.A had entered into the contract for supply of 5,000 metric tonnes of Indian groundnut for the season 1979-80 and out of the contracted quantity, only 1900 metric tones could be shipped due to the damage caused to the crop by a cyclone in the Saurashtra region. Ultimately, FOSFA on November 15, 1989 had passed an award against NAFED asking it to pay a sum of "$ 4,681,000 being the difference between the contract price of $ 765 per metric tonnes plus $ 15 per metric tonnes for double bags and the settlement price of $ 2275 per metric tonnes plus $ 15 per metric tonnes for double bags as damages." The arbitral amount was ordered to be paid with interest at the rate of 10.5 per cent annually from February 13, 1981 till the date of the award. Later, the Board of Appeal, while deciding the appeal of NAFED against the award, enhanced it and directed the Indian state firm to pay interest components at the rate of 11.25 per cent instead of 10.5 per cent per annum. A bench comprising Justices Arun Mishra, M R Shah and B R Gavai took note of the law on the issue relating to foreign award and clause 14 of FOSFA agreement and said that no export could have taken place without the permission of the Government, and NAFED was unable to supply, as it did not have any permission for that year 1980-81. "In our considered opinion, the award could not be said to be enforceable, given the provisions contained in Section 7(1)(b)(ii) of the Foreign Awards Act. As per the test laid down...,its enforcement would be against the fundamental policy of Indian law and the basic concept of justice. Thus, we hold that award is unenforceable, and the High Court erred in law in holding otherwise in a perfunctory manner," Justice Mishra said in the judgement. The bench said the award was "ex facie illegal" and in contravention of fundamental law as no export without permission of the Government was permissible and without the consent of the Government quota could not have been forwarded to next season. "The export without permission would have violated the law, thus, enforcement of such award would be violative of the public policy of India. On the happening of contingency agreed to by the parties in Clause 14 of the FOSFA Agreement the contract was rendered unenforceable under section 32 of the Contract Act. As such the NAFED could not have been held liable to pay damages under foreign award," it said. The court held it was not open for the foreign firm to saddle the liability upon NAFED to pay damages as the contract became void. "There was no permission to export commodity of the previous year in the next season, and then the Government declined permission to NAFED to supply. Thus, it would be against the fundamental public policy of India to enforce such an award, any supply made then would contravene the public policy of India relating to export for which permission of the Government of India was necessary," it said. The court held that NAFED was unable to comply with the contractual obligation to export groundnut due to the Government's refusal and it cannot be held liable in breach of contract to pay damages. The agreement was for the supply of 5000 metric tonnes of groundnut, but only 1900 metric tonnes could be shipped. The remaining quantity could not be shipped due to damage caused to crop by cyclone and later, the government did not allow NAFED to send the remaining 3,100 metric tonnes to the foreign firm and it led to arbitral proceedings and court cases between parties. The court said, "the Clause 14 of the FOSFA Agreement made clear that during the contract shipment period in the event of the prohibition of export by an executive or legislative act by any of the Government of origin, such restriction shall be deemed by both the parties to apply to the contract. Thus, if the shipment becomes impossible by reasons mentioned in the clause, the agreement shall be cancelled."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/foreign-arbitral-award-against-nafed-unenforceable-sc-828684.html
22-04-2020||North and Central||Pakistan pushing coronavirus-infected militants into Kashmir: JK DGP||Pakistan is pushing militants infected with COVID-19 into Kashmir to spread the disease among the people of the valley, Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbag Singh said on Wednesday. “It is a matter of concern that Pakistan is pushing COVID-19 infected militants from across. "Till now, Pakistan had been supporting terrorists and now it is exporting coronavirus patients to infect people of Kashmir. This is something on which there is a need to take precaution," he told reporters in central Kashmir's Ganderbal district after reviewing security and measures taken in view of COVID-19 outbreak. The DGP also attended a meeting chaired by R R Bhatnagar, Advisor to Lt Governor, to review the security and the prevailing ground situation in the valley in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Referring to the recent terror attacks, Singh said when the entire world was making efforts to fight the coronavirus pandemic, Pakistan and its sponsored terrorists were making all out attempts to disrupt the measures being taken to safeguard the lives of the people in J-K. “Even during the present health crisis, our forces would continue to consolidate peace while maintaining good security and law and order grids.  "Pakistan agencies are engaged in various activities at their launching pads in Pakistan and PoK to push in terrorists this side both from IB and LoC to further its nefarious designs of disturbing peace and normalcy and lives and livelihoods of the people without bothering about its own people who have become coronavirus victims," the DGP said. A recent report suggested that even the terrorists at their training centres and launching pads in Pakistan and PoK are suffering from coronavirus infection, Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-pushing-coronavirus-infected-militants-into-kashmir-jk-dgp-828689.html
22-04-2020||Opinion||COVID-19 impact on agriculture: Varied and devastating||A long list of problems The problems in agriculture at the moment are primarily related to (a) labour availability and, (b) inability to access markets for produce due to issues in transportation as well operation of markets.  The non-availability of labour has hurt operations in many parts. Some parts of agriculture that have the luxury of deploying technology for harvesting, like Paddy and Wheat, are relatively more insulated since they often do not have to depend on large numbers of manual labour. The increasing use of mechanical harvesters for paddy has helped in the present circumstances, though their inter-state movement has been severely curtailed.  However, commercial crops are drastically hit as they tend to be more dependent on migrant labour. Consequently, the shortage of migrant labour has resulted in a sharp increase in daily wages for harvesting crops. In many areas, the rise is as high as 50 percent, making it unremunerative for producers since prices have collapsed due to either lack of market access including the stoppage of transportation and closure of borders. This is in contrast to areas where migrant labourers have returned home from urban areas and this has led to a sharp decline in agricultural wages.  Agricultural producers are particularly hard hit with returns on produce varying from one-third the usual or a complete loss. In a number of districts, inter-state trade in commercial crops or proximity to urban areas provides market access and better prices. These are often due to initiatives of individual farmers rather than direct state support. This is often the case of crops like onions, cotton, mango, inland fisheries, flowers and vegetables. The rise in labour costs and lack of access means that farmers are staring at huge losses and hence allowing crops to rot in the fields, a better ‘stop-loss’ mechanism. Those who have avoided a complete loss barely eke out any money to cover the cost let alone household maintenance or land lease rates.  Possible shortages ahead An immediate consequence of this should make the government weary and alert to a possible sharp spike in the price of vegetables and other commercial crops due to large scale changes in cropping patterns. Large buffer stocks in paddy and wheat mean that food grains shortage due to poor harvest is unlikely, at least this year. The case of commercial crops and vegetables is more complex. The decision to plant these is largely dependent on realisation price in the preceding season. A collapse in returns means that farmers are likely to shift to another crop thereby substantially altering supply dynamics and with it prices. This, in turn, may have a bearing on food inflation.  Need for contingency plan The end of the lockdown will not end the problems. On the contrary, they are likely to be compounded at the onset of the new agricultural sowing season. The most important issue that farmers have to surmount is the problem of repaying their crop loans and gold loans at least for those who have borrowed from the formal banking sector. Crop loans are repaid between April and May and a fresh loan is granted at the onset of a new season. Recent price collapse means that farmers are staring at huge losses and most of them are already highly indebted and hence unlikely to have the means to repay their loans.  Any failure to do so will mean that they will be forced to borrow money from the informal sector at high rates of interest for the new season. Hence, the government will be well advised to think of a rescheduling of loans wherein existing loans are converted to long-term loans payable over a three year period. There is also a greater need for government support in the form of support for other agricultural inputs. Lack of any relief will only make the agricultural crisis worse.  (S Ananth is an independent researcher based in Andhra Pradesh. Views are personal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/covid-19-impact-on-agriculture-varied-and-devastating-828390.html
22-04-2020||Panorama||Covid-19: Developing countries must learn what not to do from the US||With the United States of America acquiring the dubious distinction of having the highest caseload of Covid-19 patients and deaths globally, there are some important lessons for developing countries as the US is often seen as the trendsetter in terms of corporate and organisational best practices. The present crisis in the US has largely unfolded in and around New York city, which ironically has one of the best hospitals in the world. Coincidentally, the two most visible political faces nowadays in the context of crisis response were born and raised New Yorkers. Both President Donald Trump and New York state Governor Andrew Cuomo were born in Queens borough, arguably one of the most diverse pockets of the world. At the same time, the contrasts between the two men born in privilege could not have been more. In his typical Queens accent, Cuomo, born in an Italian-American household and son of former Governor Mario Cuomo, holds press conferences every day on the crisis. His words of hope, and yet caution, laced with facts, have helped his popularity soar across the world.   New York City may be the mecca of global capitalism, but the city is known for its progressive policies. As compared to other parts of the US, New York City has a strong safety net devised by the state for the low-income population. There is hardly a doubt that the viral spread of Covid-19 in New York city is primarily because of the huge daily inflow of people into the city. The city’s residents have linkages all over the world as around 37% of them are foreign-born. This makes the city diverse and colourful but also highly vulnerable to a pandemic. However, there is another thing that is exacerbating the crisis. It is endemic to the US, and even a city like New York with all its uniqueness and strong safety net cannot escape from it. This is the infamous US medical system, which is perpetually hostage to the greed of the insurance companies. The system is structured so as to make maximum profits to pay for the huge unproductive administrative and marketing costs. Patients who have insurance go to the doctors regularly and also get preventive care. In some cases, even they are not immune to the absurdities of the system. The medical expenses are negotiated between the hospital and insurance companies. In 2014, I had made my nearly $17,000 bill from a New York city private hospital negotiated by an insurance company down to $8,000. That bill was for having a thumb cut stitched in an emergency unit. In an environment where the bills are inflated, patients are hesitant to go to the doctor. This is common even among patients who have insurance but are worried about the high co-payments involved as the quality of insurance varies. In the absence of free testing for Covid-19 during the initial phase of its spread in the US, many patients avoided going to the doctor and thus became carriers of the virus. The empirical evidence is before us. The poorer and outer parts of the boroughs of Queens and Brooklyn have shown the highest numbers of Covid-19-positive cases. Elmhurst, a public hospital in Queens, is the epicentre of the Covid-19 explosion in  New York city. Reportedly, more than two-thirds of the residents in the area around Elmhurst were born outside the US, and they belong to the low-income category. Around 8.5% of the US population is uninsured even after the passage of the landmark Affordable Care Act during President Obama’s tenure. In January 2019, New York City had over 600,000 uninsured residents; about half of them are undocumented immigrants, the rest are eligible for coverage, but they’re not enrolled for one reason or the other.  A lack of proper health insurance and the presence of co-morbidities have proved to be the death knell during the pandemic. The uninsured depends on public and safety-net hospitals, which proved to be inadequate during the pandemic. A New York-based non-profit – the Association for Neighbourhood and Housing Development -- reports that “at least 18 hospitals have closed all of their in-patient services in New York City since 1998, leading to the loss of thousands of hospital beds -- with two-thirds of those closures occurring in the outer boroughs…A look at the data shows that the majority of these outer-borough hospital closures fell in lower-income communities of colour (non-White) that bear the brunt of the coronavirus crisis today.” In the context of developing countries, the first priority is to control the spread of Covid-19. It is also an opportunity to draw adequate lessons from varied global experiences. Undue and unregulated privatisation of the medical system along with the presence of opaque practices of insurance companies is not a solution. Densely populated Asian countries like South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan flattened the curve early and these models need to be studied closely. For instance, the US has six times the population of South Korea but 174 times its Covid-19-related fatalities so far. The elements of the public health system in developing countries, particularly accessed by the vast majority, that are working well should be continued, modernised and scaled up. At present, the private medical sector, which is accessible to only a few, lacks proper regulatory checks. There is an apprehension that at times the treatment prescribed is done to inflate costs. In a nutshell, the pandemic is for national health systems across the world a moment to act both short-term as well as long-term by learning from each other, by factoring in what has and what has not worked. (The writer is a political analyst and has worked with the United Nations in various capacities)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-developing-countries-must-learn-what-not-to-do-from-the-us-828343.html
22-04-2020||Panorama||ASHA, Anganwadi workers deserve pay, social security, not just applause  ||The government has been utilising the services of millions of frontline health workers to deal with Covid-19. Of them, the ‘volunteers’ employed under the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) which has been in vogue since 1975, namely anganwadi workers (AW), anganwadi helpers (AH) and the Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers, employed under the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) in existence since 2005 (hereafter ‘community health service workers, or CHSW), deserve special attention. According to the government, there are 1.33 million anganwadi workers and 1.05 million ASHA workers. Under their respective schemes, they provide multiple functions, such as child physical (including nutrition) and emotional and mental healthcare, maternal care, immunisation, family planning, reducing gender-based violence, etc.  The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, gave special training to the CHSW to help them provide a variety of services in the Covid-19 context, such as to spread safe practices, identification of a virus suspect/contact, etc.  The Telangana government has additionally asked the trained AWs to assess the psychological impact of lockdown on women, children and the aged. Thus, we see that they perform multiple valuable functions and are warriors in humanity’s fight against Covid-19. Their work assumes vital importance as they have a strong and institutionalised community presence. However, their services are hardly mentioned, though they suffer from existential and identity crises. In fact, a PIL lodged in the Supreme Court seeks directions for protective measures for nurses, which is a welcome move as nurses are a highly exploited lot. The Supreme Court must suo motu include the CHSW also in its directions. However, news reports reveal many bad experiences of these workers. For example, they have not only been subjected to undesirable treatment (like heckling, physical assaults) in some places, in others they have not been provided with adequate and fresh personal protective equipment like masks, gloves and sanitisers. In some places, they continue to use oft-used masks or even their dupattas and pallu (end of the saree) as substitutes. They work for long hours as the infection incidences rise, often sacrificing their family time. In some states, they did not receive their meagre income even during this tough period. At the same time, press reports demonstrate unquestionably their selfless, untiring and invaluable frontline work, often risking infection as some of them have health deficiencies like diabetes, etc., which make them more vulnerable. While state governments have possibly settled the issues mentioned above arising out of the Covid-19 crisis, these workers suffer from some fundamental and long-pending labour market deficits that merit serious and considerate action by the government.     These workers are women who hail from low-income families, not well-educated, some of them widows, join the community health service at a young age and continue without any career prospects. There is a formal recruitment process and the ASHA workers receive rigorous training.  Given the kind of extensive community health services they perform, it cannot be dismissed as unskilled work by any stretch of imagination.  However, the government has always maintained that since they are ‘volunteers/honorary workers’, it will only pay honoraria as determined from time to time. Their honorarium is a consolidated pay with no cost-of-living allowance and there are no structured guidelines for their periodic revision as would be the case in any kind of employment. Hence, in several regions, their honoraria are less than the minimum wages of unskilled workers. Then, any rise in them is advertised by the ruling party as a large welfare measure.  For example, the honoraria for AW and AH were revised from ₹3,000 to ₹4,500 and ₹1,500 to ₹2,2,50, respectively, in October 2018 -- after seven years! The honoraria of these workers are shared between the central and the state governments and hence their incomes show regional variations. The ASHA’s compensation system is rather complex, comprising variable components that are linked to defined tasks (e.g. ₹100 for full immunisation; ₹50 for reporting child death; ₹1,000 for 42 contacts over 6-7 months of TB treatment). It is notable that the scheme-based workers work under poor conditions, are given meagre insurance cover and not entitled to social security.  The CHSW have conducted numerous struggles for many years on several demands and won several rights, like even the minor rise in their honoraria. The core demands are: fixed and higher wage, social security, the status of ‘workers’ and, since they work under government schemes, they should be treated as ‘government employees’. These issues were discussed in the tripartite body, Indian Labour Conference (ILC) in 2015 and the Conference Committee in which government representatives were present endorsed all their demands. However, the government rejected them on specious grounds. Since they are volunteers and performing part-time work, they cannot be termed as workers nor as government employees. On technical grounds, it declared that they are not eligible to cover under ESI and EPF schemes. They cannot be paid the minimum wages as they do not hold any civil post per the Supreme Court judgement in 1998. And since the government deems them to be ‘volunteers’, their trade union and collective bargaining rights issues do not exist.  The Finance Minister announced ₹50 lakh insurance cover for 90 days to health workers, including community health workers, and Maharashtra has announced a ₹25 lakh insurance cover for anganwadi workers. While these are laudable, if the applause by the political leaders is genuine, then a befitting reward to these precarious workers would be conferring ‘workers’ and ‘government employees’ status on them, with attendant benefits. It will not only uplift millions of families as these workers hail from low-income families, it will also enhance gender justice as they are women workers. Does the government have the heart and the will to do so, at least after having used their services extensively at a time of national crisis? (The writer is Professor, XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Pune)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/asha-anganwadi-workers-deserve-pay-social-security-not-just-applause-828665.html
22-04-2020||Panorama||Coronavirus lockdown: Still the right choice?||Is the lockdown an over-reach? In our anxiety about the potential health hazard posed by the coronavirus, have we taken an extreme risk on the economic front? It's important to ask this question. What's happened has happened, and there were enough reasons to warrant going into lockdown. The plain fact is, we have a weak public health system, and allowing it to be overrun by a fast-spreading virus would have been disastrous. It's reasonable to think that a lockdown was needed to convert a fast-spreading risk into a slow spreading one. Let's grant that. But what about now? We've been hearing daily from the different states, and also get a compilation of the situation from the Centre on a daily basis. According to all the data we have from this, the virus is now spreading slower than it was doing four weeks ago when the lockdown began. It also appears that every state has improved its capacity to respond to its spread, compared to what it was then. That's good news. But it also means that the original goal of the lockdown is largely achieved. Which means we can -- and must -- ask afresh, does a lockdown still make sense, or should we start to ease it back? One fear is that if we lift the lockdown the number of cases will spike again, and we may not be able to cope with that. But that fear can be expressed at any time, even in December. There has to be a point at which we feel confident that we have done enough to overcome this fear. And at that point, we have to take a chance that we will be able to deal with the rate of infections if it spikes again. This is what we do with every other disease. That's why we don't shut down to deal with malaria or flu. What will give us the nerve to take that step? Three things need to happen. First, we need to see the virus spreading at a lower rate than in the past -- that seems to be already happening. Second, there must be some hope of better care during treatment, either because some existing drug seems to help or because antibodies from cured patients subdues the virus. There are faint rays of hope on this front. The third part, which is increasingly becoming the most important one, is that we need to develop another fear that is greater than our fear of the virus -- namely, that the economic damage unfolding before us if we delay lifting the lockdown could be worse than what the virus does to us in the months ahead. It's not easy to come to this conclusion. But we know from decades of experience what happens when people are pushed to the edge. Every day of the lockdown, thousands of people will go into bondage because they can't pay their debts, thousands of women will be forced into prostitution to make ends meet, children will be forced to work to stay alive, and many, many people will take their lives in desperation. We know all this because we've seen it before, all over the country and over many years. We now have two risks to balance -- the virus could swamp us, or the collapsing economy could do the same thing. One of them could very well be worse than the other, and what's needed is to find some way to make the right call. Perhaps, four weeks ago, we were right in choosing to risk the economy and save people's lives. But today, we are in a different situation, with more hope of taming the virus’ spread and a very real risk of economic catastrophe. This choice requires courage. And at times like this, politicians have to muster the maturity to do the right thing in the nation's interest. Opposition parties, especially in the states, should support governments to take this step. It's a hard-enough decision to take without having to fear that opponents will pounce on you if things go wrong. Ruling parties also need to show maturity. This is not their choice alone. It requires collective action across the political spectrum. The wise course is to take the opposition into confidence to make this tough decision sooner. It means sharing some of the credit when the economy comes back to life, but surely it is more important to save millions of families from ruin. This is not a time for politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/coronavirus-lockdown-still-the-right-choice-828670.html
22-04-2020||Right in the Middle||Candles in the wind||I don’t belong to a soothsayer’s family. But I turned into one when my servant anxiously asked, “Madam, when will this roga go away?” I replied peppily to assuage her feelings, “give it another two months, it will run away! Till then wear your mask and do not roam too much”. At my prophecy, she went away humming an indistinct tune through the mask.  In over five decades of my life, I have hosted chicken-pox, typhoid, flu all of which are infectious in various degrees. I remember my mother narrating the story of my eldest sister. Smallpox was the protagonist of those times. A manager working at our hotel fell prey and my father made arrangements to shift him to our spacious house as the manager’s family resided at his native place. My mother pleaded against the idea due to the toddler’s presence. But my father went ahead, arguing that the person would be accommodated on the first floor. The manager recovered in due course but my mother’s precious baby succumbed. After many years it was the turn of the chickenpox virus and I was its genial host. The moment I displayed signs, I was sent back from school and was quarantined at home, with my maid, sister in law and an aunt taking turns to tend to me. The virus spread its tentacles lavishly and left me after a virulent stay. Strangely the virus was addressed as “amma” and the local goddess was propitiated after recovery.  After a decade I unexpectedly contracted measles from a student. With no help, I had to tend to the rogue guest all alone which drained me. I have since then nursed my kids through measles, chicken-pox, typhoid, flu, malaria but never seen a Covid-like situation. A light cough or a sneeze is enough to scare the wits out of anyone. It is goodbye to eye contact leave alone hand contact, as with the mask on nobody can be recognised. I don’t step out of the house, yet a cough from me gets a suspicious look from the husband. Each one is cooped up at his own abode like never before, unnaturally so.  Even so, let us remain grateful that essentials are available for the subsistence of the tangible body. I stay relieved as I am able to watch television for the news. But the saviour of the intangible mind is the internet without which the neurons would have gone haywire! I am able to virtually see my dear daughter, son-in-law, and grandkids who live far away at the epicentre of the pandemic. I am grateful for these small mercies!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/candles-in-the-wind-828342.html
22-04-2020||Second Edit||Terror list: Pakistan at its game again||Pakistan’s removal of some 3,800 names from its ‘Proscribed Persons List’ over the past 18 months, 1,800 of which were removed just since March, is reason for serious concern not just for India but for the world. It does seem that Pakistan government is persisting with its long-standing policy of avoiding action against terrorists. Pakistan’s terrorist watchlist, which had the names of 7,600 terrorists in October 2018, has been whittled down to half that number in 18 months. Removal of names from watchlists is not objectionable per se. There may be a number of legitimate reasons for doing so – some who figure on it may have given up terrorist activities; some names may have been mentioned multiple times; some may be cases of misidentification. Thus, if the reduction of names in the Proscribed Persons List was simply a matter of cleaning up the list of inaccuracies or updating it, it would be fine. However, this does not seem to be the case with regard to Pakistan’s watchlist. Pakistan went about removing names rather surreptitiously. Besides, it did not provide any explanations for the move nor did it communicate its action to the international bodies concerned. The opacity surrounding the whittling down of the list raises questions over Pakistan’s intentions. The country has a long history of supporting terrorist groups and using them to further its foreign policy objectives. Despite pressure from several governments and global organisations, Islamabad has rarely acted against terrorists. Its removal of thousands of names from its watchlist fits in with its record of acting to get terrorists off the hook. Pakistan’s action is of particular concern to India. According to terrorist watchlist compliance watchdog, Castellum.AI, the name of Zaki-ur Rehman Lakhvi, one of the masterminds of the 2008 attacks in Mumbai, has been removed from the list. India has been pressing Pakistan to bring him and others involved in the terror attack to justice, a request that the latter has refused to heed. By removing his name from the watchlist, Pakistan has reaffirmed yet again its support to anti-India terrorism. Pakistan is on the Financial Action Task Force’s ‘grey list.’ In February, the global anti-money laundering watchdog observed that Pakistan had addressed only 14 of 27 action items, with varying levels of progress made on the other items. Its performance will come under review again in a few months. FATF members must look into Pakistan’s fudging of action taken on its terrorists. Simply removing them from a watchlist does not eliminate the threat that these terrorists pose to the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/terror-list-pakistan-at-its-game-again-828663.html
22-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Pondicherry govt not to relax lockdown restrictions, says CM||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Tuesday said the territorial administration is not inclined to relax lockdown curbs in force to contain the spread of COVID-19 after states like Tamil Nadu and Karnataka announced similar measures. Talking to mediapersons here, he said "we have taken a bold decision to ensure that the lockdown norms are implemented in letter and spirit and it has been extended till May 3." "We have sealed the border points to prevent intrusion of people from adjoining districts into Puducherry," he said adding there were fears that if there is no strict prevention of entry of people from red zones "Puducherry's record of having very little number of COVID 19 cases would be damaged." He said industrial units would not be allowed to resume work without ascertaining whether they adopted the lockdown guidelines stipulated by the government. "We will very strictly adhere to the norms and make sure that there is no violation by industries in adhering to the norms. They should not bring workers from outside Puducherry," he added. So far no industry has been permitted to resume operations, the chief minister said. "We are suffering big fall in revenue because of the lockdown. But protecting the lives of the people is of utmost importance and mopping up revenue is only secondary for the government," Narayanasamy said. Earlier, District Collector T Arun told reporters that the teritorrial government was following the guidelines of the Central government in implementing the lockdown here. "If there is no discipline on the part of the people in adhering to the norms we will come out with very stringent measures," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-pondicherry-govt-not-to-relax-lockdown-restrictions-says-cm-828325.html
22-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu CM laments opposition to burial of doctors who died of coronavirus||The city police chief warned of "severe action" against those preventing burial or victims of COVID-19. "It is sad that the burial of doctors was opposed to at a time when (doctors) are fighting to protect us against coronavirus," he wrote on his official twitter handle, @CMOTamilNadu. "We all should respect their dedication and act with humanity," he added. In two separate incidents last week, two doctors died of COVID-19 in the city, but locals protested against their burial on grounds of fears of spread of the pandemic. On both occasions, the mortal remains were buried elsewhere after officials could not perform the formalities in the originally selected localities. Incidentally, on Sunday night an orthopaedic surgeon had to bury his associate, a neurosurgeon who died of COVID-19, in the middle of the night using his bare hands and a shovel at a crematorium with the help of two hospital ward boys after the undertakers fled when a mob, protesting the interment, attacked them with bricks, stones, bottles and sticks and chased them away.  Meanwhile, in a separate statement, Palaniswami said frontline workers in the battle against COVID-19 such as doctors, nurses, healthcare workers and police personnel were engaged in "selfless" duty. "The whole country is praising them for their work. I consider these, who are working to protect lives, equal to God," he said in the statement.  He further said the government has ordered that the burial or cremation of people who had died of coronavirus be done with "due protection" but expressed regret over the incidents where people protested against such formalities for the deceased doctors. Referring to a couplet from Thirukkural, he urged people to show respect to those selfless persons who die while trying to protect the public and sought for due cooperation. Assuring his government's "total support" to such frontline workers, he said it will take due steps to ensure such incidents do not repeat and asked them not to have any fears. Meanwhile, City Police Commissioner A K Viswanathan described yesterday's incident as "inhuman violence" and condemned it. As many as 21 people have been arrested in connection with the incident and action will be taken against them under the stringent Goondas Act, he said. "Corporation and Health department are doing the burial as per World Health Organisation (WHO) guidlines. Doctors and experts have said there is no possibilty of spread (from a dead body)," he told reporters. He warned that police would take "severe action" against those preventing the burial, saying even Goondas Act could be slapped against them. The Greater Chennai Corporation appealed for public cooperation to ensure that those who died of COVID-19 are given a dignified burial or cremation. The civic body, in a release, said it was fighting the pandemic on a 'war-footing' and all it's staff were working round the clock to contain it. Despite all the efforts, it was unfortunate to lose a few lives due to the virus, it said, adding that "as fellow humans it is our duty to show compassion and empathy in sending off the deceased." "They deserve to have a respectful farewell from this world", it said and rued the the "obstruction" to burial or cremation of the deceased in some places, which it said, was unfortunate. "GCC hereby clarifies that the bodies of the deceased are handled safely as per set protocols," it said. Both burial and cremation were approved by the WHO, Government of India and the state government", it said. The Corporation said there was absolutely no spread of the infection in the neighbourhood and said the public need not fear or panic over such burial or cremation. "We request all to cooperate with us to ensure dignified burial or cremation of the deceased", it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-laments-opposition-to-burial-of-doctors-who-died-of-coronavirus-828336.html
22-04-2020||South||TN govt announces intensified measures to stem COVID-19 spread||Two senior IAS officials have been additionally appointed as zonal officers for this purpose, he said. Further, catering to the frontline workers in the battle against coronavirus, Palaniswami announced hiking the ex- gratia to Rs 50 lakh to the kin of such personnel if they die while on COVID-19 duty. The amount is presently Rs 10 lakh. Further, the government will provide a job to one person from such victims' families on compassionate grounds and based on their qualification, he said. If such frontline workers, both from the public and private sectors, died while on COVID-19 duty, their burial with due protection and respect will be ensured by the government as it is its duty to recognise their selfless service, he added.  Besides, the work of medical professionals in both public and private sectors and others will be recognised and such persons will be provided with awards, he said. In the event of medical workers in private hospitals contracting the virus, the Health department protocols in this regard will be duly followed, and all preventive measures will be put in place and medical services will be later allowed to resume there, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-govt-announces-intensified-measures-to-stem-covid-19-spread-828478.html
22-04-2020||South||Kerala anticipates exodus of up to 5.5 lakh expats after flight services resume||Even as a decision on bringing back NRIs in various countries is still pending, Kerala has already initiated steps for screening and quarantining of all those who come down from abroad once the air services are restored. Considering the present demand and trends, Kerala government is anticipating that there could be an exodus of three lakh to 5.5 lakh Malayali expats in the first 30 days after international flight services are restored. A high level meeting held by Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan the other day decided to set up sufficient quarantine facilities near all the four international airports in Kerala as well as to arrange transportation facilities from airports. Priority for return would be given to those with VISA expired, aged persons, pregnant women an children. The government would also launch an online registration facility for those who wish to return so that arrangements could be made in advance. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the preparedness of the state to face the mass exodus of expats has already been conveyed to the centre and the state was also pressing the centre to bring back the expats. Kerala former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy also sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday urging that special flights should be operated to bring back the Indians held up abroad. It is estimated that about 21.2 lakh Malayalis are abroad, of which 18.5 lakh are in Gulf countries. US, UK and Australia are the other countries with considerable Malayali population, said a recent study by the Centre for Development Studies in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-anticipates-exodus-of-up-to-55-lakh-expats-after-flight-services-resume-828488.html
22-04-2020||South||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu calls Tamil Nadu CM K Palaniswami, discusses handling of coronavirus||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday held a telephonic discussion with Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami over the state's handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, the government said. Naidu enquired about the various steps taken to contain the deadly virus, an official release said. The Vice President "lauded the government's various initiatives (in this connection) and said they be taken forward effectively," it said. One of the worst affected Indian states, Tamil Nadu has so far reported 1,596 positive cases of coronavirus including 18 deaths. A total of 635 people have been discharged after treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-calls-tamil-nadu-cm-k-palaniswami-discusses-handling-of-coronavirus-828539.html
22-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Kerala's Kannur COVID-19 tally keeps escalating||Kannur district in Kerala continues to be on high alert as seven of the 11 COVID-19 positive cases in Kerala on Wednesday were in the district. Unlike the higher number of persons getting cured in the previous days, only one infected person was tested negative in the state on Wednesday. A triple lockdown with tight police vigil was being implemented in the district from Tuesday and police registered cases against those moved out for unnecessary reasons. At present out of the 127 COVID-19 active cases in Kerala, 61 are in Kannur. There are around 20 hotspots in the district. Five persons who came from abroad more than 28 days back were among those tested positive in Kerala. Kerala government already decided to test all persons who came from abroad. One health worker and two house surgeons were also among those got infected on Wednesday. The house surgeons had recently travelled to other states. Of the 437 persons infected so far, 308 cured so far while two persons died.  Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that in the wake of reports that many persons from Tamilnadu were trying to cross the border to Kerala illegally, police checking along the border areas would be enhanced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-keralas-kannur-covid-19-tally-keeps-escalating-828561.html
22-04-2020||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan denies daughter's alleged links with US firm in controversy||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has denied the allegations that his daughter, who is running an IT firm in Bengaluru, was having links with the US firm that was engaged by the Kerala government for COVID data analysis. Vijayan said at a press conference on Wednesday that those raising the allegations should come out with evidence. He also said that he was not at all concerned about the personal allegations against him as he did nothing wrong. Congress MLAs in Kerala had alleged of links of Pinarayi Vijayan's daughter Veena Thayikkandiyil with US-based film Sprinklr run by Malayali Ragy Thomas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-denies-daughters-alleged-links-with-us-firm-in-controversy-828563.html
22-04-2020||South||No conflict in Centre fixing minimum and state higher advised price for sugarcane: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday held that there is no conflict in the central government fixing the minimum price and the state government the higher "advised price" for sugarcane. A five-judge bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra said there is no inconsistency or repugnancy in fixing the “advised price” or “remunerative price” by the state government and the “minimum price” by the central government.  The top court upheld the decision of another five-judge bench in 'UP  Cooperative Cane Unions Federations vs West UP Sugar Mills Association and Others' (2004), which stated that there was no conflict in exercise of powers by the central government in fixing the “minimum price” and in fixing the “advised price” by the state government. The court noted that by virtue of Entries 33 and 34 of List III (Concurrent List) of the seventh schedule of the Constitution, both the central government as well as the state government did have the power to fix the price of sugarcane.  "The central government having exercised the power and fixed the “minimum price”, the state government cannot fix the “minimum price” of sugarcane. However, at the same time, it is always open for the state government to fix the “advised price” which is always higher than the “minimum price"," the bench, also comprising Justices Indira Banerjee, Vineet Saran, M R Shah and Aniruddha Bose, said. The court also noted that the Sugarcane (Control) Order, 1966 which has been issued under Section 16 of the UP Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) Act, 1953 conferred power upon the state government to fix the remunerative or advised price at which sugarcane can be bought or sold which shall always be higher than the minimum price fixed by the Central Government. However, in the case where the “advised price” fixed by the state government is lower than the “minimum price” by the central government, the provisions of central enactments would prevail and the“minimum price” fixed by the central government would prevail. The five-judge bench examined the matter on a reference by a three-judge bench seeking clarification on a number of issues including if central government has the exclusive power to fix the price of sugarcane.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-conflict-in-centre-fixing-minimum-and-state-higher-advised-price-for-sugarcane-sc-828567.html
22-04-2020||South||All wastelands in Kerala to be used for farming||As part of massive COVID-19 mitigation efforts in agriculture to make the state self sufficient, the Kerala government on Wednesday announced that all wastelands would be used for farming. Kerala is a consumer state which depends on other states for food grains, fruits and vegetables. On Wednesday, Earth Day, Chief Minister Pinaryi Vijayan and his family led the state in this venture by planting tapioca at his official residence. The Chief Minister stressed the need and importance of Kerala being self-sufficient in foodgrains, "so as to be prepared for any eventuality." He said the agriculture department and Local Self Government bodies would join hands to improve self-reliance and explore all possible ways to improve vegetable cultivation, using kitchen gardens, rooftop cultivation and community projects. "The wastelands in the state will be utilised for farming. If it is a private property, the LSGs can use it for farming but the ownership of the property will remain with the owner. We need to ensure that no land will lie unused in the state," Vijayan said. The Chief Minister said the state now has enough food stocks and was in a comfortable position. However, if the current circumstances due to the pandemic outbreak continued for long, the government would have to start preparing for the future and need big interventions in the agriculture sector. He said though there is smooth movement of food trucks, the food security of Kerala in future depends on how the disease affects the rest of the country, from where food is brought in. "We should be able to increase production for our own consumption and reduce dependency on other states. We should be prepared to face any shortage or scarcity of food, the Chief Minister said. He said the state needs to adopt modern farming techniques and practices to have maximum produce from the minimum area by adopting them for regional needs. "We need to increase rice cultivation to over 25,000 hectares in the next two years. Cultivation of cereals, tuber crops, tapioca and plantain/banana should be increased to a larger area," Vijayan said. Kerala requires 20 lakh tonnes of vegetables every year and this years production is 14.72 lakh tonnes. The Chief Minister exhorted the youth to come forward and take up agriculture in a large way as the state needs large scale interventions to increase the output of foodgrains, fruits and vegetables.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/all-wastelands-in-kerala-to-be-used-for-farming-828653.html
22-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Once validated, rapid antibody kits to first test milk vendors, delivery boys, and police ||Five categories of people have been identified by the government -- healthcare workers in COVID hospitals, non-COVID hospitals' ICU staff, those in quarantine, those above 60 with diabetes, hypertension, lung disease, cancer, tuberculosis and HIV, and people in public contact like milk vendors, delivery boys, and the state police.   Wondfo, one of the two companies approved by the National Institute of Virology, Pune, is to send one lakh test kits on April 23. Imperial Life Sciences is to deliver 50,000 test kits on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday instructed states to not use rapid antibody test kits for two days till it conducts field tests and fixes the issue of faulty kits. In response to this, Dr CN Manjunath, Director, Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, and nodal officer for lab testing in the state's COVID-19 task force told DH, "NIMHANS requires 18 serum samples from COVID-19 patients who have tested positive after 14-day quarantine period, Dr V Ravi (NIMHANS Neurovirology HOD) feels the antibodies will be high in these patients. Since those samples are being sourced from Mysuru's COVID-19 patients and will reach Bengaluru only on Tuesday night, validation will take time, and hence we may not use the kits within 48 hours, and hence comply with ICMR's directions." After the validation of the test kits, they will be used first in a pilot phase. "For every red spot, we have selected a green spot. As in, for tests conducted in Bengaluru (which is a hotspot red zone), we will conduct tests in Shivamogga which is in green zone. Similarly, for tests conducted in Belagavi (which is in the red zone), we will conduct tests in Yadgir, which is in the green zone," Manjunath said. After this pilot testing is done, test kits will be used on a mass scale in five selected districts which are all hotspots -- Bengaluru, Mysuru, Kalaburagi, Chikkaballapur, and Belagavi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-once-validated-rapid-antibody-kits-to-first-test-milk-vendors-delivery-boys-and-police-828381.html
22-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to partially relax coronavirus lockdown from April 23||IT/ITeS companies with “minimum essential staff”, courier services, construction work and some manufacturing are among the selected activities that will be allowed from April 23, signalling the government’s intent to kickstart the state’s flailing economy amid the lockdown. “To mitigate hardship to the public, select additional activities have been allowed which will come into effect from 00.00 hours of April 23, 2020,” Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar said in an order issued Wednesday.  Public transportation will remain suspended till May 3, but private vehicles with passes for emergency services and personnel commuting with passes to places of work and back are allowed.   Construction of roads, irrigation projects, buildings and all kinds of industrial projects, including MSMEs, in rural areas and all kinds of projects in industrial estates, where workers are available on site and no workers are required to be brought in from outside, will be allowed.  Significantly, services provided by self-employed persons - electricians, IT repairs, plumbers, auto mechanics, carpenters etc - are allowed.  Manufacturing units of essential goods - drugs, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, their raw materials and intermediates - food processing industries in rural areas, coal production (mines and mineral production and activities incidental to mining) and manufacturing units of packaging materials will be allowed.  The government, which is facing a financial crunch, is under immense pressure to kickstart economic activities that stopped because of the coronavirus-driven lockdown.  But flights, buses, metro rail and inter-district, inter-state travel are banned till May 3. Hospitality services, bars, malls, theatres, shopping complexes and so on are to remain shut. All religious places are to stay closed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-partially-relax-coronavirus-lockdown-from-april-23-828444.html
22-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Revision classes for SSLC students from April 29||The revision classes for SSLC students will begin from April 29 through Doordarshan or Chandana channel. As the SSLC examinations were postponed due to COVID-19 pandemic and the nation-wide lockdown, the state Department of Primary and Secondary Education is conducting revision classes. To reach out to students who are in rural areas, the department has selected the Doordarshan/Chandana channel. The revision classes will be conducted between 3 pm to 4.30 pm from April 29. For the first 16 days, Mathematics and Science subjects will be covered. From the 17th day, model question papers of both the subjects will be provided and teachers will also help students acquire the techniques to solve the papers.  From the 18th day, revision classes for social science will be held for six days following which language subjects will be taken up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-revision-classes-for-sslc-students-from-april-29-828515.html
22-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No decision on cancelling SSLC exams: Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said that the state government has not taken any decision to cancel the SSLC examinations this year.  The minister interacted with SSLC students at the Siddaganga Mutt in the city on Thursday. He replied to their questions. In reply to the question: "Rumours that all students will be passed without conducting examinations are being spread. We need clarification on that," raised by a student, he asked the students: "Do you want exams or not. Do you want to pass SSLC without exams?". To this question, all students chorused said that they want exams.     When the minister asked them why they want exams, a student stood up and said: "We have studied hard for the exam for the whole year. We want our efforts to bear fruit. We don't want people to make fun of us calling us 'Corona pass', the student remarked. The minister asked students to be aware of rumour mongers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-decision-on-cancelling-sslc-exams-primary-and-secondary-education-minister-s-suresh-kumar-828545.html
22-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka goes UP way, to make rioters pay for damages||Karnataka on Wednesday promulgated an ordinance to tackle non-cooperation during containment of Covid-19, which includes a provision to make those who damage public or private property pay twice the value or have their own properties seized by the government.  The ordinance also prescribes a jail term of up to three years to those who obstruct a public servant during an epidemic.  Governor Vajubhai R Vala gave his assent to the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, on Wednesday. The ordinance came in the wake of alleged assaults on healthcare professionals, following which the Cabinet decided to take stern measures against offenders. The ordinance will empower the state government to notify an epidemic disease and provides for special measures and regulations during an outbreak.  Any violation of the special regulations notified by the government during an epidemic/pandemic will "be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and with a fine which extends to fifty thousand rupees," the ordinance read. Similar action will be initiated against those causing damage to public property.  Karnataka also took a leaf out of Uttar Pradesh's rulebook, adding the provision for "recovery of loss for damage caused to the public or private property". According to this, "the offender shall be liable for a penalty of twice the value of public or private property damaged." In case, the offender cannot pay the penal amount, it shall be recovered under provisions of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act as if the fine was arrears of land revenue. "In furtherance of such recovery, the deputy commissioner may by notification make provisional attachment of his (accused person) property available and (initiate) direct seizure and forfeiture of property..." the ordinance read. All offences under the ordinance will be cognizable and bailable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-goes-up-way-to-make-rioters-pay-for-damages-828588.html
22-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus outbreak: It’s zero-billing policy for poor and rich alike at Karnataka government hospitals||Covid-19 has affected BPL cardholders and the affluent alike. But all Covid-19 patients have got free treatment irrespective of their economic background. So, Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka (AB-ArK) has not received any Covid-19 reimbursement claims. There are 427 Covid-19 patients in the state, treated at government and private hospitals. Patients admitted in private hospitals for SARI, ILI and other co-morbidities, after testing positive, are shifted to Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru or district hospitals that are currently acting as Covid-19 exclusive hospitals, where they are treated free of cost. Emergency and Trauma Care Centre in Bengaluru's Victoria Hospital campus which is a Covid-19 exclusive hospital follows a zero billing protocol, irrespective of the paying capacity of the patient. "AB-ArK had approved 10 procedure codes more than a month ago for insurance of Covid-19. But we have only received around 147 pre-authorisation claims for pneumonia, high fever, stay at HDU (high dependency unit), ICU and general ward. We don't know if these are Covid-19 patients. Some hospitals out of the 85 Covid-19 hospitals in the state are giving treatment without pre-authorisation," said a senior official of Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust, the implementing agency for AB-ArK.    Cost analysis As on Wednesday, Bengaluru Urban had a total of 91 Covid-19 patients including those who've recovered and deaths. The cost of treating a patient starts with testing.  Aseema Banu, Nodal Officer, Emergency and Trauma Care Centre, told DH, "A Covid-19 patient is tested at least thrice. Once on day 1 and twice on day 14 before discharge. Considering each test costs Rs. 2,000, in total, it costs Rs. 6,000. Whether it is a crorepati or a BPL card holder, he/she is treated free of cost here. We don't ask them for BPL cards or APL cards. All they carry with them is their phones. We have a zero billing policy here." Dr Balaji Pai, Medical Superintendent, Emergency and Trauma Care Centre, said, "Currently, we have 40 Covid-19 patients here. Totally, there have been eight patients in the ICU. Four got well and were discharged, two passed away and two are still there. It costs 15,000 to the government to keep a patient without ventilator in the ICU and Rs. 25,000 with ventillator. It costs not less than Rs. 800 to Rs. 1,000 per bed per day in the general ward." "We spend Rs. 45,000 worth of PPEs alone per day for doctors, nurses, security and Group D staff. The main expenditure is on PPEs (personal protective equipment), diet, and medication of 40 patients currently. Per patient, at least one PPE is used per day. Oxygen, disposables, consumables, biomedical waste management, water, and electricity are other expenses," says Pai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-outbreak-it-s-zero-billing-policy-for-poor-and-rich-alike-at-karnataka-government-hospitals-828635.html
22-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||State goes UP way, to make rioters pay for damages||Karnataka on Wednesday promulgated an ordinance to tackle non-cooperation during containment of Covid-19, which includes a provision to make those who damage public or private property pay twice the value, or have their own properties seized by the government. The ordinance also prescribes a jail term of up to three years to those who obstruct a public servant during an epidemic. Governor Vajubhai R Vala gave his assent to the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, on Wednesday. The ordinance came in the wake of alleged assaults on healthcare professionals, following which the Cabinet decided to take stern measures against offenders. Taking a leaf out of Uttar Pradesh’s rulebook, Karnataka has introduced the provision for “recovery of loss for damage caused to the public or private property.” According to this, “the offender shall be liable for a penalty of twice the value of public or private property damaged.” In case, the offender cannot pay the penal amount, it shall be recovered the under provisions of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act as if the fine was arrears of land revenue. “In furtherance of such recovery, the deputy commissioner may by notification make provisional attachment of his (accused person) property available and (initiate) direct seizure and forfeiture of property...” the ordinance read. The ordinance will empower the state government to notify an epidemic disease, and provides for special measures and regulations during an outbreak. Any violation of the special regulations notified by the government during an epidemic/pandemic will “be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and with a fine which extend to fifty thousand rupees,” the ordinance read. All offences under the ordinance will be cognizable and bailable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/state-goes-up-way-to-make-rioters-pay-for-damages-828638.html
22-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: CM BS Yediyurappa thanks farmers for showing resolve||Allaying fears of food shortage, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday said that agricultural activities were underway across the state despite the lockdown. “In several districts, harvesting has crossed 80%. This is a sign of the self-confidence of our farmers. It’s also a sign that food shortage will not be a worry. I thank the entire farming community,” Yediyurappa said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-cm-bs-yediyurappa-thanks-farmers-for-showing-resolve-828642.html
22-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to use TB-detection machines for Covid-19 screening||Karnataka will soon use machines used for testing Tuberculosis (TB) cases for Covid-19. The state does cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT) for TB using American company Cepheid’s GeneXpert machines, 65 of them. With the central government supplying 4,500 Xpert Xpress COVID SARS-CoV-2 cartridges in six tranches, the state has a chance to leverage its existing infrastructure to ramp up testing.   The Xpert Xpress COVID SARS-CoV-2 test can provide rapid detection of the virus in approximately 45 minutes with less than a minute of hands-on time to prepare the sample. Karnataka has three CBNAAT testing facilities in Bengaluru at the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (Victoria Hospital campus), Intermediate Reference Laboratory in State TB Training and Demonstration Centre, and National Tuberculosis Institute.  Karnataka is also being supplied 35 Truenat machines, 20 of which will be supplied by May 23 and 15 machines by May 31. As far as the testing chips for the Truenat machines are concerned, 28,800 will be supplied by May 23 and 21,600 by May 30.  A state health department official with the Tuberculosis programme said, “While the tests by GeneXpert machines are confirmatory tests, the tests by Truenat machines are screening tests. But the turnaround time in both is one hour to two hours. Training has already begun for those in three of our labs in Bengaluru to use the machines for Covid-19 testing. We ran test samples on Saturday. We received the cartridges on Friday evening. From Tuesday, full-fledged testing began.” States like Andhra Pradesh already had Truenat machines in their community health centres and hence only had to purchase the cartridges. Now with the Centre making bulk purchases for all states, Karnataka can ramp up its testing capacity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-use-tb-detection-machines-for-covid-19-screening-828643.html
22-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Vijayapura lemon growers rue lack of market access||The lemon growers of the district are a bitter lot. The farmers of the region used to make a fortune from the citrus fruit, every summer. But this year, lack of market access and price crash due to the coronavirus pandemic, lemon has turned sour for the farmers, literally. Apart from supplying the high quality lemons, unique to the region, to the local markets, the farmers send their produce to Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad and a few north Indian states during the season. But this summer, the coronoavirus-induced lockdown has left the farmers of Indi and other lemon-growing taluks in the district high and dry. Nagappa Malnadad of Indi-based Shri Shanteshwar Horticulture Producers’ Association, poured out his woes to DH. “Last summer, lemon sold at Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 per 1,000 fruits. But the farmers are finding it tough to sell their produce due to the nationwide lockdown clamped to curb the virus spread. The price has come down drastically to Rs 900 to Rs 1,000 per 1,000 fruits.” In fact the lemon price has now recovered a bit. In March last week, the citrus fruit was sold at Rs 300 per 1,000 fruits, he added. Santhosh Biradar, Deputy Director, Horticulture, told DH, “There are over 16,000 lemon farmers in the district. With 12,200 hectares under lemon cultivation, Vijayapura is the largest lemon-growing district in the state, both areawise and production. The district produces 1,25 lakh tonnes of lemons a year and lemon trade in the district is estimated at Rs 500 crore annually.” The department has provided necessary support to the lemon growers to sell their produce, but they are not finding buyers due to lockdown. This lop-sided supply-demand equation has brought down the price, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-vijayapura-lemon-growers-rue-lack-of-market-access-828644.html
22-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mysuru-origin doctor feted in US for treatment of coronavirus patients||A video clipping of a US-based doctor of Mysuru-origin, who was in a team that treated Covid-19 patients, receiving greetings and salutations in recognition of her services, has gone viral on social media. Dr Uma Madhusudhana, an alumnus of JSS Medical College in Mysuru, is the daughter of Madhusudhana and late Leela, both teachers, residing in Kuvempunagar in the city. Dr Uma is seen receiving the ‘Drive of Honour’ on the lawns of her residence at South Windsor in Hartford County, Connecticut, the United States. A huge contingent of cars, vans and trucks of the healthcare, police and emergency services and also of her colleagues are seen parading on the road of her residence, halting for a couple of seconds before her. She is cheered and thanked in the video. Placards like ‘Thank You’ and ‘South Windsor Hero’ are displayed. The principal of JSS Medical College Dr H Basavanagowdappa said, “Dr Uma is a 1990 batch student. She is serving as a doctor in the US for the past many years and is researching on communicable diseases. She is in the forefront of combating Covid-19 at the South Windsor Hospital. We are proud of her services and recognition.” Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar and MP Pratap Simha have shared the video on their social media accounts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mysuru-origin-doctor-feted-in-us-for-treatment-of-coronavirus-patients-828650.html
22-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KSPCB tightens biomedical waste disposal rules||In a bid to avoid the possible spread of coronavirus through biomedical waste, the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) has tightened rules for incineration of waste from hospitals and residences of the quarantined individuals, by reducing the maximum number of hours for disposal from 48 to 24. After issuing the revised rules, the pollution control board has told its officials and the district-level environment officers to monitor the disposal of such waste regularly. The board’s measures got a fillip with the chief secretary instructing the deputy commissioners to follow the rules during a video conference. KSPCB Member-Secretary Basavaraj Patil told DH that more than 30 tonnes of biomedical waste has been disposed scientifically over the last one month. “From April 17 to 21, Karnataka has incinerated 14.19 tonnes of biomedical waste of which 4.63 tonne came from quarantined houses. From the start of the lockdown to April 16, 16.15 tonnes of such waste was incinerated,” he said. Officials decided to keep separate data on medical waste from quarantined houses to keep track of the source. In the last five days, hospitals in Bengaluru Urban produced 2.2 tonnes of biomedical waste while 95 kg was collected from quarantined houses. The Bengaluru Rural hospitals accounted for 76 kg and there was no waste from quarantined houses. “There are 26 Common Biomedical Facility Centres in the state strategically located to ensure that facility is available for officials to dispose of such waste by travelling not more than 75 km,” Patil said, adding that follow-up meetings will be held with officials at district administration level as well as urban local bodies to ensure the rules are being followed. The 26 centres have the capacity to dispose of 90 tonnes of biomedical waste per month against the average output by Karnataka of 50 tonnes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kspcb-tightens-biomedical-waste-disposal-rules-828651.html
22-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus outbreak: Four-month-old baby among 9 new positive cases, Karnataka's tally at 427||Karnataka reported nine new cases on Wednesday. With this, the number of active cases stands at 279. No deaths have been reported on Wednesday. The Covid-19 casualties in the state remain 17. Of the nine new cases reported today (April 22), five are from Kalaburagi, including a four-month-old baby. Four of the patients from Kalaburagi are contacts of previously diagnosed patients and the fifth patient is a case of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). After three days of zero cases, Bengaluru reported two new cases on Wednesday. One is a contact of a previously diagnosed patient while the other has SARI. The remaining two belong to the Nanjanagud pharma cluster in Mysuru. The state also saw two discharges, taking the count to 131.  Minister S Suresh Kumar said, "Bengaluru is in the 10th position in terms of the number of cases in metropolitan cities in the country. Bengaluru has, so far, reported 103 cases, urban and rural put together." "There have been 359 cases in the state in the past 28 days. Nine cases are from outside the state. Hence, there are 337 containment zones, including 22 in BBMP, in Karnataka," Kumar said replying to a query on containment zones in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-outbreak-four-month-old-baby-among-9-new-positive-cases-karnatakas-tally-at-427-828668.html
22-04-2020||West||Maharashtra urges Centre to send migrants home: Uddhav Thackeray||In an important development,  Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on urged the Centre to frame guidelines to send migrants stuck in the state due to Covid-19 India lockdown. Thackeray conveyed this in a video-conference chat with a 5-member Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) which arrived in the state for an assessment of the Covid-19 management and the lockdown here.  The team had visited Mumbai and Pune. “If the Centre apprehends that the Covid-19 impact may worsen between April 30-May 15, then the government must consider running special trains to send the migrants back to their native states, for which guidelines must be formed by April-end. I have already raised this issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Thackeray informed the team. He was speaking with IMCT team members, led by Additional Secretary in Ministry of Food Processing Industry Manoj Joshi, along with Health Minister Rajesh Tope, Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta, BMC Commissioner Praveen Pardeshi and Mumbai Police Commissioner Parambir Singh. A press release said that Thackeray has urged that all precautions should be taken for migrants from the starting point till they reach their destinations and are sent to home quarantine to prevent further spread of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-urges-centre-to-send-migrants-home-uddhav-thackeray-828341.html
22-04-2020||West||25 quarantined persons rescued after fire breaks out at hotel||Twenty-five quarantined persons and two others were rescued from a hotel in Mumbai Central after a fire broke out in the ground-plus-three building on Tuesday evening, a senior official said. The building was being used as an isolation centre for suspected coronavirus patients. No one was injured in the fire which started on the first floor of Hotel Ripon Palace on Bellasis Road around 6.20 pm, the senior fire brigade official added. At least eight fire engines were pressed into service and the flames were brought under control after 45 minutes, he said. The fire was confined to electrical wiring, installations, beds, wooden furniture and air-conditioners on the first floor. "25 persons quarantined there were safely evacuated. Two employees were rescued from a room on the third floor," the official said, adding that cooling operations were on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/25-quarantined-persons-rescued-after-fire-breaks-out-at-hotel-828344.html
22-04-2020||West||Lockdown gives time for Mumbai's busy rail network maintenance||Converting the unprecedented lockdown into an opportunity, Mumbai divisions of the Central Railway and Western Railway are extensively carrying out safety and maintenance works on the suburban network, which was not possible during the normal busy train schedules. It has been a month since trains stopped plying on the Mumbai suburban rail network, which is one of the busiest and congested in the world. Nearly 3,000 local train services operate on the route daily and over 80 lakh commuters use it every day, making it the lifeline of the country's financial capital. Since disruption of services for even 15 minutes leads to a chaotic situation, rail authorities used to carry out important maintenance and safety works either during the few hours window available late night or by enforcing megablocks during the weekends or holidays, when comparatively fewer commuters travel in the local trains. As the system is so busy and overburdened, a few hours are never sufficient for carrying out some of the critical maintenance works and those lead to disruptions sometimes, causing hardships to commuters, a railway official said. But, as the trains are now not running since a month due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, the rail authorities are carrying out maintenance of the rail signalling system, tracks, overhead equipment and the rolling stock, he said. "The Western Railway is using this as an opportunity to complete the maintenance works wherever required, since getting a traffic block in this division is a big challenge," Western Railway's chief said Ravinder Bhakar said. Since the lockdown began, keymen are inspecting every inch of the 1,394 km track everyday. About 210 km of track and 1,250 critical welds were tested by ultrasonic flaw detectors, he said. "The entire fleet of track machines has worked and done tamping of 99 km of track and 105 turnouts. For the health assessment of the tracks, the Oscillation Monitoring System (OMS) run was conducted on 2,503 km of the railway track," said Bhakar.     The Western Railway also completed several other works of overhead equipment, signal and telecom infrastructure maintenance during the ongoing lockdown, he added. The Central Railway's chief spokesperson Shivaji Sutar said along with track maintenance and testing, they carried out some critical works like removal of rusty portal booms of overhead equipment, maggering (an electric test) of signal and telecom cables of the entire Mumbai division, cleaning and maintenance of transformers, among others. "In the Asangaon-Kasara section, line block margin is very less, hence the traction distribution department utilised the lockdown period for removal of the rusty portal booms and 34 upright masts. These masts were about 70 years old and some were even of the British era," Sutar said. He said these works were being carried out by following the social distancing guidelines. "This period has also been utilised to carry out critical works to enhance the safety of train operations. The workplaces are sanitised and all social distancing norms are followed," Sutar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-gives-time-for-mumbais-busy-rail-network-maintenance-828372.html
22-04-2020||West||Gujarat coronavirus death toll surpasses 100||The Gujarat death toll from coronavirus passed the 100-mark on Wednesday after another 13 patients died in last 24 hours, taking the total death toll to 103. The health department said that number of positive cases also rose to 2,407 with 179 fresh cases reported in the state. Officials said that there are 13 more patients who are on ventilators. “To mitigate hardship to the public, select additional activities have been allowed which will come into effect from 00.00 hours of April 23, 2020,” Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar said in an order issued Wednesday.  The state is the worst affected after Maharashtra in terms of numbers of positive cases and death toll. Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi said that out of 103 deaths, a large number of patients had comorbidities. An analysis of death figures presented by Ravi in the press conference stated that 47% of patients were under the aged above 60 while 41 per cent fell an under-aged group of 41 to 60, while 10% of the patients were aged between 21 and 40 years old. Out of total deaths, 62 have died in Ahmedabad which has reported 1,501 total positive cases, followed by Surat with 12 deaths and 415 positive cases and Vadodara with 10 deaths and 208 cases are the worst affected districts in the state. There are 28 districts in the state which have reported the infection. Ravi said that the number of positive cases have been rising in the state since the number of testing is among the highest in the country. She said that there is nothing panic as the situation is "under control."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-coronavirus-death-toll-surpasses-100-828388.html
22-04-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray seeks guidelines from Centre on migrant workers||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has demanded that the Centre issue guidelines by this month-end on sending the migrant workers to their native places in the wake of the coronavirus-enforced lockdown. Speaking to the central team led by additional secretary Manoj Joshi through video conference on Tuesday evening, Thackeray said his government has opened shelter camps for over six lakh migrant labourers and they are being looked after well. But, these people want to go back to their native places and are also protesting some times, he pointed out. "If the central government feels the coronavirus spread will be more from April 30 till May 15, it should consider if the stranded labourers can be sent back to their homes before that. If it is possible, guidelines in this regard should be issued," Thackeray said. The Centre should consider if the stranded labourers can be monitored "end-to-end" and quarantined after they reach their homes to ensure there is no spread of the coronavirus, Thackeray said, and urged the Union government to take a timely decision. The chief minister said 80 per cent of the coronavirus patients in the state are asymptomatic and wondered what could be the reason for it. He also expressed the need to study what steps are being taken in Dubai to contain the disease. "We all know what is happening in the US, but need to study what steps are being taken in Dubai. The coronavirus entered Maharashtra through these two places," he said. Thackeray also reiterated the demand for more personal protective equipment (PPE), ventilators and other medical equipment from the Centre. He also sought the Centre's guidance for construction of hospitals by the Army on war-footing, if needed. Thackeray also sought relaxation of central government rules to provide food grains to those who don't have a ration cards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-seeks-guidelines-from-centre-on-migrant-workers-828395.html
22-04-2020||West||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh requests CBI to take custody of DHFL's Wadhawan brothers post coronavirus lockdown||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday said the state government has requested the CBI to take the custody of DHFL promoters Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan, who allegedly violated the lockdown norms and travelled to Mahabaleshwar earlier this month. After the Wadhawan brothers and 21 others, including their family members, reached Mahabaleshwar hill town, they were quarantined there by the Satara district administration. In a Facebook address, Deshmukh said he has requested the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to take the custody of Wadhawans after their quarantine period ends at 2 pm on Wednesday. Kapil Wadhawan, the 46-year-old chairman and managing director of Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL), was arrested on January 27 this year by the Enforcement Directorate for his dubious dealings with gangster Iqbal, who died in 2013, and was booked under provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). He was granted bail on February 21 by a special PMLA court in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-requests-cbi-to-take-custody-of-dhfls-wadhawan-brothers-post-coronavirus-lockdown-828401.html
22-04-2020||West||No Muslim arrested for Palghar lynching incident: Deshmukh||Accusing the BJP of giving communal twist to the Palghar mob lynching incident,  Maharashtra's home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday said that no Muslim was arrested in the incident.  Deshmukh,  who has come under attack of state BJP leadership, also released the list of 101 accused in the case.  "The incident is a blot on humanity," Deshmukh said in a webcast message. "Let us not play politics, let us engage in collective efforts to defeat COVID-19," he said. Meanwhile, the State-CID has taken over the investigations and have registered a set of FIRs into the incident that took place in Gadchinchale  village, nearly 120 kms off downtown Mumbai.  Two sadhus of the Varanasi-based Juna Akhada and their driver were killed in the incident.   Deshmukh said that the Palghar police has arrested all 101 accused within 8 hours of the incident.  "No Muslim brother has been arrested in the case. An attempt is being made to give a communal colour to the incident.....in the video someone was heard saying 'oye bas' (please stop) but it was distorted as 'Shoaib'," he said. Without naming anyone, he said, "Some people are seeing 'Mungerilal ke haseen sapne' (dream)... it is not the time to play politics, but fight coronavirus collectively."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-muslim-arrested-for-palghar-lynching-incident-deshmukh-828418.html
22-04-2020||West||47 COVID-19 patients in Mumbai were referred by fever clinics||As many as 47 coronavirus cases out of the total 3,451 detected so far in Mumbai are of patients referred by fever clinics of the city civic body, an official said on Wednesday. Mumbai is one of the worst coronavirus affected cities in the country as it has till now reported 3,451 COVID-19 cases and 151 deaths. After the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) found a number of patients coming from slum areas, it set up some fever OPDs (Out Patient Departments) to reach out to a larger population. "A close analysis of the total cases from Mumbai revealed that most of the patients were already quarantined, while some 47 patients referred by the fever clinics later tested positive for coronavirus," a senior BMC official said. "This is the main reason why we are still not calling it community spread because in most of the cases, contacts were traced," another official said.  The BMC-run small hospitals have an advantage of proximity. The doctors and patients there know each other. This helped the BMC to speak to people and locate some of those who had a mild fever, he said. "These people were immediately isolated and 47 of them later tested positive for coronavirus. Contact-tracing also helped to a certain extent in containing the further spread of the disease, he said. Asked about patients who were already quarantined, the official said, "They were the obvious suspects because someone close to them earlier tested positive or died due to the COVID-19." As a precautionary measure, they were kept in institutional quarantine and they subsequently tested positive, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/47-covid-19-patients-in-mumbai-were-referred-by-fever-clinics-828443.html
22-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: Transgenders provide free meals to poor during coronavirus lockdown||After NGOs and government agencies, now members of the transgender community have also come out to help the needy during the COVID-19 lockdown at Ulhasnagar town of Maharashtra's Thane district. Transgenders have been feeding the needy, many of whom have lost their livelihoods ever since the lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus in the state, an activist said. At Ulhasnagar's Camp no. 4, transgenders have been providing free meals to the poor in the area twice a day, he said. The initiative was managed by a local NGO along with transgenders and several other volunteers, he added. The move has garnered appreciation from locals and the authorities alike, as transgenders are themselves a marginalised community and are often discriminated against in their everyday life, the activist said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-transgenders-provide-free-meals-to-poor-during-coronavirus-lockdown-828473.html
22-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Centre recommends increasing bed capacity in Mumbai||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the Central committee has recommended an increase in the capacity of quarantine facility in Mumbai from 1,200 beds to 2,000, in light of the rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in the city. An inter-ministerial central team (IMCT) arrived in Mumbai on Tuesday for a two-day visit to assess the state's preparedness to fight the coronavirus outbreak. "The Central committee has also asked us to provide minimum oxygen supply to patients undergoing treatment, as it will help ease their breathing distress if any," the minister said. In keeping with the committee's directives, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has been asked to arrange for more beds and increase testing across Mumbai, Tope said, adding that tents can also be put up in open grounds if needed. The IMCT on Wednesday visited quarantine facilities and transit camps at Dharavi to assess the corrective measures taken by the state government. "The COVID-19 cases in Dharavi have not increased in the last couple of days, indicating that our containment strategy has been working in the area, which has five containment zones," he said. The team was accompanied by Tope and officials from the state health department and the BMC during the visit. Meanwhile, assistant commissioner of G/North ward Kiran Dighavkar said the Central committee had expressed its satisfaction over the civic body's fever clinic concept and suggested that it be replicated in other parts of the city as well.  "There is a need to isolate infected people as soon as possible to contain the spread of the infection," he said.   When asked about the civic body's plans to increase testing in Dharavi, Dighavkar said, "Compared to other areas of the city, coronavirus reached Dharavi late, as the first case was reported on April 1. The BMC has tested as many as 700 people from the area so far, and that in itself is a significant number."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-centre-recommends-increasing-bed-capacity-in-mumbai-828506.html
22-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: 146 Indian crew members stuck on cruise to disembark in Mumbai||As many as 146 Indian crew members stranded on a cruise ship due to the coronavirus pandemic, will disembark in Mumbai on Thursday, over a month after it set off from Thailand, the Maharashtra Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said on Wednesday. The ship- Marila Discovery- had reached Mumbai coast on April 14. None of them have tested positive for the infection, the CMO said in a statement. "The ship was to travel to Kochi, New Mangalore, Goa and Mumbai between April 2 and 6. When the pandemic started, the cruise let off all the passengers in Thailand on March 14. But permission was not given for the cruise staff and employees to disembark in Kochi," it said. "The company said despite leaving Thailand 37 days ago and although no employee was infected, it was not getting permission to allow the ship to enter the harbour," the statement said. "The Ministry of Shipping allowed the cruise to come to the Mumbai harbour after the matter was pursued by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray with the Centre. The ship reached Mumbai on April 14," it added. The 146 persons will undergo a medical checkup and a separate building has been readied if they need to be quarantined, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-146-indian-crew-members-stuck-on-cruise-to-disembark-in-mumbai-828519.html
22-04-2020||West||No action against employers if workers catch coronavirus: Maharashtra govt||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday refuted a report circulating on social media that employers or organisations could face action if employees contract coronavirus. There was no truth to the report, it said in a statement here. A WhatsApp forward that was circulating claimed that a First Information Report (FIR) will be filed against the employer if workers/employees catch coronavirus, the statement said. "There was no meeting for taking such a decision. The government is not even considering such a proposal. Prima facie it looks like the forward pertains to a meeting of industrial establishments in another state," the statement said. Then if someone contracts coronavirus infection, the government will ensure that the person is treated, it said. The government had also made it clear that permission to restart industries was being given on the condition that social distancing and other restrictions were followed, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-action-against-employers-if-workers-catch-coronavirus-maharashtra-govt-828523.html
22-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: ASHA workers endure abuse and assault on field||Health workers visiting some coronavirus containment zones in Maharashtra's Nagpur have complained that they were spat upon by some people, pelted with stones and abused at times while conducting surveys. However, despite such experiences, the Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers are carrying out their work "as service towards the nation and the society". Apart from spreading awareness about the coronavirus infection, ASHA workers are supposed to conduct house-to-house visits to look for cases of TB, cancer etc. Asha worker Usha Thakur told PTI on Wednesday that at least 21 teams are currently doing field work in two coronavirus containment zones--Satranjipura ans Shanti Nagar-- in the city. When asked about the challenges faced by them, she said, "In some areas, people do not give us proper information. They also avoid sharing their contact numbers fearing that they might be detained by authorities," she said. Recalling another incident, Thakur said a woman had once abused a team of ASHA workers in a foul language. "On one occasion, some local residents had tried to snatch our mobile phones. Many a times stones were hurled at us. We were spat upon at times," said Thakur. When asked whether such experiences do not deter us, Thakur said, "We are doing this as the service towards the nation and the society". "We have the emergency contact numbers of police and we know that help is just a call away," she said. Another ASHA worker said she had also faced resistance while doing work. However, it is not that all people behave in a similar hostile manner, she said, adding that many people had cooperated with them. Most of these ASHA workers are attached to the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). When contacted, Municipal Commissioner Tukaram Mundhe admitted that civic employees had endured such hostile experiences. He warned of strict action under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against anyone not cooperating. Nagpur had reported 90 COVID-19 cases till April 21 night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-asha-workers-endure-abuse-and-assault-on-field-828525.html
22-04-2020||West||Spike in coronavirus cases rattles Maharashtra govt||The sudden jump in COVID-19 positive cases in Mumbai has rattled the Maharashtra government. Concerns are compounding as some studies suggest that the coronavirus pandemic is expected to peak mid-May in India. The Mumbai-Pune belt that involves two huge suburban areas of the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) and Pune metropolitan region (PMR), is the concern area for Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. During the visit of the inter-ministerial central team (IMCT),  the compounding of cases was discussed threadbare. Senior officials have indicated that after May 3,  when the India lockdown ends,  the Maharashtra government will continue the lockdown in the Mumbai-Pune business hub that involves the districts of Mumbai  City, Mumbai Suburban, Palghar, Thane, Raigad and Pune.   The MMR-PMR accounts for over 13,500 sq km and a population of over 3.4 to 4 crore. There is no lockdown relaxation in these areas. On Tuesday and Wednesday,  the IMCT visited Mumbai and Pune. They spoke to Thackeray and senior government officials over video-conferencing. In Mumbai, they visited the Kasturba Infectious Diseases Hospital, the hotspot of Dharavi and a quarantine facility. "In Dharavi, over the last two days, there has not been any significant increase in cases which means that the containment strategy is working," public health minister Rajesh Tope said.During the meetings, the issue of testing kits, ventilators, isolation beds, quarantine facilities, problems of migrants were discussed threadbare. "It is a long drawn battle and there has to be precautions at every step," says Dr Suhas Pingle,  chairman, Action Committee,  Indian Medical Association-Maharashtra State. Besides Dharavi, the largest slum cluster of Asia, the other problem areas in Mumbai are Worli, Mahalaxmi,  Sion, Matunga,  Andheri West, Govandi-Mankhurd, Nagpada and Byculla areas. "India had reported 640 plus deaths and Maharashtra tops the tally with 250 plus. However, in terms of testing, Maharashtra has conducted over 80,000 tests, the highest in any state," senior officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/spike-in-coronavirus-cases-rattles-maharashtra-govt-828526.html
22-04-2020||West||Two arrested for `mocking police' in TikTok video||Two young men were arrested and a boy detained for allegedly making a TikTok video mocking the police in Mumbai's Antop Hill area on Wednesday, an official said. The video was shot in front of a police van, he said. A case was registered against three persons under IPC sections 188 (defying lawful order of a government servant), 270 (malignant act likely to spread disease) and 500 (defamation), the police official said. Sahil Sardar (18) and Raj Nirman (19) were arrested for making the video and a boy who helped them was detained and later handed over to his parents, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-arrested-for-mocking-police-in-tiktok-video-828550.html
22-04-2020||West||Media not maintaining social distancing during a press briefing: Goa CM||In wake of a spate of cases involving media persons testing positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai, Chennai and other cities, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday expressed concern over journalists in Goa not maintaining social distancing at his media briefings. Sawant, who has been regularly briefing the media in person throughout the pandemic at his official residence in Panaji, also said, that in the interest of social distancing he would now discontinue the practice and opt for press briefings via social media till the end of the extended lockdown period which ends on May 3.   "Many reporters in Mumbai, as many as 50 people were tested positive for Covid-19. We have seen some of you (journalists) have uploaded on social media, that ministers are not following (social distancing). Where are you following it, while attending this briefing?" Sawant said. The chief minister's comments came on a day when photos and videos of several ministers exiting the state secretariat after a cabinet meeting, were uploaded to the social media by a section of the media, which showed them sitting on the front seats of their vehicles and without a seat belt. As per the new lockdown norms in Goa, only two persons are allowed to sit in a four-wheeler and the non-driver has to mandatorily occupy the rear seat in the interest of social distancing. "I am saying this directly. You say ministers are not following (social distancing). But if a photo is taken now, it will show you all are also not maintaining it. You should also follow if you are talking about ministers not maintaining social distancing," Sawant said, calling off future routine press conferences at his official residence till May 3. "From tomorrow, I will be conducting a live press conference till May 3," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/media-not-maintaining-social-distancing-during-a-press-briefing-goa-cm-828597.html
22-04-2020||West||Security guard at Athawale's residence tests COVID-19 positive||A security guard posted at the residence of Union minister Ramdas Athawale here has tested coronavirus positive, an RPI (A) party functionary said on Wednesday. Athawale, who is the Minister of State for Social Justice, resides in Bandra East locality.  "The security guard tested positive around five days back. He was admitted to a state-run hospital, where he is undergoing treatment," he said. The guard had reportedly shown COVID-19 symptoms, after which he was sent to the hospital for testing, he said. "When we enquired about his health yesterday, we learnt that he is recuperating," the functionary of the Athawale-led faction of the Republican Party of India (RPI) said. Maharashtra Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad, who had quarantined himself after some of his security staff tested positive for coronavirus, on Tuesday got admitted in a private hospital in neighbouring Thane city as a precautionary measure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/security-guard-at-athawales-residence-tests-covid-19-positive-828982.html
22-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Gadkari disapproves Maharashtra's demand to run trains for migrants||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday disapproved the Maharashtra government's demand to run special trains for migrant workers to take them to their native states, saying that such scenario should not become another Nizamuddin-like situation. The demand for special trains was made by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to the Centre. "I do understand their (migrant workers') feelings and the plight, but we cannot let them go to their native places without taking any precautions. It (running of trains) should not turn out to be another Nizamuddin-like situation," the Highways and Road Transport Minister told a news channel. A congregation of the Tablighi Jamaat held at the Markaz Nizamuddin in Delhi in March turned out to be a major catalyst for spread of coronavirus infection across the country. "I would rather say that the state (Maharashtra) should take are of these migrant labours for the next some weeks. Those people should understand that they may not be welcomed in their native villages as well because of the spread of the viral disease," he said. Gadkari further said that even after the lockdown is lifted after May 3, train services will resume with utmost precautions, and people will have to follow safety measures for a longer period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-gadkari-disapproves-maharashtras-demand-to-run-trains-for-migrants-828607.html
22-04-2020||West||Coronavirus outbreak: Maharashtra gets permission for rapid tests ||The Centre has given conditional permission to the Maharashtra government to conduct rapid tests to detect cases of Covid-19. "We will do 75,000 rapid tests soon as the central government has given us conditional permission for it," Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope said. Besides, the government has also taken a call to use hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) as a precautionary measure in some areas, like Dharavi in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-outbreak-maharashtra-gets-permission-for-rapid-tests-828648.html
