23-04-2020||Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi sizzles at 42 degree C||The soaring temperature has forced the people to stay indoors and use air coolers. The lockdown has come as a blessing in disguise for the people as it helped them avoid the scorching sun. V Rachappa, senior scientist with the Agriculture Research Centre here, said temperature has soared as the speed of the wind has come down. By May 12, the mercury is likely to touch 44 degree Celsius in the city, he added. Temperature had soared to 44.9 degree Celsius in the city on April 29 last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/kalaburagi-sizzles-at-42-degree-c-829077.html
23-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Why Kasaragod feels Mangaluru roadblock is a blessing||For three lakh Kannadigas in Kerala’s Kasaragod who have an emotional bonding with Mangaluru, restrictions imposed by authorities in Karnataka initially came as a jolt. But now, many feel this has come as a boon since the clamour for the district’s development has increased due to events of the past few weeks. Though Kerala’s former chief secretary P Prabhakaran had submitted a report in 2012 pointing out Kasaragod’s infrastructure needs, not much had been done. One of them was the need for a medical college, which was sorely felt during the blockade. Hence, some people of Kasaragod now feel the coronavirus outbreak and the roadblock by Mangaluru have come as a blessing as it has highlighted the need for a Medical College Hospital in the district. The Tata Group has also announced the setting up of a speciality hospital here. However, the recent events seem to have left a bad taste. Dr Y S Mohankumar, a Kannadiga from Kasaragod, said people who were upset with Kerala’s neglect, feel they are ignored by Karnataka. Muralidhara Balukaraya, president of the Karnataka Smathi in Kasaragod, said Kannadigas were upset with the blockade. Kerala Tulu Academy president Umesh M Saliyan said a few people were using the situation to seek a Union Territory status for Kasaragod. He said this is not advisable as Kannadigas and Malayalis are living in harmony. Manjeshwar MLA  M C Kamaruddin said people of Kasaragod always felt they were part of Mangaluru. But with the roadblock, they felt alienated. With Mangaluru’s facilities at easy reach, Kasaragod’s development took a back seat. But after the blockade, people feel there is a need to make Kasaragod self-sufficient. Commissioning of the medical college and Tatas hospital are positive steps, he said. Meanwhile, activist Dr Naresh Mulleriya of Kasaragod said Karnataka’s firm stand on restricting the entry of people from neighbouring Kasaragod in order to contain Covid-19 has found support among many Kannadigas. Kerala’s moves against Karnataka were also seen as an attempt to divide the Kannada-speaking population, he alleged.  Indian Medical Association (IMA) Mangaluru, chairman Dr Annayya Kulal, said Kannadigas were well aware that “Karnataka’s heart bleeds for them and emotionally they are with them”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/why-kasaragod-feels-mangaluru-roadblock-is-a-blessing-828703.html
23-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Man dies of respiratory problem in Bagalakote||A 38-year-old man who was suffering from respiratory problem passed away on Wednesday night in Jamakhandi of the district.  Health department officials have sent his throat swab and blood samples for Covid-19 test.  The deceased is said to be suffering from difficulty in breathing for the past four months. When his health condition worsened, his family members took him first to a private hospital.  He was admitted at taluk hospital in Jamakhandi as the patient could not get treatment in a private hospital. He breathed his last due to acute respiratory problem.  As per the district administration's directions, last rites were performed as per Covid-19 protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-dies-of-respiratory-problem-in-bagalakote-828724.html
23-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||No coronavirus lockdown relaxation in Mysuru||||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-coronavirus-lockdown-relaxation-in-mysuru-828813.html
23-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two more test positive for coronavirus in Hubballi||Two more persons, both contacts of P-236 from Mulla Oni in Hubballi, tested positive for COVID-19 infection. A 30-year-old woman (P-430) and a 13-year-old girl (P-431) have tested positive, and are being treated at designated hospital. With this, the number of active cases in the district has reached eight. Among them, seven are members of the same family including three children below eight years, while P-363, a graveyard guard, was also a contact of P-263. P-194, brother of P-263 and who had visited Delhi, Agra and other places, was the first COVID-19 patient reported in Hubballi city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-hubballi-828855.html
23-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two more test coronavirus positive in Mandya||After no fresh cases reported from Mysuru on Thursday morning, the neigbouring Mandya district has reported two COVID-19 positive cases. With this, the number of positive cases has gone up to 14 in Mandya. P 442 is a 47-year-old male, from Mandya, and was in contact with P 171 and P371. Patient 443, is a 28-year-old woman from Malavalli, and has a contact history with P 179. Both are being treated at the designated COVID-10 hospital in Mandya. It may be mentioned that the number of persons under quarantine has increased with around 2,185 people being under home quarantine, as on Tuesday, creating anxiety among the residents of Mandya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-more-test-coronavirus-positive-in-mandya-828864.html
23-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19 swab testing laboratory becomes functional in Belagavi||COVID-19 swab sample testing laboratory established in the premises of Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Traditional Medicine here became functional on Thursday. Industres and District Incharge Minister Jagdish Shettar inaugurated the laboratory which has been equipped to test 90 swab samples per day. District until now has recorded 43 COVID-19 positive cases and three of them have recovered, while a elderly woman had passed away. It stands third in terms of COVID-19 cases in the state. It also shares borders with Maharashtra and Goa. The government had decided to establish two COVID-19 swab sample testing laboratories here, of which, first has become functional and another will be established in the premises of Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-swab-testing-laboratory-becomes-functional-in-belagavi-828869.html
23-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||DCC bank disburses Rs 42 crore loans||Tumakuru District Cooperative Bank (DCC bank) has approved Rs 10.43 crore fresh loans to 2,866 farmers in the district said DCC Bank director Singadahalli Rajkumar. As of March 2020-end, DCC Bank has disbursed Rs 42.2 crore fresh loans and top-up loans to 12,135 people at zero percent interest. It has become the number one bank in the district to do so. NEFT transfers have been made to 22,000 farmers' accounts in Chikkanayakanahalli, Huliyar, Handanakere branches. Cash disbursements are also being made at DCC bank branches to farmers by following the social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dcc-bank-disburses-rs-42-crore-loans-828977.html
23-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus lockdown, a boon for some alcoholics||While most people feel that the country-wide Covid-19 lockdown is a bother, it has turned out to be a boon for certain alcoholics. As all bars and wine stores have been closed for a month, many alcoholics have moved away from their addiction and recovered physically, mentally, and revived happy relations with their families. An alcoholic Lokesh of Thanganahalli in Koratagere said that he was in a rehabilitation centre when the lockdown was announced. He was discharged soon after and he is living in harmony with his family now as he is away from alcohol.  "It is almost like I have forgotten alcohol. People appreciate me for not drinking. I am now working as a construction labourer at the dhobi ghat and my relationship with my wife and children is peaceful," he added.  Babanna (name changed) of Gubbi said that his day used to begin with a drink and he would spend the rest of the day drinking. Since the lockdown, his physical health has improved manifold. "The weakness in my limbs is gone. I took some tablets prescribed by the doctor and now I can work in the areca field. My grandchildren who used to avoid me, now come and hug me," he said happily. Auto driver Nazeer (name changed) of Idagah Mohalla said that he learned drinking with friends and was spending most of his income on alcohol. He was also involved in an accident due to drunken driving. Without alcohol now, he is physically and mentally better and is able to observe Ramzan rituals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-a-boon-for-some-alcoholics-828978.html
23-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus lockdown: Kerala check post in Talapady stirs up border row||The setting up of a check post by Kerala, parallel to Karnataka check post, in Talapady has stirred up a row over Kerala-Karnataka border. After administrative discussion, the revenue officials from both Dakshina Kannada and Kasargod districts began a survey to physically mark the border on Thursday. Kerala government had stepped up security at the border after a woman died of Covid-19 in Mangaluru. After the increase in Covid-19 cases in Kasargod, DK district administration had closed all the borders leading to Kerala. Even the patients from Kasargod were not allowed to cross the border to avail treatment in Mangaluru. Later, following the directions of the Supreme Court, the border was opened to patients for emergency treatment.  After the patient died of Covid-19 in Mangaluru, Kerala government had posted police personnel at all its check posts near the border that connects Dakshina Kannada district. The check post functioning at Toominadu in Manjeshwara was shifted 100 mtrs away from the Karnataka check post. The objection over the new border raised by Talapady Gram Panchayat has triggered controversy over the border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-kerala-check-post-in-talapady-stirs-up-border-row-829027.html
23-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Thunderstorm in Kodagu||Rain, accompanied by a thunderstorm, lashed major parts of Kodagu on Thursday. Madikeri received heavy rain in the evening. Rain also lashed Chettalli, Kattalekady, Bhootanakadu, Maragodu, Suntikoppa, Napoklu and Moornadu. The showers have brought down the mercury levels down. Coffee planters are happy as the rain will their crop.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/thunderstorm-in-kodagu-829041.html
23-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||75-year-old patient from Dakshina Kannada dies due to coronavirus||According to Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh, the woman who died on Thursday is the relative of patient 390, who died of COVID-19 on April 19. The woman (P-432) who was being treated for stroke at a private hospital in Mangaluru was shifted to ICU at Wenlock Hospital on April 22 before she succumbed to the virus. Trying to cremate the 75-year-old victim o the Dakshina Kannada district administration officials were in a fix on Thursday night as people in large numbers came on to the streets protesting the cremation in any of the burial grounds around Mangaluru.    The district officials brought the body of the Covid-19 victim to Pacchhanadi, Bolur and Nandigudde for cremation. However, the officials had to abort their plans after several people from the locality protested against the cremation in their area. Subsequently, the officials took the body to Moodushedde cremation centre and there also the officials met with stiff opposition against cremation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/75-year-old-patient-from-dakshina-kannada-dies-due-to-coronavirus-829049.html
23-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Health survey to keep Covid-19 at bay, says Chief Secretary T M Vijayabhaskar||Chief Secretary T M Vijayabhaskar, who held a video conference with deputy commissioners of all districts, on Thursday, directed the Health department personnel to conduct a survey across the district and make a list of those suffering from ailments and check their health status every day. In an effort to prevent the people from going to hospitals at an advanced stage of illness, which sometimes turn out to be acute respiratory problems, claiming the life, Asha workers should make a list of pregnant women, and those suffering from asthma, tuberculosis, HIV and those under dialysis treatment. In case they show any symptom of Covid-19, they should be subject to medical tests, he stressed. Booth-level officials should visit the houses and conduct a survey of those above 60 years and their health history, and also check for any symptom. These measures would help in preventing the spread of coronavirus, if early quarantine is followed, he said. He directed the deputy commissioners to ensure that migrant labourers and others in their respective district are provided food. Deputy Commissioner R Girish, who held a meeting later, told the taluk health officers to follow the instructions and depute Asha workers to conduct the survey and submit a list of pregnant women and others suffering from medical problems. ZP CEO B A Paramesh, Additional DC Kavitha Jayaram and DHO Dr Sathish were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/health-survey-to-keep-covid-19-at-bay-says-chief-secretary-t-m-vijayabhaskar-829055.html
23-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Belagavi gets Covid-19 testing lab; war room setup to combat virus||District Minister Jagadish Shettar inaugurated a Covid-19 testing laboratory at the premises of the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) National Institute of Traditional Medicine here on Thursday. As on Wednesday (April 22), Belagavi district is third in the state, in terms of number of Covid-19 cases, with 43 cases, including a death. The district, Hirebagewadi and Kuduchi, in particular, has been witnessing a steady surge in infections, more so, after Tablighi Jamaat returned from Nizamuddin. With a spurt in cases, the demand for the Covid-19 lab in the city grew shriller. The ICMR gave its approval in setting up a Covid-19 lab at its National Institute of Traditional Medicine premises. Jamaat-linked cases Speaking to the reporters on the sidelines, Shettar said most of the cases reported in the district are linked to Tablighi Jamaat, “Had it not been for the cases linked to Delhi’s Jamaat event, the district would have been in green zone.” “Four families each in Hirebagewadi in Belagavi taluk and Kuduchi in Raibag taluk alone have 32 cases. The virus spread, thankfully, has been limited to these families,” the district in-charge minister said. A war room to combat Covid-19 has been set up on the premises of Smart City Command and Control centre at Visvesvaraya Nagar in the city. Briefing the District Minister Jagadish Shettar and Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi of the functioning of the war room, Deputy Commissioner S B Bommanahalli and NWKRTC Managing Director Rajendra Cholan said, “The officials manning the war room (control room) will keep a close watch on the customised dashboard, mobile app (Ayush Belagavi), video push and surveillance to monitor the contacts of the infected, quarantine centres and movement of people and vehicles in the containment zones and beyond.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/belagavi-gets-covid-19-testing-lab-war-room-setup-to-combat-virus-829078.html
23-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||VTU joins Covid-19 fight big time, funds research projects||The Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) is funding more than 25 research projects related to Covid-19. The project topics include development of affordable and portable rapid diagnostic kits or tools, computational identification and validation of Covid-19 molecular targets, drug re-purposing against key targets and in-vitro/clinical dose testing of nutritional supplements for immunity. Vice-chancellor Dr Karisiddappa, in a press release, informed that the research projects were aimed at identification of Covid patients using artificial neural network from X-rays and CT scans, virtual autopsy of dead patients, food dispensing unit in affected zones, designing andfabrica tion of low-cost/portable ventilators, low-cost IoT based Ambu-bag compressing machine, thermal scanners, mobileapps on Covid-19 and solar powered disinfectant tunnels/chambers. Students and teachers are working on these ideas and the outcome would be reported soon. A smart band for identifying the symptoms of Covid (like increased body temperature and shortness of breath) has been developed by Swati Hegde, a student from Mysuru. The band also alerts authorities and the police if the person wearing it has the symptoms and comes out during the quarantine period. Online classes, counselling In order to continue the teaching-learning process, the VTU directed engineering institutions to continue imparting education using technology through online classes, e-learning platforms and virtual classes on social media platforms. The lockdown has confined students to their homes with no socialisation with their friends, which is an important aspect of the student life. Besides this, students are worried about the uncertainty around almost all aspects of life, especially academics and placements. The VTU has directed all the institutions to introduce online psychological counselling facility and supporting centres at the college level to help students cope with the disruption caused by the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vtu-joins-covid-19-fight-big-time-funds-research-projects-829083.html
23-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Door delivery of midday meal rations in villages||The government has started delivering rations at the doorsteps of people in the villages in place of the mid-day meal scheme that is not operational due to the closure of schools.  Rations that were leftover in the mid-day meal scheme will be delivered through task forces constituted under the gram panchayats.  Karnataka has over 6,000 gram panchayats and there are as many task forces. There are village-level task forces as well.  “When the lockdown was enforced, 20 days of classes were still left. It was decided that the same quantity of rice and tur dal that would have been served to schoolchildren will now be delivered to the houses of the schoolchildren,” Primary and Secondary Education principal secretary S R Umashankar said.  The Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) department has mobilized its Covid-19 task forces to deliver the rations.  “There were delays in some places in delivering the rations, but otherwise, it is going on well,” RDPR (panchayat raj) secretary Uma Mahadevan said. “Zilla Panchayat chief executive officers have been asked to monitor this on a daily basis,” she added.  Some 42 lakh government schoolchildren were covered under the mid-day meal scheme in the 2019-20 academic year. On an average, the state requires about 1.23 lakh metric tonnes of foodgrains for the scheme.  “To ensure better coordination, we use Telegram as a platform, where all PDOs and other panchayat-level officers are present and reports are shared to check progress,” Uma said. “Some gram panchayats have done exceedingly well during the crisis. For example, the Rajanakunte gram panchayat  (Bengaluru) organized a community kitchen.”  The task forces are responsible for the enforcement of the lockdown, implementation of guidelines issued by the Health department, ensure the supply of essential items and that social distancing is followed. They have to create awareness by going around in autorickshaws. “We’ve asked the task forces to use the same autos to deliver the rations,” Uma said.  Additionally, the government has allowed gram panchayats to use the 14th Finance Commission (FC) grants to tackle the pandemic. “On an average, a gram panchayat gets Rs 30 lakh to Rs 35 lakh a year under the FC. So, we expect a small proportion to be used for this work,” RDPR principal secretary L K Atheeq said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/door-delivery-of-midday-meal-rations-in-villages-829089.html
23-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Coronavirus Lockdown: Tackling trauma with an affordable tunnel||Coronavirus has rocked the entire globe. While some are struggling for food and amenities, some others are working day in and day out to find novel ways to come out of the trauma. As Albert Einstein once said, “In the midst of every crisis, lies great opportunity’’. Here is a story of four bio-tech engineers from Tumakuru, who have successfully designed a disinfectant tunnel in a cost-effective manner. “We thought of doing something to safeguard the vendors in our markets and designed a disinfectant tunnel. As the existing design was expensive, it occurred to us that we can produce a cost-effective tunnel by using PVC pipes and Nasals that are used by farmers to spray pesticides. Our tunnel costs only Rs 45,000, whereas the usual one costs Rs 1,50,000,’’ said Purushottama, the designer. Tumakuru Mayor Fareeda Begum said, “Keeping in mind the significance of disinfectant tunnels, we have installed the unique tunnel in our market, designed and prepared by these young engineers." The mayor also appreciated the efforts of the engineers for their innovation. “We are using Sodium hypochlorite and Bio solvent Shuddhi, approved by CFTRI, Mysuru, which are proved to be very effective in curbing the spread of the virus,’’ said Chidananda H N, a team member. “The tunnel was produced in a very short period of just two days. Moreover, the chemical spray is skin-friendly and does not harm humans,’’ said Prof Shadakshara Murthy, Associate Professor, Department of Chemical Engineering, SIT. Vinay M R and Akshay N are the other two engineers. The team can be contacted at: +91 90354 69069.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/coronavirus-lockdown-tackling-trauma-with-an-affordable-tunnel-828959.html
23-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Two youths drown in farm pond||Two youths drowned at a farm pond here at Arinaganahalli on Thursday. The deceased are Madhusudhan (20) and Revanth (20). The victims had gone to the farm pond with three of their friends at the field of Rajesh for swimming when the incident occurred, said the police. Revanth had studied till SSLC, while Madhusudhan had completed Diploma. All others entered for the pond at once except Madhusudhan who did not know swimming. He had tied a rope to a pipe. He held it and entered the water. As the rope was cut into pieces he began drowning. Revanth rushed to his rescue. Madhusudhan held Revanth as he was afraid that prevented Revanth from swimming. Within no time, the duo drowned. The friends attempted to lift the duo holding the rope, but the efforts were in vain. The bodies were later retrieved and post-mortem was conducted at SNR district hospital. The bodies were handed over to family members. The rural police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/two-youths-drown-in-farm-pond-829017.html
23-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Farmers’ body oppose relaxation of lockdown norms||Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene members submitted a memorandum to the state government on Thursday protesting the decision to relax lockdown norms. They submitted the memorandum to additional deputy commissioner B Shivaswawmy here. They said that the entire world has been affected by novel coronavirus at present. The State and the Central governments have been struggling hard to control the situation in the last one month, but the efforts have failed. The number of Covid-19 patients is on the rise. In such a situation, it is improper to relax the norms. “The police and health department officials have been working hard to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. The state government has relaxed lockdown guidelines in green zones. This may affect the green zones as well,” K Narayan Gowda, the vice-president of the Association said. He said that neighbouring districts Chikkaballapur, Bengaluru Rural and states Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have been haunted by Covid-19. Relaxation of norms will facilitate entry of people from infected areas. The government has taken the decision to relax norms in a hurry without obtaining information from the police and the health departments, they alleged. They sought the government to withdraw its decision and continue the lockdown till the virus is contained fully. They government should impose ban on those entering the district and there should be strict vigil on vehicles moving in hotspots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/farmers-body-oppose-relaxation-of-lockdown-norms-829019.html
23-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Coronavirus lockdown: Farmers objection resumption of toll collect at plazas||Resumption of toll collection at toll plazas in the district has evoked strong objections from farmers. The Ministry of Road Transport & Highways had directed the agencies maintaining the highways not to collect the toll between March 23 and April 20 to ensure free movement of vehicles for emergency services. The toll collection resumed in all 40 toll plazas in the state from April 20. According to farmers, they are in distress due to ban on movement of vehicles. The government has permitted movement of certain vehicles for farming purposes. However, the vehicle owners are forced to pay the toll which is a blow to farmers. The farmers are unable to harvest and send their produces to markets. In such a situation, collection of toll would not be proper, they said. “Farmers are finding it difficult to supply their produces at doorstep and to earn some money. In such a situation, toll collection should be condemned,” Yaluvahalli Sonnegowda, a farmers’ leader, said. Mallur Harish, a water activist, said that it was crime to collect the toll on part of contractors. “Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and the State government should immediately take up the matter with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and ensure relaxation of toll collection till situation limps back to normalcy,” R Anjaneya Reddy, Shashwata Neeravari Horata Samiti president sought. “Grapes are getting damaged in the fields. We are transporting the produces by our own vehicles for sales in Bengaluru. Every time, we are forced to pay Rs 95,” Gopa, a farmer from Chikkamarali village in the district, said. “I am not earning even Rs 2 by selling one kg grape. It is difficult to get food in urban areas. I need to pay for diesel. In such a situation, how far is it correct to collect the toll? The staff at the toll plaza indulge in atrocities when I question this,” he said. Rajya Raitha Sangha secretary Bhaktarahalli Bhairegowda said that the farmers would come to street for protest if the toll collection continued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/coronavirus-lockdown-farmers-objection-resumption-of-toll-collect-at-plazas-829035.html
23-04-2020||Mysuru||Coronavirus Lockdown: Only emergency services allowed in Mysuru, says District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar said that the relaxation in lockdown is applicable only for emergency services in Mysuru district, as it has been declared as a red zone, following the outbreak of Covid-19. The minister said, “The movement of vehicles is allowed only for medical and other emergencies. The government has already allowed agriculture activities and the lockdown will remain the same across the district.” The government has slightly relaxed the lockdown guidelines for the IT-BT sector and further decision will be taken on the basis of the situation, he said. The minister said, “Construction workers can take up works, but no worker from other district or state is allowed. Emergency works can be taken up with permission.” Somashekar said, “No hardware shop is allowed to open. Electricians and plumbers can perform emergency and essential works, after obtaining permission from the jurisdictional police.” Mysuru witnessed more cases due to the Nanjangud-based Jubilant Generic Pharma Company and because of a few people’s participation in a congregation at Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin, Delhi, he said. The minister appealed to the people, not to come out of their houses unnecessarily and also urged them to maintain social distance at public places to combat Covid-19. In a meeting organised to discuss about combating Covid-19 at the Zilla Panchayt auditorium, here, Somashekar directed the officials to spray disinfectants at all streets in the city. Not only main roads, but, all streets must be disinfected. The officials concerned should handover the list to the respective MLA to conduct inspection, the minister said. Due to overcrowding, the vegetable market established at Dasara Exhibition Grounds is closed. The minister directed the officials to display closure boards at the entry point.   MLAs G T Devegowda, S A Ramdas, L Nagendra and Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/coronavirus-lockdown-only-emergency-services-allowed-in-mysuru-says-district-in-charge-minister-s-t-somashekar-829054.html
23-04-2020||National||Telangana officials visit Suryapet dist after surge in coronavirus cases||Telangana Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP M Mahendar Reddy and other senior officials on Wednesday visited Suryapet district to assess the situation following a surge in COVID-19 cases. The officials, who flew to Suryapet, about 135 km from Hyderabad, visited the containment zone at vegetable market, and later held a meeting with officers of various departments at the district collector's office. Somesh Kumar said they have come to discuss further course of action in the district where 83 cases had been reported. He said the administration has been strengthened in the district with the appointment of an IAS officer as special officer and an officer from the municipal administration department being deployed to join the containment measures, besides strengthening the healthdepartment. He suggested strict implementation of guidelines in 'containment zones' (where positive cases are reported) and tracing the contacts of positive cases to check the spread of the virus. "Because of all these, we are confident that we can control the situation and there will be no further growth (in cases). As things look, there will be stability in a couple of days.There is no need to fear," Kumar said. Most of the people among the 83 cases are asymptomatic, he said. The DGP said all government departments should work as a team to contain the virus in the district. According to official sources,with one person being discharged, the number of active cases in the district stood at 82. The sources said 12 containment zones have been put in place in the region. Suryapet district saw a sudden spike in cases yesterday, with 26 cases being reported. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday asked the Chief Secretary, DGP and other senior officials to visit different districts in the state to monitor how the measures initiated to contain the spread of COVID-19 are being implemented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-officials-visit-suryapet-dist-after-surge-in-coronavirus-cases-828742.html
23-04-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi thanks Facebook user for 'remembering' & sharing his poem||A writer from Gujarat uploaded an old poem written by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on a social media platform on Wednesday, prompting the latter to thank him. Writer and columnist Kishor Makwana shared Modi's poem on his Facebook page. Responding to it, Modi said in a tweet in Gujarati, "I had written this poem many years back. It depicts grandness and beauty of world." "I thank you for remembering this poem on the earth day," Modi further said. Earth Day is celebrated on April 22 to demonstrate support for environmental protection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-thanks-facebook-user-for-remembering-sharing-his-poem-828752.html
23-04-2020||National||Coronavirus, a mother Earth’s lesson to human beings in universal responsibility: Dalai Lama||The Dalai Lama on Wednesday compared the ongoing global fight against the Covid-19 pandemic with a “lesson in universal responsibility” being taught to human beings by the mother Earth and stressed upon the need to realise the importance of sustainable development. “On this 50th anniversary of Earth Day, our planet is facing one of the greatest challenges to the health and well-being of its people,” said the Dalai Lama, adding: “And yet, in the midst of this struggle, we are reminded of the value of compassion and mutual support.” “The current global pandemic threatens us all, without distinctions of race, culture or gender, and our response must be as one humanity, providing for the most essential needs of all,” he said. Drawing upon the Indian culture of treating the entire world as one big family – the Vasudahiav Kutumbkam, the Dalai Lama said, “Whether we like it or not, we have been born on this earth as part of one great family.” “Rich or poor, educated or uneducated, belonging to one nation or another, ultimately each of us is just a human being like everyone else,” he said. “Furthermore, we all have the same right to pursue happiness and avoid suffering. When we recognize that all beings are equal in this respect, we automatically feel empathy and closeness towards others,” he said. “And, out of this comes a genuine sense of universal responsibility: the wish to actively help others overcome their problems,” said the Dalai Lama, adding: “Our mother earth is teaching us a lesson in universal responsibility.” “This blue planet is a delightful habitat. Its life is our life; its future, our future. Indeed, the earth acts like a mother to us all; as her children, we are dependent on her,” he said, adding “In the face of the global problems we are going through it is important that we must all work together. Stressing upon the need to realise the criticality of sustainable development, he said, “I came to appreciate the importance of environmental concern only after escaping from Tibet in 1959, where we always considered the environment to be pure.” “Whenever we saw a stream of water, for instance, there was no worry about whether it was safe to drink. Sadly, the mere availability of clean drinking water is a major problem throughout the world today,” he pointed out. “We must ensure that the sick and the valiant health-care providers throughout the world have access to the fundamental necessities of clean water and proper sanitation to prevent the uncontrolled spread of disease. Hygiene is one of the bases of effective health care,” he added. “Sustainable access to properly equipped and staffed health-care facilities will help us meet the challenges of the current pandemic that ravages our planet,” he said. The Dalia Lama, however, saw the present global adversity as an opportunity. “It will also offer one of the strongest defences against future public health crises. I understand that these are precisely the objectives set forth in the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals that address challenges to global health,” he said. “As we face this crisis together, it is imperative that we act in a spirit of solidarity and cooperation in order to provide for the pressing needs, particularly of our less fortunate brothers and sisters around the world,” he said. “I hope and pray that in the days ahead, each of us will do all we can to create a happier and healthier world,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-a-mother-earth-s-lesson-to-human-beings-in-universal-responsibility-dalai-lama-828754.html
23-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 23, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-23-2020-edition-828765.html
23-04-2020||National||Fight climate change like coronavirus: United Nations||The world should fight climate change with the same determination it is showing in the battle against the new coronavirus, the United Nations said on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fight-climate-change-like-coronavirus-united-nations-828775.html
23-04-2020||National||Coronavirus state-wise India update: Total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 23||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 23,016 as of April 23. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 720   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 3259 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-state-wise-india-update-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-23-828780.html
23-04-2020||National||Republic TV's Arnab Goswami, wife attacked in Mumbai; two arrested||Two motorcycle-borne persons allegedly attacked journalist Arnab Goswami's car in Mumbai and tried to break its glass window when he and his wife were on their way home in the early hours of Thursday, police said. Both the attackers have been arrested, he said.     The incident took place on Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, when Goswami was returning from a studio located in Bombay Dyeing Complex in Lower Parel, a police official said. The attackers overtook Goswami's car, stopped it and one of them allegedly tried to break the vehicle's glass window by repeatedly hitting it with his hands, the official said. The attackers were carrying a bottle of ink which they threw on his car, the official said. Goswami's security guards, who were behind in another car, caught hold of the two persons and handed them over to the N M Joshi Marg Police, he added. In a video posted after the alleged attack, Goswami said he was told by his security guards that the attackers were Youth Congress workers. There was no confirmation of the same by either police or the youth outfit. Goswami has faced flak over his remarks aimed at Sonia Gandhi during a discussion on Palghar incident in which three persons, including two sadhus, were lynched. Senior Congress leaders, including chief ministers, slammed Goswami, the editor-in-chief and owner of Republic TV, with the party's chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala alleging that it was "deeply disgraceful that PM & BJP eulogize this brand of TV anchors".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-tvs-arnab-goswami-wife-attacked-in-mumbai-two-arrested-828788.html
23-04-2020||National||Tips to keep yourself safe from coronavirus||As the world is struggling to defeat coronavirus, India too has been taking several measures to fight the pandemic. While the government is commited to overcome the affects of the disease, the citizens are also expected to follow some tips to keep themselves safe from the fatal coronavirus. Here are a few basic health tips to follow: Wash hands with soap or alcohol-based sanitiser in regular intervals. Avoid touchig your face, eyes, ears or mouth. Keep a safe distance from anyone who is coughing or sneezing. Always cover your nose and mouth with a tissue or elbow while coughing or sneezing. Always wear a mask when you move out of home.   Immediately seek medical attention if you have fever, cough, cold or breathing difficulty. Avoid stepping out of home unnecessarily. Eat healthy to keep your immunity up. Avoid touching surfaces that are frequently touched by people like elevator buttons. Be careful about where you put your mobile phone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tips-to-keep-yourself-safe-from-coronavirus-828792.html
23-04-2020||National||President Ram Nath Kovind approves ordinance on stricter punishment for attack on healthcare workers||President Ram Nath Kovind has approved to promulgate The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 which provides stricter punishments for attacks against health workers.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-approves-ordinance-on-stricter-punishment-for-attack-on-healthcare-workers-828796.html
23-04-2020||National||PM Modi speaks to old associate from Jana Sangh days||Senior BJP leader Mohan Lal Bauthiyal could not believe it when he received a call from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), saying PM Narendra Modi wanted to speak to him. Bauthiyal, 76, received the call at 8.26 am on Wednesday when he was going for a stroll around his wheat fields in his native village Eta in Dugadda block of Uttarakhand's Pauri district. He was overjoyed to hear the voice of the prime minister on the other end within seconds of the call from the PMO, who asked him how he was doing. Modi talked to his old associate for nearly three minutes, taking a trip down the memory lane. They talked about how they had met during the Pradesh BJP's working committee meeting at Badrinath in 1998 and then at an election meeting at Shrinagar, Garhwal, in 2014. Modi told Bauthiyal he was talking to him as he had decided to speak to his old friends from Jana Sangh days at these critical times. "It is a great honour for a party worker when the prime minister himself calls him to ask him how he is doing. These are the qualities that have made Modi ji the hero of the masses," Bauthiyal, who is reckoned among founding leaders of the BJP in Uttarakhand, said. Bauthiyal joined the Jana Sangh in 1960, the Janata Party in 1970 and the BJP in 1980. After Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh, Bauthiyal held several important party positions, including president of the BJP's panchayat cell, president of its disciplinary committee besides being a member of the party's national council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-speaks-to-old-associate-from-jana-sangh-days-828807.html
23-04-2020||National||I do feel afraid: Indian workers disinfect coronavirus hotspots||One recent morning in his two-room New Delhi home, sanitation worker Dev Dutt Sharma drank tea before putting on an orange jacket and bidding goodbye to his two sons, wife, and elderly mother. He rode his motorbike to government offices in South Delhi, where he suited up in protective gear and strapped a container full of disinfectant on his back. Then he ventured out to disinfect some of Delhi's crowded slums and neighborhoods deemed at risk from the coronavirus, which has infected more than 20,000 people and killed 652 in India. "I do feel afraid because I have a family," said Sharma, 38, who is one of more than 3,500 workers usually tasked with combating malaria for the South Delhi Municipal Corporation. "But then I think that, along with my own family, I will also save other families." The plight of India's under-protected medical workers has drawn widespread attention, but workers disinfecting cities are also at risk as they venture into designated containment zones. "Wherever we get more than three or four cases from a single locality, we are taking special measures in those areas," said N.R. Tuli, a doctor in charge of disinfections in a South Delhi area. Such measures boost sanitation and strengthen awareness of government actions, said virologist Shahid Jameel.  "The latter increases the level of trust that is so important for people to follow instructions," added Jameel, the chief executive of health charity the Wellcome Trust/DBT India Alliance. India's population of 1.3 billion has been subjected to one of the world's toughest lockdowns, confining people to their homes except for trips to buy food and medicine until May 3. To help rein in the virus, Sharma disinfects as many as 80 homes a day. But when the work ends, anxiety returns to haunt him. "When I come back home, I also feel, 'What if this virus is inside me and might get transmitted to my children?'," he said. "But we are helpless, we have to perform our duty."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-do-feel-afraid-indian-workers-disinfect-coronavirus-hotspots-828808.html
23-04-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Tips for students to cope with lockdown blues||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, Dhanyata M Poovaiah speaks to Ali Khwaja on students, exams, and lockdown, Rahul Gopal tells us all about nutrition and Akash Sriram decodes fake news. Also, know about our new initiative Spread Kindness from Ahmed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-tips-for-students-to-cope-with-lockdown-blues-828822.html
23-04-2020||National||47 fresh coronavirus cases in Rajasthan; tally rises to 1,953||Forty-seven more people were confirmed positive for coronavirus in Rajasthan on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,935, officials said. The fresh cases include 20 from Jodhpur, 12 from Jaipur, 10 from Nagaur, two each from Kota and Hanumangarh and one from Ajmer, they said. Of the total 1,935 coronavirus cases, 344 patients have recovered and 133 have been discharged, according to the latest data issued by the government.  The state has reported 27 deaths due to COVID-19 so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/47-fresh-coronavirus-cases-in-rajasthan-tally-rises-to-1953-828826.html
23-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: J&K draws up care package for 6,330 pregnant women||The Srinagar administration has reached out to more than 6,300 women expecting a baby in the next four months, allaying their fears about proper care during the coronavirus outbreak with a package that includes regular checkups and the availability of ambulances. The plan was chalked out after a team went door to door around Srinagar city and its outskirts to identify women needing help during these difficult days, when all of India is under lockdown, officials said. Jammu and Kashmir has more than 400 cases of COVID-19 and five fatalities. With panic about the pandemic rising, several people in the Kashmir Valley are under quarantine. It is in these difficult times that pregnant women need both help and reassurance, officials said. And so, Srinagar Deputy Commissioner Shahid Iqbal Choudhary got together with some officials to draw up a plan for special care to expectant mothers. It includes a dedicated 24x7 helpline to facilitate end-to-end assistance, regular medical checks, ambulance services, hospital line-ups as well as counselling and vaccinations. The condition of the woman, pre-and post delivery, will be monitored on a web-based application which will have details such as expected date of delivery, administrative action, hospital assistance and vaccination schedules, officials said. After the baby is born, the administration will give the new mother a 'baby kit' that includes nutrition supplements, lotions and soaps and sanitiser.  The kit will be enough to last the mother and baby three months, they added. The aim of the administration is to ensure that a baby is born healthy and in a safe environment keeping in view the threat of COVID-19, Choudhary told PTI.       "The assistance for expectant mothers is important to avoid any medical complications and to ensure that both mother and the newborn are healthy and get proper nutrition as well as vaccinations," he added.  Explaining the logistics of how the details were finalised, officials said the administration roped in 1,200 odd anganwadi and healthcare workers across the district to conduct a survey for pregnant women with a tentative delivery date in the next four months.         Choudhary drew up a team led by Zeenat Ara, a Kashmir Administrative Officer who is district coordinator of the Integrated Child Development Programme. She has been dealing with issues being faced by women since March 17, when Srinagar shut down.       Around a dozen officials were also deputed for the job. Sixteen localities have been declared 'red zones' in the entire district. The district has been divided into four administrative zones and 6,330 women identified for assistance -- 2,155 from North Srinagar which comprises some rural areas, 1,435 from Eidgah and 1,445 from Khanyar-East divisions of downtown areas of the city and 1,295 in west Srinagar, they said.       Though there are ambulances, the district administration has procured five new ambulances specifically for the project. Another fleet of six vehicles is dedicated for various aspects of the project, including movement of teams to homes, medical check-ups and ensuring that a team of doctors in readiness to respond on call are able to reach the patient.         The 24X7 helpline will be manned by four officials who will be put on six hour shifts.       The project is being funded by "converged funds" from several schemes such as 'Beti Bacho Beti Padao', district plan and State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). "It needed sufficient funds and convergence was the only way," the deputy commissioner said. He said convergence of not only funds but also manpower, human resource and expertise is required to make such a plan a success.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-jk-draws-up-care-package-for-6330-pregnant-women-828853.html
23-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Girls from rural areas, low income families struggle for sanitary napkins during lockdown||"Periods don't stop for pandemics," says 12-year-old Shweta Kumari who is short of sanitary napkins because the distribution from her school has either stopped or delayed due to the ongoing lockdown to combat coronavirus. Kumari is not alone in this, several girl students of classes 6 to 12 who are studying in government schools across the country, narrate similar ordeal. They are given sanitary napkins every month under the central government's Kishori Shakti Yojna. However, distribution of sanitary pads has been disrupted in various states these days as schools are shut due to the lockdown, adding to the woes of students, a majority of who come from lower income group families. Kumari, who studies at a government school in Haryana's Kurkshetra, said, "The entire focus has been shifted to distribution of masks and sanitiser and nobody is talking about these basics. It is important to save ourselves from the deadly virus but periods don't stop for pandemics." Geeta, a class 7 student from Alwar in Rajasthan, said, "Even if we get the money to buy it, it is so difficult to step out for women, especially during the lockdown to buy a sanitary napkin. There is door-to-door distribution of masks happening in my locality but no clue about sanitary napkins." Rani Devi, a domestic help in Uttar Pradesh's Bareily, who had switched to using sanitary pads two years ago because of her daughter, has to face the similar situation again. "I always used cloth during periods until two years back, a teacher from my daughter's school briefed me about the importance of sanitary napkins. My daughter would get it in school and both of us would use it. But now after the lockdown, things are different," Devi said. "We are short of money because my husband used to run a small kiosk for street food, which is now out of business due to the lockdown. It is getting difficult to survive with other essentials, sanitary napkins of course do not figure in that list for us," she added. Girls in the Delhi government schools are also calling their teachers inquiring about the same. "I have received calls from a few girls as well as their mothers but right now there is no mechanism to ensure delivery of napkins. We have informed higher authorities about the distressed calls," a Delhi government schoolteacher said on condition of anonymity. Surbhi Singh, a gynaecologist and founder of 'Sachhi Saheli' NGO that works on menstrual health with the Delhi government in its schools, said they have also approached the AAP government on the matter. Union minister Smriti Irani had on March 29 tweeted, "Taking note of growing concern regarding availability of sanitary napkins, Home Secretary to Government of India has issued clarification to chief secretaries of all the states regarding sanitary pads being an essential commodity." Delhi Cabinet Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on Tuesday asked the Department of Women and Child Development to explore ways to provide sanitary napkins to women amid the lockdown. The Rajasthan State Child Rights Commission has initiated an inquiry into the matter after the issue was raised by various stakeholders that sanitary pads were not available to girls due to closure of government schools and anganwadi centres. "The issue has been brought to my notice that sanitary pads are not available to school-going girls in remote areas as schools are closed due to the lockdown. I have asked officials to inquire into the matter and submit a report to take further action," Sangeeta Beniwal, chairperson of the Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said. The Right to Education (RTE) Forum, a civil society coalition claiming to represent nearly 10,000 organisations across 20 states, has sought intervention of the Ministry of Women and Child Development to ensure "uninterrupted health services, especially for malnourished children, to prevent adverse health conditions during this period". "All adolescent girls should continue receiving sanitary napkins, iron folic acid (IFA) and supplementary nutrition under Rajiv Gandhi Scheme for Empowerment of Adolescent Girls (RGSEAG) or Sabla and Rashtriya Kishor Swasthya Karyakram (RKSK) or under Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) or School Health Programme," it said. Schools across the country are closed due to the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the deadly virus. The lockdown, which was announced on March 24 midnight, has now been extended till May 3. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 681 and the number of cases to 21,393 in the country on Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 16,454, while 4,257 people have been cured and discharged, one patient has migrated, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-girls-from-rural-areas-low-income-families-struggle-for-sanitary-napkins-during-lockdown-828858.html
23-04-2020||National||1.34 cr messages sent by MP students for awareness on COVID-19||Lakhs of students from various universities in Madhya Pradesh have sent over one crore messages to their acquaintances to make them aware of coronavirus and ways to contain the spread of the disease. The students took the initiative after Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon recently appealed to them through their university administration to spread awareness about COVID-19 among their contacts during the lockdown period. "Nearly 23.16 lakh students of 21 universities across the state sent over 1.34 crore messages about coronavirus and steps to stay protected against it to their contacts through e-mails, WhatsApp and SMS," the governor's secretary Manohar Dubey said. The agriculture and veterinary universities in the state also sent such awareness messages to farmers, he said. During a video conference on March 25, Tandon directed vice-chancellors of various universities in the state to undertake public awareness activities so as to prevent the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/134-cr-messages-sent-by-mp-students-for-awareness-on-covid-19-828860.html
23-04-2020||National||Sharing location, video calls in HC bail conditions to track prisoners on bail during lockdown||In three separate orders granting interim suspension of sentences, Justice Anup J Bhambhani has directed the three convicts to make a video call every Friday to the police officer concerned and also 'drop-a-pin' on Google Maps so that the officer can verify the prisoner's presence and location. The court passed the orders keeping in view the “unprecedented circumstances of a public health emergency" that prevail today and the consequent need to “decongest prisons for the overall medical safety of all prisoners”. Those who were released are a 73-year-old retired school teacher, a 21-year-old man and an ATM van driver in cases of a minor's rape, rash and negligent driving and defalcation of Rs 51 lakh cash respectively. “The appellant (convict) will make a video-call every Friday between 11 am and 11:30 am to the Investigating Officer, and in case the Investigating Officer is no longer in service or is otherwise unavailable, then to the SHO of the Police Station where the case was registered and also 'drop-a-pin' on Google maps, so that the IO/SHO can verify the appellant's presence and location. “Counsel for the appellant has confirmed that the appellant has the wherewithal to comply with this condition,” the judge said in the three orders. The court also asked the convicts to furnish their mobile number with the jail superintendent and ensure that the number is kept active and switched on at all times. The retired teacher sought suspension of his sentence on health grounds, including diabetes, hypertension and asthma, and said his past medical condition puts him in a vulnerable category that makes it medically unsafe for him to remain in prison in the present circumstances of the prevalent public health emergency. The prosecutor opposed the plea saying the man was convicted under the POCSO Act for raping a minor and was sentenced to 10 years in jail. The court, while noting that he has only been in jail since February 24 and that he has been convicted of heinous offences under the POCSO Act, suspended his sentence for three months considering the prevailing unprecedented circumstances of a public health emergency that is coronavirus. In the second case where the man was sentenced to six months imprisonment for offences of rash and negligent driving and causing death by rash or negligent act, the high court suspended his sentence till July 14. While driving a car, he had hit a two-wheeler causing grievous injuries to the scooterist and death of a woman pillion rider. He was directed by the trial court to pay Rs one lakh to the family of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to the injured. He had sought bail suspension of his sentence saying that in view of the prevalent serious public health emergency, he being a young man, would be exposed to avoidable and grave health risk in prison. The van driver, serving eight years jail term for robbery and causing grievous hurt to other persons who were accompanying him in the van by administering intoxicating food, had sought suspension of his sentence by two months. He sought to be released saying his family consisting of his wife and three minor children were in dire circumstances and they were facing financial issues in his absence. The high court suspended his sentence for 45 days noting that he has served almost half his punishment in prison and in view of the dire need of decongesting prisons due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The court directed the three convicts not to indulge in any act that would prejudice the proceedings in the appeal and asked them to surrender before the concerned jail superintendent on expiry of the period of interim suspension of sentence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sharing-location-video-calls-in-hc-bail-conditions-to-track-prisoners-on-bail-during-lockdown-828861.html
23-04-2020||National||Cong CMs blame Centre for not giving any financial assistance to states||The chief ministers of the Congress-ruled states on Thursday hit out at the central government, saying how will the country win the battle against COVID-19 if no financial assistance is provided to them. The chief ministers of Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Puducherry, demanded a financial package for the states to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said unless the central government comes forward to financially help states, "fight against COVID-19 will get weakened". "Unless there is a big financial package for states, how will normalcy return to the states post the lockdown," Gehlot said at the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting through video conferencing. "We emphasised on rapid testing but unfortunately the test kits have failed...There is an urgent need for centralised procurement of kits, ventilators, so that availability, quality and quantity can be assured," he added. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh claimed that resources of Rs 4,400 crore of GST have not yet been released by the central government. "In place of 1 lakh rapid testing kits, we have received only 10,000 China-made testing kits and their authenticity is yet to be tested," he said. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said unless the Centre rises to the occasion and provides financial assistance to states, how will the fight against COVID-19 be won. Baghel said there is a deep concern in the state over the return of students and migrant workers stuck in other states. "There needs to be a policy by the central government for the return of migrant workers and students. Unfortunately, the central government is silent on the issue," he said. Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy said the Centre did not give any assistance to the state.  "How will the state survive in times of crisis...We are not enemies but have to act, work together," he said at the CWC. Narayanasamy said the central government has not given them Rs 600 crore of GST and Rs 2,200 crore of the Finance Commission's share.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-cms-blame-centre-for-not-giving-any-financial-assistance-to-states-828865.html
23-04-2020||National||Chhattisgarh CM seeks Centre's nod for payment of MGNREGS wages in form of food grains||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has sought the Centre's approval for payment of wages to workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) in the form of food grains. In a letter to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, he said five lakh workers are being employed every day under the scheme. Baghel said 62.52 lakh people of over 31.5 lakh families in the state depend on MGNREGS for livelihood. The chief minister said payment of the wages under the scheme is sent to the workers' bank accounts directly through the National Electronic Fund Management System (NEFMS). Baghel said once the wage amount is credited, labourers are required to withdraw money from their bank accounts to fulfill their primary needs, which will create problems for them as there is a shortage of bank branches in Chhattisgarh, as well as the problem of internet connectivity in Naxal-affected districts. "Due to this, there are often problems like link failure and workers have to contact the branch many times to withdraw the amount," the chief minister of the Congress-ruled state said. He said there will also be difficulty in following social distancing norms, according to a statement issued by the state government on Thursday. Baghel said adequate food grains are available with the state government and an effective system of its distribution is in force. He urged the Union agriculture minister to give permission to the Chhattisgarh government to distribute food grains against wages of labourers working under the MGNREGS, so that food security can be ensured for villagers even in the present adverse circumstances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-cm-seeks-centres-nod-for-payment-of-mgnregs-wages-in-form-of-food-grains-828881.html
23-04-2020||National||Eastern Railway hospital doctor tests positive for COVID-19||A doctor at an Eastern Railway (ER) hospital here has tested positive for coronavirus, a spokesperson of the railway zone said on Thursday. The doctor, who was on leave since April 14 as she was feeling unwell, tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday, ER spokesperson Nikhil Chakraborty said. She has been admitted to a private hospital in the city, he said. At least 10 staff members of the B R Singh Hospital, the main hospital of the Eastern Railway, have been asked to go on home quarantine by authorities of the medical establishment as they had come in contact with the doctor at their workplace, the spokesperson said. Four members of the doctor's family have also been asked to remain under home quarantine by the state health department, he said, adding that they will be tested for COVID-19. No coronavirus patient has so far been treated at the B R Singh Hospital, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eastern-railway-hospital-doctor-tests-positive-for-covid-19-828882.html
23-04-2020||National||Migrant workers stuck at various state borders be permitted to return home: Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday demanded that migrant workers stuck at various state borders due to the lockdown be permitted to return to their native places after due testing and precautions. She also said compassion was the key to fight COVID-19 and not hostility towards the victims of coronavirus. "As times pass, we need to permit migrant workers to return home after due testing and precautions," Priyanka Gandhi said addressing the Congress Working Committee meeting through video-conferencing. The Congress leader has been raising the issue of migrant labours stranded at different places and has called upon the central government to help them reach their homes besides providing them food. She has also urged the Uttar Pradesh government to make arrangements for bringing back migrant labourers from the state stuck at other states.   Thousands of migrant workers remain stranded at different state borders after their attempts to reach homes during the lockdown were not successful. There have been law and order issues at certain places as many of them turned up at bus and railway stations in their bid to reach their respective homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-workers-stuck-at-various-state-borders-be-permitted-to-return-home-priyanka-828889.html
23-04-2020||National||Doctor attacked during COVID-19 screening lauds ordinance||Trupti Katdare was part of the team trying to trace a person who came into contact with a COVID-19 patient. Unfazed by the attack, Katdare and another doctor Zakiya Sayyed had returned to the same spot the next day to resume the screening work. "The new legal provision is a good step by the government and will definitely help millions of health workers like me in the battle against COVID-19. I am happy with this provision," Katdare, 40, told PTI. "Everyone should understand that every health worker fighting COVID-19 is working to save the lives of others, disregarding their own," she said. On Tuesday, she was in the same Tatpatti Bakhal area where she was attacked earlier, presenting saplings to 48 residents who returned to their homes after spending 14 days in quarantine. Health workers and police personnel in Indore have suffered from non-cooperation, misbehavior, threats and attacks in various incidents during the past one month. Videos of many such incidents have also gone viral on social media. Indore is among the districts most affected by the coronavirus outbreak in the country. According to official information, 945 COVID-19 patients have been found in the district till Thursday morning. Of these, 53 people have died during treatment, while 77 patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovery. The government on Wednesday issued the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, making acts of violence and harassment against healthcare personnel deployed in combating COVID-19 a non-bailable offence with maximum punishment of seven years imprisonment and Rs 5 lakh fine. The ordinance will protect the healthcare fraternity, including doctors, nurses and ASHA workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctor-attacked-during-covid-19-screening-lauds-ordinance-828891.html
23-04-2020||National||Issues of migrant workers must be addressed as first priority: Rahul Gandhi||Speaking at the Congress Working Committee meeting through video-conferencing, the former party president said the lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus was a mere pause button. "Issue of migrant workers needs to be addressed as a first priority. Lockdown is a mere pause button," he said. Gandhi said the further extension of the lockdown post May 3 should only be continued in COVID-19 hotspot zones. "As a nation we need to think of a transition from a lockdown to lockdown only in disease hot zones and commencement of activities in the green zones," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/issues-of-migrant-workers-must-be-addressed-as-first-priority-rahul-gandhi-828893.html
23-04-2020||National||Entire Muslim community cannot be held responsible for one group's 'crime': Naqvi on Tablighi Jamaat row||The entire Muslim community cannot be held responsible for one group's "crime", Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Thursday while reacting to instances of Muslims being blamed for the spurt in COVID-19 cases after Tablighi Jamaat congregation here, and asserted that most of the minority community members have condemned the group's action. In an interview to PTI, Naqvi also expressed confidence that Muslims will abide by lockdown guidelines during the holy month of Ramzan. He said across the India, imams, Ulema and Muslim organizations have unanimously decided that during Ramzan (the Islamic holy month), Muslims will not congregate in mosques, religious places and perform all rituals like 'Iftaar' (breaking of fast) and 'taraweeh' (special prayers) at home keeping in mind social distancing norms. Naqvi said he has spoken with state waqf board officials, social and religious leaders, imams on adherence to the lockdown and social distancing guidelines during the Ramzan month starting Friday or Saturday evening and they have begun creating awareness among the people. Asked about some people blaming Muslims for the spread of the pandemic after a large number of cases were found linked to the Tablighi Jamaat event at Nizamudddin here, Naqvi said the whole community cannot be held responsible for the "crime" of one organisation or one person. "Whatever that organisation did, criminal negligence or crime...most Muslims have strongly reacted to it, condemned it and called for action against it. Entire community cannot be held responsible for one person or one organisation's crime," he asserted, adding that this has always been India's culture. Last week, the Union Health Ministry had said 29.8 per cent of the total COVID-19 cases --4,291 out of 14,378 COVID-19 infections-- in the country were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in March at the group's headquarters here following which some sections of the society severely criticised Muslims, and blamed them for the spread of the pandemic in the country. Naqvi's comments also assume significance in view of the 57-member prominent international Mulim grouping, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), asking India to take "urgent steps" to protect the rights of its minority Muslim community and stop the incidents of "Islamophobia" in the country. Hitting out at the OIC, the minister had said the country is "heaven for Muslims" and those trying to vitiate the atmosphere of prosperity cannot be friends of Indian Muslims. Naqvi said those targeting Muslims are few isolated people who are trying to spread "misinformation" and "we should be united and isolate such elements".  On the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions during Ramzan, Naqvi said no Muslim wants to stay away from mosques during the holy month, but everyone has resolved to win this battle against coronavirus. During this month, everyone should pray to God that not only India but also the entire world is freed from this COVID-19 pandemic, he said. Asked whether Muslims have followed lockdown and social distancing guidelines till now, Naqvi said, "absolutely, the entire country is standing united in this fight against coronavirus." "When Prime Minister Narendra Modi had appealed to people with folded hands, he had appealed to 130 crore Indians, it was not based on caste or religion. And everybody responded to his appeal and acted on it," he said. People have faith that whatever Prime Minister Modi does is for the health and safety of the people, Naqvi said. Asked about the role of the Opposition in the fight against COVID-19 and Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi's suggestions, Naqvi said,"some people have criticized, but that is their habit, we don't take any offence to it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/entire-muslim-community-cannot-be-held-responsible-for-one-groups-crime-naqvi-on-tablighi-jamaat-row-828904.html
23-04-2020||National||Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama, Ladakh's Kargil now COVID-19 free||Medical Superintendent (MS) of District Hospital Pulwama, Dr Jameel Mir said that all the three COVID-19 positive patients from the district have recovered and were discharged. The three positive patients in Pulwama were from Khaigam, Chandgam and Sangervani villages and are reportedly members of Tabllighi Jamaat. After they were tested positive, seven villages in the district were declared Red Zones while adjoining villages of these villages were declared as buffer zones. Officials said that people of Red zone areas were screened three times and no positive case was reported from the district in the last three weeks. Similarly, all the four positive patients in Kargil district have recovered and were discharged. Additional District Magistrate Kargil, Sonam Chosjar said there is no COVID-19 positive case in Kargil as of now. “We have one suspected patient at the hospital now and many people from Iran are returning,” he said.  On Wednesday with 27 new samples testing positive, Kashmir witnessed a spike of COVID-19 cases. While 14 cases tested positive from Shopian, seven were reported from Bandipora, four from Kupwara and one from Baramulla and Srinagar each.  The total cases in J&K has crossed 400 mark, seven days after the 300 mark was crossed. From 200 to 400, the cases doubled in 12 days, slower than the last doubling. While the cases reached from 100 to 200 in five days, and from 200 to 300 in next five days, this time around, the accumulation of cases was slower.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-and-kashmirs-pulwama-ladakhs-kargil-now-covid-19-free-828907.html
23-04-2020||National||Strategic bridge connnecting China border re-constructed in Arunachal Pradesh amid lockdown||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/strategic-bridge-connnecting-china-border-re-constructed-in-arunachal-pradesh-amid-lockdown-828915.html
23-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown leads to spurt in domestic violence cases in Kashmir||Former chairperson, Jammu and Kashmir women’s commission, Vasundhra Phatak Masoodi said that she gets a lot of distress calls from women from the Valley complaining about domestic violence during the COVID-19 lockdown. “I am getting a lot of distress calls from women in Kashmir complaining about domestic violence against them in one way or the other,” she told reporters. “I try to counsel them over the phone. What else can I do for now, it helps a little bit as they feel someone is there to listen to them. But this surely indicates a rise in domestic violence cases in Kashmir,” Masoodi said. Last week Jammu and Kashmir High Court ordered the subordinate courts to treat cases of domestic abuse as urgent and proceed with the matters in accordance with the circulars issued regarding the procedure to be followed to ensure social distancing.   Taking a suo-moto notice of negative impact of lockdown imposed due to COVID-19 pandemic on women and girls, a Coram consisting of Chief Justice, Justice Geeta Mittal and Justice Rajnesh Oswal issued notices to J&K government and asked it to submit a report on the steps taken on cases of domestic or any other kind of violence being faced by women.   The Court also directed concerned officials to examine remedial measures taken by various countries on this issue and revisit the requirements and steps that need to be taken to mitigate the sufferings of the victims of domestic violence in the twin Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh.  After the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A in the Valley, J&K Women’s Commission was wound up and a new commission is yet to be formed which has made matters even worse for women facing domestic violence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-leads-to-spurt-in-domestic-violence-cases-in-kashmir-828918.html
23-04-2020||National||SC holds neutral substances can't be excluded in seized drugs||In an important judgement, the Supreme Court has held that the quantity of neutral substances would not be excluded in weighing the seized contraband drugs, for determining the punishment for an accused under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Indira Banerjee, and M R Shah said that it is required to be noted that illicit drugs are seldom sold in a pure form. They are almost always adulterated or cut with other substances. Caffeine is mixed with heroin, it causes that heroin to vaporise at a lower rate. That could allow users to take the drug faster and get a big punch sooner.  The court said the quantity of neutral substances is thus to be taken into consideration along with actual content by weight of the offending drug while determining the “small or commercial quantity” of the narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances. Under the Act, the penalty varies on the basis of quantity of seized drugs such as small or commercial quantity.  Answering a reference, the three-judge bench on Wednesday declared the 2008 ruling in 'E Micheal Raj vs Intelligence Officer, Narcotic Control Bureau' case for considering only content of narcotic drug or psychotropic substance for punishment, as "not a good law". The top court said the NDPS Act was required to be interpreted "literally and not liberally" which may ultimately frustrate its object, purpose and preamble. The special law is "intended to combat the menace otherwise bent upon destroying the public health and national health", it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-holds-neutral-substances-cant-be-excluded-in-seized-drugs-828921.html
23-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Centre asks states to allow power projects to operate during lockdown||The Centre on Thursday advised the states to allow construction activities in power projects outside municipal limits during the nation-wide lockdown. Since Union Ministry of Home Affairs in its guidelines on relaxation after April 20 allowed the construction activities of all kind of industrial projects in rural areas (outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities), same should be applicable to ongoing construction activities in thermal/hydropower generation projects outside the limits of urban local bodies, said the Union Ministry of Power in its communication to states. The Ministry of Power also requested the states to allow the intrastate and interstate movement of construction materials including equipment, spares and consumables for these under-construction power projects. The Ministry also asked the states to ensure that all mandatory precautions and norms of social distancing as well the advisories issued by Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare from time to time with regard to COVID-19 should be followed. The centre has instructed all power installations come under the central governments and other related firms to ensure the necessary preventive measures/ equipment/ amenities for safeguard from COVID-19 to their employees and workforce deployed for construction activities. Earlier the power-producing and distribution companies requested the Centre to allow them to carry out construction work in their sites during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-centre-asks-states-to-allow-power-projects-to-operate-during-lockdown-828929.html
23-04-2020||National||DCPCR joins hands with NGO to distribute milk to underprivileged children amidst coronavirus lockdown||The poor may be getting free ration and food at distribution centres but a large number of children in the families belonging to vulnerable sections are not getting milk. Activists are afraid that this could lead to malnutrition. With several losing their daily wages, families are also not in a position to buy milk or nutritional supplement for their children. Now, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) and an NGO Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR) have joined hands to distribute milk to children below six years of age from underprivileged families in Delhi. A little over 1,000 households, in the areas where CFAR works, in the national capital have benefited from this. Jyoti, a mother, said, "my husband is a daily wage worker and I do domestic work. We have both lost our jobs and have limited cash to take care of our daily needs. The government and other relief agencies are providing dry ration kits but no milk powder or any other nutritional supplement for our children. We therefore have to feed our children rice and daal water." DCPCR member Ranjana Prasad said the Commission was working with a number of private companies who were providing supplies such as biscuits, milk and nutrition supplements for distribution among poor children. “We are happy that children’s needs for milk can be met through our efforts,” she said. CFAR Senior Programme Specialist Juhi Jain said. " we had assessed that children below six years had been going without milk, which would have posed a grave risk to their health had the situation continued.” The assessment found that since the nationwide lockdown, children from poor families, whose parents neither have cash reserves nor wages to afford the daily supply of milk, had been suffering. This could cause malnutrition and health issues among them, she said. Jain said the CFAR is working with around 28,135 households in 72 settlements across six districts of Delhi. “Milk as an item needed by children had probably been overlooked by relief agencies until now, but DCPCR immediately used its networks to arrange for milk for children in our project areas,” she said. Soon after the issue was raised, the DCPCR started a campaign to provide half litre of milk every alternate day for children across Delhi settlements. The money for the milk was raised by partners with DCPCR’s support.  CFAR enlisted the children, identified vendors, facilitated meetings between DCPCR Rapid Action team and point persons (who introduced the families) and ensuring distribution of packets to enlisted households, Jain said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcpcr-joins-hands-with-ngo-to-distribute-milk-to-underprivileged-children-amidst-coronavirus-lockdown-828936.html
23-04-2020||National||Over 33 cr people get Rs 31,235 cr assistance under PM Garib Kalyan package||The government has provided Rs 31,235 crore financial assistance to more than 33 crore beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman last month to protect them from the impact of the lockdown due to COVID 19. As part of the Rs 1.70 lakh crore relief package, the government announced free foodgrains and cash doles to women and poor senior citizens and farmers to mitigate the hardships during the lockdown.  The swift implementation of the package is being continuously monitored by central and state governments, the Finance Ministry said in a statement. The Finance Ministry, the concerned Ministries, Cabinet Secretariat and PMO are leaving no stone unturned to ensure that the relief measures reach the needy swiftly and in line with the intent of the lock down, it said. "Fintech and digital technology have been employed for swift and efficient transfer to the beneficiary. Direct benefit transfer, i.e. transfer that ensures that the amount is directly credited into the account of the beneficiary, eliminates leakage and improves efficiency has been employed. This has also ensured credit to the beneficiary’s account without the need for the beneficiary to physically go to the branch," it said. As of April 22, 2020, it said, Rs 16,146 crore has gone towards payment of the first instalment of PM-KISAN. Under the scheme, 8 crore identified beneficiaries got Rs 2,000 directly in their accounts. As many as 20.05 crore women Jan Dhan account holders received Rs 500 each in their account. The total disbursement under the head was Rs 10,025 crore as on April 22, it said. The National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) disbursed about Rs 1,400 crore to about 2.82 crore old age persons, widow and differently-abled persons, the ministry added.  Each beneficiary received an ex-gratia cash of Rs 500 under the scheme as the first instalment. Another instalment of Rs 500 each will be paid next month. Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana 40.03 Lakh MT of food grains have been lifted by 36 states and Union Territories (UTs) out of 40 lakh MT for April so far. "19.63 lakh MT has been distributed by 31 States/UT to 39.27 crore beneficiaries covered by 1.19 Crore Ration cards as April 2020 entitlement. 1,09,227 MT of Pulses have also been dispatched to various states/UTs," it said. Besides, total 3.05 crore cylinders have been booked under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana so far and 2.66 crore PMUY free gas cylinders have already been delivered to beneficiaries. Increased rate for workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) has been notified effective April 1, it said. "In the current financial year, 19.56 lakh person’s man-days of work were generated. Further, Rs 7,100 crore released to states to liquidate pending dues of both wage and material," it said. As many as 2.17 crore building & construction workers received financial support from the Building and Construction Workers’ Fund managed by state governments. Under this, Rs 3,497 crore were given to beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-33-cr-people-get-rs-31235-cr-assistance-under-pm-garib-kalyan-package-828938.html
23-04-2020||National||Mythological shows help to bolster television audience, advertising revenues amid lockdown: BARC||Mythological shows such as Ramayan and Mahabharat has helped to bolster television audience and advertising revenues for one more week of the COVID-19 lockdown, the Broadcast Audience Research Council said on Thursday. Overall, the council reported a 40 per cent growth in TV viewing over the pre-coronavirus period, with 1.24 trillion minutes of TV content being consumed for the April 11-17 period. Nearly half of India watches TV daily as compared to 32 per cent before, they said. TV viewership has been growing consistently ever since the country was put under a lockdown on March 25, as people consumed more of news and movies. Launch of the mythological serials by public broadcaster Doordarshan probably to keep users engaged during the gloomy times gave a strong push to viewership for the last three weeks. "Mythological shows have become the main source of entertainment among the Hindi general entertainment channels (GEC)," the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) said, adding that such shows contribute a whopping 43 per cent of the total Hindi GEC genre, which is the biggest category of TV channels. The mythological shows - which sometimes run twice a day - garnered 109 billion viewing minutes during the week by 353 million viewers, the council's weekly data release said. Broadcasting the shows is also helping the public broadcaster earn some advertising revenues, the BARC said, pointing out that at a time when the overall advertising volumes have plummeted, the same for Ramayan and Mahabharat have gone up with the advertising time hovering around 2,000 seconds per day. Starting with three advertisers when the series got relaunched in end-March, Ramayan enjoys around 42 advertisers per day, while the same for Mahabharat is about 25 advertisers, the data said. Interestingly, even as the mythological serials aid the overall industry, channels classified as being under the "devotional" genre have seen a tepid 5 per cent growth in viewership, it said, adding that news channels have grown 195 per cent, business news by 82 per cent and movies by 67 per cent over their performance in the pre-lockdown period. Meanwhile, the COVID-19 virus continues to be top of mind, if one were to look at the findings of an Android-powered smartphones survey done by marketing research firm A C Nielsen and released along side the TV ratings. The coronoavirus-related searches on Google accounted for 8 per cent in the immediate week prior to the outbreak and have now grown to 37 per cent of all the searches, it said. After the record number of downloads, the number of users of the Arogya Setu have also increased to a fifth of all those who have got the contact tracing app on their phones, it said. There has also been a huge shift in data consumption due to professional commitments in the lockdown, the research body said, pointing out to a 200 per cent increase in time spent on video conferencing and a 546 per cent increase in the number of users of apps like Zoom, Skype and Hangouts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mythological-shows-help-to-bolster-television-audience-advertising-revenues-amid-lockdown-barc-828939.html
23-04-2020||National||92-year-old with one side of body paralysed defeats coronavirus  ||A 92-year-old city resident has recovered from coronavirus infection despite having suffered a stroke seven months ago which left one side of her body paralysed and even affected her ability to recognise faces. On Monday, the woman and three other members of her family including her three-and-a-half-year-old great-grand daughter returned home from hospital. According to a senior doctor from the private hospital here where the woman was treated, it showed that even elderly people can defeat the virus.  Constant monitoring, measures to keep secondary infections at bay, use of standard treatment protocol and extra precaution considering her age and ailment paid off, said Dr Vijay Natrajan, CEO, Symbiosis Hospital. "If somebody who is 92 and hada debilitating stroke, the possibility of getting pneumonia is high as their movement is restricted. To avoid pneumonia, we ensured that her sleeping position was changed every two hours," he told PTI. "As per the procedure which is called 'awake proning', she was made to sleep on her abdomen and after two hours, the position was changed," he said. In the prone position, the person or patient lies flat with the chest down and the back up. Awake proning as a treatment protocol "is picking up in a big way for the corona patients as it helps lung ventilation in a better way and improves oxygenation", said Dr Natrajan. "We used to make her sleep on abdomen (prone), on her back (supine) and also on both right and left sides," he explained.  Normally the sleeping position of COVID-19 patients is changed every six hours. But in the woman's case, it was brought down to two hours, Dr Natrajan said. "Since she had had a stroke and one side of the body was paralysed, she could not move on her own, so there was a risk of bedsores which can lead to other infections," he said. Despite the woman's age and her ailment, her innate immunity seemed to be good, he added. "Our strategy was to prevent rather than treat any complication. She did not require any oxygen support and as far as the standard protocol is concerned, multivitamin tablets and normal symptomatic treatment was given," he said. The woman's recovery shows that there is no need to panic if a senior citizen contracts coronavirus, he said. The common assumption that the infection would always be lethal for a person above 60 should be discarded, he added. The hospital is treating another woman COVID-19 patient who is 88 years old and has diabetes and hypertension, he said. "When she arrived, she was suffering from breathlessness and fever and was on four-litre oxygen. Today we moved her out of ICU and she is requiring only two-litre oxygen which is very minimal and it shows she is improving," Dr Natrajan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/92-year-old-with-one-side-of-body-paralysed-defeats-coronavirus-828952.html
23-04-2020||National||Amma Canteens in Chennai to feed hungry for free||Amma Canteens, the heavily subsidized food outlets that have doubled its footfall during the lockdown period, have begun serving food free of cost to people from Thursday. The move came after Opposition DMK took objection to AIADMK ministers and leaders “adopting” Amma Canteens in their areas to provide free food to the needy, saying it would amount to “misuse” of the outlets which have been set up using tax payer’s money. Opposition Leader M K Stalin had opposed local AIADMK units in districts announcing their intention to foot bills of the canteens. Instead, he said, the government should provide free food in all Amma Canteens across the state. The free food scheme is likely to be extended across the state. Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), which manages the canteens in the city, said Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has instructed that food be provided free in all 407 outlets in this metropolis. The food will be provided free of cost for any number of people who come to the canteens till the end of the lockdown period. Ever since the country went for a lockdown on March 25, it is the Amma Canteens that have been saving thousands of homeless and underprivileged from going to bed hungry. With the footfall increasing in almost all outlets, the GCC has been sending additional rations to Amma Canteen across the city – the ambitious scheme was launched by then Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa in 2013. On normal days, the canteen sells idlis are at Re 1 each, curd rice at Rs 3 and sambar rice at Rs 5 and two chapathis with dhal for Rs 3. In other words, a person can have three square meals in Chennai for under Rs 20. Sources said Rs 17 lakh is spent every day on running these canteens and the entire amount will now be borne by the GCC and philanthropists who have come forward to foot the bill. “We have been sending additional rations anticipating rush. The footfall has doubled in the past few weeks and Amma Canteens were asked to ensure no one who steps in the premises does not go out without eating. With food being made free of cost, we expect more people to come to our outlets,” a senior official with the GCC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amma-canteens-in-chennai-to-feed-hungry-for-free-828955.html
23-04-2020||National||Plea in SC to curb spread of fake news leading to social stigmatisation of certain communities||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking directions to the Centre to issue guidelines to curb the spread of fake news leading to social stigmatisation, boycott of certain communities and communal disharmony in states and UTs at the time when the country is facing COVID-19 pandemic. The plea filed by three lawyers referred to alleged discrimination of Muslims in the backdrop of fact that some persons hailing from Tablighi Jamaat have been found to be 'super spreaders' of novel coronavires in the country. The plea, which made ministries of Health and Family Welfare and Home Affairs as parties, also alleged that citizens from north-eastern states have been discriminated against as they morphologically resemble natives of China, the country from where this deadly virus spread to the other parts of the world. “Viruses and bacteria do not discriminate, but society does. Societal structures shaped by oppressive structural forces of communalism, casteism, racism and patriarchy render certain sections vulnerable. The existing social schisms in society are widened during crisis situations like that of COVID-19 pandemic. This renders the already vulnerable population of race, religious, caste and sexual minorities, etc to even greater threat of being socially boycotted and ostracised resulting in essential services including healthcare inaccessible to them,” said the plea filed by lawyers, Aanchal Singh, Disha Wadekar and Mohammad Wasim. It said “schisms and disharmony” during trying times would weaken the possibility of a united battle against COVID-19. “As Corona virus spread from Wuhan in China, associating people from north-eastern hill regions of India with Covid19 has become a common phenomena because of the morphological similarities of such Indian citizens to the Han Chinese, in that both belong to Tibeto-Burman ethnicity. "Also, since the Tablighis form Nizamuddin Markaz turned out to be 'super-spreaders', incidents of fake news and hate messages leading to the maligning of Muslim community,” the plea said. It has sought a direction to the Centre to take immediate steps to strictly implement the 'Addressing Social Stigma associate with COVID-19' advisory, issued by the health ministry, for preventing attacks, stigmatisation and boycott of members of certain communities.  It said the government be asked to “ensure nobody is denied access to food, water, healthcare, medicine and hygiene facilities” and guidelines be issued “to curb the spread of fake news leading to social stigmatisation, boycott of certain communities and communal disharmony.”   The plea said that the government be asked to advertise on multimedia platforms like television, radio, print media that the spread of novel COVID-19 cannot be attributed to any community and to make a call for social harmony and national integrity in these pressing times. “It is to be noted that such super-spreader events have happened across all countries and within India and the phenomena is not community-specific, but the fake news and hate messages claiming so have reignited the prevalent biases and prejudices. Such racial and community profiling has led to hate and mental abuse with slurs,” it said. The plea said that “the term 'social distancing' has a connotation of caste, untouchability and social boycott, especially in the case of India and it must urgently be replaced by 'physical distancing' or 'disease distancing'”. Earlier, the top court, on April 13, had declined to pass any interim order on a separate plea of Muslim body Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind seeking to restrain a section of media from allegedly spreading bigotry and communal hatred by linking the spread of coronavirus with the recent Nizamuddin Markaz incident, saying it would "not gag the press". The apex court had asked the Muslim body to implead the Press Council of India (PCI) as a party to the case. The Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind had sought directions to the Centre to stop dissemination of "fake news" and take strict action against those responsible for it and had said that unfortunate incident of Tablighi Jamaat was being used to "demonise" and blame the entire Muslim community. At least 9,000 people had participated in the religious gathering at Tablighi Jamaat's headquarters in Nizamuddin West last month and the congregation became a key source for the spread of COVID-19 in India as many of the participants had travelled to various parts of the country for missionary works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-to-curb-spread-of-fake-news-leading-to-social-stigmatisation-of-certain-communities-828960.html
23-04-2020||National||COVID-19 Lockdown: Let us stay focused till battle is won, says Vice President Venkaiah Naidu||As the country completes 30 days of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday said people have put up with tremendous discomfort in order to ward off a bigger catastrophe. "Over the last 30 days, we, as a nation, have been waging a tough battle. We have endured considerable hardship and unprecedented disruption in our daily lives," he said in a series of tweets.  He hailed the people "for their forbearance and willingness to put up with tremendous discomfort in order to ward off a bigger catastrophe". “Let us stay united and focused till the battle is won,” the vice president stressed. There has been a heartening unity of purpose and action across the length and breadth of the country, he said, adding that the Centre and the state governments are doing their utmost to address the twin challenges of "lives and livelihood". They are carefully taking well- calibrated steps to mitigate hardship, Naidu said. "Let us adhere to preventive measures like social distancing, including at work place, wearing masks, not spitting in public places avoiding religious gatherings," Naidu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-let-us-stay-focused-till-battle-is-won-says-vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-828967.html
23-04-2020||National||21 foreigners who had attended Tablighi Jamaat meet arrested||The crime branch of Thane police on Thursday arrested 25 persons including 21 foreign nationals who had allegedly attended a gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi in March. They were arrested after their quarantine period was over. A court later granted them bail, an official said.  The congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin area turned out be a major coronavirus hotspot, following which police in every state began to track down those who had attended it. Senior inspector Nitin Thakre said those arrested included 13 Bangladeshis and eight Malaysian nationals while four persons are local residents. The foreign nationals violated the rules under their tourist visas and attended the Tablighi meet and later returned here, he said. They were found to be living at Tanvir Ulum Madarsa Trust, Kausa, and Al Nadi Ul Falah, Kausa. On April 1 they were detained and quarantined at a shelter at Shil Daighar. They were arrested after their quarantine period was over on Thursday, inspector Thakre said.  They are accused of living together in violation of the provisions of the Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act and not following social distancing. Four local persons who gave them shelter were also booked, he said. After arrest, they were produced before a local court which granted them bail but directed that they shall not leave the country, the police official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/21-foreigners-who-had-attended-tablighi-jamaat-meet-arrested-828969.html
23-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Face masks bring livelihood for Assam women||Podumi Saikia found an opportunity in the Coronavirus crisis. As all the Gamosas, the Assamese traditional towel she weaved for this year's Rongali Bihu remained unsold due to the lockdown, she used them to prepare masks. "During last year's Bihu, I earned about Rs. 28,000. But so far I have got about Rs. 12,000 by selling the masks and hope to earn more as the demand is increasing even in the villages due to the fear of coronavirus," Saikia, a mother of three daughters in Jagiroad in central Assam's Morigaon district said. Gamosas are gifted during the Rongali Bihu, Assam's biggest cultural festival celebrated in April-May every year. But the celebrations this year was marred by the coronavirus crisis and so did the business of the weavers.  As many like Podumi started making and selling the masks, Assam State Rural Livelihood Mission (ASRLM) chipped in and guided them to make the masks as per the government guidelines, provided a brand name, Asomi and market linkages. More than 2,200 women associated with 1,163 Self-Help-Groups (SHG) in all 33 districts have produced over 4.43 lakh cotton masks and have earned Rs. 76.6 lakh so far.  They have also distributed nearly 50,000 masks free of cost including to the tea garden workers.  "The government has made wearing masks and social distancing compulsory to prevent coronavirus infection. But we have observed that masks are not easily available in rural areas. So we found that our SHG members can reap the benefit of this growing demand for the mask. This will help them bridge the loss they suffered due to lockdown during Rongali Bihu. So we used the Whatsapp and shared the videos of how to make masks to our community level workers. They passed on the videos to the rural women," Dhrubajyoti Gogoi, the state project manager (livelihoods and marketing), ASRLM told DH on Thursday. Gogoi said the SHGs under ASRLM had sold Gamosas worth Rs. 1.26 crores during Rongali Bihu last year. The ASRLM also helped the women sell the masks in bulk to Airport Authority of India (Jorhat), ONGC, and even Lakhimpur district administration. The double-layered cotton masks are priced between Rs. 15 to 35. "Since the government has relaxed the MGNREGA works in our villages now, each panchayat will require at least 2,000 masks. So the demand for masks will further go up when the lockdown is lifted," Gogoi said. Assam has about 2,500 panchayats at present.  The ASRLM has also helped the SHG members to sell vegetables grown by them, eggs, poultry, milk, and other household products worth Rs. 2.5 crore so far during the lockdown. "These products are being collected from homes by permitted vendors and are sold in the markets as per the lockdown guidelines. This provided some earning to the rural women and reduced the loss incurred due to the lockdown," he said. So far, Assam has reported 35 COVID-19 positive cases including one on Thursday(April 23). One of them succumbed to the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-face-masks-bring-livelihood-for-assam-women-828980.html
23-04-2020||National||Plea filed in SC against meat consumption amid coronavirus||A plea has been filed the Supreme Court by an NGO, 'Vishwa Jain Sangathan', for a direction to the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) to identify the role of animal species involved in the emergence of SARS CoV-2 (COVID-19).  It also asked the court to restrain the Centre and States from allowing slaughtering of any animal or chicken by way of 'Halal' during the current Coronavirus crisis.  The petition, filed through advocate Ravi Prakash Gupta, also sought a direction from the court for an interim ex-parte (without parties) stay of the March 30 circular, issued by Joint Secretary, Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying for violating of Articles 14, 21 and 51-A(g) of the Indian constitution.  It claimed the order promoted eating of ‘meat’ in the midst of a disastrous epidemic without even waiting for the final conclusive result of research made at present by biologists all over the world attempting to find out the ultimate carrier of this virus.  The petitioner contended that due to the violent eating habits of some people, who consumed both domestic and wild animals for mere ‘change of taste’ despite the availability of sufficient agri-based food, jeopardised the entire humanity created by nature after lakhs of years of the experiment through natural selection.   "This atrocious and barbaric habit for ‘change of taste’ of some people directly hits at the very root of Article 21 of the animal lovers," it claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-against-meat-consumption-amid-coronavirus-828984.html
23-04-2020||National||COVID-19 cases continue to surge in J&K, tally touches 434||With 27 new samples testing positive, Jammu and Kashmir continued to witness a spike of COVID-19 cases on Thursday taking the total in the Union Territory (UT) to 434. “20 new COVID-19 positive cases reported in J&K on Thursday. 19 from Kashmir & one from Jammu division. Total now 427. Jammu-57 and Kashmir-370 (sic),” J&K government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal, tweeted. In another tweet later in the evening, he said, “7 more cases reported from Kashmir. Total positive cases now 434. Jammu-57 and Kashmir-377.” Reports said the highest nine cases were tested positive from Shopian district followed by seven from Anantnag, four from Kupwara, three from Baramulla, two from Bandipora, one each from Ramban and Budgam one each. District Bandipora has the highest number of cases with 99 patients tested positive for novel coronavirus so-far. In a single village – Hirpora in south Kashmir’s Shopian district over 40 patients have been tested positive so-far. The village located on historic Mughal Road has less than 1000 households with a population of 2800 souls. The first coronavirus case from the village was reported on April 8. The patient had returned from Maharashtra days before the lockdown. Kashmir is among the highest COVID 19 case density areas in the country which is 53 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, Kashmir’s population is seven million. The national average per million population so far is 16. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions, Valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak. With the growing number of people testing positive for COVID19, the number of contacts and other suspected cases is also growing exponentially in the UT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-continue-to-surge-in-jk-tally-touches-434-828989.html
23-04-2020||National||Avoid crowding, don't call more than 1/3rd low level staff to offices: Centre to all its depts||All central government departments were on Thursday asked to ensure that more than one-third of employees, below the level of deputy secretary, were not called to offices to avoid crowding and to ensure safe social distancing norms, according to a Personnel Ministry communique. The move comes after it was noticed that more than one-third of officials/staff below deputy secretary level are being called to offices in some ministries/departments. "This might lead to undesirable crowding in the office jeopardising the preventive measures in place for containing the spread of COVID-19," it said. It is reiterated that the guidelines for attendance for officers/staff at levels below deputy secretary, be strictly followed, the ministry said. There are 48.34 lakh central government employees.  It referred to the revised guidelines related to the ongoing lockdown issued on April 15 by the Home Ministry, that provide that all officers of the level of deputy secretary and above are to function with 100 per cent attendance while 33 per cent of the remaining officers/staff are to attend offices as per requirement. "The spirit of the guidelines is that crowding in the offices may be avoided and safe social distancing norms may be maintained," the Personnel Ministry said. It said heads of departments (HoDs) may direct their officers/staff to attend office in staggered timings to further avoid crowding in offices/workspaces.  The Personnel Ministry had last month suggested three slots of staggered timings -- 9AM to 5.30 PM, 9.30 AM to 6 PM and 10 AM to 6.30 PM-- for the employees.   "Suitable roster may, accordingly, be drawn up by the HoD. Needless to say that officials/staff working from home on a particular day should be available on telephone and electronic means of communications at all times. They should attend office, if called for any exigencies of work," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/avoid-crowding-dont-call-more-than-1/3rd-low-level-staff-to-offices-centre-to-all-its-depts-828997.html
23-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Plea in Delhi HC to provide protective kits to sanitation workers||A plea has been moved in the Delhi High Court seeking direction to the authorities to provide personal protective gear to sanitation workers who are carrying out their work during the coronavirus pandemic. The plea, which is likely to come up for hearing on Friday, also sought direction to the authorities to carry out testing of all the sanitation workers and their immediate families for COVID-19. Harnam Singh, a social activist, had first approached the Supreme Court which had given him the liberty to move the High Court if he has any specific case on the issue. The apex court had disposed of his petition after taking into account the arguments of the Centre that sanitation workers in the country have been provided with requisite protective kits and the authorities are following the guidelines of the World Health Organization (WHO) on the coronavirus pandemic. The plea, filed through advocate Mehmood Pracha, said in light of the apex court's order, the petitioner wrote to the administration of all states and union territories in the country and sought a response on the status of procurement and disbursement of personal protective equipment (PPE) and other safety equipment to sanitation workers. “The petitioner also raised a concern with the authorities that the equipment was not being provided to sanitation workers as was mandatory as per the Supreme Court order, and further that any equipment being provided was sub-standard and inadequate in quantity,” the plea said. The petitioner claimed that as the situation is worsening and sanitation workers left exposed to COVID-19 without adequate equipment, some of them have contracted the virus, exposing their families and communities to the infection.  It said that unlike doctors, who work in more controlled and sanitised environments, sanitation workers function in unhygienic conditions and run a higher risk of getting infected with the virus. In the Supreme Court, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had said doctors, healthcare professionals and other "corona warriors" like sanitation workers have been provided requisite protective gear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-plea-in-delhi-hc-to-provide-protective-kits-to-sanitation-workers-829001.html
23-04-2020||National||Medical evacuation flights permitted since April 20, Centre tells Delhi High Court||The Centre has told the Delhi High Court that medical evacuation flights have been permitted since April 20 subject to the conditions that no more than two attendants accompany the patient and the state government gives its no objection. The submission was made by the Civil Aviation Ministry before Justice V Kameswar Rao during the hearing, via video conferencing, on a man's plea seeking permission to take his wife for cancer treatment to Chennai.  The man had also sought reimbursement of the treatment costs under the Delhi Government Health Scheme (DGHS). On the reimbursement aspect, Delhi government additional standing counsel Gautam Narayan told the court that a committee was set up to examine the instant case and it has concluded that reimbursement of costs was not possible as hospital -- Apollo Proton Cancer Centre -- in question was not on the panel of DGHS or CGHS. On the patient's travel to Chennai by air ambulance, Narayan told the court that a no objection letter would be issued by the Delhi government. Taking note of the submissions, the court directed Delhi government to issue the letter by Friday and listed the matter for hearing on August 14 with regard to the issue of reimbursement. The court also asked the Centre to check whether the hospital in question was empanelled under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS).  According to the petitioner, his wife is suffering from carcinoma and has been advised proton therapy at the hospital in Chennai and he had forwarded to the Delhi government all the details, including estimated costs, for grant of requisite permission for the treatment. However, as he received no response, he had to approach the court, he has said in his plea. He has also said that as his wife needs the treatment at the earliest, he is willing to travel to Chennai and bear the therapy costs, but it should be reimbursed later in accordance with the health scheme rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/medical-evacuation-flights-permitted-since-april-20-centre-tells-delhi-high-court-829002.html
23-04-2020||National||No bars, no ‘thekas’, no alcohol, coronavirus lockdown sobering experience for millions of tipplers||When social distancing means no social drinking, not even a convivial beer or glass of wine, and lockdown translates to no alcohol at all with bars and retail outlets firmly shut, spirits take a nose dive – mild depression for some and outright despair for many others. COVID-19 being the great equaliser, the nationwide lockdown, which began on March 25 and is set to go on till at least May 3, has been a sobering experience for millions of Indians in villages and cities going without their everyday or occasional tipple. While the once-in-a-while drinkers are missing saying 'cheers' as often as they'd like, there has been a surge in withdrawal cases. Those with problems of alcohol dependence are most seriously hit with no access to alcohol or de-addiction centres and support groups such as Alcoholics Anonymous that help them cope with their addiction. With all watering holes and liquor stores shut – only stores selling essentials are open in the lockdown period -- even the affluent with bars stocked with premium gin, vodka and single malts are running low on stocks. “I have maintained a good stock over the years … I won’t tell you the quantity but it was more than enough. But then the lockdown – and now the extension – took all of us by surprise and for once even I am worried my booze stock will run dry,” said Amit Mahajan, a Delhi businessman. Many, even among the affluent, are rationing their drinks and borrowing from others who might have some extra bottles stashed away. According to a 2019 report by the National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre, AIIMS, 14.6 per cent of the population (between 10 and 75 year of age) in India consumes alcohol – about “16 crore people” in total.  Of these, nearly one in five alcohol users suffer from alcohol dependence and need urgent treatment, said the report titled “Magnitude of Substance Use In India”. A 38-year-old in Amritsar who said he had been an addict for 10 years and was undergoing therapy is among those most affected. The prolonged shutdown disrupted his therapy and the social isolation has exacerbated his problems. “I got agitated without any trigger factor, couldn’t sleep for long and there was shivering too. I tried contacting my friends and some close family members, asking them if they could help me with a bottle or two but no one helped. “Earlier, I was going through therapy… Since I am showing what my doctor tells me are ‘withdrawal symptoms’ I have again been put on therapy,” he explained. Ramesh Banerjee in Kolkata said all his stocks have dried up and he is on mild anti-depressants.  "I have been a alcoholic for last 20 years… Right now I am having one pill a day so I can have sound sleep every night," Banerjee said. There are tragic consequences too. In Kerala, which has a per capita annual consumption of over eight litres, the highest in the country, at least nine people reportedly ended their lives. The state government had directed the excise department to provide liquor to those with a prescription from a doctor. The move, which faced a backlash by doctors, was later put on hold by the Kerala High Court. “The non-availability of alcohol can be an additional reason for stress and anxiety for a person suffering from withdrawal symptoms, but in that case what needs to be addressed is the possible dependence or addiction. “Instead of considering alcohol as an essential, it would be more helpful if people with alcohol dependence seek psychiatric/therapeutic intervention,” said Ann Philipose, a psychologist. In Tamil Nadu, three men died in Chengalpattu after consuming varnish mixed with water as they could not obtain alcohol from the government-owned local TASMAC outlet, closed due to the lockdown to stem the spread of coronavirus. Before that, in Pudukottai district, three men died after they mixed soft drinks with after shave lotion in the hope of a high. S Nambi, a Chennai-based psychiatrist, called for addressing the problem at the primary healthcare level before it assumes alarming proportions. "The non-availability of alcohol all of a sudden will cause withdrawal symptoms. While craving and mild trembling can be seen in normal cases, nearly 15 percent will develop complicated withdrawal symptoms and tend to become irritable, go into delirium or experience severe anxiety or restlessness," he said. Ajit Magdum, director of the Anvay De-addiction Centre in Navi Mumbai, said they have started counselling addicts over the phone. “This lockdown is also an opportunity for parents and spouses of people suffering from addictions to engage in fruitful conversations and bring the addicts on the right track,” he said.   Some centres opened their doors for emergencies. Disha Foundation in Bhubaneswar, for instance, had shut down its de-addiction centre but admitted a 30-year-old man, said Pratap Kumar Mohanty, who runs the centre.           “Following a request from the private hospital we allowed his admission in our centre. The man, addicted to liquor as well as ganja, developed withdrawal symptoms marked by psychiatric problems as he was unable to get his supply due to the lockdown,” he said. And sometimes, desperation knows no bounds. From Hubbali in Karnataka came a report of chemists stopping the sale of chemical-based sanitisers after people, chasing a high, were found to be buying large amounts and drinking the liquid. There have also been numerous reports from different parts of the countries of desperadoes breaking into liquor shops to steal whatever they could lay their hands on. Those with time, tech and access to varied ingredients are taking the matter in their own hands. So, during the March 22-28 week, “how to make alcohol at home” was a trending topic on search engine Google. From homemade mead to wine fermented from rice, tipplers are trying it all to put an end to their sobriety period. Producers and manufacturers are hoping for a quick end to the seemingly endless dry days. The All India Brewers Association (AIBA) and the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC) have written to various state governments and the Centre to allow beer and alcohol sales to resume with adequate safeguards incorporated.  According to AIBA, March-June accounts for 50 per cent of annual beer sales and that they have already lost over 25 per cent of sales for the year – a loss of nearly Rs 15,000 crore. “The beer sector is disproportionately impacted because this is season time for us and all of us are sitting on a lot of inventory that can expire,"  said Ankur Jain, founder CEO of Bira 91 and member of the board of directors AIBA. The CIABC said in its letter that alcohol is one of the most important sources of revenue for state governments. By shutting down retail shops, states are depriving themselves of the tax revenues that are so vitally required in fighting the coronavirus pandemic, it said. "... Alcohol compromises the body’s immune system and increases the risk of adverse health outcomes. Therefore, people should minimize their alcohol consumption at any time, and particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic," the WHO has in an advisory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-bars-no-thekas-no-alcohol-coronavirus-lockdown-sobering-experience-for-millions-of-tipplers-829004.html
23-04-2020||National||BJP leaders organise cricket match, celebrate marriage anniversary at quarantine centre||The coronavirus outbreak and the resultant lockdown failed to deter these BJP leaders from violating the rules and putting lives of dozens of people in danger in Uttar Pradesh. A BJP leader was among 29 persons booked in UP's Barabanki district, about 40 kilometres from here, on charges of organising a cricket match in the district on Wednesday. According to the police sources here, local BJP leader Sudhir Kumar Singh had allegedly organised a cricket match at Panapur village in the district. Besides the players, scores of locals from the nearby villages had also gathered there to witness the match. The matter came to light when some locals uploaded a video of the cricket match on the social networking sites, sources said. In another incident, a BJP leader and her family members were booked for organising a party at a quarantine centre to celebrate her marriage anniversary in UP's Bulandshahar town, about 500 kilometres from here, on Wednesday.  According to the police sources, the woman BJP leader and her family members had been quarantined after a doctor, who had examined her, had tested positive for coronavirus a few days back.  Incidentally, the saffron party leader and her husband were found to be infected with the virus on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leaders-organise-cricket-match-celebrate-marriage-anniversary-at-quarantine-centre-829008.html
23-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Plea filed in SC against full payment of salary to pvt employees||A fresh plea has been filed in the Supreme Court, questioning the validity of the Union Home Ministry's order of March 29 for full payment of salary to all private companies employees during the period of lockdown. It contended that the order was manifestly arbitrary, unconstitutional and violative of right to equality and freedom to carry out business guaranteed under the Constitution. The petitioner 'Ludhiana Hand Tools Association' is aggrieved with the MHA's direction which stated: "All the employers, be it in the industry or in the shops and commercial establishments, shall make payment of wages of their workers, at their workplaces, on the due date, without any deduction, for the period their establishments are under closure during lockdown period."  It raised a legal question if the Disaster Management Act, 2005, empowered the Union Government to direct private establishments to pay full wages, when the Industrial Disputes Act, 1948, provided for payment of 50% wages under similar circumstances. It further maintained that directing private establishments to pay full salaries to their workforce against no work was akin to taking away their property, granted as a constitutional right. Among other grounds, the petition filed by advocate Rajeev M Roy said the Union government completely erred in directing the private establishments to pay full wages, instead of using hundreds of crores of unclaimed provident fund and Employees State Insurance Corporation contribution.  Earlier, Mumbai-based Nagreeka Exports Limited challenged the validity of the order for full payment of salary to employees, saying it was violative of fundamental rights, besides being "illegal, unethical, improper and illegitimate". It had contended the National Disaster Management Authority and National Executive Committee constituted under the National Disaster Management Act did have no power to direct the employers to make payment to their workers, without any deduction, during the period of lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-plea-filed-in-sc-against-full-payment-of-salary-to-pvt-employees-829012.html
23-04-2020||National||India studying Trump's executive order on halting immigration||India is studying President Donald Trump's executive order temporarily halting immigration into the US for 60 days and its possible impact on Indians, government sources said on Thursday. On Wednesday, the US pr signed the order to protect the jobs of American people in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic which has inflicted severe damage to the country's economy. The sources said India is studying the possible impact of the order on Indians.  "People to people contact has been the bedrock of ties between the two countries and we hope it will continue to be so," said a source. It is not immediately known how many Indians may be impacted by the order. The order is likely to have a bearing on those applying for permanent residency in the US. The temporary suspension of immigration will affect those who are legally seeking entry into the United States for employment but it will not impact the ones who are already living in the country, the order said. "In order to protect our great American workers I've just signed an executive order temporarily suspending immigration into the United States," Trump said Wednesday.  According to the order, people seeking entry into the US to work as physicians and nurses and investors will get exemptions from the restrictions. The White House, in a statement, described the move as a "temporary pause" demanded by the crisis being faced by the US in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. "The pause will be in effect for 60 days, and the administration will continue to monitor the labour market to amend or extend the proclamation if needed," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-studying-trumps-executive-order-on-halting-immigration-829016.html
23-04-2020||National||Ten more COVID-19 positive cases in Kerala||With four fresh cases being reported from Idukki district and two from Kottayam, many relaxations given to the district in lockdown norms are being withdrawn. Of the ten fresh cases, four were on persons who reached Kerala from other states, and hence tight vigil will be maintained across the state borders, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Meanwhile, eight persons under treatment were tested negative, of which six were from Kasargod. As of now, 447 persons who got infected with COVID-19 in Kerala, 316 have recovered and two died, while 129 were now under treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ten-more-covid-19-positive-cases-in-kerala-829020.html
23-04-2020||National||COVID-19 detection test method developed by IIT-Delhi gets ICMR nod: Officials||A method to detect COVID-19 which will significantly reduce the cost of testing, making it affordable for a large population in the country, developed by Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi has got the approval from ICMR, officials said on Thursday. IIT Delhi is the first academic institute to have obtained ICMR approval for a real-time PCR-based diagnostic assay.  "The test method has been approved by ICMR. The assay has been validated at ICMR with a sensitivity and specificity of 100 percent. This makes IITD the first academic institute to have obtained ICMR approval for a real-time PCR-based diagnostic assay," a senior official told PTI. Using comparative sequence analyses, the IITD team identified unique regions (short stretches of RNA sequences) in the COVID-19 and SARS COV-2 genome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-detection-test-method-developed-by-iit-delhi-gets-icmr-nod-officials-829024.html
23-04-2020||National||WB CM Mamata hits Kolkata streets again, asks people to stay indoors||For the third day in a row, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee hit the streets of Kolkata and advised people to strictly follow the lockdown norms, saying this was needed to break the chain of coronavirus transmission. Visiting Moulali and Behala areas of Kolkata on Thursday, Banerjee used a loudhailer from inside a car to call upon people to stop gathering, gossiping, hanging around for the time being and stay put at home.  "Remember that social distancing does not mean you are getting disconnected from your near ones and friends. It is only about physical distancing which will help us win the battle against coronavirus and celebrate the Durga Puja which is still months away. Please don't come out," she pleaded. Durga Puja is the biggest festival of the state. "Lockdown is a new term. None of us knew about it in the past. But this is the only way. We have to observe it though people are facing immense hardships which we are trying to mitigate," the chief minister said. She also described the lockdown as the most unprecedented event after the demonetisation of 2016. Lockdown is the only way to fight coronavirus which has left a large number of people affected in Maharsahtra, Delhi and other states, Banerjee said. Though the situation in West Bengal is under control, everyone has to remain cautious, she said. Asking people not to hide if they have Covid-19 like symptoms, the CM said, "Corona positive patients are getting cured. Even today 34 patients have been cured in the state."  Apparently referring to the criticism by opposition for venturing out on road, the Trinamool Congress supremo said she was not afraid of being infected by the disease as she believed to stand beside people during their hardships. "Being your representative, how can I stay indoors? I have to be on the road, I have to be on your side. But I am taking all precautions, I am not getting down from the car during the lockdown. Rest assured that I will be fine, we all will be fine if we follow the guidelines," she said. The CM also pointed out that coronavirus is transmitted from one member in a family to others. "So if one of your family members show corona like symptoms, please consult doctors and take help of police," Banerjee said. The chief minister had visited several other areas of the city on Tuesday and Wednesday asking people to stay indoors during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wb-cm-mamata-hits-kolkata-streets-again-asks-people-to-stay-indoors-829036.html
23-04-2020||National||How Andhra Pradesh is conducting the highest number of COVID-19 tests per million population||Andhra Pradesh is now the state with the highest number of COVID-19 tests conducted per million population. The south Indian state, with 961 tests conducted per 10 lakh people, has surpassed Rajasthan’s average of 877 tests. With 80 new cases reported on Thursday morning, AP’s COVID-19 tally is at 893 now. 48034 is the total number of tests conducted in the state till Wednesday night, a feat achieved excluding the rapid test antibody kits imported from South Korea, the state health officials stated. However, in absolute numbers, Maharashtra did 82304, Rajasthan 60420, and Tamil Nadu 59023 tests, a countrywide test figures chart accessed by DH from AP government shows. Delhi, with 28309 tests done, has the conducted average of 1490 tests per million. While most of the states are using the RT-PCR procedure, “the gold standard” in COVID-19 tests, Andhra Pradesh government is also using around 240 TrueNat machines with it, normally used for Tuberculosis testing. While 5,757 tests were conducted on Tuesday, on Wednesday it was 6,520. “Out of the over 48,000 samples tested, 32 thousand are RT-PCR and 16000 are TrueNat based,” said Jawahar Reddy, AP’s special chief secretary (health). Nevertheless, since RT-PCR is the only confirmatory test approved by ICMR, TrueNat tested positive samples are also sent for RT-PCR for validation, the official said.  Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy had, earlier this month, unveiled ICMR approved TrueNat test cartridges costing Rs 1,200 each. Officials claimed these kits can reveal results in an hour, “against three days and Rs 4500 taken for RT-PCR.” These cartridges are PCR – Polymerase Chain Reaction based, into which nasal or throat swab samples are taken and assessment is carried utilizing the existing TrueNat Tuberculosis test machines. The Visakhapatnam based Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone is manufacturing around 2000 such cartridges per day, with plans of scaling up production. AP has plans to further scale-up the daily test numbers. “We are testing over 6000 samples daily now, the highest in the country. So many tests are so that no COVID-19 positive person misses the radar and becomes a super spreader like the case was in South Korea or the doctor case in our own Kurnool,” said Reddy.   “Our mantra is “Test-Test-Test,” with the robust tracing of suspects and treatment of the patients,” said Reddy.  Stating that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had on Wednesday evening given a go-ahead for the South Korean rapid testing kits, the health secretary said they would employ the antibody-based testing kits for large scale community testing. “It is not a definitive test method but is useful for community surveillance.” Of the 14,423 tests conducted using the rapid testing kits, 11,543 were in the state’s Red Zones and 30 were detected as positive. Those samples are being sent for PCR tests confirmation, said, officials. A third round of health survey, covering 1.43 crore households out of total 1.47 crore households in the state had identified 32,349 people for COVID-19 tests.  The state is trying to scale up the daily testing capacity to 17,500 tests, in the coming days.  Tests are conducted at the nine virus research diagnostic labs set up in the past four weeks, with the first one at SVIMS Tirupati beginning with 90 samples a day. Three more labs are expected to be operational soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-andhra-pradesh-is-conducting-the-highest-number-of-covid-19-tests-per-million-population-829040.html
23-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Many labourers not getting benefits during as they are unregistered, says a PIL in Delhi HC||A PIL has been moved in the Delhi High Court seeking directions to the Delhi Government to register all construction workers in the national capital as only a small section out of over 10 lakh of them are getting benefits during the COVID-19 pandemic. The PIL said under the laws regulating their employment and service conditions, the unregistered construction workers cannot avail the benefits. The petition, listed for hearing on Friday before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice C Hari Shankar, has sought directions to the Delhi government to register all the construction workers, lodged in shelter homes here. The plea, by social activist Sunil Kumar Aledia, seeks that the workers be registered under the Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment And Conditions of Service) Act and the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Cess Act. The petition has contended that despite collection of over Rs 2,000 crore under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Cess Act, only 37,127 construction labourers are registered as beneficiaries. It has also claimed that there has been gross under-registration of construction workers in the national capital since 2015.  The petition has contended that the lockdown has led to work and wages being denied to the labourers and the relief granted by governments, through direct benefit transfers or orders to pay wages, are not available to those not registered. It has further contended that due to lack of responsibility by employers, governments, and concerned departments, these workers have been left to fend for themselves and also deprived of the mandated benefit of crores of funds collected in their names. The plea also seeks direction to the Centre and Delhi government to ensure all employers and building companies comply with the laws regulating service conditions of their workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-many-labourers-not-getting-benefits-during-as-they-are-unregistered-says-a-pil-in-delhi-hc-829046.html
23-04-2020||National||Lockdown rules misinterpreted, no legal action against CEOs if employee found COVID positive: MHA||The Union government Thursday said no legal action will be taken against the CEO of a company, nor a factory will be sealed, in case an employee tests positive for COVID-19. The government also said the consolidated revised guidelines for the lockdown should not be misused by anyone to harass the management of any manufacturing or commercial establishments. In a letter to the chief secretaries of all states and union territories, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said some apprehensions, based on wrong interpretation of the guidelines, have been raised in the media and by some companies having manufacturing facilities. He listed the three wrong apprehensions as: (A) States may take legal action including imprisonment of CEO in case a COVID-19 positive employee is found in the factory.  (B) In such a situation, the premises of the factory would be sealed for 3 months. (C) In case of non-compliance of precautionary measures, the factory may be closed down for two days and may be allowed to restart after full compliance. "I would like to clarify that there is no such clause in the consolidated revised guidelines and therefore there is no basis for such misplaced apprehensions," Bhalla said in his letter. The consolidated revised guidelines were issued on April 15, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced extension of the nationwide lockdown till May 3. Modi had also said certain industrial activities would be allowed in some areas after April 20. The guidelines specified the details of such exempted activities and associated terms and conditions. Certain quarters of industry including exporters have raised concerns over the penal provisions in the guidelines, saying they leave scope for harassment by authorities, due to which manufacturing units may not start operations, even with minimum workforce. The union home secretary's communication to the states and UTs came hours after he along with secretary in the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) Guruprasad Mohapatra talked to industry associations to allay their apprehensions about the guidelines. Bhalla said in the communication it is important that all workplaces take measures to ensure social distancing and follow standard health protocols as notified by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare as COVID-19 is a highly infectious disease. Accordingly, appropriate safeguards at workplaces have been prescribed in the national directives and SOPs in this regard. Workplaces and industrial and commercial establishments are required to follow these guidelines, he said. Secondly, the home secretary said, the activities allowed under the consolidated revised guidelines on April 15, except in containment zones, have subsumed all the earlier activities that were permitted under the earlier guidelines issued on March 24, 2020 (including those permitted under the addendums).  In addition, certain new activities have also been permitted, he said. "Hence, it is clarified that the consolidated revised guidelines dated April 15 do not curtail the exemptions already provided earlier, unless the exempted activity falls within a containment zone. "Therefore, no separate or fresh permissions are required from authorities for industries already permitted to operate prior to April 15, in areas falling outside containment zones," he said. Finally, Bhalla said, it is emphasised that subject to compliance with the SOP on social distancing, no fresh licence or statutory approval is required for resumption of permitted activities during the lockdown period. For example, he said, an industrial activity, allowed to operate prior to the lockdown, needs no fresh statutory approval, once it has been included as a permitted activity under the consolidated revised guidelines, and has complied with the SOP on social distancing. "In light of the above, I would like to request all State and UT governments that the industrial field establishments and field offices may be apprised of the guidelines of lockdown measures which should be followed to prevent the spread of epidemic. "These should not be misused to harass the management of any manufacturing or commercial establishments," he said. Earlier, after their meeting with Bhalla and Mohapatra, industry representatives said the government should issue a notification clearly stating that employers will not be held responsible in case any worker tests positive for COVID-19 after resuming operations in manufacturing units. Industry chambers such as CII and Assocham attended the video conference. The chambers also urged that within red zones, there should be a clear demarcation of hotspots or containment zones as defined by the Ministry of Home Affairs and economic activities outside of containment zones may be permitted. "Criminal liability of employers in case of finding Covid positive cases among employees has been mentioned by many industry members across states and needs to be clarified. “We have seen the clarification from MHA yesterday. A notification or announcement that employers will not be held responsible for Covid positive cases will add confidence," the CII said. On Thursday, at a regular press briefing, Joint Secretary in the home ministry Punya Salila Srivastava said the video conference was held between representatives of industry associations and the two senior bureaucrats. Feedback is being taken from industrial units and their problems are being addressed, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-rules-misinterpreted-no-legal-action-against-ceos-if-employee-found-covid-positive-mha-829047.html
23-04-2020||National||Pregnant woman from Kerala in UAE files petition in Supreme Court of India, seeks repatriation amid coronavirus lockdown: report||A 27-year-old pregnant Indian woman in Dubai has filed a petition in the Supreme Court of India seeking help to return home for her delivery, amidst the international travel lockdown imposed by India over the coronavirus pandemic, according to a media report. Athira Geetha Sreedharan from Kerala said she wanted to return to India for the birth of her first baby, due in the first week of July, the Gulf News reported. Sreedharan, who lives in Dubai with her husband Nithin Chandran, filed the writ petition in the apex court seeking help to return to her home country following the suspension of flights to India as part of the precautionary measures to curb the spread of the COVID-19, the report said. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the coronavirus pandemic. All domestic and international commercial passenger flights have been suspended for this period. The first phase of the lockdown was from March 25 to April 14. The second phase began on April 15 and would end on May 3. Owing to standard flight restrictions during pregnancy, Sreedharan has submitted to the court that she can travel up till the first or second week of May. In her plea, she said she has no one to help her except her husband who cannot seek leave as he works in a construction company, the sector which is not shut down during the national disinfection and sterilisation campaign here. In the plea she requested the apex court to direct the Indian government and the Ministry of Civil Aviation to make arrangements for her return, the report added.  On April 17, the Indian government told the Kerala High Court that there was no immediate plan to bring back expatriates from Gulfᨊ and they were also granted visa extension. Speaking to Gulf News on Wednesday, the engineer-couple said the case was filed with the help of the youth wing of UAE-based expat organisation Incas, among a host of Indian community groups campaigning for the repatriation of stranded Indians here. "We had initially planned to bring over our parents on visit in turns (for support during and post-delivery),” said her husband Nithin. Sreedharan said that they had planned to return home in March but there were reports of many cases of passengers from here testing positive for coronavirus after reaching Kerala, the report added. “We thought the situation would improve. We never expected the lockdown to continue like this. Now, my husband has to go to work and we are concerned about my safety and that of our baby," she said. Nithin said his concerns are growing more after he heard of positive cases of COVID-19 among people known to him. "I just want her to be repatriated safely to Kerala. I don’t have to accompany her. I am not in a position to resign my job and go. It is risky for her to travel after a few weeks. So, we hope the Supreme Court will give special consideration to her case." The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 681 and the number of cases to 21,393 in India on Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry. Whereas, in the UAE the total number of confirmed cases are 8,756 and 56 deaths reported, according to the Ministry of Health and Prevention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pregnant-woman-from-kerala-in-uae-files-petition-in-supreme-court-of-india-seeks-repatriation-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-report-829048.html
23-04-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi highlights steps taken to help most vulnerable sections during lockdown||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday shared a finance ministry tweet to highlight steps taken by his government to help the "most vulnerable" sections of society during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. "Some of the steps taken to help the most vulnerable...," he wrote while sharing the tweet The ministry said more than 33 crore poor people received financial assistance of Rs 31,235cr till April 22 under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP). "Robust digital payment infrastructure set up by government has enabled prompt transfer of cash payment under PMGKP," it said. PMGKP was announced by the government on March 26 to protect vulnerable sections from the impact of the lockdown due to COVID- 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-highlights-steps-taken-to-help-most-vulnerable-sections-during-lockdown-829052.html
23-04-2020||National||No CEO to go to jail for employee contracting COVID-19: MHA||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla shot off a letter to states in which he also said that no separate permission is required from authorities for industries already permitted to operate under the guidelines in areas falling outside containment zones. His clarification came as "some apprehensions, based on the wrong interpretation of the guidelines, have been raised in the media and by some companies having manufacturing facilities". The industry had raised concerns over reports that CEOs may land in jail while premises will be sealed for three months. There were also reports that in case of non-compliance of precautionary measures to be adopted in the workplace, the factory will be closed down for two days and will be allowed to function only after full compliance. "I would like to clarify that there is no such clause in the consolidated revised guidelines and therefore there is no basis for such misplaced apprehensions," Bhalla said. However, he reminded that COVID-19, being a highly infectious epidemic, it is important that all workplaces take measures to ensure social distancing and follow standard health protocols. Several measures like one hour gap between shifts and extensive sanitisation drives among other measures prescribed in the guidelines are to be followed. Bhalla also said the consolidated revised guidelines do not curtail exemptions already provided earlier unless the exempted activity falls within a containment one. "Therefore, no separate or fresh permissions are required from authorities for industries already permitted to operate prior to April 15," he said. Also, he added, "an industrial activity, allowed to operate prior to the lockdown needs no fresh statutory approval, once it has been included as a permitted activity under the consolidated revised guidelines and has complied with the SOP on social distancing." Bhalla also asked states to ensure that the guidelines are not being misused to harass the management of any manufacturing or commercial establishments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-ceo-to-go-to-jail-for-employee-contracting-covid-19-mha-829063.html
23-04-2020||National||Over 1.83L people register for online training course on COVID-19: Jitendra Singh||Over 1.83 lakh frontline COVID-19 warriors have registered for an online training course aimed at empowering them in dealing with the pandemic, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Thursday. He said in a novel experiment, possibly the first of its kind, the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) had introduced a module for empowering frontline coronavirus warriors through the learning platform igot.gov.in.  "What was envisaged to be an online medium to equip the frontline coronavirus warriors with training and updates in coping with the COVID-19 pandemic has in fact proved to be a unique success story which would possibly be emulated in different forms in the times to come," said Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions. "DoPT online corona course is receiving huge response and within two weeks of its launching, over 2,90,000 training courses have been initiated and over 1,83,000 users have registered on the platform," a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry quoted the minister as having said. The learning platform is based on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision to empower the frontline warriors and also to protect them from falling prey to the virus by equipping them with the right kind of knowledge, Singh said. The contents of the course include basics of COVID-19, clinical management, ICU care management, infection prevention and care, usage of PPE, quarantine and isolation, training for NCC cadets, management of COVID-19 cases, laboratory sample collection and testing, psychological care of patients, paediatric care in COVID-19 and pregnancy during the epidemic, the statement said.  New learning content is being regularly added to the modules which are designed to cater to the training requirements of 18 sets of roles ranging from doctors, nurses, paramedics and police organisations to Nehru Yuva Kendras, Anganwadi and ASHA workers, it said. The exclusive platform has been providing training modules on flexi-time and on-site basis so that coronavirus response can be delivered at scale to smartphones, the statement said, adding a dedicated android-based app for this purpose has also been launched.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-183l-people-register-for-online-training-course-on-covid-19-jitendra-singh-829065.html
23-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Death toll rises to 686, cases climb to 21,700 in India||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 686 and the number of cases climbed to 21,700 in the country on Thursday, with 34 more deaths and 1,229 fresh cases being reported since Wednesday evening, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 16,689 as 4,324 people were cured and discharged, and one patient migrated, the ministry said. Thus, about 19.93 per cent of the cases have recovered so far, a Health Ministry official said. The total number of cases includes 77 foreign nationals.  A total of 34 deaths were reported since Wednesday evening of which 18 fatalities were reported from Maharashtra, eight from Gujarat, three from Andhra Pradesh, two from Rajasthan and one each from Delhi, Telengana and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-death-toll-rises-to-686-cases-climb-to-21700-in-india-829066.html
23-04-2020||National||A helping hand from Presidency students to impoverished hawkers||As workers of the unorganized sector struggle to earn their livelihood during the lockdown, a section of students of Kolkata’s historic Presidency University (erstwhile Presidency College) has put a smile on the face of some hawkers in the city by providing them as much financial aid as they can. The hawkers most of whom used to do their business such as selling snacks and tea in the College Street area of the city, the academic hub of Bengal. Since University is located in the area over the years the students have formed bonds with them. "They are not just hawkers to us but a part of our student life. When we saw these familiar faces with a gloomy expression we decided to help them,” said a student of the University. Then the student’s council of the University came forward and collected the hawkers’ bank account numbers. Even then the hawkers never expected any financial help from the students. But it was a pleasant surprise from them when suddenly an amount of Rs. 2000 was credited to some of their accounts. ”I used to sell tea on the campus throughout the years. The students are like my friends and also know about my family members. The amount will be a lot of help for my family,” said a hawker from East Bardhaman district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-helping-hand-from-presidency-students-to-impoverished-hawkers-829069.html
23-04-2020||National||Donald Trump's call for China to allow US probe into COVID-19 outbreak gets no support from India||India on Thursday refrained from supporting American President Donald Trump’s demand for China to allow a United States team to conduct a probe into the origin of the Covid-19 outbreak in the communist country.  Even as External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and American Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, spoke to each other over the phone on Thursday, New Delhi did not lend its voice to the clamour raised by Trump Administration in Washington D.C. for Beijing to allow the US investigators to visit China and probe how the Covid-19 virus spread from Wuhan in Hubei province of the East Asian country.  India maintained that it could “revisit” the “question” on US allegations against China on the spread of the coronavirus, when the pandemic would be contained.  The Covid-19 virus was previously unknown before the outbreak began at Wuhan in China in December 2019. The virus now caused a pandemic, with over 2.5 million people being infected around the world and over 175000 of them succumbing to it so far. US recently accused China of a lack of transparency over the origin of the outbreak.  Trump, himself, of late warned Chinese Government of “dire consequences”, if it had been “knowingly responsible” for the outbreak or the failure to stop it from spreading around the world. He also said that his government had been trying to find out if the virus had been developed at and accidentally leaked from the Wuhan Institute of Virology located at the main city of Hubei province of China. He told journalists in Washington D.C. last Sunday that the US had asked China for allowing its team to go to the "ground zero" of the pandemic to conduct a probe.  China not only dismissed the allegations against it, but also rejected the proposal for allowing a US team to investigate into the origin of the pandemic.  “We are right now focused on dealing with the crisis. We can revisit this question once the pandemic is behind us,” a source in New Delhi said in response to a question on India’s position on American President’s demand for China to allow a probe by a US team.    Jaishankar and Pompeo, however, spoke over the phone on Thursday.  “Spoke with Indian Minister of External Affairs @DrSJaishankar today on positive steps that the United States and #India are taking to contain and mitigate #Covid-19,” US Secretary of State later posted on Twitter.  They also discussed “bilateral and international cooperation to deal with the crisis, including “ensuring the availability of pharmaceutical and medical supplies”, according to the spokesperson of the US State Department, Morgan Ortagus. “Nice to hear from @SecPompeo of #UnitedStates. Discussed our #coronavirus responses and the importance of international cooperation. Working closely on its implications and consequences,” Jaishankar, himself, tweeted after his talks with Pompeo.   India’s recent export of the Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) tablet to the US had triggered a controversy earlier this month. Trump on April 5 called Modi and requested him to relax the ban so that the US could procure the drug from India. He later subtly stepped up pressure on New Delhi and warned of “retaliation” if the US was not allowed to import the drug from India. Just hours after Trump talked tough on New Delhi’s ban on the export of the HCQ, the Modi Government announced that India would allow export of the drug to its neighbours in South Asia as well as some other worst Covid-19 affected countries. It later sent a consignment of the HCQ to the US.  would be among the countries, which would be allowed to procure the drug from India.  India had also refrained from joining the United States in a campaign against the World Health Organization.  Trump had criticized the WHO for not recommending restrictions on travel from China to the US and other nations for several days after the Covid-19 outbreak had been reported in the communist country. He had also announced his government’s plan to suspend US funding to the WHO.  But India had indicated that it would not support the US move to put the WHO under the scanner at a time when the international organization should instead be allowed to do its job of coordinating the global effort to contain the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/donald-trumps-call-for-china-to-allow-us-probe-into-covid-19-outbreak-gets-no-support-from-india-829079.html
23-04-2020||National||Violence is not answer even against bad journalism: Press Council on attack on Arnab Goswami||The Press Council of India on Thursday condemned the attack on Republic TV chief editor Arnab Goswami, saying violence is not the answer even against bad journalism. Press Council Chairperson Justice (Retd) CK Prasad also asked the Maharashtra Chief Secretary and Mumbai Police Commissioner to submit a report on the facts of "alleged attack" on Goswami at the earliest. In a statement, the Press Council said it was distressed know about the "alleged attack" on Arnab, purportedly for his views as a journalist. "Every citizen in the country, including a journalist has the right to express their opinion which may not be palatable to many but this does not give any body the authority to strangulate such voice," it said. The Press Council also expressed hope that the state government would soon apprehend the perpetrators of the crime and bring them to justice. During his prime-time show, while discussing the lynching in Palghar, Maharashtra, Goswami, who is a shrill voice in Indian TV journalism, targeted Congress chief Sonia Gandhi by invoking her Italian origin and saying she was quiet because the victims were of a particular religion. He also went on to say that she would have been vocal if they were priests from minority communities. This prompted Congress to file over 100 FIRs against Goswami across the country. Meanwhile, Goswami also posted a video claiming that he was attacked by two persons who took the name of Sonia. Ink was allegedly thrown at his car.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/violence-is-not-answer-even-against-bad-journalism-press-council-on-attack-on-arnab-goswami-829091.html
23-04-2020||National||West Bengal Congress president lodges police complaint against Arnab Goswami||West Bengal Congress president Somen Mitra on Thursday lodged a police complaint against journalist Arnab Goswami for his alleged remarks against Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Mitra lodged the complaint with Entally Police Station in Kolkata. ”The use of derogatory words, insinuations against Smt. Sonia Gandhiji and referring to her in a contemptible and vile manner was only to bring disrepute against her and to insult and to hurt all the citizens of India believing in the secular ideology enshrined in the Constitution of India and followed by the Indian National Congress,” stated Mitra in the complaint. "The acts and words of the accused have deliberately been made to create a law and order problem across the country while bringing disrepute and insult to Smt Gandhiji,” stated Mitra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-congress-president-lodges-police-complaint-against-arnab-goswami-829099.html
23-04-2020||National||Delhi COVID-19 toll touches 50, 128 new cases||The COVID-19 death toll in the national capital touched 50 on Thursday with the reporting of two more deaths while the number of cases reached 2,376. An analysis of the cases and deaths showed that almost two-thirds of the patients were below the age of 50 years but the mortality rate among them was the lowest at 0.64%. While 1,548 patients were below the age of 50, only ten lost their lives to COVID-19. The highest mortality rate was among those above 60 years at 6.09% though there were only 443 such patients. Among those between 50-59 years, the mortality rate is 3.39%.  Delhi government also added three more containment zones, taking the total to 92.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-covid-19-toll-touches-50-128-new-cases-829101.html
23-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Plea in SC for setting up of temporary community kitchens in all states||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court on Thursday seeking direction to the Centre, all state governments and Union Territories (UTs) for setting up of pan-India temporary community kitchens at the Block-level during the COVID-19 pandemic to check starvation deaths. The application has been filed in the already pending plea filed by social activists Anun Dhawan, Ishann Dhawan and Kunjana Singh, in which they have sought setting up of community kitchen across the country to check starvation and malnutrition. The fresh plea filed through advocates Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi and Ashima Mandla referred to the state-funded community kitchens being run in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Jharkhand and Delhi that serve meals at subsidised rates in hygienic conditions. It said that the personnel employed in these community kitchens provide employment, which is an added advantage in this economy where even joblessness is rampantly on the rise, adding to the cycle of hunger and malnutrition. “The present application has been moved by the applicants with the objective to seek the intervention of this Court by directing pan-India establishment of ‘temporary’ community kitchens as an effort to contain the parallel extraordinary food crises due to economic shutdown. It is imperative to imbibe the magnitude and extent of the present food crises as being unprecedented, extraordinary and indefinite and thereby impinging upon the fundamental right of Right to Food under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” the plea said. It added that the present pandemic has proved to be fatal for a percentage of persons contracting the novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) and the unprecedented economic disruptions as a consequence of the pandemic may result increased food insecurity and rise in the number of hunger-related crises and deaths. “That nearly 19 crore persons in our country are forced to sleep on an empty stomach even in what we may refer as ‘the normal times’ and now with the lockdown to contain COVID-19, hunger threatens even a larger population of persons for whom buying food is outside their budgetary capacity. To an extent, the fear of lack of food for basic sustenance drove the migrant workers to risk their lives and potentially that of others, in an attempt to travel to their hometowns,” the plea said. The petition said that it was reported that as of April 13, an estimated 195 human lives were lost due to the ongoing lockdown in the country, of which a reported 53 deaths owed to exhaustion, hunger, denial of medical care, or suicides due to lack of food or livelihood. During the hearing of main PIL, the top court had on February 17, had imposed additional costs of Rupees five lakhs on six states for repeatedly failing to file their reply on setting up of community kitchens within their respect.ive jurisdictions. These states include Maharashtra, Odisha, Goa, Sikkim, Delhi and Union Territory of Ladakh. It had rejected the request of States and UTs for waiving of costs imposed on them except for Kerala.    The top court had on February 10 said that five states -- Punjab, Nagaland, Karnataka, Uttarakhand and Jharkhand -- and UTs of Andaman and Nicobar and Jammu and Kashmir, who have filed their responses on the PIL will not pay any fine. The apex court had on October 18, last year favoured setting up of community kitchens, saying the country needs this kind of system to tackle the problem of hunger. It had issued notices to the Centre and all states seeking their responses on a PIL seeking directions to all the states and UTs to formulate a scheme for community kitchens to combat hunger and malnutrition. The plea had claimed that many children under the age of five die every day due to hunger and malnutrition and this condition was violative of various fundamental rights, including the right to food and life of citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-plea-in-sc-for-setting-up-of-temporary-community-kitchens-in-all-states-829106.html
23-04-2020||National||Centre clears appointment of next Chief Justice for Bombay, Orissa and Meghalaya HCs||The Centre on Thursday cleared the appointment of next Chief Justices of the Bombay, the Orissa and the Meghalaya High Courts. Justice Dipankar Datta, a judge from the Calcutta HC, has been appointed as the next Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court. The Law Ministry's separate notifications issued on Thursday stated that the President has also cleared the proposal for transfer of Meghalaya High Court Chief Justice Mohammed Rafiq as the next Chief Justice of the Orissa High Court.  It also approved the Collegium's proposal for appointment of Justice Biswanath Somadder, who originally hailed from Calcutta High Court, as the next Chief Justice of the Meghalaya High Court. The Supreme Court's Collegium headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde had on April 18 made the recommendations on the three appointments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-clears-appointment-of-next-chief-justice-for-bombay-orissa-and-meghalaya-hcs-829129.html
23-04-2020||National||Coronavirus outbreak: Pakistan holds virtual SAARC health meet, India joins||India on Thursday joined a virtual meeting of the ministers and senior health officials of the eight SAARC nations on the Covid-19 crisis, although it was convened by Pakistan.  New Delhi responded to the invitation by Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad and participated in the virtual meeting, even as Pakistan recently boycotted a series of webinars India arranged to train the healthcare professionals of the SAARC nations in managing the Covid-19 pandemic.  Dr Rajiv Garg, Director General of Health Services, represented the Government of India in the video-conference, which was chaired by Khan’s advisor and de facto Health Minister of Pakistan, Dr Zafar Mirza. Like India, Bhutan, Bangladesh and Maldives too were represented by senior health officials. Sri Lankan Health Minister Pavithra Wanniarachchi represented her nation in the virtual meeting. The junior ministers represented Nepal and Afghanistan.  A source in New Delhi said that India decided to join the video-conference convened by Pakistan as it had always been emphasizing on regional cooperation to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.   A press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi underlined that the video-conference convened by Pakistan on Thursday had followed an earlier video conference India hosted on March 26 with senior health professionals of all the South Asian nations. Dr Garg briefed his counterparts from other SAARC nations about India’s comprehensive response to the Covid-19 pandemic, including its move to augment production of essential materials and medicines and enhancing capabilities in research on drugs and vaccines. He also highlighted the successful use and promising future of new and innovative technology-based solutions developed by India, such as the mobile app ‘Aarogya Setu’, to maximize community outreach and intervention. Pakistan on April 8 boycotted a video-conference India had organized for the trade officials of all the SAARC nations to discuss ways to minimize the impact of the curbs imposed to contain the pandemic on regional commerce. Besides, Khan Government in Islamabad also boycotted a week-long online capacity-building programme New Delhi organized from April 17 for the healthcare professionals of the SAARC nations to train them in dealing with the Covid-19 outbreak. It stated that it had decided to stay away as the SAARC Secretariat in Kathmandu had no role in organizing the two events. The SAARC Secretary-General, Esala Ruwan Weerakoon, participated in the video-conference convened by Pakistan on Thursday. “It is good to see that Pakistan Government finally realized the merit of regional cooperation in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic,” the source in New Delhi said. A spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Pakistan Government on Thursday said that the ministers and senior health officials of the SAARC nations had discussed real-time sharing of information and clinical data, capacity building and training of medical and paramedical staff, the supply of medicines and medical equipment, research coordination and enhancing cooperation with frontline international organizations including the World Health Organization. They also discussed proposals to fast-track the creation of linkages among medical universities as well as academia and research institutions in the South Asian region. Pakistan proposed greater coordination among health authorities of SAARC member states in the context of combating the pandemic and suggested activating the SAARC Technical Committee on Health and Population Activities The SAARC (South Asian Association for convening Regional Cooperation) was in limbo for almost three-and-a-half years, primarily due to tension between New Delhi and Islamabad over continued cross-border export of terror from Pakistan and territories under illegal occupation of Pakistan to India. New Delhi, however, breathed fresh life into it on March 15 with Prime Minister Narendra Modi holding a virtual summit of the SAARC leaders to work out a coordinated response to the Covid-19 pandemic in the region. Though Modi was joined by the leaders of six of the seven other SAARC nations, Khan did not attend it and instead assigned Dr Mirza to represent Pakistan. Islamabad on April 9 conveyed to Weerakoon, the Secretary-General of the SAARC, that all proceeds of the Covid-19 Emergency Fund must be administered by the secretariat and the modalities of managing it should be finalized through consultations with all the members in accordance with the charter of the organization. The SAARC Covid-19 Emergency Fund was set up last month after India had initiated it with a voluntary contribution of $ 10 million and was followed by Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Afghanistan, which contributed altogether $ 8.43 million more. After much dilly-dallying, Pakistan on April 9 pledged $ 3 million to the fund, but with riders attached.  The fund was set up to help any SAARC nation to meet the emergency expenditure to deal with the pandemic in its territory. “The sentiment of cooperation and solidarity in the region intensified by Prime Minister Modi’s video conference with SAARC leaders on March 15 has led to much progress in the fight against Covid-19 through a series of concrete follow-up measures aimed at easing the suffering of the people in the region,” the MEA said in New Delhi, subtly underscoring that Pakistan had on Thursday just started following up on what had been started by India. A spokesperson of the MEA said that India had developed an electronic platform – “SAARC COVID19 Information Exchange Platform (COINEX)” – for use by all the SAARC countries. “As the next major step, the platform will be launched for exchange of specialized information and tools on COVID-19 among designated health professionals in the region. (The) COINEX will also offer and facilitate various online training resources and e-learning modules,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-outbreak-pakistan-holds-virtual-saarc-health-meet-india-joins-829133.html
23-04-2020||National||Javadekar felicitates frontline 'COVID-19 warriors'||Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday hailed the contribution of frontline "COVID-19 warriors" such as healthcare workers, police personnel and sanitation workers, as he handed out letters of appreciation to them.  The letters were signed by the minister and 40 civilians, and were handed over to COVID-19 warriors -- doctors, nurses, bankers, sanitation staff, postal department employees, among others.  Hailing the contribution of the COVID-19 warriors, Javadekar said they were fighting the battle against the pandemic at the frontlines fearlessly. "India will win and coronavirus will be defeated," Javadekar asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/javadekar-felicitates-frontline-covid-19-warriors-829138.html
23-04-2020||National Politics||BJP spreading virus of communal prejudice, hatred in country: Sonia Gandhi||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Thursday hit out at the Modi government claiming that the “large-heartedness and alacrity” was missing from its response to the COVID-19 pandemic that has increased disturbingly, both in reach and speed. Addressing a meeting of the Congress Working Committee, Gandhi also targeted the BJP for 'spreading the virus of communal prejudice and hatred', thus, causing “grave damage” to social harmony in the country. The CWC, which met for the second time in three weeks, was attended by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, top leaders of the party, including Rahul Gandhi, Ahmed Patel, A K Antony, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and chief ministers of party ruled states. The Congress president also said that the “constructive cooperation and suggestions” that she had given to the Central government on tackling the COVID-19 crisis were acted upon “partially and in a miserly way”. “The Central Government does not appear to have a clear idea on how the situation will be managed after May 3. A lockdown of the present nature after that date would be even more devastating,” she cautioned.  "Grave damage is being done to our social harmony. Our party, we will have to work hard to repair that damage," she added. Gandhi said certain sections of the society, such as farm labourers, migrant labourers, construction workers and those in the unorganised sector, are facing acute hardships. “Trade, commerce and industry have come to a virtual halt and crores of livelihoods have been destroyed,” she said. “The compassion, large-heartedness and alacrity that should be forthcoming from the Central Government is conspicuous by its absence,” Gandhi said. She said the focus must continue to be on successfully engaging with health, food security and livelihood issues. “We have repeatedly urged the Prime Minister that there is no alternative to testing, trace and quarantine. Unfortunately, testing still remains low and testing kits are still in short supply and of poor quality. PPE kits number and quality is poor,” she said. Gandhi also flagged concerns over the Centre’s refusal to disburse funds it owed to the Congress-ruled states. “Friends, the states and local governments are the frontline of the battle against COVID-19. Funds legitimately owed to our states have been held back,” the Congress President said. Gandhi reiterated the Congress' demand of providing 10 kg of food grains, one kg of pulses and half a kg of sugar to each person of the family every month. Flagging 12 crore job losses in the first phase of the lock down, she said unemployment is likely to increase further as economic activity remain at a standstill. “It is imperative to provide at least Rs 7,500 to each family to tide over this crisis. Migrant labourers are still stranded, jobless and desperate to return home. They have been hit the hardest. They must be provided with food security and a financial safety net,” Gandhi said. She demanded necessary facilities to farmers for the next round of kharif crops which will begin in the coming two months and a special MSME package since the sector employs 11 crore people and makes up one third of the GDP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-spreading-virus-of-communal-prejudice-hatred-in-country-sonia-gandhi-828843.html
23-04-2020||National Politics||BJP president Nadda condemns 'attack' on Arnab Goswami||BJP leaders, including party president J P Nadda, on Thursday condemned the alleged attack on senior journalist Arnab Goswami and targeted the Congress over the incident. "Shocking to see Arnab Goswami attacked after Congress CMs publicly threatened him. Sad to see such public hounding of a journalist for his freedom of speech. Congress shows it is the party that brought Emergency and continues its rich tradition of trampling free speech," Nadda tweeted. Shocking to see Arnab Goswami attacked after Congress CMs publicly threatened him. Sad to see such public hounding of a journalist for his freedom of speech. Congress shows it is the party that brought Emergency and continues it’s rich tradition of trampling free speech. Two motorcycle-borne persons allegedly attacked Goswami's car in Mumbai and tried to break its glass window when he and his wife were on their way home in the early hours of Thursday, police said and added that both the attackers have been arrested. Law Minister and BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad sought action against those involved in the incident. "Deeply condemn the violent physical attack on senior journalist #ArnabGoswami and his wife. State Police must take lawful action against the attackers, " he tweeted. There was no immediate reaction from the opposition party. Another senior BJP leader and Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar also condemned the incident. He said every attack on any journalist is condemnable as this is against democracy and sought action against the accused as per law. Several other BJP leaders also deplored the incident and took aims at the Congress. Goswami, the editor-in-chief and owner of Republic TV, said in a video posted after the incident that he was told by his security guards that the attackers were Youth Congress workers. There was no confirmation of the same by either police or the youth outfit. The journalist has invited sharp criticism from Congress leaders for his remarks aimed at their party president Sonia Gandhi during a TV discussion on the Palghar incident in which three persons, including two sadhus, were lynched. Senior Congress leaders, including chief ministers, slammed Goswami with the party's chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala alleging that it was "deeply disgraceful that PM and BJP eulogize this brand of TV anchors".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-president-nadda-condemns-attack-on-arnab-goswami-828948.html
23-04-2020||National Politics||Modi reaches more people on Facebook than Trump, Bolsonaro: report||Prime Minister Narendra Modi may have 4.47 crore followers on his Facebook page but the real views he gets per post is around 17 lakh, while a post by US President Donald Trump with 2.6 crore followers reaches only 8.77 lakh followers, according to the latest 2020 “World Leaders on Facebook” rankings. However, Trump dominates the rankings for the most interactions with 30.9 crore comments, likes and shares on his Facebook page over the past 12 months, ahead of Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro with 20.5 crore interactions. Modi, who has more than four times as many page likes, is only in third place with a total of 84 million interactions over the past 12 months, according to the report by leading global communications agency Burson Cohn & Wolfe (BCW).  Modi reaches an average 17 lakh of his fans which represents only 3.8% of his Facebook community while Bolsonaro reaches on average 9.56 lakh of his one crore fans and Trump only 3.3% of his massive community, the report that analyses the activity of 721 Facebook pages of heads of state and government and foreign ministers said. This is for the first time the study, which is now in its fourth year, has incorporated the true reach per post for each of the Facebook pages of world leaders defined as a prediction of the number of real views an influencer gets per post rather than the volume of followers alone.  However, Modi is still the most popular world leader on Facebook, with more than 4.47 crore likes on his personal page while Trump remains the second most popular world leader on Facebook, with more than 2.6 crore likes followed by Jordan’s Queen Rania with 1.68 crore likes, although she has registered a slight decline over the past 12 months. The official Prime Minister of India page is in fourth position with 1.37 crore. The report said world leaders have seen their follower numbers grow exponentially in March 2020 as citizens are looking for guidance during the Covid-19 pandemic. During March, 721 pages of world leaders analysed in the study, part of the Twiplomacy series, have added 1.3 crore new page likes, a 3.7% increase, which is almost half of the growth these pages enjoyed overall over the past 12 months. As of March 1, the 721 pages have a combined total of 362 million page likes and published 4.35 lakh posts in the past 12 months which have garnered a total of 1.38 billion interactions (comments, likes and shares). Interestingly, the pages of Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte and those of the governments of Austria, Estonia and Italy have more than doubled their page likes in March 2020 alone. “The significant increase in followers of world leaders on Facebook is a logical result of two primary drivers, populations seeking definitive answers on the coronavirus issues and their country’s definitive policy on managing the pandemic, but also the fact that studies are showing that time online generally has increased in some cases up to 36% and on Facebook more than 20%," BCW Chief Innovation Officer Chad Latz said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-reaches-more-people-on-facebook-than-trump-bolsonaro-report-828995.html
23-04-2020||National Politics||Stop cheap politics, join hands with govt in fighting coronavirus: BJP to Congress||Accusing the Congress of deliberately trying to create divisions in the society, the BJP on Thursday asked the opposition party not to practice "cheap and small politics" but come together with the Union government in fighting the coronavirus outbreak. Senior BJP leader and Union minister Prakash Javadekar said the Congress is trying to put obstacles in the government's work for its own "selfish interests" when people are supporting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in combating the pandemic. Javadekar took a swipe at the Congress Working Committee, the apex decision-making body of the opposition party which had met earlier in the day, saying it does no work but abuses those who have been working. "The Congress is deliberately trying to create divisions in society. These divisions harm society. We condemn these statements," Javadekar said, reacting to the attack on the government by Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Gandhi accused the BJP of spreading the "virus of communal prejudice and hatred" in the country, saying "grave damage" is being done to social harmony. Addressing a meeting of the CWC, Gandhi said it should worry every Indian, and her party will have to work hard to repair this damage. Hitting back, Javadekar said the country is fighting COVID-19 but Congress leaders are concerned about their party's "selfish interests" and have been seeking to create divisions in society. "Our first aim is to fight the coronavirus unitedly. So I will again appeal to the Congress to not practice small politics, cheap politics," he said. The Congress, he said, deliberately raises issues which have nothing to do with reality. The BJP leader claimed that the opposition party raises the same issues which those who frequently attack the country do.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/stop-cheap-politics-join-hands-with-govt-in-fighting-coronavirus-bjp-to-congress-829082.html
23-04-2020||National Politics||Govt must provide food, livelihood to needy amid coronavirus lockdown: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the priority of the government should be to provide food and livelihood to the destitute in this crisis. "Those earning their daily living are falling prey to starvation due to the COVID-19 lockdown. “No problem can be solved with anger and hatred. In this crisis, it should be the priority of the government to provide food and livelihood to our destitute brothers and sisters," he said on Twitter. Gandhi attached a news report claiming that the UN has stated that cases of starvation can rise during the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-must-provide-food-livelihood-to-needy-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-rahul-gandhi-829125.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||13-year-old girl gang-raped, filmed in Uttar Pradesh's Sitapur||A 13-year-old girl was allegedly raped by two youths in Uttar Pradesh's Sitapur district on Wednesday and four others recorded the act, police said. All the six youths have been arrested, they said. The incident took place around 2.00 pm under Misrikh police station area in the district, the police said. "The 13-year-old girl was on her way back home after attending nature's call when she was forcibly taken to a secluded school building by the six youths," Superintendent of Police L R Kumar said. While two youths, who are from the same locality as the victim's, raped her, the other four filmed a video," he said. "All six of them have been arrested and are being interrogated. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act," he added. The accused also threatened the girl with dire consequences if she told anybody about the incident, Kumar said. The girl has been sent for a medical examination, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13-year-old-girl-gang-raped-filmed-in-uttar-pradeshs-sitapur-828759.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 Lockdown: Delhi airport creates dedicated distribution facility for medical supplies||The Delhi airport has been handling 20-22 cargo flights per day during the coronavirus lockdown and it has also created a dedicated facility for logistics, aggregation and distribution of medical supplies, its operator DIAL said on Thursday. The GMR group-led DIAL said the Ministry of Civil Aviation has designated the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) as a major hub for import and distribution of medical supplies related to COVID-19. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of coronavirus, which has infected more than 21,300 people and killed 680 people till now. All commercial passenger flights have been suspended for the lockdown period.  "A 3,800 square meter unique dedicated distribution facility has been made operational at the Delhi airport by the DIAL within a record time of seven days," it mentioned in a press release. This facility performs logistics, aggregation and distribution of large consignments of medical supplies, which are being imported to India, the DIAL noted. At this facility, the first shipment consisting of 24 metric tonnes cargo arrived on Tuesday having 70,000 protective suits, it said. "The same is getting processed and aggregated at this distribution facility after sanitisation of each box. Further, the same will be distributed to various parts of the country," the DIAL stated.  Several such consignments are scheduled to flow in and get processed through the Delhi airport in the coming days comprising bodysuits, masks, hand gloves and goggles, the operator mentioned. The Delhi airport has been handling around 20-22 cargo flights per day (including non-scheduled operations), with freighters operating between various destinations like Doha, Hong Kong, Shenzhen, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Incheon, the DIAL stated. Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO, DIAL, said, "We are honoured to be designated as the major hub for import and distribution of medical essentials at this time of crisis by the Ministry of Civil Aviation."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-delhi-airport-creates-dedicated-distribution-facility-for-medical-supplies-828900.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||LG Anil Baijal directs setting up dedicated coronavirus treatment facility, test centre for Delhi cops||Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Thursday directed authorities to create a dedicated COVID-19 facility to treat infected Delhi Police personnel, officials said. The move comes in the wake of over 20 police personnel testing positive for the virus in the city so far. An official told PTI that the Lieutenant Governor has also directed setting up an exclusive testing centre for Delhi police personnel, besides providing personal protective equipment to those who are on COVID-19 duty. "There is a plan to set up a dedicated COVID-19 testing centre for police personnel at Shahdara Police Station, but a final decision is yet to be taken," a source said. According to a senior police official, the Delhi Police’s strength is about 82,000 personnel. On Wednesday, police said that a head constable attached with the Special Cell tested positive for coronavirus, prompting authorities to order quarantine for 71 personnel. The head constable tested positive for the virus on Monday, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lg-anil-baijal-directs-setting-up-dedicated-coronavirus-treatment-facility-test-centre-for-delhi-cops-828923.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||20 doctors, paramedics isolated after surgeon tests COVID-19 positive at AMU hospital||Twenty doctors and paramedics at the JLN Medical College at AMU here are being quarantined after a surgeon tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday, senior officials said. On Tuesday, 48 doctors and paramedics who had come in contact with a coronavirus patient were put in quarantine, severely hampering the functioning of the hospital which is one of the frontline hospitals for testing and treating COVID-19 patients in Uttar Pradesh. A doctor in the department of surgery at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College hospital at Aligarh Muslim University tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday, District Magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh said.  According to the president of the hospital's Resident Doctors Association, Dr Hamza Malik, the junior doctor who has tested positive was "in no way connected to the coronavirus isolation ward and had contracted the virus three days ago while performing surgery on a supposedly non-coronavirus patient".  Officials said the patient from whom the surgeon contracted the virus was asymptomatic but it is now suspected that the patient has coronavirus and tests are being conducted to ascertain the same.   A hospital spokesperson told PTI that as a first step about 20 odd doctors and paramedics who had come in contact with the infected doctor are being quarantined.   The Resident Doctors Association has demanded that in view of Thursday's developments the hospital should be designated as a coronavirus-specific facility.   In a statement, Dr Malik said if there is no secure system for protecting doctors including regular supply of PPEs, then the junior doctors who are presently working "without any concern for their own safety round the clock on the frontline will have no option but to stop work".  He has demanded that issues related to problems of junior doctors should urgently be addressed so that the "ongoing efforts of medical professionals do not  go in  vain".  When contacted AMU  spokesman Professor Shafay Kidwai told PTI,  "We are fully aware of the commendable role played by the medical fraternity including the junior doctors".  He said the administration was addressing all their concerns but in the present circumstances it was not feasible to declare the hospital as a designated hospital just for coronavirus patients. "This hospital is catering to patients from about half a dozen districts in western Uttar Pradesh and we simply cannot shut our doors to other serious patients. Treating only COVID-19 patients would have serious implications for overall health services," Kidwai said.  He added that the hospital was working on an "emergency regimen" under which any patient who enters the hospital premises would immediately be screened for coronavirus before being sent to the casualty zone. "By segregating normal patients from coronavirus suspects at the entry level we will be able to assure that there are no cross infections within the hospital complex," he said. The additional district magistrate (city) R.K. Malpani told PTI, "We are reviewing the entire procedure for admitting patients with the medical college authorities to address the concerns arising from today's development. We will urgently put in place a suitable arrangement. This medical college is catering to such a large pool of patients that we cannot afford to limit its functioning just for coronavirus patients". The district magistrate has urged the hospital staff to intensify precautionary measures for preventing the spread of this pandemic. Meanwhile,  the district and the hospital authorities have stepped up emergency damage control steps.  After Thursday's case, four COVID-19 positive patients have been identified in Aligarh city.  One patient who was admitted in an advanced state of COVID-19 infection died at the JL Nehru hospital on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/20-doctors-paramedics-isolated-after-surgeon-tests-covid-19-positive-at-amu-hospital-828933.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown cuts PM2.5, PM10 levels by half in Delhi: CPCB||With very few vehicles on roads, only essential commercial units functioning due to the coronavirus-forced lockdown and a weather favourable for dispersion of pollutants, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has reported 46 per cent reduction in PM2.5 levels and 50 per cent depletion in PM10 concentrations in the national capital. The apex pollution control body has analysed data from continuous ambient air quality monitoring network of 38 stations in Delhi between March 16 and April 15. Air quality trends have been studied in two phases -- pre-lockdown phase of March 16 to 21 and the lockdown phase from March 25 to April 15. In its report, the CPCB said, "Significant reduction in PM2.5, PM10 and NO2 levels observed. Overall, 46 per cent reduction in PM2.5 and 50 per cent reduction in PM10 concentration observed during the lockdown period."  PM2.5 refers to particulate matter having diameter less than 2.5 micrometers which can enter the lungs and even the bloodstream. The CPCB said reduction in PM10 and PM2.5 levels primarily indicate depletion in combustion and industrial sources of pollution which are common to both fractions of particulate matter. Since 81 per cent of Delhi's nitrogen oxide comes from the transport sector, according to TERI Emission Inventory, 2018, restrictions on vehicular activity led to 56 per cent reduction in NO2 levels and over 37 per cent cut in carbon monoxide (CO) concentration during the lockdown period, compared to the pre-lockdown period, it said. Due to restrictions on the transport sector and industrial operations, the two major sources of benzene emissions, a 47 per cent reduction in benzene level has been observed, the CPCB report stated. "However, only 19 per cent reduction was seen in sulphur dioxide levels which may be due to the fact that over 70 per cent of Delhi's SO2 originates from power plants located around the national capital (as per TERI Emission Inventory, 2018) and power plants were operational during the lockdown period," it added. Since most of the eateries and industries in Delhi have shifted from coal to other less polluting energy sources, power plants appear to be the most likely source of sulphur dioxide. The CPCB also analysed data from 13 pollution hotspots in Delhi. Anand Vihar recorded 62 per cent, 69 per cent and 72 per cent reduction in PM2.5, PM10 and NO2 levels respectively during the lockdown period, the report said, adding Vivek Vihar, which is near major traffic corridor GT Road, saw a 60 per cent reduction in NO2 levels.  In Dwarka Sector-8, PM2.5, PM10 and NO2 levels depleted by 48 per cent, 61 per cent and 68 per cent respectively, while Okhla recorded a 72 per cent reduction in nitrogen dioxide levels, the CPCB said. The apex pollution control body recorded 24 hourly average PM2.5 and PM10 levels within National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for 20 and 15 days respectively in 22 days of the lockdown period. NO2 levels were 75 per cent less than their 24 hourly standard. Twenty-four-hour averages of PM10, PM2.5, NO2 and SO2 levels dropped as low as 24 microgrammes per cubic meter, 39 µg/m3, 15 µg/m3 and 10 µg/m3 respectively during the lockdown period, the report said. A 27 per cent increase in PM2.5 level and a 65 per cent increase in PM10 concentration was observed in between April 7 to April 15 compared to the first two weeks of the lockdown -- March 25 to April 6. However, the CPCB said, PM2.5 and PM10 levels were still lower by 39 per cent and 35 per cent respectively than pre-lockdown concentrations. This may primarily be attributed to change in meteorological conditions. The onset of summers has led to dry and dusty conditions. A mild dust storm from the western part of the country and the gulf region hit Delhi on April 14-15 rapidly increasing PM10 levels in Delhi and NCR, the pollution control body said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-cuts-pm25-pm10-levels-by-half-in-delhi-cpcb-828934.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||CRPF to conduct passing-out ceremony via video conference amid coronavirus lockdown||The CRPF, India's largest paramilitary force, will conduct the passing-out ceremony for its current batch of trainee officers via video conference on Friday in view of the coronavirus outbreak, officials said. While Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy will address and read out the message of Home Minister Amit Shah to these young officers via video conference, CRPF Director General (DG) A P Maheshwari will talk to them from the forces' headquarters at Lodhi Road in Delhi. The 42 directly appointed gazetted officers (DAGOs), including four women, will assemble in the 360-seater auditorium at their training academy located in Kadarpur village, Gurgaon at 10 am for the passing-out ceremony and will take an oath to serve the country. "The entire drill of a traditional passing out parade for commissioning of the trainee officers of the 51st batch will be conducted indoors keeping in mind the coronavirus outbreak and related protocols," Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) spokesperson Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Moses Dhinakaran told PTI. "All norms of social distancing, sanitisation and other COVID-19 procedures will be duly followed during the ceremony that will be held on Friday," he said. The best cadets will be awarded by the academy director and he, along with other senior faculty members, will participate in the pipping ceremony, the spokesperson said. The weblink for the event is also being shared with the families of these officers so that they can watch it live, Dhinakaran said. These officers, selected by the UPSC after an all-India exam, have been imparted a 52-week training in field tactics, combat operations, weapons training and legal education among others and after passing out, they will be appointed as assistant commandants (ACs) in various field units of the force. An AC rank officer is the entry level for cadre officers in the paramilitary or Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs). The batch joined the academy in February last year but due to the coronavirus outbreak, the passing-out parade cannot be held in the ground as it usually takes place, a senior official said. The officers will stay in the academy till the lockdown, he said. With about 3.25 lakh personnel, the CRPF is the country's lead internal security force. Its three main combat theatres are anti-Naxal operations, counter-terrorist offensive in the Kashmir Valley and taking on armed insurgency in the northeastern states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-to-conduct-passing-out-ceremony-via-video-conference-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-828941.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||Self Help Groups in Haryana make over 17 lakh masks to combat coronavirus||Women Self-Help Groups in Haryana have made over 17 lakh protective face covers and masks, lending a help hand to the administration and NGOs trying to stop the spread of coronavirus. In addition to the face covers and masks, they have prepared nearly 13,000 Personal Protection Equipment kits and 35,000 sanitizers of 100 ml each. Their initiative has not only helped in boosting the supply of these items but has also generated income for the SGHs, officials said.  There are over 40,000 SGHs in the state. Through the district administration and NGOs, these items are provided to various categories of workers engaged in the fight against COVID-19 as also to needy persons. As many as 113 Women Self-Help Groups from 34 cities of the state have prepared 3,26,013 protective face covers and 225 protective kits. These groups have been formed under the Haryana State Urban Livelihood Mission. The 40,031 SGHs formed in rural areas of the State have prepared 13,98,605 masks, 12,624 PPE kits and 35,000 sanitizers of 100 ml each. Apart from this, these Self-Help Groups have also prepared 82,657 food packs and have earned an amount of about Rs. 1.25 crore, officials said.     Self-Help Groups of 10 to 20 urban poor women are formed under Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana being implemented under National Urban Livelihoods Mission.  Haryana's Skill Development and Industrial Training Department is also preparing cotton cloth masks for giving them at a nominal price to the district administration and NGOs, Director General of the Department, Rakesh Gupta said. Gupta said that there are 172 Government Industrial Training Institutes in Haryana. As the government is also encouraging the use of cloth masks for a healthy citizen, the department took the decision to initiate mass production of masks in state government ITIs and also to offer its infrastructure to Self Help Groups for making masks. Gupta said the Department of Skill Development and Industrial Training, Haryana offered the use of its sewing machines for use by SHGs as per their requirement. Apart from this, members of SHGs also started making masks on their own machines. Gupta said the principals of the ITIs have been instructed to ensure compliance of prescribed norms of social distancing by all staff and trainees in institutes and to sanitise machines and trade workshops regularly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/self-help-groups-in-haryana-make-over-17-lakh-masks-to-combat-coronavirus-828946.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||58 test COVID-19 positive in UP; cases rise to 1,507||The number of COVID-19 cases rose to 1,507 in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday as 58 more people tested positive for the infection, an official said. Out of the total cases, 1,299 are active patients while 187 have been treated and discharged, Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters here. "The total number of cases reported in the state have increased to 1,507. The state has so far witnessed 21 deaths due to the coronavirus,” he said. "The cases have been reported from 56 (out of total 75 districts of the state). Among them there are no active cases in 11 districts. Now, only 45 district have active cases," Prasad said. He said of the total cases, 938 are from the Tablighi Jamaat event or persons, who came in contact with them. The event, a religious congregation, had taken place in March in the Nizamuddin area of national capital Delhi. "All the patients are recovering and now the number of cases are stabilising" he said. On Wednesday, he said, 3,737 samples were collected and a total of 3,955, including backlog of samples, were tested. This is "record testing" in a single day, Prasad said. He said at present, 1,584 persons are in isolation wards while 11,826 are in quarantine facilities in the state.  Eleven of the coronavirus-hit districts that have no active cases now, include Pratapgarh, Pilibhit, Lakhimpur Khiri, Hathras, Bareilly, Prayagraj, Maharajganj, Shahjahanpur, Barabanki, Hardoi and Kaushambi, Prasad said. The total 21 deaths reported include one each at Basti, Varanasi, Bulandshahar, Kanpur, Lucknow, Firozabad, and Aligarh, three at Meerut, five at Moradabad and six at Agra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/58-test-covid-19-positive-in-up-cases-rise-to-1507-828949.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||Remaining period of coronavirus lockdown should be used to prepare exit strategy, future road map: Congress Working Committee||The Congress Working Committee in its meeting, held virtually, on Thursday demanded that the remaining period of lockdown should be used to prepare and publish a detailed 'exit strategy' and a comprehensive 'road map' for the future. "The states must be empowered to devise solutions to challenges due to COVID-19," says the resolution adopted unanimously by the CWC, the party’s highest decision-making body. The ongoing nationwide lockdown is slated to end on May 3. AICC general secretary K C Venugopal said after the meeting that the CWC noted with concern that the BJP was “seeking to inflame communal divisions” even as the entire nation battles COVID-19. "The virus does not discriminate on the basis of caste, creed, religion or gender. As a nation, we must be wary of forces that seek to polarise in times of crisis such as these. The onus lies on us to ensure that we stand together as one nation in the face of all odds," the CWC resolution says. "The CWC strongly recommends a complete loan moratorium on agricultural and other loans for a period of at least one year along with complete interest subvention," Venugopal said, while reading from the resolution. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said it is tragic that “we are still lagging behind in establishing a robust and accurate testing regime” for COVID-19 infection. "Testing, Tracing, Quarantine and Treatment are crucial to containing the disease," he said, reading out from the CWC resolution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/remaining-period-of-coronavirus-lockdown-should-be-used-to-prepare-exit-strategy-future-road-map-congress-working-committee-828951.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||Punjab govt has ordered detailed audit of coronavirus deaths, CM Amarinder tells Sonia||The Punjab government has ordered a detailed audit of every coronavirus death, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh told Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday. He said the detailed audit has been ordered to understand and check the high mortality rate in the state. The government is also strengthening its pandemic containment measures under the guidance of an expert panel, he told the Congress president in a video conference.  The state has so far reported 16 deaths. According to a statement, the chief minister said the mortality rate in the state was largely high due to co-morbidity (additional medical conditions) and a lack of health-seeking behavior (patients come late to a hospital). The chief minister, however, said Punjab had to be compared with Kerala and Gujarat, which were states with high NRI population. Punjab is doing significantly better than Gujarat, he said, adding that in terms of cases per 10 lakh population, the numbers were even lower than Kerala (nine/million in Punjab against 12/million in Kerala), he said. Punjab currently has 257 positive cases, including 16 deaths and two critical patients, while 53 have been cured, said the CM. Singh informed the party leadership that the state government was being guided by a group of experts, including former PGIMER Director K K Talwar, in handling the COVID-19 crisis. In percentage terms, cases in Punjab have steadily declined from 2.57 per cent of the total cases in India (as of March 31) to 1.22 per cent in three weeks (till April 22), claimed the CM. The CM also cited an example of SBS Nagar, which was formerly known as Nawanshahar, as a case of effective containment that has been "appreciated" by the Centre as well as the media.  In SBS Nagar, which was one of the first hotspots in the country, all 18 patients have recovered and discharged, he claimed, adding that no case has been reported in the district since March 26. SBS Nagar had reported one fatality last month when a Germany-returned 70-year-old man died. The chif minister said the state has three containment zones--Jawharapur in Mohali, Safabadi Gate in Patiala, and Budhlada-- from where over 15 deaths have been reported. Three districts of Ferozepur, Fazilka, Bathinda are green zones with no coronavirus case. With respect to testing, the CM said 7,887 tests have been done so far. At present, the testing rate in the state, at 248/million is slightly lower than the national average of 309/million (excluding rapid testing). Regarding the rapid testing, the chief minister said 3,502 cases were tested before the Indian Council of Medical Research suspended such tests. The state currently has 10,500 rapid testing kits supplied by the ICMR while 10,000 have been ordered by the state government, with deliveries in progress. The government has also floated a tender for another 50,000 kits, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-has-ordered-detailed-audit-of-coronavirus-deaths-cm-amarinder-tells-sonia-828962.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||6-month-old Phagwara girl detected with coronavirus dies at Chandigarh's PGIMER||A six-month-old Phagwara girl who had tested positive for coronavirus died at the Chandigarh's PGIMER on Thursday. The girl was admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) for corrective heart surgery. The girl, who was on ventilator support, had tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday. She had a congenital heart defect, officials said. A PGIMER spokesperson said died at 12.47 pm on Thursday.             She was first treated at Phagwara and then at a Ludhiana hospital. She was later referred to the PGIMER, officials said. She was admitted to the Advanced Paediatric Centre on April 9 but was later shifted to the COVID facility at Nehru Hospital Extension, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/6-month-old-phagwara-girl-detected-with-coronavirus-dies-at-chandigarhs-pgimer-828965.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||No breath analyzer test, biometric verification for loco running staff amid coronavirus fears: Delhi High Court to Indian Railways||The Delhi High Court has directed the Indian Railways not to subject its loco running staff to breath analyzer test or biometric verification till the coronavirus lockdown continues. A bench of Justices J R Midha and Jyoti Singh said the high court's interim order of March 27, directing the Railways not to conduct the test or verification till April 17, "is confirmed" and "shall continue during lockdown period". With the direction, the bench disposed of the plea by All India Loco Running Staff Association challenging a March 20 letter issued by Ministry of Railways making it mandatory for them to use biometric attendance system and undergo breath analyzer test before signing on/off during duty. The plea, filed through advocate Saqib, had contended that the staff were being asked to undergo biometric verification and breath analyzer test without putting in place proper medical protocols for checking spread of COVID-19. It had also claimed that the letter was in violation of advisory of the Directorate General of Health, Northern Railways which had suspended biometric attendance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-breath-analyzer-test-biometric-verification-for-loco-running-staff-amid-coronavirus-fears-delhi-high-court-to-indian-railways-828983.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||Increase in coronavirus cases linear, not exponential: Centre||As the anti-Covid-19 lockdown completed a month, the Centre on Thursday said the spread of the outbreak in the country has been more or less linear and not exponential, giving adequate time to beef up the health infrastructure. India had also ramped up testing 33 times between March 23 and April 23 crossing the five lakh samples mark on Wednesday with the number of confirmed cases remaining stable at 4.5% of the samples tested. As on Thursday, India had 21,700 confirmed cases of Covid-19 of which 4,325 had recovered from the illness and 686 succumbing to the infection. “It is very difficult to tell that peak will arrive till 3rd May or when it will come. But it is very stable. Positivity rate has been 4.5% throughout, one can say we have been able to flatten the curve. However, it is difficult to predict it (peak),” Indian Council of Medical Research Director General Balram Bhargava told reporters here. Environment Secretary C K Mishra, who chairs the Empowered Group-II on Covid-19 Response, said during the 30-day lockdown period the government has been able to cut transmission, minimise the spread of the infection, and consistently ramp up the testing capacity to prepare for the future. However, according to Randeep Guleria, Director AIIMS, a key challenge faced by healthcare professionals was the stigma attached to the Covid-19 infection that was deterring people from reporting influenza-like illnesses. “Because of the stigma attached to Covid-19, many patients with flu-like symptoms are not coming to health care facilities. They are coming out when they are breathless, and this is leading to higher mortality,” he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced the nation-wide lockdown on March 24, initially for 21 days and later extended it to May 3 as the country confirmed cases continued to rise. Giving a snapshot of the achievements on beefing up health infrastructure, Mishra said the number of dedicated Covid-19 hospitals have increased 3.5 times during the month-long lockdown to 736, while the hospital beds have risen 3.6 times to nearly two lakh beds. “Our first goal is to ensure that people don't have to come to the hospital. The second goal is that for every person who needs to come to the hospital, we put enough infrastructure so that the person is treated and cured so that the mortality rate is low,” Mishra said. A senior official said that the number of districts not to have reported Covid-19 cases for 28 days has risen to 12, while 78 districts across the country have not reported fresh infections for the last 14 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/increase-in-coronavirus-cases-linear-not-exponential-centre-828986.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath asks senior officers to camp in worst-hit 15 districts of Uttar Pradesh to oversee coronavirus response||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath Thursday ordered senior administrative and health officers to camp in all districts that have reported more than 20 coronavirus cases to aggressively implement government’s containment measures there. Additional Chief Secretary, Information, Awanish Awasthi told reporters here that the decision was taken after the chief minister held a meeting to review the coronavirus situation in the state. “He has directed to post senior administrative and health officers in each district with 20 or more coronavirus cases," Awasthi said. "There are 15 such districts in the state. As officers are already there in Gautam Buddh Nagar, in the rest 14, they will be sent. These officers will have to camp there for a week and oversee the implementation of lockdown and other health-related issues," he added. The CM, he said, also directed to ensure that there is no misuse of vehicles being used to transport essential goods. "Such vehicles should be run only with driver and helper. If anyone is found carrying passengers or misusing it, the vehicle will be seized. This is a strict warning for drivers," Awasthi said. A health department official said the number of COVID-19 cases rose to 1,507 in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday as 58 more people tested positive for the infection. Among the worst-hit districts as on Wednesday are: Agra, Lucknow, Noida, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Moradabad, Saharanpur, Raebareli, Bijnore, Shamli, Amroha. Awasthi said that a record volume of ration has been distributed in the state through the Public Distribution System (PDS). Currently, 53,000 fertilizer outlets, 33,000 pesticide outlets and 36,000 seed outlets are operating in the state to facilitate agricultural activities, he said About online teaching in higher education institutions, he said till now 93,652 e-contents have been uploaded by universities and institutions and 6.8 lakh students are taking online classes. He also said that Rs 16,413 crore have been paid to cane farmers in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-asks-senior-officers-to-camp-in-worst-hit-15-districts-of-uttar-pradesh-to-oversee-coronavirus-response-828996.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||Centre designates Delhi Airport as major hub for COVID-19 supplies||The Centre has designated Delhi Airport as a major hub for import and distribution of medical supplies to combat Covid-19. The airport has been handling 20-22 cargo flights daily and has created a dedicated distribution facility to handle logistics, aggregation and distribution of large consignments of medical supplies, which are being imported to India. So far, over 20 lakh pieces of face masks, 2 lakh bottles of sanitizers, 70,000 bodysuits, 1.5 lakh PPE kits and 50,000 other medical equipment have been channelized across India through Delhi Airport. With the support of Indian Customs and CISF, Delhi Airport has also created an arrangement to hold the Import cargo ULDs (unit load device) in the vacant Export zones by using ETVs (elevating transfer vehicles) which helps utilize the Export bonded area for storage of up to 152 ULD shipments of Import cargo while ensuring necessary separation, much in line with international best practices. “Even during the lockdown, Delhi Airport is functioning 24x7 to handle the international and domestic cargo movements for essential commodities including healthcare and medical supplies,” Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO, Delhi International Airport Limited said in a statement. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said that the ministry has operated 339 cargo flights so far, transporting 587 tons of medical and essential cargo under ‘Lifeline Udan’. Delhi Airport has been handling around 20-22 cargo flights per day with freighters operating between various destinations like Doha, Hong Kong, Shenzhen, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Incheon, among others. In addition to the cargo flights, Delhi Airport has also been handling three-four chartered aircraft movements per day for handling medical equipment & relief material to and from various destinations like Patna, Varanasi, Guwahati, Nagpur, Vadodara. The Cargo Terminals of Delhi Airport has the capacity to handle over 1.8 million MT of cargo annually, which is scalable to 2.3 million MT. It has 12 dedicated freighter parking bays.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-designates-delhi-airport-as-major-hub-for-covid-19-supplies-829014.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||MP's COVID-19 count rises by 100 to 1,687; 3 more dead||With 100 more persons testing positive for coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh, their count shot up to 1,687 on Thursday, while the death toll rose to 83 with the addition of three fatalities, health officials said. Among the new cases reported till 3 pm on Thursday, Ujjain recorded the highest increase of 35 COVID-19 patients followed by Indore 22, Bhopal 20 and Khargone 10, among others, they said. Three more deaths - two from Khargone and one from Indore - were reported during the period, taking the toll to 83, according to a state health department bulletin here. The virus has expanded its footprint to 25 of the 52 districts of the state. The sole COVID-19 patient found so far in Dindori district was a Chhattisgarh resident and the one in Burhanpur was from Buldhana town of neighbouring Maharashtra, the officials said. A patient in Rajgarh has recovered from COVID-19, making the district coronavirus-free, they said. The worst-affected Indore leads the coronavirus tally with 945 cases followed by Bhopal 323, Ujjain 76 and Khargone 51, they said. Among others, Jabalpur has 30 cases (04 new), Dewas 21 (01 new), Khandwa 35 (03 new), Sagar 05 (03 new), Gwalior 04 (01 new), Tikamgarh 02 (01 new) and Hoshanagabad 26 (01 new). Apart from these districts, the number of COVID-19 cases reported so far from Barwani are 24, Raisen 26, Morena 16, Vidisha 13, Ratlam 12, Mandsaur 08, Shajapur 06, four each in Sheopur and Chhindwara, three in Alirajpur, two in Shivpuri and one in Betul, the bulletin said.  There was no change in figures in these districts till Thursday afternoon, it said. Three patient hails from other states. Of the 83 deaths recorded so far, 53 were from Indore alone. So far, seven each have died in Bhopal and Ujjain, six in Dewas, five in Khargone and one each in Jabalpur, Mandsaur, Chhindwara, Agar Malwa and Dhar. As many as 203 patients have recovered and returned home, the officials said. The officials said 461 containment areas have been established across the coronavirus-affected cities to curtail the spread of the deadly infection. The updated Madhya Pradesh tally: Positive cases 1,687; deaths 83; discharged 203; active 1,401; people tested 33,074.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mps-covid-19-count-rises-by-100-to-1687-3-more-dead-829018.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Hand sanitiser developed from Mahua spirit||An entrepreneur in Chhattisgarh has developed in association with a women's Self Help Group (SHG) a hand sanitizer liquid with alcohol distilled from Mahua flowers as its main ingredient. Hand sanitizers are currently in great demand as their use to clean hands helps keep COVID-19 at bay. Yellow coloured Mahua flowers are one of the major forest products during summer. They are also believed to have medicinal properties.  "The idea to develop hand sanitizer from Mahua spirit came to me when I could not obtain enough hand sanitizer liquid for the employees at my petrol pump," said Samarth Jain, who runs a company in Jashpur which makes agricultural and herbal products. "Mahua trees are found in abundance in Jashpur area. Tribals make country liquor from its flowers. I thought we can use a more purified and distilled form of Mahua spirit as sanitizer in this period of crisis," he said. "After obtaining permission from the district administration and forest department, we roped in a local Self Help Group named Singani and developed sanitizer samples in three days," he said. "The forest department supplied the raw materials and so far we have manufactured about 30 litres of hand sanitizer on a trial basis," he added.  The liquid, packed in 100 ml bottles, was distributed to police personnel deployed on lockdown duty, he added. "We are hoping to get a license and certification for its mass production. The SHG will carry out production," he added. Jashpur Collector Nilesh Kumar Kshirsagar said the sanitizer made from Mahua spirit is completely herbal and has no side effects. "The alcohol content is as per the World Health Organization guidelines," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-hand-sanitiser-developed-from-mahua-spirit-829021.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||J&K Police has highest regard for freedom of press: IGP Kashmir||Amid raging debate over ‘curtailing freedom of press’ in the Valley, Jammu and Kashmir police on Thursday asked people to ‘ascertain the facts before making such broad generalization.’ Making the facts clear, Inspector General of Police IIGP), Kashmir Vijay Kumar said that only one journalist has been questioned about a journalistic work. “Only one FIR of instigating people for violence has been registered over an encounter at Shopian at police station Anantnag,” he said in a statement. “Remaining two persons have not been booked for any journalistic work of theirs, but because of the reason that they have posted explicitly seditious, incendiary and incriminating texts on social media, challenging integrity of India and attempting to instigate people for violence,” the IGP added. Kumar’s assertions came in the backdrop of J&K police booking two journalists - Masrat Zahra and Gowhar Geelani - for their social media posts, which the police claimed were “prejudicial to national integrity, sovereignty and security of India.” The police had also filed an FIR against a report by Peerzada Ashiq, ‘The Hindu’ correspondent of J&K. Without naming Zahra, the IGP said, “One of them in the recent days has also met me with three to four members of Kashmir Press Club and accepted the mistake claiming ignorance of the relevant law and assured not to repeat the same in future. I assured that an impartial investigation will take place.” Without naming Geelani, he said, “Regarding the other person who has additionally been booked there are written complaints as he has exposed life of some peaceful and law abiding citizens to grave risk by posting incriminating and provocative adjectives against them on social media platforms like FB and Twitter.” “The content of these specific complaints discloses a criminal act and law will take its course and the written complaints against this individual will be investigated as mandated by law,” the IGP added. He also reiterated that J&K Police had always maintained the highest regard for freedom of press. “Media persons and other relevant organisations are expected to issue statements only after ascertaining the facts,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-police-has-highest-regard-for-freedom-of-press-igp-kashmir-829053.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||Rapido ties up with Delhi govt to deliver essential items amid coronavirus lockdown||App-based bike taxi aggregator Rapido has collaborated with local authorities in Delhi and Bengaluru for the delivery of essential items during the nationwide lockdown, the company said. The lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus has restricted essential supplies. Rapido is supporting the Delhi government in delivering essential items like milk and food packets, in underprivileged areas of East Delhi, the company said in a statement. "Currently, we are serving 100 families in a day with the help of our driver-partners in the city. We are working with the Delhi government to extend this service to cover South, North and West Delhi as well," it said. In Bengaluru, Rapido is collaborating with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike's COVID-19 home delivery helpline as a delivery-service -partner, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rapido-ties-up-with-delhi-govt-to-deliver-essential-items-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-829057.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||Punjab got a meagre Rs 71 cr from Centre to fight COVID-19: Badal||Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Thursday asserted that except a meagre sum of Rs 71 crore, the BJP-led government has not given the state a single penny to fight COVID-19 pandemic. Badal made the assertion, seeking to debunk sought Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal's claims of funds given by the Centre to Punjab. Badal, an estranged cousin of Shiromani Akali Dal Chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, asked Harsimrat Kaur not to “play petty politics” over the COVID-19 crisis and dared her to get Punjab's GST arrears worth Rs 4,400 crore released from the Centre.  Badal attacked Kaur after she earlier claimed that the government of India had given funds and foodgrain to the Punjab government to combat COVID-19 and asked Chief Minister Amarinder Singh why no relief was being given to the needy people. “A sum of Rs 71 crore has been given to Punjab under the National Health Mission to fight coronavirus. It comes even less than Rs three crore per district. Besides that, we have not got a single penny from the government of India in the fight against COVID-19,” Badal said in a video message posted on his Facebook. “If they are trying to show doing favour with a sum of Rs 71 crore, it is s petty politics and narrow mindset,” said Badal, targeting the Union minister who is the wife of SAD chief Sukhbir Badal. He said a sum of Rs 832 crore given by the Centre, as had been claimed by Harsimrat Kaur, was Punjab's right. Badal said this sum was Punjab's share in devolution of central taxes. Taking on Harsimrat for her claims of giving Rs 2,300 crore to Punjab, Manpreet Badal said it was the state's arrears pending for the last three years.  Taking a swipe at Harsimrat, the state finance minister told the Union Food Processing Minister Kaur, “If anybody listens to you in the central Cabinet, then you should get Rs 4,400 crore GST compensation arrears released." Punjab has been demanding the release of the Goods and Services Tax arrears amounting to Rs 4,400 crore from the Centre. A few days ago, Union Minister Harsimrat Badal in her tweet had said, “As far as funds received by Punjab after March 20 when #Coronavirus broke out, please note the state received Rs 3,445 cr including Rs 2,366 cr on account of GST compensation & arrears, Rs 638 cr as RDG, Rs 247 cr for Disaster Mgt, Rs 72 cr for MNREGA & Rs 72 cr under NHM”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-got-a-meagre-rs-71-cr-from-centre-to-fight-covid-19-badal-829061.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||Pakistan’s Hindu woman booked on for overstaying after her visa lapsed due to coronavirus lockdown: SP||A Pakistani Hindu woman married to an Indian here has been booked on charges of overstaying in the country after the expiry of her visa, police said on Thursday. Kangra Superintendent of Police Vimukt Ranjan said the FIR against Pakistani national Mena Gopal, a resident of Chari village near here, was registered under section 14 of the Foreigners Act at Shahpur Police Station near Dharamshala. Gopal had come to India in 2013 and was married to a Chari resident in 2014, the SP said, adding she had been staying here along with her husband and children ever since then after getting her visa extended time to time, said the SP. But this time around, the SP said, her visa got lapsed on March 20 -- a day after the country observed ‘janata curfew’ on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call amid the coronavirus outbreak. The SP said the police registered the FIR against the woman after information from FRRO. The woman was, however, released on bail, he said, she will now have to travel to New Delhi to approach the Pakistan embassy there to get her travel documents cleared by them to secure visa from India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-s-hindu-woman-booked-on-for-overstaying-after-her-visa-lapsed-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown-sp-829062.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: UP becomes first state with in-house facility of virtual courts||Amid the country-wide corona-triggered lockdown , Uttar Pradesh has become the first state to have the requisite infrastructure in all its courts for hearing cases through video conferencing, the Allahabad High Court said in a statement on Thursday. The Allahabad High Court took a number of initiatives to facilitate court proceedings through video conferencing and recently a software has been installed in the high court and district courts of the state, said high court’s Registrar (Protocol) Ashish Srivastava. Uttar Pradesh has now become the first such state with a software based in-house facility of virtual courts, he said. In a press release, he said the Allahabad High Court and all district courts of Uttar Pradesh “can now conduct multiple court proceedings through virtual courts within the court premises without any internet connectivity”. “This facility is completely secure and the connectivity is seamless. Only the existing infrastructure was used for the purpose and no additional expenditure was incurred in providing the above facilities,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-up-becomes-first-state-with-in-house-facility-of-virtual-courts-829075.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||PM calls Delhi BJP veterans to enquire about well-being, leaves them pleasantly surprised||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been calling Delhi BJP veterans to ask about their well-being during the coronavirus lockdown, leaving the leaders pleasantly surprised. BJP stalwart Vijay Kumar Malhotra, who received a call from Modi, said it was a "very big thing" that the prime minister took out time from his busy schedule to catch up with senior leaders. "I got call from the PM on Tuesday morning. It was unprecedented and I was surprised," Malhotra said.  A senior Delhi BJP leader said that a few days ago the names of party old-timers, were sought for interaction with the PM. Around 15 names were sent to the party and now they are receiving Modi's call, he said. Malhotra, who served as leader of opposition in Delhi Assembly as well as chief whip of BJP in the Lok Sabha, said, "The prime minister's gesture assumes all the more significance considering his extremely busy schedule and his image that has grown massively due to his role in containing coronavirus in India." Another Delhi BJP old-timer Nand Kishore Garg, a former Delhi MLA, also received a call. "I have old friendship with Modiji yet his call on Tuesday was a big surprise. He talked about my family and Delhi and my own well being. He has been busy these days in tackling coronavirus epidemic and yet thought about us, its no small gesture," Garg said.  Delhi BJP veteran and three-time former MLA from Tilak Nagar, OP Babbar, also got Modi's call on Thursday morning. "I am very happy today and you can see it. The prime minister said he was talking to those people from whom he has learnt. This thing touched my heart," Babbar said in a video message. The prime minister also called other party veterans and besides asking about their well being, he also sought their views about the lockdown and the way ahead, Delhi BJP leaders said. Modi also called up former Delhi chief minister Madan Lal Khurana's wife and enquired about her well-being. Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana, who is the former CM's son, tweeted a video of his mother expressing happiness over the call.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-calls-delhi-bjp-veterans-to-enquire-about-well-being-leaves-them-pleasantly-surprised-829081.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||144 cases registered, over 3,000 people detained for defying lockdown norms in Delhi||Over 140 cases were registered and 3,109 people detained in the national capital on Thursday for violating government orders during the lockdown imposed to control the coronavirus outbreak, police said. According to the data shared by the police, 144 cases were registered under section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code till 5 pm. A total of 3,109 people have been detained under section 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers) and 311 vehicles have been impounded under section 66 of the Delhi Police Act, they stated. A total of 389 movement passes have been issued, police said. Sixty-two cases were registered against people for stepping out of their houses without wearing masks. Since March 24, a total of 1,11,494 people have been detained so far for violating orders under section 65 of the Delhi Police Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/144-cases-registered-over-3000-people-detained-for-defying-lockdown-norms-in-delhi-829085.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 Lockdown: Delhi Police received 782 calls in 24 hrs seeking help||The Delhi Police received over 700 calls on their helpline number within a period of 24 hours till Thursday afternoon seeking assistance in resolving issues being faced by people due to the lockdown, officials said. A total of 782 calls were received from Wednesday 2 pm to Thursday 2 pm, out of which 46 were related to areas outside the national capital and those have been referred to the respective state police, they said.  While eight calls were regarding having no food or money, which have been forwarded to an NGO for direct relief at their addresses, four were about medical issue and 626 calls were related to movement passes, the police said. In total, 27,789 calls have been received so far, they said.  A food delivery network established in all 15 districts with involvement of nearly 400 NGOs, RWAs and good samaritans facilitated by Delhi Police has led to provision of meals and food packets at more than 250 locations. This has enabled feeding of nearly 3,16,426 people and providing dry ration kits to 4,069 people on Wednesday.  A campaign under '50 meal pack challenge' driven by a group of young professionals led to distribution of 31 dry ration kits, each containing 20 kg of rice, flour, dal, salt, spices, oil and soap, in Rohini, Rangpuri and Madangir, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-delhi-police-received-782-calls-in-24-hrs-seeking-help-829090.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||Defer rent collection from tenants for 3 months, Telangana govt tells house owners||The Telangana government on Thursday directed residential property owners to defer collection of rent from tenants for three months, apparently due to hardships being faced by people following the ongoing lockdown to contain the coronavirus spread. The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) under the Chairmanship of the District Collector shall empower the local authorities, including Commissioner, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and other Municipal Commissioners in their respective jurisdictions to implement the order, a government order (GO) said. Violators of the GO are liable for punishment under Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 and Sections 51 to 58 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, it said. "...Hereby direct the property owners in the State of Telangana to defer collecting rentals from tenants, wherever the property (permanent, semi-permanent and temporary) is rented for residential purposes, for a period of 3 months w.e.f. March 2020, without interest for the said, rented premises and further, to collect this amount in instalments subsequently after three months," the GO said. The order said a large section of the population lives in rented accommodation and that rentals constitute a significant proportion of the monthly income, in some cases as high as 40 per cent of the monthly income. These people will be adversely affected, if payment of timely rents is insisted upon by the property owners at this point, it said. The GO warned that any coercion such as eviction of tenants on account of non-payment of rents would be viewed seriously by the government as it puts the tenants at great risk towards getting infected with the virus by exposing them to unwarranted unknown open spaces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/defer-rent-collection-from-tenants-for-3-months-telangana-govt-tells-house-owners-829112.html
23-04-2020||North and Central||CISF's Delhi Metro plan: Face masks, Aarogya Setu, contactless frisking; no entry if flu symptoms post coronavirus lockdown||Passengers using the Delhi Metro, post resumption of operations, will have to take metallic items off their body before frisking, use face masks, have the 'Aarogya Setu' app, but those with flu-like symptoms won't be allowed, as per a proposal prepared by the CISF on Thursday. The paramilitary force that guards the network running across the national capital region has formulated a 'business continuity plan' for security and safety of passengers and staffers working at the facility.   The proposed measures, as per the plan accessed by PTI, will be implemented by the force "in consultation" with the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and its controlling ministry of Urban Development. The plan has been prepared to ensure "public confidence in the ability of the rapid rail network to deliver under any circumstance and to thwart evil designs of disruptive forces to hit the smooth functioning of the network." As per the plan envisaged by the force, that deploys about 12,000 men and women personnel to guard over 160 metro stations, the services of the rail network should be resumed in a phased manner. "Aarogya Setu app with inbuilt e-pass feature could be employed for identification of suspected persons (having COVID-19 infection). Persons with high risks for both spreading as well as contracting infections should be discouraged from using metro," the plan said. "All persons entering metro premises will be mandatorily wearing masks. Hand sanitisation or washing facility to be available at the entry points." "Thermal screening of all entrants to be conducted at the entry point of stations and those found with abnormal temperatures will not be allowed to enter and persons with cold, cough and other flu like symptoms will be denied entry," the proposal said. CISF Director General (DG) Rajesh Ranjan told the news agency that the plan has been prepared keeping in mind that the "speed, safety and security" of the passengers, force personnel, DMRC staffers and others present in the area is ensured. The force has suggested that all passengers will have to take out metallic items like belts and buckles before frisking and keep them in their bags which will be scanned by an x-ray machine. Those without bags but carrying metallic items will be provided trays as in the case of airport security, the proposal said. The force also proposes to conducted "contactless frisking" of commuters with the help of a hand-held metal detector from a distance of 2.5 cms. "Strict distancing norms will be followed throughout the station area and proper queuing area before the security screening point will be maintained," it said. At least two meters distance shall be maintained between the security screening place and line-up points and a meter between passengers waiting at the security screening place, it said. The CISF proposes to keep at least two personal protective equipment (PPE) suits at all metro stations "to handle a suspected passenger or baggage." "Four PPE suits will be kept as standby. CISF personnel will wear regular uniforms with sleeves fully covered, gloves along with masks covering nose and mouth." "Friskers and x-ray baggage screeners should additionally wear face shield or visor to protect their face especially eyes from exposure," it recommended. In order to ensure that nefarious elements do not take advantage of the COVID-19 situation to breach the counterterror security cover of the force, it proposes to "intensify electronic and manual surveillance on all activities within the metro premises." "Passengers shall be advised through regular announcements to maintain social distancing. Shops and other commercial establishments to ensure social distancing at their locations by means of markings," it said. The CISF has also asked the DMRC to deploy adequate staff at paid areas including automated fare collection gates and platforms for maintaining COVID-19 protocols. "Passengers will be advised regularly to refrain from touching any surface inside the metro stations or trains," the CISF plan said. It has also proposed that the entire station area be sanitised with chemicals and security fixtures, equipment and x-ray tables should be sanitised every 30 minutes. Among all the security forces, the CISF has the largest public interface like at airports and Delhi Metro, a senior official said. In the post-lockdown scenario, our personnel will come in close contact with large number of commuters daily while performing security duties, especially during security screening of passengers and baggages and hence they would be more exposed and susceptible to the virus, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cisfs-delhi-metro-plan-face-masks-aarogya-setu-contactless-frisking-no-entry-if-flu-symptoms-post-coronavirus-lockdown-829128.html
23-04-2020||Opinion||Why Shakespeare matters in 2020, more than ever before||William Shakespeare is like water- infinitely adaptable to his environment, eclectic, and everlasting. Even after four centuries of his death, Shakespeare’s incomparable canon continues to flow--gushing forth like a fountain in the minds of its newest discoverer, gliding along like a rivulet in those it has nourished for years, and lying still--as if bottled--but never stunting, as it lends succour to those that have taken its presence for granted. In the constantly capricious realms of the literary ecosystem, Shakespeare remains immutable, guaranteeing enrichment no matter the time, the place, or the consumer. A transcendental writer like Shakespeare is bound to remain relevant for every generation, but what is it about his work that makes me -- standing (or rather, bundled up in my bed) in 2020 -- convinced that he matters more than ever before? First and foremost is the political climate of the present and the uncanny resemblance of its protagonists to unforgettable Shakespearean characters. John Dowd, a former attorney of Donald Trump, is believed to have observed that his erstwhile client behaves like an “aggrieved Shakespearean king”. Indeed, Trump’s mercurial stewardship of the United States of America -- prone to whims, sudden acts of volte-face, and an incomprehensible rationale -- frequently recalls the petulance of Shakespeare’s Richard II, and more selectively, the outrage of a deranged Lear, mad at the irreverence of his subjects (in this case, the mainstream media that Trump so vehemently derides).  Across the Atlantic, Trump’s populist confederate, Boris Johnson, epitomises the Shakespearean archetype of the political clown, a consummate Falstaffian figure with apathy for protocol and political correctness, alternatively gregarious and gross with an unmistakable charade of gullibility. More worryingly still are the autocratic leaders from the rest of the planet -- from Narendra Modi in India to Viktor Orban in Hungary, from Benjamin Netanyahu in Israel to Jair Bolsonaro in Brazil -- who are busy channelling their inner Macbeths, stopping at nothing to cement total control over a people who had once been jubilant at their remarkable rise. “The art of our necessities is strangeThat can make vile things precious” (King Lear, Act III Scene II) Shakespeare’s play, Romeo and Juliet - where plague plays a small but crucial role- is a testament to the precarity involved in controlling the uncontrollable as civic authorities (like the Prince of Verona in the drama) become resigned to sacrifice some lives by prioritising others. Cue to the flirtations with herd immunity and the medical dilemmas facing the world today as hard decisions await in the midst of a public health crisis. It is not only through his plays that Shakespeare mirrors today’s destabilising reality. His love poetry -- ensconced in 154 sonnets (not all of which are equally memorable) -- becomes a prophetic repository of the complications of modern society -- the intricate intersection of love and lust, the manipulation of passion through algorithms on social media, the emergence of free love through the rise of polyamorous relationships, to name a few.  Shakespearean sonnets, lacking one definitive narrative, do not tell us what to think but show us how to calibrate our thoughts -- a valuable lesson in times where fake news, post-truth, and propagandist politics seek to hijack societal dynamics.  Shakespeare celebrates both the permanence of human connection as well as its ephemerality, reminding us of the fine line between the fleeting and forever. In the end, through his emphatic equivocations, Shakespeare reinstates that we are a bunch of contradictions, with the only uniform resolution being the endurance of the human imagination, animated and exemplified through his genius: “So long as men can breathe or eyes can seeSo long lives this, and this gives life to thee.” (Sonnet 18) The inherent ambivalence in Shakespeare lends itself to be repurposed for any number of contexts and meanings. A classic example is Shakespeare’s masterpiece, Hamlet, performed largely as scrutiny of existential doubt in the West, but applied to explore state surveillance in Moscow during the Soviet years to cultural decadence in Bucharest under the regime of Nicolae Ceaușescu to the separatist insurgency in Vishal Bhardwaj’s 2014 Bollywood film, Haider. In an age of great doubt and uncertainty, the purpose of art is not to provide answers but to ask the right questions, and that is precisely what Shakespearean literature manages to do. Even if we cannot bring ourselves to author a play during the ongoing lockdown as Shakespeare is claimed to have done during the plague, this time, more than any other, is appropriate to appreciate what the Bard has left us with -- an unrivalled literary legacy that, just like water, is a crucible of life. (Priyam Marik is a freelance journalist writing on politics, culture, and sport. He is also a published poet who can be found sampling new cuisines, debating and cheering for FC Barcelona when he's not writing) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-shakespeare-matters-in-2020-more-than-ever-before-828878.html
23-04-2020||Opinion||Kerala was not built in a day||How did Kerala manage to contain the pandemic? The short answer is that it has been a long haul. It is the result of steady consistent hard work spread over more than a century. A short review of this journey would be relevant to understanding how Kerala has succeeded where others are still struggling.  Reformation and renaissance  Swami Vivekananda toured Kerala in the 1900s and called it a ‘lunatic asylum’. It was the caste system and the prevailing socio-economic structure that made him make the comment. But to the credit of Malayalis, they took that comment on their chin and worked diligently on many aspects of society and made considerable progress.  This journey of nearly a century is an amalgamation of both reformation and renaissance. It led to considerable societal transformation which has helped Kerala face the virus head on and come out on top. The enlightened erstwhile rulers of Travancore, the missionaries and the Communists have all played critical roles in making this transformation possible. Remarkable visionary legislations related to social reforms, education, land reforms and healthcare have made all the difference. The model of assimilation and equality Adi Shankara, the celebrated saint who proposed the Advaita Vedanta (non - duality) came from the land of Kerala around 800 BC. From here the philosophy travelled across the globe. The Kerala coast (also called the Malabar coast) had a long maritime history. The monsoon wind pattern made the travel from West to East rather easy bringing in traders from the Roman Empire to the Kerala coast for its spices. Kerala is believed to be the place where St.Thomas, the doubting disciple of Jesus, landed in 52 AD. So, some form Christianity was established in Kerala from the first millennia itself. When the Jews faced persecution in their lands, they were welcomed and in fact Cochin has the oldest active Jewish synagogue in the Commonwealth countries. It was built in 1568 on a piece of land donated by the rulers next to a Hindu temple. The Cheraman Juma Mosque  in Kerala is said to be the oldest mosque in India and built in 629 AD. Thus, it’s clear that local people and rulers welcomed outsiders which brought prosperity and more importantly, new ideas and thoughts.  Social reformers like Sree Narayana Guru, led the social transformation of Kerala. Although the Advaita philosophy was in currency for a longtime, a practical manifestation of it had to wait till the 1900s when Narayana Guru installed a mirror in a temple, in place of the deity. The idea was to see oneself, in line with the Upanishadic teachings of Tat Tvam Asi (Thou art that) and Aham Brahmasmi (I am Divine). His fundamental teaching  – ‘One Caste, One Religion, and One God’ – was a path breaking approach to change the society to a more egalitarian one.  All this contributed to the 1936 legislation by the Travancore kings which declared the free entry of Dalits into temples. Education and reforms led the way  The printing press was established in Kerala in 1821. With this early start, it is no wonder that Kottayam went on to become the first town in India to become fully literate in the year 1989. When Sanskrit was the language of the privileged and education was restricted to select few, Father Kuriakose Chavara established a Sanskrit school for the locals and admitted girls and even children from the so called ‘untouchable’ members of the society, challenging the prevailing social norms.   In 1864, Bishop Bernadine Baccinelly is said to have issued a circular which mandated that each parish or church should establish educational institutions, which went a long way in ensuring that education within the vicinity was available  for each person.  The midday meal is such an important policy tool in the hands of governments today to drive primary education.  It is said that Fr. Chavara started midday meals in the schools way back in the 1850s to get more children enrolled. Maharani Gauri Parvati Bayi sanctioned the establishment of a full-fledged college at Kottayam and supported it with land and handsome donation which became functional in 1815.  Maharaja Swathi Tirunal Rama Varma opened the first public free school at Trivandrum in 1834. With such a long history of royal support and dedication, it was little wonder that in 1991, Kerala was declared 100 per cent literate, the first state to achieve the feat in India. Many other personalities also played significant roles over the years in the field of education. Even with such efforts and focus it took Kerala over a century to be fully literate.  After Independence of India, the feudal agrarian system continued in many parts of India and Kerala was not an exception. The first general election after the state formation in 1957 threw up a Communist-led government. The social reforms, widespread education and higher literacy levels all played a part in spreading communist ideology in the society. It is believed that the EMS Namboothiripad-led government of 1957 was one of the first democratically elected communist governments in the world. That government sowed the initial seeds of land reforms. These efforts finally culminated in the historic land reforms act of 1969 under another communist-led government. The slogan ‘land for the tillers’ was a shock treatment for the society. But with the benefit of hindsight, it can be said that it was justified and has paid rich dividends for the overall development of the state.  Health is wealth In the age of COVID-19, the focus is squarely on the health sector. In 1865, a vaccination department was established in Kerala under the leadership of Diwan Raja T Madhav Rao. A full-fledged general hospital with inpatients became functional in 1886. Ten years later an exclusive hospital for women and children was established.  Collaborative effort between the rulers and missionaries led to the arrival of eight qualified nurses from Switzerland to Kerala in 1906 who were assigned to hospitals in Trivandrum, Quilon etc. This helped the local population to get exposure to modern medical practices. Nurses from Kerala are recognized for their work across the world. The first nursing colleges were established in 1920 at Quilon and Kottiyam. These saplings which were planted about 100 years back are bearing fruits now. There are close to 40 medical colleges spread across Kerala. While the WHO norm is to have a doctor for 1000 people, Kerala is ahead with one doctor for about 500 people. The state boasts of one of the lowest child mortality rates comparable with any developed world. The life expectancy is the highest in the country at 75 years. Thus, the medical infrastructure and capacity has been built over a long period of time with focus and dedication.  These days the ‘Kerala model’ is touted as the way to address and manage the health crisis. It is an easy proposition to make. But not many are aware of the amount of work, consistent planning and societal transformation which has gone into building the ‘Kerala model’.   So, is Kerala a perfect state? No way, in fact far from it. If Kerala is miles ahead, it also has miles to go before it can put its leg up and take a break. But nobody should imagine that Kerala, ‘God’s Own Country’, was built in a day. (The author is a Bengaluru-based professional in the automobile industry with varied interest in history, economics and political science) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/kerala-was-not-built-in-a-day-828895.html
23-04-2020||Right in the Middle||Spokes on the wheel of life||Bumps every few meters bespoke of a genuine pledge to plunder the funds budgeted for the maintenance of the road. An hour of potholed driving to find a parking lot was long enough to bring home some understanding of the economics of demand, need and supply. All matters of mind have a short span, and the present one ended abruptly as I brushed my new car against a pillar of the parking lot to earn some sincere scowls from cabbies idling around.  After assessing the gravity of damage, somewhere in the inner crypts of cerebration and explanations, I cursed myself for the overconfidence in my driving skill. On return, a flat tyre jeered at my misfortunes for the day.  The realisation came to add itself to life’s experiences and got imprinted on my advisory repository as to why a personal car should have small sized wheels unless one has shoulders as broad as the tyre. Replacing the flat tyre left me sweating and breathless. Back at the wheel, I remembered all the wheels in my life. Mother’s spinning wheel was the first one  I fiddled with, much to her chagrin. Spindle with a whorl aka Takali was another, I would make a mess of. Fascinated much by the grinding wheel of the household ‘chakki’, it was one more I always made a mess of. Worn-out tyres were another royalty, they were large-sized but the narrow version that came next. It provided its last glimpse a few years ago when I saw kids taking turns at honing their skills in pushing it at breakneck speed. Steel wire turned into a perfect round was a poor cousin. Struggling stone caging of stream banks lost some of its strength,  whence from this piece of wire was stolen.   ‘Gadda’, a personal pushcart, was an alluring acquirement. Finding a  sandstone disc of about six inches diameter for the wheel required a long hunt,  and once created a perfect hole in the centre of this disc was always a joyous moment. Green bamboo made for other parts of this contraption. The ‘Gadda’ romance lasted a few summers till age decided against further indulgence. I was elated when I came to own a bicycle. Many years later, a scooter announced that I had arrived in life. And the first car that I booked, demanded full payment in advance, much before the EMI era! Issues that now prompt me into abstract attention, like potholed roads or a flat tyre were amiss with wheels of childhood, and when that in that bliss of reminiscence my temporary annoyance vanishes!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/spokes-on-the-wheel-of-life-828750.html
23-04-2020||South||Rao hopes COVID-19 spread may see a decline due to lockdown||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has expressed hope the spread of COVID-19 in the state may see a decline due to the strict implementation of lockdown rule and containment measures are undertaken as and when a positive case is identified. Observing that only 15 cases were reported on Wednesday, he said the number of cases in the state may come down further in the days to come, an official release said late last night. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP M Mahendar Reddy and other senior officials, who visited Suryapet, Gadwal and Vikarabad districts on Wednesday, explained the prevailing situation to Rao after their return, it said. The Chief Minister held a review on the COVID-19 situation with them till late night, it said. Medical officials stated there were indications about the possibility of the virus spread decreasing in all parts of the state, it said. Speaking on the occasion, Rao said the measures undertaken by the government were yielding results. The measures like tracing the contacts of virus-infected persons, quarantining the contacts, testing, putting in place containment zones helped in successfully containing the spread of the virus, he said. "If people continue to extend their support like this and follow the conditions, regulations imposed by lockdown and at the containment centres, we will certainly get a good result," Rao said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rao-hopes-covid-19-spread-may-see-a-decline-due-to-lockdown-828848.html
23-04-2020||South||80 new COVID-19 cases reported in AP; three deaths take toll to 27 in state||This is thus far the largest spurt in the number of coronavirus cases in the state in a single day. Two patients in Guntur district had a relapse at the end of their 14-day treatment period, testing positive for coronavirus afresh on Thursday, a senior official of the Health Department said. This was reported when the mandatory tests were conducted on the two prior to their scheduled discharge. They would now continue to remain in hospital for further treatment, the official added. The contagion spread by Tablighi Jamaat attendees continued to push coronavirus cases further in the two hotbeds of Kurnool and Guntur as the two districts now have a whopping 234 and 195 cases respectively. As many as 31 new cases were added in Kurnool and 18 in Guntur on Thursday, according to the latest COVID-19 bulletin. The community transmission that began in the temple town of Srikalahasthi in Chittoor district spread further as 14 more cases were registered in the last 24 hours. Chittoor now has 73 cases, the fourth highest in the state behind the 88 in Krishna district. Two coronavirus deaths were reported in Kurnool district and one in Krishna, taking the overall toll in the state so far to 27. In Krishna district, nine patients got cured and discharged from hospital, seven in Chittoor and five in Kadapa in the last 24 hours, the bulletin said. It said a record 6,522 samples were tested during the period, of which 6,442 turned negative. The cumulative number of COVID-19 tests in the state stood at 48,034 and 47,141 of them were negative till date, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/80-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-ap-three-deaths-take-toll-to-27-in-state-828892.html
23-04-2020||South||School teacher flees to Karnataka in car amid COVID-19 lockdown; Police begin probe||Despite the nationwide lockdown and strict surveillance against inter-state movements, several instances of people violating the restrictions are being reported, the latest being a school teacher from Kerala crossing borders to Karnataka through Wayand with help of an excise inspector from Kerala. A Malayali couple even managed to travel by road from Delhi to Kerala crossing many states and one of them was even tested COVID positive the other day, while a doctor couple who tried to cross over to Kerala from Tamilnadu to reach Thiruvananthapuram was booked by the police on Thursday. The police registered a case against the teacher who crossed over to Karnataka on Tuesday and efforts were on to trace her present whereabouts. The excise inspector was also arraigned in the case. The teacher working at a Kendriya Vidyalaya in Thiruvananthapuram allegedly traveled from Thiruvananthapuram to Wayanad using a police pass. Parents of some of her students in high positions allegedly helped her obtain the pass.  An excise inspector helped her cross the border at Muthanga and one of her relatives was said to be waiting there to take her. She was traveling due to an illness of a close relative in Delhi.   Wayanad district police chief R Ilango told DH that the exact whereabouts of the teacher was not yet on. A probe was being conducted to find how she obtained the travel pass how the excise inspector helped her in crossing the border. A couple hailing from Kottayam district in Kerala, who came down from Australia to Delhi on March 20,  traveled to Kerala after last week by car with the help of one of their relatives, reportedly a police official in Delhi. At Tamilnadu - Kerala border, Kerala officials stopped them and kept on observation. The woman was tested COVID positive on Tuesday and the authorities passed on the information regarding their relative to authorities in Delhi. In the wake of several instances of people trying to illegally cross over to Kerala, especially from Tamilnadu, and many testing COVID positive, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan warned of stringent action. Even rackets that help people cross the border through pocket roads were also allegedly prevalent. Instance of people crossing the borders by hiding in good trucks were also foiled by the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/school-teacher-flees-to-karnataka-in-car-amid-covid-19-lockdown-police-begin-probe-828903.html
23-04-2020||South||Congress MLA prostrates before doctor at COVID-19 camp at Puducherry Assembly||Ruling Congress legislator T Jayamoorthy on Thursday prostrated at the feet of the doctor and his team who collected swabs from him and also from the Chief Minister, Ministers, the Assembly Speaker and other MLAs for COVID-19 tests. The Health Department here made arrangements at the Committee Hall on the premises of the territorial assembly to facilitate the collection of swabs from the people`s representatives who came forward for being tested for the coronavirus. The camp was held as the Ministers and others have been going around various places to ascertain that the people adhered to the social distancing norms and hence the samples were collected from them. Jayamoorthy, who touched the feet of the doctor said, "Your service is much needed as you are the God of the people."` The MLA, also chairman of Puducherry Planning Authority, took everyone by surprise by suddenly falling at the feet of the doctor. He told PTI later that "we should recognise the service of the doctors and thank them as they are the saviours of the people." Earlier, Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, his Cabinet colleagues and Speaker V P Sivakolundhu underwent tests here for COVID-19. A team of doctors of the Health Department collected samples from the Chief Minister and the others at the special camp. Two Members of Parliament from Puducherry were among those who tSurned up for the tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-mla-prostrates-before-doctor-at-covid-19-camp-at-puducherry-assembly-828932.html
23-04-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Kasargod's endosulfan victims to stage online demonstration, fast to highlight their plight||On April 27, hundreds of endosulfan victims of Kerala's Kasargod district, their family members and well wishers will stage a day-long fast at their houses. Pictures and video footage of this demonstration wwill be shared on social media. Endosulfan is a widely-banned pesticide with hazardous effects causing deformities and health conditions. Among the 6,600 endosulfan victims of Kasargod, a large section with deformities have been under regular treatment at hospitals in Mangaluru. Travel restrictions have affected their routine check-ups and medicine availability. A nine-year-old boy with deformities hailing from Kanhangad developed uneasiness due to irregularity in consumption of medicines and had to be admitted to a nearby private hospital. Later, some volunteers arranged medicines for the boy from Mangaluru. Similar is the plight of many endosulfan victims of the district, said Ambalathara Kunhikrishnan, leader of an action council of endosulfan victims. While the government disbursed pensions to all the existing list of endosulfan victims, over 1,000 victims are yet to get any assistance. This includes 511 children. An official of the Kasargod district collectorate said that the list of these children was already approved and is under process of being including in the list of victims. Mr. Kunhikrishnan said that even while the government was not carrying out an effective drive against COVID-19, the voices of endosulfan victims should not get drowned. Hence the online demonstration was initiated. Though the action council earlier planned to launch an indefinite stir at Kasargod from March 25, it was put off owing to the virus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-kasargods-endosulfan-victims-to-stage-online-demonstration-fast-to-highlight-their-plight-828963.html
23-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Tamil Nadu distributes herbal concoction to boost immunity||Tamil Nadu government on Thursday began distributing Kabasura Kudineer (herbal concoction) to people living in Covid-19 containment zones here to boost their immunity. The concoction will be distributed to one lakh households in containment zones in the city. While announcing the move, the government clarified that the concoction is not a cure for Covid-19 but for boosting the immunity of an individual. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami launched the scheme by distributing the drink to police personnel at the secretariat. A government release said a panel of experts from Indian medicine had suggested launching Arogyam (Healthy) campaign in Tamil Nadu and the distribution of the concoction is the first step. Chennai has 400 Covid-19 patients and more than 100 containment zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-tamil-nadu-distributes-herbal-concoction-to-boost-immunity-828985.html
23-04-2020||South||Does a sneeze or cough mean COVID-19? Callers bombard helpline||"Am I COVID-19-infected if I sneeze?", "Can I consume meat in view of the virus outbreak?" -- these are some of the queries landing at a government helpline, seeking expert advice on the viral infection and dietary issues amidst the spread of the deadly contagion. More than their daily dose of essentials or apprehension of when the lockdown will be eased, a sneeze or cough seems to bother many. Afraid of contracting the disease, the callers to the 104 government helpline seek clarification if sneeze or cough could mean symptoms for COVID-19, those handling the queries said. "We receive hundreds of calls daily from those in the city and other parts of the state and many among them display anxiety that they may have been infected with the virus because they sneezed or coughed," Shylaja (name changed) who attends the calls, said. She is part of a team of nearly a dozen counsellors, which include nutritionists, who guide the people during the lockdown being enforced to combat the spread of COVID-19. With many clinics closed following instruction from the government as a precaution to focus on the fight mostly against the pandemic, people exercise the option of the helpline. " People become so anxious that they fail to realise that common sneezing is caused by allergy. We explain the symptoms (of coronavirus) and ask if they have a history of travel to any of the COVID-19 affected countries or were in contact with those under home isolation, and offer guidance accordingly," she added.  People also are concerned if their liking for meat could land them in a quarantine ward and public queries revolve around this issue too, those handling the helpline said. A nutritionist said, "We advise them to cook the meat well before consuming, if they are particular on eating non- vegetarian food. There are other callers who ask for an ideal diet to enhance their immunity." Such people are advised to eat freshly prepared meals on time and supplement them with fruits and vegetables. "Even Amla or orange could be consumed to boost one's immunity," she said, sharing what she advices the callers who ring up the helpline for tips on immunity. Incidentally, the poultry industry in Tamil Nadu earlier faced issues following rumours that eating chicken could lead to the spread of the pandemic. Much explanation had to be done both by the industry and the state government to convince the people that consuming chicken will not result in coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/does-a-sneeze-or-cough-mean-covid-19-callers-bombard-helpline-829009.html
23-04-2020||South||Kerala reports 10 new coronavirus cases, 23,000 under observation||Ten fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Thursday, taking the total active cases in the state to 129 with 23,000 people under observation, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Four of the new cases were reported from the high range Idukki district, two each from Kozhikode and Kottayam and one case each from Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam, he said in his daily media briefing on the disease situation. Kottayam, declared a green zone on Tuesday with no new cases in 14 days, has reported one case each in the past two days. Two cases reported on Thursday had foreign travel history, four had returned from neighbouring states and others were contacts of those already infected, Vijayan said. Samples of eight people -- six from Kasaragod and one each from Malappuram and Kannur, returned negative. The total COVID-19 cases in the state was 447, Vijayan said adding 23,000 people were under observation, most of them under home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-10-new-coronavirus-cases-23000-under-observation-829023.html
23-04-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Tamil Nadu green lights MNREGA, 33 per cent workforce in govt offices||Easing curbs for select activities in non-containment zones, the Tamil Nadu government on Thursday allowed rural employment guarantee tasks tied to irrigation and construction in rural areas. It permitted functioning of State and Central government offices for maintenance of essential services with attendance not exceeding 33 per cent of the total staff strength. Days after the State government extended the lockdown without easing curbs till May 3 -not availing relaxations permitted by the Centre in rural and non-containment regions under its revised guidelines of April 15- the government listed tasks that were now allowed based on a proposal of the revenue administration. The government in an order, however, made it clear that before allowing the select additional activities the "district administration shall ensure that all preparatory arrangements with regard to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for social distancing in offices, work places, factories and establishments as also other sectoral requirements are in place." As per the order, tasks under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rrural Employment Gurarantee programme, especially those related to irrigation and water conservation in rural areas excluding containment zones and red blocks are allowed. Containment and red block areas mean places of detection of coronavirus positive cases/clusters and where a string of measures like prevention, disinfection, tracing and testing initiatives were on at a higher scale. MNREGA initiatives shall be allowed after complying with conditions like providing workers with masks and mobilising not more than one third of the labourers required for a given task and ensuring strict social distancing, the government said.  Similarly, construction projects in rural areas including irrigation, de-silting of tanks and channels; ongoing work with regard to dam safety, buildings (including the construction and maintenance of Medical Colleges and hospitals), roads and bridges, water supply and sanitation, brick kilns, hardware material supply on call basis, electricity related work (generation, transmission and distribution) are allowed. "State/Central Government offices for the maintenance of essential services with attendance not exceeding 33 per cent of the total staff," also feature under the list of permitted tasks as part of relaxation of curbs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-tamil-nadu-green-lights-mnrega-33-per-cent-workforce-in-govt-offices-829068.html
23-04-2020||South||ICICI Bank to deploy mobile ATMs in Tamil Nadu amid coronavirus lockdown||Private sector ICICI Bank on Thursday said it will launch mobile ATM services in Tamil Nadu after its successful launch in New Delhi, Mumbai and Varanasi, aimed at serving customers at their respective residences in view of the COVID-19 lockdown. The ATM vans would be stationed at various localities in consultations with the local government authorities and would offer the service till the lockdown ends, ICICI Bank said in a statement. The mobile ATMs have been deployed in Ranipet near Vellore under this initiative. Besides offering cash withdrawals, other facilities customers can avail include transfer of funds, PIN change among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/icici-bank-to-deploy-mobile-atms-in-tamil-nadu-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-829096.html
23-04-2020||South||Vijayan writes to Maharashtra CM on plight of Kerala nurses||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan onceagain shot off a letter to his Maharashtra counterpart Uddhav Thackeray, seeking his intervention in ensuring better isolation and quarantine facilities for the nurses from the southern state. In a letter sent on Thursday, Vijayan said six Keralite nurses, working in the Jaslok hospital, have tested positive for the virus, and were now under treatmentat the Seven Hills Hospital in Mumbai. The remaining 24 nurses, out of whom 15 are from Kerala, have been shifted to a dormitory by the Mumbai Municipal corporation for isolation, he said. Though the nurses are getting food and medicines, the conditions in whichthey are now living need much improvement. They have to be put in a place where there will be effective isolation and quarantine. The place has to be clean and with provision for separate bathrooms, Vijayan said in the letter, a copy of which was released to the media here. The Kerala CM wanted Thackeray to intervene in the matter and ensure the health and wellbeing of the nurses who spend all their time engaged in treating and taking care of their patients. "I hope you will agree that they deserve special attention asthey are the foot-soldiers of our healthcare system," he said. Vijayan had earlier written to Thackeray on April 6 on the issue of nurses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vijayan-writes-to-maharashtra-cm-on-plight-of-kerala-nurses-829102.html
23-04-2020||South||Rs 500 groceries kit open for all, no ration card needed: TN govt to HC||All people, including those not having ration cards, can get the Rs 500 groceries kit being sold through PDS shops in Tamil Nadu in view of the COVID-19 lockdown, the state government informed the Madras High Court on Thursday. The submission was made in a counter-affidavit before a special bench comprising justices M Sathyanarayanan and M Nirmal Kumar on a PIL seeking a direction to the government for door delivery of the kits. The kit comprising 19 basic essentials like pulses, oil, tamarind, chillies and spices in fixed quantities can be bought by all public and there was no need for producing ration card or any other identification proof, the counter said. Advocate A P Suryaprakasam, in his public interest litigation petition, has submitted that not only the poor but even the middle class people were suffering due to the lockdown. Therefore, essential supplies should also be provided to all the needy without insisting on ration card. The government has launched the kits in a bid to ensure there was no shortage of essential commodities during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rs-500-groceries-kit-open-for-all-no-ration-card-needed-tn-govt-to-hc-829113.html
23-04-2020||State||COVID-19: 16 new cases confirmed in Karnataka; Nine in Bengaluru Urban alone||"Sixteen new positive cases have been reported from last evening to this noon...Till date 443 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed. This includes 17 deaths and 141 discharges," the department said in its mid-day situation update. Among the 16 new cases, nine are from Bengaluru urban, who are contacts of a 54-year old man, a labourer with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), who tested positive on Wednesday. Of the rest, two each are from Vijayapura, Hubballi in Dharwad district and Mandya; and one from Bantwala in Dakshina Kannada district.  Fifteen of the 16 cases reported are contacts of patients already tested positive, while contact of a women from Vijayapura is being traced. Among the positive cases reported today, 11 are men and five women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-16-new-cases-confirmed-in-karnataka-nine-in-bengaluru-urban-alone-828867.html
23-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19 lockdown: Street vendors question Karnataka govt over relaxation to IT sector, demand justice||The federation of street vendors associations in Bengaluru has questioned the government's move to give relaxation to the IT and IT-enabled service sectors from the lockdown while maintaining the restrictions on street vendors. The state government gave relaxation to a host of sectors that comes into effect from Thursday. Though cart selling food, groceries, and dairy have been allowed, the street vendors have not been included in the list. The federation said 90% of the street vendors have not been able to carry out their sole means of earning. Only some street vendors have been allowed to sell fruits and vegetables but these numbers are few. As they do not have an employer from whom they can demand wages, it said all vendors should be allowed with social distancing. "If we do not sell our wares, we cannot sustain our families. There is no one who will pay us if we cannot carry out our vending," S Babu, president of Bengaluru Jilla Beedi Vyapari Sanghatanegala Okkuta said. Most of the vendors stay in rented houses and have not income to pay for rent, electricity and water. "Like other ration card holders, street vendors get only rice in the public distribution system. With no income, they find it difficult to purchase dal," it said. The federation said all street vendors should get Rs 25,000 assistance and dry ration kits that will last till end of May. The BBMP was providing assistance to only those vendors with identity cards and said efforts must be made to pass this benefit to all existing vendors. It demanded that vendors should be involved on a regular basis in community kitchens set up to serve migrant workers. It also urged the BJP to restart the move to set up markets in open spaces and allow street vendors to register for door-to-door delivery of essentials. "We ask the government to help street vendors and farmers coordinate so that we have items to sell and farmers don't face a crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-lockdown-street-vendors-question-karnataka-govt-over-relaxation-to-it-sector-demand-justice-828888.html
23-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BBMP health centres to test patients with common flu symptoms||A newfound challenge across Bengaluru in the form of SARI, Influenza-like Illness (ILI) has prompted the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to bring in changes to its COVID-19 surveillance activities. The civic body, which was hitherto focusing on testing of those returning from abroad and their contacts, will be shifting its focus to test samples from those with any flu symptoms and general fever.  Holding a review of the preparedness of the BBMP health centres, Deputy Chief Minister Dr Ashwath Narayan directed the officials to check even those with ailments like common fever, cold and cough—general symptoms of flu. “This apart, the health workers have to visit every household to assess the situation and find out people with such symptoms,” DCM said. The state government has allotted Rs 50,000 to every primary health centres (PHCs) in all the wards to address any medical emergency scenario at the ward level.   “There are about 133 PHCs within BBMP limits of which as many as 48 centres are in Central Bengaluru. All the PHCs must be equipped with oxygen cylinders to address any respiratory-related ailments,” Dr Ashwath Narayan instructed. He also directed the officials to ensure that pedestrian paths are cleared of garbage and no street vendor shall be allowed to dump any waste on footpaths or by the roadsides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bbmp-health-centres-to-test-patients-with-common-flu-symptoms-829000.html
23-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka relaxes more lockdown restrictions; shops open up||In an addendum to his Wednesday order, Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar added over half-a-dozen activities to resume amid the lockdown. Under the ‘supply of essential goods’ category, the government has included dry fruits, ice cream and juice shops (take-away only).  In urban areas, food processing units such as bread factories, milk processing plants, flour mills, dal mills etc have been permitted.  Also now, recharge facilities for prepaid mobile connections will be available.  In the social sector, the government has added bed-side attendants and caregivers of senior citizens residing at home as a permissible activity. In a respite for students, shops that sell educational books are permitted to stay open.  To help citizens beat the summer seat, the government has decided to open up shops that sell electric fans. In the financial sector, non-banking financial institutions including housing finance companies, micro-financials with “bare minimum staff” and credit cooperative societies are allowed to function.  Following is the list: * NBFCs - housing finance companies, micro-financials with “bare minimum staff” and credit cooperative societies.* Dry fruits, ice cream and juice shops (take-away only).* Shops selling educational books for students.* Shops of electric fans.* Construction in rural areas to include water supply and sanitation, laying/erection of power transmission lines, telecom optical fibre and cables. * Construction in urban areas where workers are available on site and no workers are required to be brought in from outside. * Bed-side attendees, caregivers for senior citizens.* Recharge facilities for prepaid mobile connections.* Food processing units in urban areas such as bread factories, milk processing, flour/dal mills etc.* Forestry plantation and related activities, including silviculture.* Harvesting, processing, packaging, sale and marketing of bamboo, coconut, areca nut, cocoa, spices. * Collection, harvesting and processing of minor forest produce/non-timber forest produce by STs and other forest dwellers. * Facilities for export/import such as pack houses, inspection and treatment of seeds and horticulture produce.* Agriculture, horticulture research establishments.* Inter/Intra state movement of planting materials, honey bee colonies, honey and other beehive products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-relaxes-more-lockdown-restrictions-shops-open-up-829043.html
23-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government makes a U-turn, allows schools to collect fee||The state government has allowed the private schools to collect fees, from the ‘financially stable’ parents, for the next academic year. The Primary and Secondary Education department, which’d earlier issued circular directing schools not to collect the fee from parents for next academic year, has made a U-turn. The department is all set to issue another circular allowing schools to collect the fee from the parents. Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS) had petitioned Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to allow the schools to collect the fee, citing financial constraints. Considering the request, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar has directed the Commissioner for Public Instruction to issue a circular allowing schools to collect the fee.  In the petition to CM, the association had requested to allow schools to collect the fee from parents who are financially stable. The private schools’ association also requested the government to release pending dues towards RTE seats as it has become difficult for them to pay the salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff. The note issued by the minister to DPI commissioner reads, “Schools can collect the fee only from parents who are financially stable and willing to pay during the lockdown period and not to pressure those who are unable to pay the fees.” But the parents are worried that the schools equipped the government order will harass them for fee. “Despite the government order asking the schools not to collect fee during lockdown, several schools were demanding for payment of fees. Now, with government allowing them to collect fee, the schools will harass the parents,” says a parent. Meanwhile, the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS) has hailed the government decision. D Shashi Kumar, General Secretary of KAMS told DH, “We thank the state government for considering our plea and welcome the decision. At the same time, we also caution the schools not to harass parents to pay the fee during the lockdown period. If any schools found to be harassing parents, then we will recommend strict action against the management of such schools.”  The association has also requested the schools to pay at least 50% of the salary to their staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-makes-a-u-turn-allows-schools-to-collect-fee-829071.html
23-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Medico among two to contract coronavirus in Vijayapura||Two people, including a postgraduate medical student of BLDE Medical College, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. With this, the district's tally of cases has gone up to 37. The medico, a 28-year-old woman from Andhra Pradesh with no travel history, has contracted virus. The source of her infection is not known yet, Three teams of doctors have been formed to probe her source, said Deputy Commissioner Y S Patil. A 32-year-old man from Chapparband Galli, the Covid-19 hotspot in the city, has tested positive. He is believed to have contracted the illness from Patient 221, the DC informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/medico-among-two-to-contract-coronavirus-in-vijayapura-829073.html
23-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||As blood goes out of stock, Karnataka government plans helpline soon||The department of medical education has decided to set up a helpline to overcome the shortage of blood in the wake of the lockdown. Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said, “there is a shortage of blood at blood banks as donors are not coming forward. Through the helpline, we will connect with the donors.” Those willing to donate blood, but unable to come out due to the lockdown can call the helpline and a vehicle and staff will be sent to the donor’s doorstep to procure blood.  “We will soon launch the helpline and publicise the number,” said Sudhakar. Most of the blood banks in the city, including that of Indian Red Cross Society, which used to procure over 6,000 units of blood every month, got only 1,000 units in the last onemonth. Donors hesitant Blood banks are unable to organise blood donation camps and individual donors too are hesitant to come and donate blood, due to the Covid-19 fear. According to transfusion medicine experts, positive blood groups are manageable, but the negative blood groups are going out of stock and unavailable even for emergencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/as-blood-goes-out-of-stock-karnataka-government-plans-helpline-soon-829074.html
23-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Beat constables are now Covid-19 warriors in Hubballi||The Hubballi-Dharwad police constables are now acting as Covid-19 warriors by supplying essentials at the doorstep of the needy. The constables of attached to the beat system have been directed to be in touch with residents to supply essentials at their doorstep so that nobody ventures out unnecessarily. Each beat team covers about 80 houses, while the constables attached to the beat systems are expected to collect inputs about safety, security and incidents taking place in their respective localities. The constables have collected mobile numbers of the elderly persons of their localities. They contact these elderly persons to know if they need any medicine, fruits, vegetables and if they are facing any health challenges. They also collect details about persons visiting them from other places. “I call up people of 20 houses in my locality daily and get details of the materials needed. I pass on the details to the concerned. This has helped people under home quarantine,” K V Tumbenavar, attached to sub-urban police station, Hubballi, told DH. The police station sub-inspector M S Patil said that the police had resorted to the move to help people during their difficult time. “This will also instill confidence among people as they realise that the police are with them. We are effectively using the beat system to respond to the needs of the public,”he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/beat-constables-are-now-covid-19-warriors-in-hubballi-829080.html
23-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM B S Yediyurappa plans for post-lockdown phase in marathon meeting||The B S Yediyurappa administration, which is on its toes to look beyond Covid-19, took stock of the drinking water situation among other issues on Thursday, as part of a four-hour-long meeting to plan for the post-lockdown future. Measures to address drinking water shortage in parts of the state were reviewed to ensure adequate water supply in drought-hit areas. The CM stressed that it was important to ensure that the water was "safe" given the Covid-19 pandemic. Supplying excess water stored in reservoirs for agriculture and drinking water purposes was also proposed at the meeting. Considering the devastating floods suffered by the state last monsoon season, Yediyurappa directed the officials to take regular stock of reservoir levels to avoid another disaster. The CM directed the authorities to reclaim land leased to various organisations in cities that are either unused or have violated the lease conditions. The decision came as the state struggled to consolidate its resources and offset the losses suffered during the prolonged lockdown period. Noting the decline in international tourists, measures to attract domestic tourists from the country after the lockdown was discussed during the meeting. The government will publicise tourist locations where no Covid-19 cases are reported to improve footfall. Concerns were also raised on the losses suffered by various corporations of the Transport department, following which the government decided to use few buses to transport goods and generate revenue. Some buses from these corporations will be leased to private parties. Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda was also approached during the meeting to discuss the availability of fertilisers ahead of monsoon season. Gowda assured CM that fertilisers will be sold at a cheaper cost to farmers due to decline in international demand. The government will also procure fruits and vegetables cultivated by farmers and preserve it in cold storage plants, before being sold. In case of perishable commodities, directions were issued to accelerate the process of exporting the produce to other states and countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-plans-for-post-lockdown-phase-in-marathon-meeting-829087.html
23-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus outbreak: Karnataka's tally jumps to 445, death toll at 18||As many as 18 people, including nine migrant workers from Bihar - all contacts of Patient 419, tested positive for novel coronavirus in the state on Thursday. With this, the number of active cases in the state has gone up to 283 and the total count to 445. The day also saw the state report its 18th casualty after the 75-year-old woman (P432) from Bantwal, with a history of hypertension, stroke and pneumonia, died at Wenlock Hospital.   In a disturbing development, nine migrant workers among the people, who tested positive on Thursday, contracted the illness from a common contact Patient 419. All nine shared accommodation with Patient 419, who tested positive for virus on Wednesday, at Hongasandra. The rest others, who tested positive for Covid-19, are from Hubballi, Mandya, Kalaburagi and Dakshina Kannada and are contacts of previously diagnosed patients. Contact tracing is underway for one of the two cases reported from Vijayapura. Meanwhile, the Nanjangud cluster in Mysuru has 73 positive cases now, informed the minister. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, told reporters that 62% of cases in the state are asymptomatic. The chemists and pharmacies in hospitals have been told to make an entry of the people, along with their contact details, who buy the antipyretic and anti-inflammatory drugs for fever-like symptoms. This is being done to screen/monitor the SARI and influenza-like patients in the preliminary stages itself.  This applies to anti-allergic (cold) and anti-tussive (cough) drugs as well. The drugs could be paracetamol, cetrizine, chlorphineramine and all types of cough syrups. The chemists have to report to the district health authorities on a daily basis with the details of the medicine sold and to whom.  45 pvt hospitals for dialysis There are 166 dialysis centres in the state. Since 23 district hospitals which are acting as Covid-19 exclusive hospitals cannot provide dialysis services to healthy non-Covid patients, 45 private hospitals in the state have been roped in for dialysis. “These hospitals will create facilities for dialysis and provide the service under the Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka rate,” said Minister S Suresh Kumar. However, 143 dialysis centres will continue as usual.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-outbreak-karnatakas-tally-jumps-to-445-death-toll-at-18-829098.html
23-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Dial this doc for cardio SoS and he guides you to nearest hospital||At 11 pm, the cardiac helpline number of Dr Padmanabha Kamath buzzes with distress calls seeking assistance from faraway Gorakhpur. Padmanabha Kamath, Head of Cardiology Department at KMC Hospital in Mangaluru, immediately swings into action and directs the caller to rush the patient suffering from a massive heart attack with low BP for treatment at a hospital in Lucknow and shares the details of the cardiologist to the family members of the patient.  The patients’ family members who were finding it difficult to access a health facility due to the lockdown heave a sigh of relief. In another case at 6.30 am, a patient with heart problems and kidney ailment calls from Bengaluru seeking help. “I guided them to a hospital in Whitefield and the patient is improving now,” he said. These are two instances of 150 to 200 calls and messages that this doctor receives daily on his WhatsApp helpline number 97432 -87599.  “On average, I was receiving 10 to 20 queries a day through the helpline before the announcement of the lockdown. After the lockdown, the queries have increased to 150 to 200,” explained Dr Kamath. “Through the helpline, I guide them to the nearest hospital, or give advice as required.” The helpline started by Kamath a few months ago has been helping people with cardiovascular problems across the country. He maintains a list of eminent cardiologists working in different parts of India. Once he gets patient details, he shares them the contact details of the cardiologists who are close to their place. Simultaneously, he informs the cardiologist about the patient. The helpline was started to guide those with cardiac-related cases and help them in getting medical attention near their house.  Dr Kamath said the helpline has become more meaningful during this lockdown period when availing help is difficult. Further, general physicians from rural areas post ECGs on the helpline seeking guidance, mentioning the symptoms. After reading the ECG, he gives guidance to them, further referring to the nearest hospital for treatment. However, Kamath clarified that the helpline is not a substitute to a doctor’s examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dial-this-doc-for-cardio-sos-and-he-guides-you-to-nearest-hospital-829107.html
23-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus outbreak: HIV warriors go the extra mile to deliver medicines||Praveen Appasab Kamble, data manager at an Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ART) centre in Karwar, recently rode 110 km on his bike to door-deliver medicines to an HIV-positive patient. He is among the hundreds of HIV warriors in these Covid-19 times. In the absence of transportation during the lockdown, healthcare staff working with HIV patients across the state are going the extra mile, literally, to ensure that patients do not miss out on medication. These include staff of ART centres, link ART centres and community support centres for HIV-positives. Undeterred by Covid-19 cases reported in the region, Kamble travelled to Shirali from Karwar to meet a patient. “We wear masks and helmets. We make sure it’s a quick visit,” he said. Till date, his centre has completed 163 such deliveries. There is also the added aspect of stigma with HIV. To keep it discrete from prying eyes, the staff have designed opaque packages. Further, in case a patient is hesitant to receive it at home, the staff will deliver the medicine to nearby locations: village well, temple, pan shop or any other landmark — not too far, yet discrete. “Some patients even request to leave the medicines on a particular stone on the outskirts of the village. We comply, since patients’ confidentiality is of utmost importance,” said H R Mardi, senior counsellor of ART plus centre, Bagalkot. His team works from 7 am till 5 pm everyday, coordinating calls and deliveries. They have delivered to 700 patients till now. There are 1.72 lakh patients undergoing ART across Karnataka. Coordinating calls, addresses and preferred pick-up points is arduous. “With the lockdown, all eateries are closed. It’s the peak of summer and if one doesn’t take along sufficient water, there is nothing available on the way,” Revanasiddappa Hagargi, counsellor at Kalburgi ART centre, listed the troubles.  So, what motivates them to keep at the task? “We know these patients since the time of their diagnosis. We share an emotional bond. They are family to us,” he said. Even with patients visiting primary health centres, link ARTs or ARTs to pick up medicines, the staff ensure it is handed over quickly, as their immunity is already low, said Dr Ravi Kumar B M, regional coordinator, Karnataka State AIDS Prevention Society (KSAPS). Also, during the lockdown, patients can collect medicines at any centre irrespective of where they are registered. “For instance, we recently delivered medicine to a patient from Tamil Nadu stuck in the city,” Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-outbreak-hiv-warriors-go-the-extra-mile-to-deliver-medicines-829123.html
23-04-2020||West||Gujarat defers Asiatic lion census due to coronavirus lockdown||The extensive counting exercise, which is taken up every five years, was to begin next month and preparations for it were on in full swing, but it has now been postponed because of the unprecedented coronavirus crisis, he said. Gujarat has so far reported 2,407 coronavirus cases and 103 deaths due to the disease. "In view of the lockdown, the lion census will not take place in May. A decision on the census will be taken only after things become clear on the coronavirus situation and the lockdown, Chief Conservator of Forest, Junagadh division, D T Vasavda told PTI. Initially, it was decided to conduct the census in May and then it was postponed to June, but now it all depends on the situation, he said. The Gir Wildlife Sanctuary, which is the only abode of Asiatic lions, remains closed during the monsoon season from June-end to October, which is also the mating period of big cats, another official said, adding that the census is most unlikely at that time. During the last census conducted in May 2015, 523 lions were found in the Gir forest. The state has succeeded in conserving lions in the Gir forest, where their numbers dwindled to just over a dozen in the early 20th century. The erstwhile Nawab of Junagadh, Mahabat Khan, had then banned shooting of lions. Due to conservation efforts of the state authorities after Independence, the number of wild cats has steadily gone up in Gir. At present, lions are found in seven districts - Junagadh, Amreli, Bhavnagar, Gir Somnath, Botad, Porbandar and Rajkot - surrounding the Gir forest area. At times, they stray into farms in these districts and sometimes enter cities and towns located on the periphery of the sanctuary. Two years backs, lions in Gir faced a threat of infectious diseases. The state government in February last year said as many as 34 lions died in 2018 due to various diseases, including the canine distemper virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-defers-asiatic-lion-census-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown-828801.html
23-04-2020||West||Maha: SRPF sub-inspector commits suicide||A 55-year-old sub-inspector of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service weapon in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli district, police said on Thursday. The incident took place on Wednesday evening at the Savargaon armoured outpost, located around 170 km from Nagpur, a police official said. Sub-inspector Chandrakant Shinde allegedly shot himself with a rifle in his room at the outpost, he said In a purported suicide note found at the spot, the victim, who was a native of Wanavadi in Pune district, said he was suffering from some health issues because of which he was taking the extreme step, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-srpf-sub-inspector-commits-suicide-828847.html
23-04-2020||West||Gujrat conducting 3,000 COVID-19 tests everyday: Official||The Gujarat government has also decided to declare the figures of coronavirus tests and deaths only once in 24 hours, instead of the present practice of providing the details twice a day, state principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi told reporters in Gandhinagar. "We have not reduced the tests to detect coronavirus cases. We are conducting 3,000 tests everyday in Gujarat. Out of these, 2,500 samples are collected from across the state while 500 samples are of those who are already quarantined or admitted to hospitals," she said. The official was responding to questions on rumours about less number of COVID-19 tests being done in the state. "Till now, we used to share tests and death figures once in the morning and then in the evening. To avoid any duplication of data, we will now share the details only in the evening. The figures will reflect all the tests conducted across the state during 24 hours," she said. Till Wednesday, the state reported 2,407 coronavirus cases and 103 deaths. The official said the number of COVID-19 cases have increased significantly because of the intensive surveillance and testing in areas which have been declared as hotspots. Asked where Gujarat stands in terms of COVID-19 cases and deaths, she said "this is not a competition". She said majority of the coronavirus victims who died were either aged or suffering from other ailments, like heart disease and high diabetes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujrat-conducting-3000-covid-19-tests-everyday-official-828874.html
23-04-2020||West||Run special trains for migrants in Maharashtra after COVID-19 lockdown: Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar has urged Railway Minister Piyush Goyal to run special train services from Mumbai and Pune to ferry migrant workers stuck in Maharashtra to their native states after the lockdown ends on May 3. According to an official statement, in a letter to Goyal, Pawar said that the migrant workers, stranded in different parts of Maharashtra, may step out in big numbers to return to their states when the train services resume after the lockdown is lifted.  This can lead to law and order problem (with workers coming out in big numbers), he added. To avoid this, the Railway Ministry should run special trains, he demanded. The Maharashtra Finance Minister said that the state government has arranged accommodation and food for the migrant workers, who hail from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other states. He said six-and-half lakh workers are currently staying across the shelters provided by the state government.  Pawar also referred to the scores of migrant workers gathering outside Bandra Railway Station here on April 14 -- when the nationwide lockdown was to end, but was extended till May 3 -- and said the incident marked how desperate the labourers were to return to their home states. "The law and order problem can be avoided and workers can return to their respective home states safely if the Railway Ministry runs special trains for them after the lockdown period is over," the statement quoted Pawar as saying in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/run-special-trains-for-migrants-in-maharashtra-after-covid-19-lockdown-ajit-pawar-828909.html
23-04-2020||West||Former top cop's NGO serves food to 35,000 people in Mumbai amid coronavirus lockdown||Amid the lockdown, a social organisation run by former Maharashtra director general of police D Sivanandan is providing food to nearly 35,000 poor and needy people in Mumbai city and suburbs every day. Since March 26, the Mumbai Roti Bank, founded by Sivanandan in January 2018, has supplied food to 5.3 lakh people in the city. "This is the time when there is an actual need to help the poor and needy people and bridge the gap between surplus food and empty plates. The Mumbai Roti Bank is providing food to at least 35,000 people here and 2,500 in Nagpur every day," Sivanandan told PTI. He said they also want to extend the campaign in Pune, but are facing manpower shortage there.  "As Mumbai has a huge population, we cant reach everywhere. People contact us for food and serve them accordingly," he said. Mumbai Police are also helping in the initiative by distributing food to people, he said. The Mumbai Roti Bank has four kitchens, including the central one at Mahul in suburban Chembur. Besides, it gets food prepared at a facility each in Dadar and Borivali and a caterer friend of Sivanandan also supplies food. "Before the lockdown, we were serving 4,000 people in a day, but now the demand has gone up, so we are putting in all efforts to fulfil this. We have been serving pulao and dal khichdi to cater to the increased demand," he said. The organisation is also providing food in coronavirus containment zones, including Dharavi slum area, with its workers taking care to maintain social distancing and wear protective gear. At least 45 to 50 NGOs are working with the Mumbai Roti Bank during the period of lockdown to supply meals in the city, said Sivanandan, who at times tries cooking himself at the kitchen in Mahul. "I have seen poverty during my younger days and have also observed that children take the path of crime because of hunger. To curb the crime, I realised that these children need to go to school where they get mid-day meal. Once they are educated, they are qualified to work, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-top-cops-ngo-serves-food-to-35000-people-in-mumbai-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-828916.html
23-04-2020||West||145 crew members stuck on cruise ship disembark in Mumbai||As many as 145 Indian crew members, who were stuck on board a cruise ship due to the coronavirus pandemic, disembarked in Mumbai on Thursday, over a month after it set sail from Thailand, officials said. The crew members of the cruise ship- Marila Discovery- got down at the international cruise terminal in the city, the officials said. Talking to PTI, Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) chairman Sanjay Bhatia said that these crew members hail from Mumbai, Goa, Hyderabad and other places of the country. "They have been quarantined now. They have undergone COVID-19 testing. After their test reports come, a decision will be taken on whether to send them home or not," he said. Passengers on the cruise ship had disembarked in Thailand on March 14 after the outbreak of COVID-19, he said. The ship from Norway had reached Mumbai on April 14, but the crew was not getting permission to disembark, Bhatia added. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had taken up the matter with the Centre, following which the Union Home Ministry had issued guidelines to enable the crew members of this and similar other ships to disembark.  The state Chief Minister's Office (CMO) had said in a statement on Wednesday that the company, which operates the cruise ship, said that despite leaving Thailand 37 days ago and although no crew member was found coronavirus positive, it was not getting permission to allow the ship to enter the harbor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/145-crew-members-stuck-on-cruise-ship-disembark-in-mumbai-828950.html
23-04-2020||West||Export units in Gujarat cities can resume operations amid coronavirus lockdown||The Gujarat government on Thursday said export-oriented industrial units located in cities across the state can resume operations if they have received export orders. But, the industrial units situated in coronavirus containment zones will not get such relief, secretary in the Chief Minister's Office, Ashwani Kumar, said. The export units need to take permission from their respective district administrations and if allowed, they can resume operations from April 25, he said. Amid the lockdown, the state government earlier allowed industrial units situated outside cities to start operations from April 20. Taking advantage of the relaxation, as many as 35,000 factories have already started production with the help of over three lakh workers, Kumar said. "Now, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has decided to permit export-oriented units situated in city limits to resume operations if they have already taken export orders. This relaxation will not apply to units situated inside coronavirus containment zones of a city," he said. Owners of the industrial units are required to submit applications to their respective district collectors to resume operations. If they are granted permission, they can resume operations from April 25, the official said. These units need to follow the standard safety procedures, like masks for workers and social distancing, to contain the spread of coronavirus, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/export-units-in-gujarat-cities-can-resume-operations-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-828971.html
23-04-2020||West||Let wine shops reopen, it will boost revenue: Raj Thackeray to Maharashtra CM||MNS president Raj Thackeray on Thursday wrote to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's Office, seeking opening of wine shops in Maharashtra to ensure revenue inflow into the states treasury, which he said, is fast depleting during the on-going coronavirus-enforced lockdown. Raj Thackeray, in a letter to the CMO, said allowing wine shops to remain open does not mean trying to cater to the needs of alcohol consumers, but to ensure revenue inflow during difficult times like the one faced by the state currently in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.  He said wine shops, closed since the lockdown was implemented a month ago, can be allowed to remain open by ensuring social distancing norms are adhered to. The state government should not try to get caught up in some moral issue at such a crucial time and take the necessary decision. "Lets face the problem and find solutions instead, the MNS chief said in the letter. He said the state's treasury is fast depleting during the lockdown, which has been extended till May 3.  He also called for allowing hotels and kitchens providing affordable foods to run, sticking to social distancing rules, as a big chunk of Maharashtras population is dependent on them. This will help revive the state's weakening economy, the MNS leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/let-wine-shops-reopen-it-will-boost-revenue-raj-thackeray-to-maharashtra-cm-828973.html
23-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Maharashtra govt urges Centre to make trains available to take migrants back home||While Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has urged the Inter-Ministerial Central Team (ICMT) to ensure passage for migrants, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar has formally written to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal.According to government estimates, nearly 6.5 lakh migrants are staying in camps in the state, a majority of which are in Mumbai, the larger Mumbai metropolitan region and Pune district.  The Uttar Pradesh Development Forum has also apprised the government of a possible plan to ferry the migrant workers back homes. "The migrant workers in MMR mostly stay in slums that are congested. Besides,  social distancing is difficult," UPDF General Secretary Pankaj Jaiswal said.  The UPDF said that permission be granted first to those who do not own a house. The booking of tickets should be done through IRCTC and details like Aadhar number of the person initiating the booking must be sought.  The trains must be started in a phased and staggered manner to its destinations. "Thermal checking must be done before one boards a train," he said,  adding that back in their states that should be taken to home districts by buses and quarantined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-maharashtra-govt-urges-centre-to-make-trains-available-to-take-migrants-back-home-828975.html
23-04-2020||West||Special team to trace suspected coronavirus patients in Aurangabad||The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has constituted a 12-member team to speed up the work of tracing the suspected COVID-19 patients in the city, an official said on Thursday. This team comprises health department officials and police as well as civic personnel. "The members of the team are not allowed to stay at their homes and a separate arrangement has been made for their accommodation," civic chief Astik Kumar Pandey said in his order. "This team will speed up the work of finding the suspected patients of COVID-19 in different areas. It will also co-ordinate with doctors if there is a need to take any patient for treatment, and convey the details to the local police authorities," he said in the letter. This team will look after the needs of the people, who are under institutional quarantine, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/special-team-to-trace-suspected-coronavirus-patients-in-aurangabad-828990.html
23-04-2020||West||Gujarat lockdown relaxation: First vessel beached at one of biggest ship recycling yards||With industries reopening in Gujarat after a complete 21-day lockdown in view of coronavirus outbreak, one of the largest ship-breaking yards in the world at Alang in Bhavnagar district has started to return to its pre-virus business with nearly 60 units (ship-breaking yards) resuming work in the past couple of days. Officials said that on Wednesday early morning, a vessel named "Seafrost" was beached for the first time for demolition, after reopening, bringing some hope for better days ahead for yard owners and thousands of migrant workers who are dependent on the business that had been halted in view of the Covid-19 infection spreading rapidly in the state. Officials said that there are six other vessels, anchored close to the shipyard, awaiting procedures to be followed before being beached. Among these vessels are Adtiya1, West Scent, Lan Wan, Melanesian Pride, Kweilin and Manolis P. Senior officials said that these vessels are waiting at the outer anchorage for procedures to be followed for immigration clearance and a nod from customs and Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) before Gujarat Maritime Board (GMB), the state-run regulator that has administrative control over the shipyard, would give the final beaching permission. Vice-chairman and chief executive officer, GMB, Mukesh Kumar said, "The business is back at the world's largest ship recycling yard in Alang. An oil tanker named "Seafrost" weighing 17,012 tons and 142.94 metres in length was beached early on Wednesday." Alang port officials further said that since April 20, when the state government announced the reopening of industries, mostly in rural parts of the state, 60 units or yards (ship breakers) have resumed their work till Wednesday. Alang-Sosiya Ship Recycling Yard, as it is called, has over 150 yards, of which around 130 are operational. Captain Arvind Mishra, port officer, told DH, "When the lockdown was announced, there were nearly 60 yards which were functional. Today, we are almost back to pre-virus time. We are following all the conditions which were mandated to reopening such as keeping safe social distancing, hygiene, among others." The reopening has brought some relief to thousands of workers, mostly migrants from all over the country, who had been rendered jobless after the lockdown and wanted to leave for their natives. Many had complained that their employers were not paying salaries. Following the reports, Bhavnagar district administration with the help of NGOs distributed over 10,000 ration kits to these workers. Vishnu Gupta, President of Ship Recycling Industries Association, claimed, "We took care of the workers and no one left during the lockdown. The business has started and we hope it will be back to normal soon."  According to officials, since 2019 till March 31 this year, over 200 vessels were beached at the shipyard spread in over 10 km coastline. The shipyard has remained unaffected with the coronavirus outbreak while Bhavnagar city has reported 32 positive cases and five deaths. Gujarat as a whole has reported more than 2,400 cases with 103 deaths by Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-lockdown-relaxation-first-vessel-beached-at-one-of-biggest-ship-recycling-yards-828992.html
23-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Ban on doorstep delivery of newspapers exceptional move, says Maharashtra govt||Justifying ban on door-to-door delivery of newspapers during the lockdown, the Maharashtra government on Thursday told the Bombay High Court bench here that as per experts coronavirus stays on surfaces for a long time and newspapers are passed on from one hand to another, increasing the chances of spread of the deadly infection. Making the submission before the Nagpur bench of the Bombay HC, the government said its decision prohibiting door- to-door delivery of newspapers (now in force only in COVID-19 hotspots and containment zones) was an exceptional policy move and in no way violates the freedom of the press. The state, in an affidavit filed before Justice N W Sambre, said newspapers are not an essential item and hence prohibition on its doorstep distribution cannot be said to be infringing upon any fundamental rights. The affidavit, filed by Ravindra Thakare, Nagpur Collector on behalf of the state, was responding to a petition filed by the Maharashtra Union of Working Journalists (MUWJ) andthe NagpurUnion of Working Journalists (NUWJ), challenging a government circular issued on April 18. The circular said whilenewspaperscan be sold at stalls, their door-to-door distribution by vendors cannot be permitted at this stage looking at the rapid spread of coronavirus in Maharashtra, the state worst-affected by COVID-19 in the country. The government clarified that a blanket ban on door- to-door delivery of newspapers has been lifted and now the prohibition is limited only in Mumbai, Pune and coronavirus containment zones in other districts of the state. Mumbai and Pune are the top two cities worst-hit by the deadly disease in the state. The affidavit claimed the aim of the government was to control and reduce the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. According to experts, COVID-19 virus can stay on various surfaces for a considerable amount of time and the newspaper is something that will be passed on by hand to hand by various people which may increase the chances of infection spreading, the affidavit said. Newspaper cannot be considered an essential need unlike food items. Citizens can still get e-papers through the Internet for daily reading.  "Hence, prohibition of door-to-door distribution of newspapers by no means infringes upon the right of the freedom of the press, the state said.   It added that there are several areas or districts that are now coronavirus-free or where the prevalence of the virus is negligible. The circulation of a non-essential item which is printed elsewhere in these coronavirus-free areas may lead to resurgence of the infection, the affidavit said. The government said this was an exceptional policy decision taken by the state under an extraordinary situation as an important temporary measure to control the outbreak of the pandemic, which has infected more than 5,600 people so far in Maharashtra. The intentions behind these policy decisions related to the lockdown are in the interest of the citizens to ensure their wellbeing and safety. "These are judicious, fair, and transparent and are neither arbitrary nor permanent in nature, the affidavit said. Justice Sambre took note of the affidavit and posted the matter for further hearing on June 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-ban-on-doorstep-delivery-of-newspapers-exceptional-move-says-maharashtra-govt-828994.html
23-04-2020||West||Dharavi's tally of COVID-19 patients crosses 200-mark||The number of coronavirus positive patients in Dharavi area of Mumbai crossed the 200- mark on Thursday after 25 new cases were detected, a civic official said. With these new cases, the tally of patients in this densely-populated slum area of Mumbai has reached 214, the official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Besides, the death toll in this locality has gone up to 13 now, he said. The latest positive cases were found in various localities of Dharavi, including Kutti Nagar, Matunga Labour camp, Azad Nagar, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Chamada Bazar, Mukund Nagar and Kalyanwadi. Dharavi is one of the biggest slums in Asia where nearly 15 lakh people live in small shanties, making it one of the most congested areas of the metropolis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dharavis-tally-of-covid-19-patients-crosses-200-mark-829015.html
23-04-2020||West||Goa lawyers oppose Bombay HC circular seeking resumption of courts after May 3||City lawyers on Thursday petitioned the Bombay High Court to withdraw a circular issued earlier this week, proposing to cancel the court’s summer vacation if the Covid-19 lockdown is lifted on May 3, claiming there is no conclusive proof that Goa is a Covid-free state. “All subordinate bar associations and the members of the bar have unanimously resolved to express their disagreement with the decision of the High Court to cancel summer vacations and open the court for regular work and are against putting in an appearance in this pandemic time,” states the petition by the Panjim Lawyer's Forum to the Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court BP Dharmadhikari. “The state of Maharashtra is witnessing nearly 400-500 Covid-19 cases every day. Though the state of Goa is declared Zero-Covid state, the said declaration is only on the basis of cases treated and cured in the Goa Medical College and the data disclosed by the government which may be far from reality,” the petition states.   Earlier this week the central government had declared Goa as a Covid-free state after all seven active Covid-19 cases were treated and subsequently tested negative. “There has been no community or door-to-door testing within the state of Goa and therefore one cannot be conclusive of being a Covid-free state,” the petition further adds. The Bombay High Court's jurisdiction covers the state of Goa as well. The petition also states that several lawyers are senior citizens who would be put to risk of being infected by Covid-19 if courts resume and they are to meet clients from a cross-section of society. “It sends out a wrong message to the public at large, that things are normal again. It will be difficult, if not impossible to regulate crowds,” the petition also adds.   "The summer vacations are to avoid the brunt of the summer heat. Opening the courts in this weather may be counter-productive for many. Considering the survival probability of the virus in cooler temperatures, use of air conditioning in courts may not be advisable," it also states, adding that pendency of cases in Goa courts was not as severe as in other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-lawyers-oppose-bombay-hc-circular-seeking-resumption-of-courts-after-may-3-829028.html
23-04-2020||West||Recovered Muslim COVID-19 patients ready to donate plasma||Over forty Muslim coronavirus patients who were discharged from a hospital in Vadodara in Gujarat on Thursday have agreed to donate their blood plasma for the treatment of others, a community leader said. Recently the Union government allowed Gujarat health authorities to use on an experimental basis the plasma transfusion therapy which aims to boost the immunity of critical patients. Plasma (a component of blood) of recovered patients contains antibodies, which are supposed to help fight the infection when injected in other patients.  On Thursday, 44 Muslim patients were given discharge from a Covid Care Centre in Vadodara after they tested negative for infection twice in two days, said community leader Zuber Goplani. Since all of them were asymptomatic and in non-critical stage, they were kept at this Covid centre, set up in the hostel premises of Ebrahim Bawany Industrial Training Institute on Ajwa road. "With intensive care and quality food provided by authorities, they finally recovered," Goplani added. "Since the plasma of their blood now carries antibodies for coronavirus, we asked them to donate their plasma so that lives of other patients can be saved," he said.  While leaving, more than 40 of them said they were ready to donate plasma. IAS officer Vinod Rao, who is in-charge of Vadodara COVID-19 operation, said doctors, officials and community leaders persuaded these patients to donate their blood so that plasma can be extracted. "I am glad to know that they have agreed to become plasma donors. Plasma of these 40-odd patients will be useful in saving lives of 100 others," said Rao.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/recovered-muslim-covid-19-patients-ready-to-donate-plasma-829038.html
23-04-2020||West||Reducing Maharashtra's COVID-19 mortality rate govt's priority: CM  ||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said that his government's focus was to reduce the mortality rate of COVID-19 patients and increase the period during which the number of positive cases double. He made the remarks during his video-conference interaction with the members of two central teams that toured Mumbai and Pune cities, the two coronavirus hotspots in the state. The teams took a review of the medical machinery, implementation of the lockdown measures and social distancing, safety of health workers and situation of labourers in shelter camps, supply of essential goods, among other things.  A statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said that Thackeray told the teams that reducing the mortality rate of COVID-19 patients and increasing the period of doubling of positive cases were his government's focus. At present, the period of doubling of patients in the state is seven days, which has to be increased to more than 10 days, Thackeray told the teams. He asked the state administration to take into consideration all the suggestions made by the central teams. The teams expressed satisfaction that the government was carrying out more tests to detect the positive cases. The statement said that 78.9 per cent of the patients, who died due to the infection, had other ailments and were in the age group of 51 to 60 years. Additional Secretary Manoj Joshi is leading the five- member team in Mumbai, while the Pune team is being led by Sanjay Malhotra, Additional Secretary in the Ministry of Power. Thackeray said that PPE kits may be required in additional numbers at a later stage and it is important that the central government makes them available expeditiously. At the local level, some companies are manufacturing PPE kits, for which the central government guidelines are necessary, he said. He also said that the state administration should follow all the guidelines given by the central teams. Joshi suggested that institutional quarantine facilities should be increased. He also called for the need to have focused testing, hygiene in slum pockets, shifting of quarantine facilities from congested areas, like Dharavi, to other places, starting nursing homes and private dispensaries. Stating that there are complaints that non-COVID-19 patients are suffering due to the unavailability of medical facilities, Thackeray asked the authorities to take steps so that such things do not happen. He also instructed them to start nursing homes and clinics for other patients soon. Maharashtra Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta told the central teams that the state is conducting COVID-19 tests six times more than being done in Kerala. Mumbai Municipal Commissioner Pravin Pardeshi said 4,270 persons per 10 lakh population are being tested in the metropolis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/reducing-maharashtras-covid-19-mortality-rate-govts-priority-cm-829088.html
23-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Wadhawans shifted to home quarantine in Mahabaleshwar||DHFL promoters Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan and 21 others including their family members have been now placed in home quarantine at their property in Mahabaleshwar in western Maharashtra, a police official said. The Wadhawan brothers and others were placed in institutional quarantine at Panchgani on April 9 after it was found that they had traveled from Khandala in Pune district to the family's farmhouse in Mahabaleshwar in violation of lockdown for coronavirus. "Upon the completion of their institutional quarantine period, the family has been shifted to their property in Mahabaleshwar till May 6," said the senior official of Satara police. The Maharashtra police had earlier this week requested the CBI to take the custody of Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan. Both brothers are named as accused in the CBI's FIR pertaining to alleged swindling of money by Yes Bank promoter Rana Kapoor and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-wadhawans-shifted-to-home-quarantine-in-mahabaleshwar-829120.html
23-04-2020||West||Two accused in Palghar lynching case linked to BJP: Congress||The Congress in Maharashtra on Thursday alleged that two of the accused in the Palghar mob lynching case are members of the BJP and demanded that the saffron party take action against them. The BJP, however, rejected the Congress claim and said the two persons mentioned by it are not members of the saffron party. Addressing a press conference here, state Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said Ishwar Nikule and Bhau Sathe, listed as accused no 61 and 65, respectively, are office- bearers of the BJP's Dahanu mandal unit in Palghar district. The BJP must take action against its office-bearers who are accused of killing two sadhus and their driver, and its government at the Centre should bring a law to curb mob attacks, said Sawant. He said Nikule could be seen on the official Facebook page of the BJP Dahanu Mandal as a booth-level office-bearer of Gadchincle village, where the three people were lynched by a violent mob on Thursday last on suspicion that they were child-lifters. More than 100 people have been named accused in the case. Sathe is also one of the booth-level office-bearers of Gadchincle village, Sawant claimed. Several pictures, including the one featuring Nikule, were taken during a programme organised by the BJP to highlights the achievements of the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis government, he said. Gadchincle sarpanchChitra Chaudhary can also be seen in one of the pictures, Sawant said, adding the BJP is ruling the village panchayat for the last 10 years. Besides Chaudhary, local BJP mandal president Sangita Kotela and then chairperson of Dahanu Panchayat Samiti Rama Thackeray were present at the event, Sawant said. He said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, of which the Congress is a constituent, will bring all those involved in the lynching incident to book. "But it is surprising that the BJP hasn't taken action against it's people accused of killing the sadhus," he said. Sawant demanded that the Centre enact a law against mob lynchings as directed by the Supreme Court. Despite direction from a Supreme Court bench headed by the then Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra, the central government has not enacted a law against mob lynchings in the last two years, the Congress spokesman said. In July 2018, the Supreme Court had condemned incidents of mob lynching and directed the central government to enact legislation against such heinous act, he said. In addition, 11 guidelines were issued in this regard but the central government did not take any action on them, Sawant said. Again in July 2019, a bench headed by the then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi took note of mob lynching cases and sent a notice to the Centre asking what were the measures taken on previous directives, but the Modi government did nothing, Sawant charged. "After the Palghar incident, Union Home Minister Amit Shah called Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, but did not do anything to bring a law against incidents of mob lynching," he said. Incidents of mob lynching have occurred in other states too, but no senior BJP leader at the time showed any such concern, Sawant said. On the contrary, accused in some of these cases were later felicitated by BJP ministers, he claimed. When contacted, state BJP spokesman Keshav Upadhye rejected the Congress allegations. "The two persons mentioned by Congress are not BJP workers. The photographs (released by the Congress) are of a public programme attended by many villagers," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-accused-in-palghar-lynching-case-linked-to-bjp-congress-829124.html
23-04-2020||West||8 Mumbai wards have most of COVID-19 cases, recoveries||Nearly 63 per cent of the 3,754 COVID-19 patients found till April 22 in Mumbai, a top hotspot of the coronavirus spread in the country, are from eight of the total 24 administrative wards here, the civic body said on Thursday. The latest infographic released by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also suggested that about 60 per cent, or 255, of the total 425 coronavirus patients discharged from hospitals are from these eight administrative wards. According to BMC data, G-South (Haji Ali to Worli), E (JJ Hospital to Chinchpokali), L (Chunabhatti to Pawai), K West (Vile Parle West to Oshiwara), FN (Dadar East to Chunabhatti), G North (Worli to Dharavi), D (Charni Road to Haji Ali) and KE (Santacruz to Jogeshwari East) wards have 2,360 coronavirus cases or nearly 63 per cent of the total count in Mumbai city till April 22. It suggested that G-South ward has the highest, 507, coronavirus patients, which amount to 13.50 per cent of the total cases in the city, which has emerged as one of the hotspots of COVID-19 spread not only in Maharashtra but also across the country. G-South is followed by E (368), L (267), KW (264), FN (260), GN (257), D (234) and KE (203) wards in terms of recording cases. According to the data, three wards, C (Fort to JJ Hospital), T (Nahur to Mulund)and RN (Borivali to Dahisar) have the lowest number of positive cases. RN has the least number of 22 cases, followed by T (26) and C (28) wards. The BMC data suggested that the highest number of 72 recovered patients are from G-South, most part of which fall under Maharashtra Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray's Worli Assembly constituency, followed by K East, D and E wards.  The coronavirus infection has so far claimed 160 lives in the metropolis. The Centre has declared Mumbai as one of the hotspots of COVID-19 in the country and various measures have been taken by the authorities to contain the spread of the virus in its densely populated slums. According to a BMC release, the civic body has created as many as 813 containment zones, where at least one or more positive or suspected case of COVID-19 were found till April 21. Restrictions have been put on the movement of people in these zones to avoid spread of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/8-mumbai-wards-have-most-of-covid-19-cases-recoveries-829127.html
23-04-2020||West||RAF jawan tests COVID-19 positive in Ahmedabad, 130 quarantined||About 130 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel have been quarantined after their colleague, an RAF jawan, tested positive for COVID-19 in Gujarat's Ahmedabad, officials said on Thursday. They said the infected jawan is a head constable-rank official and works as a driver for the 100th battalion of the Rapid Action Force, the blue dungaree donning anti-riot unit of the paramilitary. The battalion is based in Ahmedabad. The jawan had been on active duty and after he was confirmed with coronavirus pandemic infection a contact-tracing procedure was carried out and about 130 personnel of his unit, including about a dozen who were in his direct contact, have been quarantined, they said. On Thursday, another CRPF jawan working as a nursing assistant with a Kupwara-based battalion of the force was tested positive for coronavirus infection. The said jawan has been admitted to a hospital in Delhi, as he was here on leave, they said. The 3.25-lakh personnel strong CRPF is country's largest paramilitary force and is designated as the lead internal security force of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/raf-jawan-tests-covid-19-positive-in-ahmedabad-130-quarantined-829130.html
23-04-2020||West||M Venkaiah Naidu speaks to Amit Shah, Gujarat CM over Andhra Pradesh fishermen stranded in Gujarat amid lockdown||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday spoke with Home Minister Amit Shah and Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on the plight of nearly 5,000 Andhra Pradesh fishermen stranded at Veraval and two other places in Gujarat, official sources said. The chief minister told  Naidu that the Andhra Pradesh government has agreed to arrange for their travel to the state by boats, the sources said. The fishermen have been stranded in Gujarat since the lockdown was announced on March 24, they said. The vice president expressed satisfaction that both the Centre and the two state governments have evolved a feasible solution to ensure the return of the fishermen to Andhra Pradesh by boats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/m-venkaiah-naidu-speaks-to-amit-shah-gujarat-cm-over-andhra-pradesh-fishermen-stranded-in-gujarat-amid-lockdown-829134.html
23-04-2020||West||145 Indian crew from German cruise ship to be in quarantine at Mumbai due to coronavirus scares||The government on Thursday said 145 Indian crew disembarked at Mumbai Port from a German cruise ship will continue to be in quarantine in Mumbai till their COVID-19 tests come negative. After the issuance of the standard operative procedure (SOP) by the Ministry of Home Affairs for sign-on and sign-off of Indian seafarers, 145 Indian crew of German cruise lines have been able to disembark on Mumbai Port on Thursday, the Ministry of Shipping said in a statement. "The crew will continue to be in quarantine in Mumbai until their test reports come negative," the ministry said. Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) facilitated the disembarkation of Indian crew by following stringent health check-ups in three stages, it said, adding elaborate health check-up facilities were arranged at berth. "Port Health Officers assisted by MbPT doctors & medics formed the first stage. In the Second stage, the crew were checked and stamped by MCGM health authorities for 14-day home quarantine. In the third and most critical stage, the swab of all disembarking crew was collected for testing," the statement said. Thereafter the usual processes of custom, immigration, security and port clearance were completed with all PPE & social-distancing norms, it added. The government has come out with guidelines for change of crew at Indian ports, a move that will put an end to hardships faced by stuck seafarers and pave way for them to return to their homes. Under the standard operating procedure (SOP), any seafarer would be allowed sign-on or sign-off at ports after tests for COVID-19 is found negative, failing which action as per guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare would be taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/145-indian-crew-from-german-cruise-ship-to-be-in-quarantine-at-mumbai-due-to-coronavirus-scares-829139.html
