24-04-2020||Comment||China captures institutions||Global fissures are opening up in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic – and the World Health Organisation (WHO) is caught in the middle of it. Earlier this year, reports in the international media suggested that China had covered up early cases of the infection to salvage the government’s image. Late last year, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission falsely stated that the virus could not be transmitted human-to-human. Beijing then withheld vital information on the infection from the WHO for as long as two months. On its part, the WHO has walked very close to Beijing’s line. In mid-January, the WHO tweeted in support of China’s claim that Covid-19 does not transmit from human to human. Then, even as reports on China’s early cover-up surfaced, its Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus praised Beijing’s containment efforts. “China has bought the world time,” he said at the Munich Security Conference in February. Tedros also criticised countries early on for applying travel restrictions out of China, before inevitably advocating lockdowns and social distancing. Critics in India and America contrast the WHO’s ongoing tightrope walk to its decisive action following the 2003 outbreak of SARS in China. Back then, the WHO made history by declaring its first-ever travel advisory, asking people to avoid going in and out of southern China. Its then-Director-General Gro Harlem Brundtland also criticised the Chinese for similarly covering up the outbreak early on. And in the aftermath of the epidemic, the WHO adopted new International Health Regulations to prevent future cover-ups. What has changed? Ironically, the WHO’s cautious approach to Beijing is the inevitable result of Trump’s own foreign policy. While America has been withdrawing itself from multilateral leadership in the last few years, China has been steadily increasing its own influence. Take Ethiopia -- the home country of the current WHO chief. In 1991, the left-leaning Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF) came to power in Addis Ababa and soon began courting Beijing. Three years into office, the EPRDF sent a delegation to Beijing to seek “China’s advice on Ethiopia’s development”. Then, in 2005, there came a significant turning point. Ethiopia held a relatively free, fair and open election that year – and it resulted in a poor result for the EPRDF. Opposition groups, who had since then sat on the margins of Ethiopian politics, captured a third of the seats in parliament. In response, the EPRDF cracked down on political rivals. The EPRDF then began looking east to Beijing. Beijing responded: China helped the EPRDF set up a central party school on the lines of the Chinese Communist Party’s own school in Beijing. It also designed a party cadre education system for the EPRDF, teaching them how to manage their own organisational structure, build an ideology, develop a propaganda system, and so on. Senior Ethiopian training delegations regularly visited Beijing for further education, each time focusing on a different theme – from poverty alleviation to youth development. The mentorship worked. For nearly three decades, the EPRDF ruled in Addis Ababa as a virtual one-party state, winning elections comfortably each time (until it was dissolved in 2019). Tedros himself is a veteran of Ethiopian politics and served as health minister and foreign minister for several years. In 2017, when he came up for election to the post of WHO chief, China duly supported its ally. Months before the election, Beijing invited him to speak at Peking University on global health issues. China’s support for allies like Ethiopia has run in parallel to its increasing footprint at the UN. Beijing is now the second-largest contributor to the UN budget – accounting for 12% of its funding as opposed to just 1% two decades ago. It is also now the only country in UN history to feature among both the top financiers as well as the top troop contributors for UN peacekeeping. More importantly, it is forging strong alliances with other developing countries and supporting the candidature of their officials to top UN posts – as with Ethiopia and Tedros. Contrast all this with Trump’s ‘America First’ foreign policy. Over the course of his presidency, Trump has vilified allies across the board, accusing them of feeding off Washington’s generosity. He has also attacked UN agencies and institutions and consistently advocated cutting US funding for the organisation. Even in the midst of the current fiasco, Trump’s first instinct towards the WHO was to threaten funding cuts. Populism in democratic countries now pulls away strongly from multilateralism. Commentary in both India and the US is now increasingly sceptical of the UN and its agencies. Even more worryingly, in the US, right-wing nationalists see multilateralism and global cooperation as a sign of weakness, thereby making multilateral decision-making in UN ‘talk shops’ increasingly costly for the President. This is a worrying trend. Abandoning global decision-making forums and yielding them to China is a problem for both India and the US. In the aftermath of World War II, America built a multitude of international institutions and norms in order to increase transparency and accountability in policymaking around the world. This made globalisation possible, as businesses and people could transact across borders without the threat of being mistreated by foreign governments. Both American and Indian private sector firms, investors and employees gained significantly from such coordination. For China, however, international institutions and norms are a hindrance. Take the WHO norms regarding transparency during the outbreak of an epidemic, for instance. Such norms undercut Beijing’s sovereignty and open the Communist Party to questions from outside. In recent years, China has tried to find a path around such accountability by filling up the power vacuum that Trump is leaving behind. America still accounts for the lion’s share of funding at the UN. But as Washington practises scorn towards its own allies and the UN, international institutions will inevitably begin turning more and more towards Beijing for leadership. (The writer is Editor-in-Chief of Freedom Gazette and has previously worked at the United Nations.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/china-captures-institutions-829177.html
24-04-2020||First Edit||In Kashmir, stop hounding journalists||Intimidation of Kashmiri journalists must stop immediately. Over the past week, serious charges have been pressed against three respected journalists for reasons that authorities have not clarified so far. While a photojournalist has been booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for alleged anti-national posts, a correspondent for a national daily faces an FIR for reporting ‘fake news’ while a well-known author and journalist has been booked for posting content that allegedly “glorifies terrorism.” Can police throw light on precisely what these journalists wrote or posted that merits such stern action? The UAPA bestows authorities with extraordinary powers. It should therefore be used sparingly and after much thought and gathering of evidence. However, this draconian legislation has been used, or rather misused, in Kashmir rather frequently. Journalists have been charged under this law for the flimsiest of reasons. Police have pointed to the “unlawful activities” of one of the three journalists. Can they clarify what these were or how they threaten India’s national security? Journalists in Kashmir have always worked under pressure, whether from militants or from security forces. Such pressure has grown in recent months with the Modi government determined to stamp out any questioning or criticism of its decisions. Scores of journalists have been arrested. Many others have been subjected to humiliation, harassment and violence. Not surprisingly, India has been ranked 142nd among 180 countries on the World Press Freedom Index this year, its lowest ranking ever. Filing serious charges or arresting journalists under draconian laws is aimed not so much at pulling up an individual for breaching the law as it is about creating a ‘chilling effect’ on others of the journalist fraternity. It is aimed at terrorising other journalists, indeed even the rest of society, into silence. Such terror tactics by the State, especially in a country that claims to the outside world to be a vibrant democracy, is unlawful and untenable. Not only is such action an obstacle in the way of bringing normalcy to Kashmir as it is deepening mass alienation from the Indian State, but it also encourages people to look to extra-constitutional and illegal methods to air their views. Kashmiris are living in a situation that is often likened to a pressure cooker. If grievances are not allowed to be aired via democratic and legitimate channels, the high-pressure situation could turn explosive. People would resort to undemocratic means to vent frustration. Clamping down on the press in Kashmir will result in this situation. It is in India’s long-term interest to allow the Kashmiri press to function freely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/in-kashmir-stop-hounding-journalists-829175.html
24-04-2020||First Edit||To Ramanagara and back, the coronavirus travelled||||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/to-ramanagara-and-back-the-coronavirus-travelled-829491.html
24-04-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Decision on expanding relaxations during coronavirus lockdown later, says Jagadish Shettar||"Relaxations are given as per the guidelines of the Union Government only, after discussing the issue in the Cabinet meeting. Let some economic activities begin outside containment zones and rural areas, and the decision about expansion of relaxations for more sectors would be taken later," he said.  On HDK's statement In reply to former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy's objection for shifting those accused of attack on health workers at Padarayanapura in Bengaluru to Ramanagara prison, Shettar said, "Kumaraswamy should not play politics in this''.Kumaraswamy should not restrict himself to Ramanagara, but should think about the entire State. Police take decisions about issues like jails where the accused have to be lodged, within the framework of the system, Shettar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/decision-on-expanding-relaxations-during-coronavirus-lockdown-later-says-jagadish-shettar-829286.html
24-04-2020||In Perspective||Kerala was not built in a day!||With the spread of Covid-19, the fault lines in world politics, economy, and especially in the healthcare sector, lie starkly exposed. One narrow strip of land that stands out in this crisis is the southern state of Kerala. The world has taken notice and is lavish in its praise of the state, its people and leadership. Whilst many so-called ‘developed countries’  are  struggling to contain the fear and chaos unleashed by the virus, Kerala has managed to restrict the number of cases to around 450 and deaths to just three since the virus first appeared in the state. Swami Vivekananda in the 1900s called Kerala a ‘lunatic asylum’. It was the caste system and the prevailing social-economic structure that forced the comment. But to the credit of Malayalis, they took that comment on their chin and worked diligently on many aspects of society and made considerable progress. The enlightened erstwhile rulers of Travancore, the missionaries and the Communists have all played critical roles in making this transformation.  The visionary legislations related to social reforms, education, land reforms and healthcare have made all the difference. Assimilation and equality Adi Shankara, the celebrated saint who proposed Advaita Vedanta, came from Kerala. From here, the philosophy travelled across the globe. Kerala is believed to be the place where St Thomas landed in 52 AD. When the Jews faced persecution in their lands, they were welcomed and, in fact, Cochin has the oldest Jewish synagogue in the Commonwealth countries. The Cheraman Juma Mosque in Kerala is the oldest mosque in India and is said to have been built in 629 AD. Thus, it’s clear that local people and rulers welcomed outsiders, which brought prosperity and, more importantly, new ideas and thoughts. Social reformers like Narayana Guru led the social transformation of Kerala. Although the Advaita philosophy was in currency for a long time, a practical manifestation of it had to wait till the 1900s when Narayana Guru installed a mirror in a temple, in place of the deity. The idea was to see oneself – in line with the Upanishadic saying – Tat Tvam Asi (You are that) and Aham Brahmasmi (I am the divine). His fundamental teaching – “One Caste, One Religion, One God” -- was a path-breaking approach to change the society into a more egalitarian one. This kind of teaching and exposure to people from foreign lands enriched the society. As Mahatma Gandhi said, “I do not want my house to be walled or my windows closed, I want the culture of all lands to be blown about my house as freely as possible. But I refuse to be blown off my feet.” One can see the actualisation of that dream in Kerala.  Education, health reforms The mid-day meal is such an important policy tool in the hands of governments today to drive primary education. It is said that the Catholic Church started mid-day meals in school way back in 1850s to get more children enrolled. In 1864, the church issued a circular that mandated that each parish should establish educational institutions. This dramatically made education available to more people. With the backing of the ruling kings and various others, education was deemed a priority sector. What followed was that in 1991, Kerala was declared 100% literate, the first state to achieve the feat in India. Even after independence, feudal agrarian systems continued in many parts of India and Kerala was no exception. The historic Land Reforms Act of 1969 introduced by the Communist government with the slogan “land for the tillers” was a shock treatment for society. But in hindsight, it can be said that it was justified and has paid rich dividends for the overall development of the state. The state swallowed a bitter pill then and is healthy today. In the age of Corona, the focus is squarely on the health sector. There are over 100 medical colleges spread across Kerala. While the WHO norm is to have a doctor for 1,000 people, Kerala is ahead with one doctor for about 520 people. The state boasts about one of the lowest child mortality rates, comparable with that in the developed world. Life expectancy is the highest in the country at 75 years. The medical infrastructure and capacity has been built over a long period of time with focus and dedication. Kerala Model These days, the ‘Kerala Model’ is touted as the way to manage the health crisis. Other states can implement the model, but expectations should be nuanced and moderate. Culture, habit and capacity-building are long-term work and Kerala stands out on all these factors. Is it a perfect state? No. In fact, far from it. Kerala is miles ahead, but it’s still very much a work in progress. Kerala is putting in the tough miles, and no one should imagine that Kerala was built in a day. (The writer is an automobile industry professional based in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/kerala-was-not-built-in-a-day-829174.html
24-04-2020||In Perspective||Coronavirus Pandemic: It’s vital to counter the ‘infodemic’||Across the world, a lot of sensational news content -- some half-truths, some patently false -- is circulating like pathogens in our information stream. There was one about the Italian Prime Minister crying, following the alarming COVID-19 death toll in his country. There was another stating that during summer, there would be no scope for coronavirus to spread. And then there were quite a few stories with their own prescriptions for curing COVID-19, either with nil or questionable scientific backing. Some of us might have by now come to know that there was an obvious sampling bias in the way the Nizamuddin religious event was marked out as a ‘superspreader’. India’s vulnerability to sharing such sensational content is unfortunately excessive. We have a large population that is multicultural, multi-religious and multi-ethnic, amidst many diverse struggles to attain equity. We have one of the largest illiterate adult populations in the world. We are only behind China when it comes to high internet consumption. India also has the cheapest rates in the entire world for mobile data consumption. Our educational standards and awareness are incompatible with the huge and complex data we are served. So, the interaction between quick-moving, and probably unverified content, and a socio-political context that is often edgy, is a recipe for an infodemic. In times of uncertainty, a society like ours could get so easily swayed and let stereotypical thinking dictate the interpretative process. Social and economic inequality, communal hatred, political factionalism, lack of scientific temper, a culture of intolerance, etc., could add fuel to the din of confusion. People could start using their deep-seated biases and prejudices to decode information that reinforces their views about the other, phenomena and issues. As a consequence, an information disorder of this nature could exacerbate many existing social ills and dismantle the slow and steady progress we as a nation have made on many fronts. The case of an old and unrelated video showcasing Bohra Muslims licking spoons and plates in order to demonstrate zero food wastage, being manipulated and re-circulated as a deliberate attempt to spread the contagious virus is illustrative. As Cristina Tardaguila, the associate editor of the International Fact-Checking Network said, “It’s amazing what the mixture of panic and the lack of good data can do to our brains and to our capacity to sort fact from fiction. COVID-19 is the biggest challenge fact-checkers have ever faced.” To tackle such a monstrous menace, strong measures are needed on multiple fronts. Our public institutions, starting with the State, media, educational organisations, etc., have to come up with varied measures. Recently, Karnataka Chief Minister Yeddyurappa said that “if anyone blames the entire Muslim community for some isolated incident,” he would “take action against them.” We need consistent pronouncements like that -- followed by law and order mechanisms -- to weed out mal-information. Traditional media organisations, on their part, need to strengthen fact-checking and myth-busting teams, counter misinformation with information, resist the urge to be the first to break a news story, focus on serving authentic and relevant content, and offer more explainers. Social media platforms, besides outrightly banning untrustworthy and insensitive content, need to put in stringent measures to authenticate sources. Educational institutions should make critical thinking and media literacy a core part of their curriculum. And an informed citizenry  -- like ‘The Indian Scientists’ Response to Covid-19’ (ISRC) voluntary group with more than 500 members from diverse, enriching backgrounds enabling quality science communication -- ought to play a proactive role and regulate credible and responsible information. Whether it is a pandemic or an infodemic, the viral spread ought to be checked with concerted efforts from all fronts. (The writer is faculty, Department of Media Studies, CHRIST (Deemed to be University))||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/coronavirus-pandemic-it-s-vital-to-counter-the-infodemic-829496.html
24-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||H D Kumaraswamy compares ruling BJP to Tuqlaq govt||Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy compared the BJP government in Karnataka to the Tuqlaq government.  "The government is misusing the coronavirus incident. Will expose all soon," he said.  Commenting on the suicide attempt of the ASHA worker in the taluk, he said, no official has taken any steps and have neglected the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/h-d-kumaraswamy-compares-ruling-bjp-to-tuqlaq-govt-829317.html
24-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus lockdown: Now, government opens up rural industries in nine districts||Rural industries in nine districts will be allowed to start operations, the government has said, furthering the lockdown relaxation in a bid to revive the state’s economy.  Industries located in the rural areas of Yadgir, Koppal, Shivamogga, Chikmagalur, Kolar, Chamarajnagar, Raichur, Haveri and Hassan have been permitted to operate, Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar has said in an addendum to his Wednesday order that partially lifted lockdown restrictions on select activities.  These nine districts are unaffected by Covid-19.  Ramanagara appears to have missed the bus just as Bhaskar’s order specifically states that the relaxation for rural industries excludes this district. Ramanagara was a green zone up until five accused in the Padarayanapura vandalism, who were lodged in the Ramanagara prison, tested positive for Covid-19.  The government has already allowed industrial units of essential goods - drugs, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, their raw materials and intermediates - food processing industries in rural areas and urban areas (bread factories, milk processing, flour/dal mills etc), coal production (mines and mineral production and activities incidental to mining) and manufacturing of packaging materials.  Construction work in urban and rural areas have also been allowed provided labourers stay on site.  With all this, the BS Yediyurappa hopes to kickstart economic activities that had come to a standstill because of the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-now-government-opens-up-rural-industries-in-nine-districts-829347.html
24-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: 27-yr-old coronavirus patient from Dharwad discharged||With this the district currently has seven active cases and two patients who have been discharged from the district COVID-19 centre. According to sources in KIMS, the second negative report of P-194, who tested positive on April 9, was received on April 23 and after all the formalities he was discharged on April 24. He, however, will still continue to stay at a government isolation facilities for some more days as a precautionary measures. Meanwhile, P-194’s brother P-236, who had also travelled to Hyderabad, Delhi, Agra, Mumbai and Yellapur, and his (P-236’s) three children are also on the path of recovery. All four of them are asymptomatic. Sources also confirmed that their first medical test has turned negative and doctors are waiting for second report to take further action. Their second medical test is expected to be conducted in another day or two. P-363, the 63-year-old security guard at the Toravihakkala kabristan, is also on the path of recovery. While he showed symptoms of cough in the earlier stages, his health condition is said to have improved in the last few days. Sources said, P-430 (30-year-old sister of P-194 and P-236) and P-431 (13-year-old niece of P-194) are also asymptomatic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-27-yr-old-coronavirus-patient-from-dharwad-discharged-829411.html
24-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Fourth COVID-19 patient from Belagavi discharged||Identified as P150, the 44-year-old-male from Kuduchi town in Raibag taluk had attended the religious gathering of Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi from March 13 to 18 and returned home on March 20. He had been admitted in the District Hospital on April 1, and tested positive for Covid-19 on April 5, official sources said.   He recovered and was discharged while his primary contact, identified as P448, a 10-year-old female, tested positive on Friday. Until now, four Covid-19 positive patients who recovered have been discharged from the District Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-fourth-covid-19-patient-from-belagavi-discharged-829430.html
24-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Padarayanapura case: H D Kumaraswamy slams IPS officer Alok Mohan||Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy accused senior IPS officer Alok Mohan, also Additional Director General of Police (ADGP), Prisons, of taking revenge against him, by shifting the accused of Padarayanapura case in Bengaluru to Ramanagar district prison. Speaking to reporters here, Kumaraswamy said, “Alok Mohan is taking revenge against me, as he was not made Bengaluru City Police Commissioner during my term as chief minister.” “Alok Mohan had a desire to become Police Commissioner and also exerted pressure on me. But, I denied as I knew his background. Now, he is taking revenge, by shifting the accused, who attacked health workers at Padarayanapura in Bengaluru. Padayayanapura is declared as a red zone and the accused were shifted to Ramanagar which was a green zone.” Kumaraswamy said that he had asked the state government not to shift the accused to Ramanagar, as it would create problems by spreading COVID-19, but, the government shifted them. Now, two of the accused have tested positive, he said. According to Kumaraswamy, as many as 121 accused were shifted to Ramanagar jail in two batches. In the first batch, 49 persons were shifted and two of them tested positive for Covid-19. Now, the whole jail needs to be sealed down to check the spread of coronavirus, he said. Due to the negligence of the police officer, the people of Ramanagar are under fear. Even now, while shifting the accused to Bengaluru, Alok Mohan is playing a game and sent the buses back. “I have asked Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai to initiate an enquiry against the officer,” he said. The state government is receiving all support from the opposition parties and thus, the government must ensure proper measures to contain the spread of Covid-19. A protest will be held if the government fails to take proper measures, Kumaraswamy warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/padarayanapura-case-h-d-kumaraswamy-slams-ips-officer-alok-mohan-829509.html
24-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus Lockdown: Hopcoms lost opportunity to reach people in Karnataka||A section of the people feels that Horticultural Producers Co-operative Marketing and Processing Society (Hopcoms) has lost a good opportunity to increase business volume and also to streamline its processes due to the lockdown in the wake of the spread of coronavirus. Hopcoms, a farmers’ society, founded in 1965 for direct marketing of farm produce, has failed to rise to the occasion. At a time when only groceries and vegetables are in business, due to the lockdown, Hopcoms is yet to wake up from a slumber, they said. A M Venkatesh, a resident of Siddhartha Nagar said, “Hopcoms outlets ceremoniously display a rate list, but most of the vegetables or fruits are not available. Even those on display are old stock.” H C Sudarshan managing director of Hopcoms said, “We have a process and we procure vegetables and fruits directly from farmers. The outlets get the stocks by 10.30 am everyday.” B K Chandrakanth, a resident of Kalyangiri Nagar, said, “Of late, we avoid buying from a particular section of businessmen. Thus, I rode up to Hopcoms in Siddhartha Nagar, even though I know that the price in Hopcoms is higher compared to roadside vendors.” “I work in a bank and have to attend to work, despite lockdown. If I can get vegetables only after 10.30 am in Hopcoms, it is of no use,” he said. Naveen Jain, an IT professional, working from home, said, this is the time the government and cooperative agencies, such as Hopcoms should become proactive. “Even auto drivers, photographers, electrical repairers, cycle repairers, owners of eateries and daily wagers are selling vegetables, sensing the market trend,” he said. Manchegowda, a police personnel, said that buying of groceries, vegetables and medicines are an excuse for the people to come out now. “Those who used to buy vegetables once or twice a week are now buying everyday. Another reason may be that people have more time for cooking and eating now. Nowadays, there is an increase in awareness about buying things from the organised sector. Hopcoms has the potential to grow like Nandini brand of Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF),” he said. B P Boregowda, former president of Mysuru Hopcoms, said that there is no elected body for Hopcoms, as a person brought a stay to the election, just a couple of days before it was scheduled to be held. “I admit that the lockdown was a good opportunity for Hopcoms to grow and also to help the farmers. Hopcoms staff say that people do not buy from them. But, if good quality products are not available, why will they visit Hopcoms outlets. Even in future, with proper planning and management, Hopcoms can reach more people,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-hopcoms-lost-opportunity-to-reach-people-in-karnataka-829510.html
24-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: MCC’s ‘Asare card’, a hope for poor||Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has launched an unique system of issuing 'Asare ration card' (Asare padithara cheeti), said to be the first of its kind in the state, for poor people and labourers of the unorganised sector, who do not possess ration cards. The MCC is distributing food packets to thousands of people every day at its santhwana kendras. As social distancing becomes difficult during distribution, a team of officials have planned a systematic way to identify the beneficiaries and provide them Asare ration card and food kits are delivered to them. The beneficiaries are identified by the MCC officials and corporators. Field verification is done by volunteers and revenue inspectors through google form - MCC Ration beneficiaries verification form. All details like, zone, ward number, address, contact number, number of family members, Aadhaar number, whether they possess ration card or not, and whether they have the facility to cook are collected. The list is sent to the Food and Civil Supplies department and Aadhaar-based search is done, to check whether they have been issued a ration card. A genuine list is prepared and an unique code is given to each family. It is mentioned on the Asare card and the food kit, which is home delivered to the beneficiary. The foodgrains provided would be marked on Asare card. The data is maintained and the kits would be refilled every week or 10 days. Speaking to DH, A S Ranjith Kumar, nodal officer for Food and Ration distribution, MCC said that so far 1,800 Asare cards and food kits have been distributed to benefit over 5,000 people. "We have covered physically challenged persons, transgenders, migrant labourers, wanderers and low income groups. This will continue till the lockdown is lifted and normalcy returns. By the end of the process, we expect to identify 4,000 Asare card families," he said. The kits are obtained from donors like Mysuru Citizen Forum, Asian Paints, JK Tyres, Ganapati Sachchidananda Ashram and Agarwal Samaj, he said. "After the lockdown is lifted, we will verify the beneficiaries again. In case there are people who have no support or means of living, they would be shifted to destitute centres and taken care of," he said. The MCC recently launched 'Asare' helpline, where people can contact and get food delivered at their place. Those interested to donate can contact 94486 66380. Arrangements have been made to pick up donation from their doorsteps, Ranjith said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-mcc-s-asare-card-a-hope-for-poor-829513.html
24-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka: Ramanagara's COVID-19 row sees DKS, HDK attack BJP||After five persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Ramanagara prison, a political battle erupted with the Congress and JD(S) making the most of this against the ruling BJP, which is trying to make inroads into the Vokkaliga bastion.  It was Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan, the Ramanagara district in-charge minister, who came under the crosshairs of Congress’ DK Shivakumar and JD(S)’ HD Kumaraswamy.  The two Vokkaliga leaders teamed up to launch an attack on Narayan, also a Vokkaliga, signifying the boiling political undercurrent in Ramanagara. Narayan was appointed as the minister in charge of Ramanagara with the aim of helping the BJP establish itself in the Vokkaliga-dominated district. Of late, the Sangh Parivar, too, has shown determination to build a strong base in the district to take on the Shivakumar-Kumaraswamy combo.  Kumaraswamy, a former chief minister who represents Channapatna in the district, said he had warned the government against transferring those accused in the Padarayanapura vandalism to the Ramanagara prison. “Does he have any sense,” Kumaraswamy thundered, referring to Narayan. “Five people have tested positive. Who allowed that to happen?” The BJP government had “neither a mind nor body," Kumaraswamy said, adding that this “calamity had been introduced into the district and staff working in the prison and residing in the city had to be quarantined.”  Kumaraswamy’s Anitha Kumaraswamy, the Ramanagara MLA, alleged a conspiracy. "The government did not pay heed to (Kumaraswamy’s) advice. The district in-charge minister Ashwath Narayan, who is also a certified doctor, has to show accountability," she said. Shivakumar, the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president, wondered whether the government was taking revenge against Ramanagara for not electing a single BJP MLA. "There were hostels, convention centres, Victoria Hospital and other quarantine centres. Why did it have to be Ramanagara? If Ashwath Narayan has anger, let him vent it out in some other way," Shivakumar said, demanding the government to “protect” Ramanagara and ensure it remained a green zone.   Shivakumar also defended Kumaraswamy, saying the “former chief minister is sensible, educated and responsible.” This political bonhomie between them is not new.  Narayan defended the decision to transfer the accused in the Padarayanapura case to Ramanagara. "It’s true that Kumaraswamy opposed it, where else could we shift them? Was there any other small jail nearby?" he said, adding that the issue was being politicised. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai also defended the move. "There will be accusations about whatever we do. If we had kept them in a hospital here instead of the prison, people would have questioned that also," Bommai said. "The government takes appropriate decisions based on circumstances."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-ramanagaras-covid-19-row-sees-dks-hdk-attack-bjp-829440.html
24-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP leaders hoarding rice illegally: DK Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar on Friday claimed that “BJP leaders, including a minister” were involved in the illegal hoarding of rice at a godown near the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border.  Releasing documents and videos of the “scam”, Shivakumar said 1,879 quintals of rice that came from Haryana, which was meant to be distributed to the poor and needy, was stopped near Sarjapura close to the Tamil Nadu border and stored at a godown.  “BJP workers and an active BJP leader wanted to sell it. It was to be repackaged and distributed in the name of BJP leaders,” Shivakumar alleged.  Apparently, a Congress team comprising Anekal MLA B Shivanna and others, tracked this for a week before the local tahsildar, the police and officials from the Food & Civil Supplies department were roped in. “The tahsildar has said that no permission was given to store this rice and that he had no idea how or where it came from,” Shivakumar said, adding that the rice stock was seized. “A minister threatened the tahsildar against taking action,” Shivakumar said, without naming the minister. “In every taluk and district, thousands of bags of rice are being separated so that they can be repacked and distributed in the name of one political party and to also be sold in the black market,” he said. “Our own party workers have bought the rice in black for Rs 35-40 per kg.”  Shivakumar appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa to take action. “Do you want food meant for the labourers and migrants to be sold in the market? If the CM is truly transparent, whoever is involved - minister, MLA, party worker or officer - should face action,” he said, seeking “a thorough inquiry and immediate arrests.” 'Banks are looting' Shivakumar urged the government to convene a meeting with nationalized banks. "They're looting the common man and small industrialists. They're collecting money three months in advance. For example, I transferred Rs 5 lakh through a trust towards salaries that I had to pay. But the bank immediately swapped the account for their interest (payment)," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-leaders-hoarding-rice-illegally-dk-shivakumar-829472.html
24-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||PM’s conferencing: Watadahosahalli GP Prez interacts with Modi||Watadahosahalli gram panchayat president S M Naveen represented the district in the video conferencing of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with gram panchayat presidents on the occasion of Panchayat Raj Diwas on Friday. The arrangements were made for the programme at mini auditorium of Zilla Panchayat. Watadahosahalli is in Gauribidanur taluk. Modi had the video conferencing for about 30 minutes, while he interacted with Naveen for six minutes. The programme began at 11 am. Modi said that the nobody had expected pandemic like Covid-19. Efforts to contain Covid-19 across the country were satisfactory and there was a need to get rid of the virus through the Panchayat Raj system. “Novel coronavirus has taught us a lesson that we should not be dependent on anybody and that we should fight having faith in ourselves,” he said. Modi asked Naveen the measures taken by his gram Panchayat in containing Covid-19. Naveen replied that about 14 people in the Gram Panchayat limits had been quarantined. Food, vegetables, milk and medicine were being provided to them. Steps had been taken so that they could not venture out. He said Asha workers, Anganawadi workers, Gram Panchayat members and volunteers had joined hands to control the pandemic in the region. He was getting latest updates once in two days. Naveen added,” Benefits have extended to 2,301 people under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, about 1280 people have received benefits under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Yojana, while under Ujwala Yojana about 739 people have been benefited. The number of beneficiaries under various pension schemes is 506. A total of 5026 people have been benefited.” He said that checkpoints had been setup to prevent movement of people unnecessarily. Awareness drives are being conducted about sanitation. Food, shelter and accommodation had been provided to 170 workers from Maharastra state. Naveen said that free market system was being ensured so that farmers could directly sell their produces to consumers. Medicines were procured from Bengaluru and were supplied at doorstep of the needy. Under Mahatma Gandhi Employment Guarantee Act, employments had been provided to local residents in the field of water revival initiatives, he said.  Naveen thanked the Prime Minister in Hindi and then began speaking in Kannada. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Fouzia B Taranum translated his later conversation in Hindi. Zilla Panchayat President M B Chikkanarasimhaiah and some ZP members were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/pm-s-conferencing-watadahosahalli-gp-prez-interacts-with-modi-829369.html
24-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Store keepers penalised for selling tobacco products||Food Quality Protection Act district officials raided various stores in  the town, the taluk and imposed penalty for selling tobacco products for exorbitant rates in the wake of lockdown. The officials, led by the district officer Dr Charini, conducted the raids at Galpet, Chatrakodihalli, Dimba, Hudukul gate and other areas in the taluk. The raids were conducted based on the complaints that some store keepers, using the lockdown guidelines, were selling cigarettes and other tobacco products for exorbitant prices. An amount of Rs 1,500 was imposed on each of the store keepers. A cigarette pack costing Rs 150 was sold for Rs 250, while a pack of tobacco product costing Rs 10 was sold for Rs 35. The store keepers had created artificial shortage and were selling the products illegally, Dr Charini said. People might spit after chewing the tobacco products which might spread Covid-19. Hence, the district administration has banned the sales of tobacco products till the situation was normalised, she said. Cases would be registered under provisions of the Indian Penal Code, the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Disaster Management Act 2005 for selling the tobacco products, she warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/store-keepers-penalised-for-selling-tobacco-products-829385.html
24-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Excise staff given necessary powers to prevent illicit liquor sales: H Nagesh||Karnataka Excise Minister H Nagesh on Friday said that the government had granted complete powers to the excise officials to prevent the preparation and sale of illicit liquor in the state. “Due to lockdown and following the closure of liquor outlets, the illicit liquor is prepared and sold across the state. The department officials are conducting continuous operations and are registering cases against those involved in the preparation and sales of illicit liquor,” he told reporters here. Nagesh requested people not to consume the illicit liquor and harm their lives. “There are many complaints about the preparation of illicit liquor. The public should share details of locations where the illicit liquor is prepared with the department officials,” he said.  The Minister said that the department officials were inspecting stocks in the liquor outlets and criminal cases would be registered against the owners of the outlets in case of discrepancies in the stocks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/excise-staff-given-necessary-powers-to-prevent-illicit-liquor-sales-h-nagesh-829445.html
24-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Karnataka: Coronavirus lockdown norms relaxed in Kolar district||The government has relaxed lockdown norms in the district as it fell under green zone, said additional commissioner B Shivaswamy. “The chief secretary has released revised guidelines for the 11 districts, including Kolar, that fall under the green zone. Some of the guidelines in the previous order have been continued, while some have been relaxed,” he told reporters. Shivaswamy said that there was now permission to resume health services, industrial operations and food production and processing activities. Medical and pharma activities could also be resumed. The ban on travel to other districts and states had continued. “Directions have been given to resume works at the all government offices at districts coming under the green zone. There is direction to start operations of sub-registrar’s office. People have been directed to maintain social distancing in any functions. They should wear masks,” he said. Shivaswamy said that provision stores, hotels and bakeries could be started, but there is permission only for parcel. There was permission for movement of goods vehicles on highways. Parcel services had been permitted at dhabas.  “The district has not reported any Covid-19 case so far. About 22 teams collect blood samples and throat swabs of 200 people and send them to laboratory daily. Top priority has been given those suffering from respiratory and other serious problems,” he said. The additional commissioner said that throat swabs and blood samples of all staff at checkpoints had been sent for report. Fever hospitals had been opened at 350 private hospitals for testing patients. He requested people to inform the health department if they come across symptoms of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/karnataka-coronavirus-lockdown-norms-relaxed-in-kolar-district-829485.html
24-04-2020||Main Article||Coronavirus: Doctors sans safety||This careless attitude is an assault on the dignity of the profession; one that is still reeling from the abuse and violence targeted against it by frustrated and angry patients, themselves victims of a broken system, with no recourse to assistance. This pandemic is hurtling towards another confrontation, as doctors find themselves abandoned in this war against a virus that can threaten their health, and through them, their families and other patients. The reference to war and frontline is not accidental. As a society, we fully support our jawans and battalions protecting our borders and defending us from external danger. It would be unacceptable if they did not have protective clothing and gear to survive on the Siachen glacier, or were expected to face an encounter without helmets, tanks or weaponry. Now, the threat is within our borders, invisible yet potentially devastating, bringing the entire country to a grinding halt, and we appear content to have a different standard for our health professionals fighting for lives at the frontline of this crisis. The expenditure of the government on defence is more than three times its outlay on health. Over time, this has led to the neglect of the health sector, and denial of access to care for millions. The Covid-19 crisis has confronted us with the painful reality of our inadequate health infrastructure. If healthcare is an essential service, then health professionals are an essential element to be protected. Is this not the duty of the government in the case of public hospitals, and of the management of private hospitals? Can they be held responsible? While doctors have been holding the line so far, it will not be in the best interest of patients to put this sense of duty to the test. Scores of doctors and nurses are falling ill and the death count has begun. We need the best-trained in the ICU, OT and emergency room as triage and allocation of resources requires expertise. Protective equipment has been prioritised to this high-risk segment where exposure is highest. Scarcity has led to the exposure of ancillary health workers, cleaners and helpers to risk, as limited equipment is reserved for doctors. This inequitable treatment of health workers should not be allowed. This has not been the experience in other Asian countries. China ramped up its production capacity of PPE 20 times over in one month; now, it is even able to export to other countries. There has been no coherent plan here for either manufacture or import of PPE, sanitisers or masks, and it is now obvious that health workers have to fend for themselves in most cases. The impact on medical care and professionals is undeniable. Doctors need PPE to feel safe and remain effective under crisis conditions. Working overtime in hazardous conditions has led to exhaustion and stress. At a time when patients with symptoms are afraid and anxious, they need a professional presence and reassurance to overcome this illness. The quality of attention and medical care can be severely compromised if the health worker is afraid of infection and has to work with inadequate supplies and protection. Faced with a chronic shortfall in quality and access to health services, we have become numb to the appalling conditions under which our doctors are practising in many parts of the country. The question is, for how long are we willing to accept this, and if we pass this opportunity to set things right, will it be at our own peril? A recent poll of young doctors and medical students revealed that 65% felt it was not wrong to refuse to work if adequate PPE is not available. Should doctors have to face such a dilemma during this crisis? It is not hard to imagine that we might lose our doctors to countries that promise better working conditions, and the medical profession itself could lose its sheen as a career choice. (The writer is Adjunct Faculty, Division of Health and Humanities, St John’s Research Institute, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/coronavirus-doctors-sans-safety-829495.html
24-04-2020||Mysuru||H D Kumaraswamy accuses senior IPS officer of taking revenge against him in Padarayanapura case||Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy accused senior IPS officer Alok Mohan of taking revenge against him by housing the one accused of attacking the health workers in Padarayanapura in Bengaluru to Ramanagara district prison. Speaking to reporters here, Kumaraswamy said, during his term as Chief Minister, Alok Mohan, ADGP Prisons had a desire to be Bengaluru City Police Commissioner and also pressurised me. But, I denied as I knew his background. Now, he is taking revenge by transferring accused from the red zone to the green zone. Kumaraswamy also warned of staging protest against the government, claiming that the government failed to take proper measures. The people of Ramanagara were angry over the decision and had plans to launch a protest.  ASHA worker suicide case: Kumaraswamy who inquired health condition of ASHA worker who made an attempt to kill self at Uruli Kyatanahalli in Sriramgapatna taluk, Mandya, said, instead of arresting prime accused who tortured Meenakshi, the police released them on station bail. Kumaraswamy alleged political pressure in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/h-d-kumaraswamy-accuses-senior-ips-officer-of-taking-revenge-against-him-in-padarayanapura-case-829235.html
24-04-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru city parts receive rains accompanied by thunder, lightening||Parts of Mysuru city and surrounding areas experienced moderate to heavy rains, accompanied by thunder and lightning on Thursday night till the wee hours of Friday. Hunsur taluk received around 85 mm rain. Periyapatna and Bettadapura also received good rains. This has brought down the mercury levels. The climate remains overcast on Friday morning also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-city-parts-receive-rains-accompanied-by-thunder-lightening-829240.html
24-04-2020||National||OIC's allegations of harassment of Muslims in India regrettable: Govt sources||The Organisation of Islamic Cooperation's allegations of "Islamophobia" in India is regrettable and it should not try to "communalise" the global fight against the coronavirus pandemic, government sources said on Thursday. They said the OIC's statement alleging harassment of Muslims in India is "factually inaccurate". The OIC should not try to communalise the global fight against coronavirus, they said. The sources said there have been deliberate attempts to damage India's ties with the Arab countries. There has been a wave of angry reactions on Twitter by leading citizens from various Arab countries following allegations that Muslims are being blamed for spreading COVID-19 in several parts of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oics-allegations-of-harassment-of-muslims-in-india-regrettable-govt-sources-829144.html
24-04-2020||National||Plasma therapy: Getting donors is challenging, say officials||Even as the Indian Council of Medical Research has allowed plasma therapy for COVID-19 patients in Mumbai on an experimental basis, the challenge is to convince people to donate blood for it, officials said on Thursday. Also, extracting plasma from blood, its testing and then administering it to a patient is a complicated procedure and not as simple as it may appear on paper, they said. "The therapy involves extraction of plasma from the blood of recovered COVID-19 patients. These people are expected to have good amount of anti-bodies, which, by way of plasma, will be administered to COVID-19 patients," a senior epidemiologist from the Maharashtra health department said. The dose of plasma along with the ongoing medication will help the patient to build immunity as well as recover faster from the infection, he said. However, a Mumbai civic official said till Tuesday, only a couple of persons came forward to donate blood for the therapy, even as nearly 500 people have so far been discharged in the city after recovering from the disease. "We need to convince them to come forward and help others. After recovering, people have to remain in 14-day mandatory home quarantine from the date of discharge. Hence, it is difficult to collect their blood sample," he said, adding that medically also it is not advisable. The official said plasma therapy is a complicated procedure and not as simple as it may appear on paper.  "The extraction of plasma, and its testing is crucial before treating others. It should also have sufficient anti- bodies," he said.   Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the state has received permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research to carry out plasma therapy on COVID-19 patients in Mumbai on an experimental basis. "The plasma of those who have recovered from coronavirus infection has some antibodies. If these people's plasma is used with utmost precaution, it has proven to be useful," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plasma-therapy-getting-donors-is-challenging-say-officials-829145.html
24-04-2020||National||Harvesting of rabi pulses, potato almost complete; wheat, sugarcane, onion on track||Harvesting of rabi pulses and potato is fully completed, while that of wheat, sugarcane and onion is on track and near completion across the country, Union Agriculture Ministry said on Thursday. Arrival of staple vegetables in mandis saw a big leap compared to last month. There was a six-fold increase in onion arrival, while it doubled in case of potatoes and tomatoes as on March 16, the ministry said in a statement. Agriculture activities have been exempted from the lockdown, imposed to slow the spread of COVID-19.  "In the major wheat growing states, the status of harvesting is encouraging," the ministry said in a statement. As reported by state governments, about 98-99 per cent of wheat crop has been harvested in Madhya Pradesh, 88-90 per cent in Rajasthan, 75-78 per cent in Uttar Pradesh, 40-45 per cent in Haryana, 35-40 per cent in Punjab and 82-84 per cent in other states, it added. Wheat is the main rabi (winter) crop. The government is estimating a record 106.21 million tonnes wheat production in the current year. In case of pulses, harvesting has been completed in almost all the states. Gram and lentils are the main pulses grown during the rabi season. Similarly, harvesting of potatoes has been completed and storage is under process, the ministry said. While harvesting of rabi onion in fields of small farmers is almost completed, it is still in progress in large plots which may extend up to the second week of May. It may be noted that about 50 per cent of the rabi onion output is kept in storage for use in lean season (August-November), and farmers fetch good price for it. With regard to sugarcane, harvesting has been completed fully in the states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Punjab. About 92-98 per cent of harvesting is completed in Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Haryana and Uttarakhand, whereas 80-85 per cent harvesting has been completed in Uttar Pradesh, the ministry said in the statement. Procurement of rabi crops, especially wheat, pulses and oilseeds at minimum support price (MSP) is underway. The state-run Food Corporation of India (FCI) and cooperative Nafed have so far purchased 1.73 lakh tonnes of pulses and 1.35 lakh tonnes of oilseeds at MSP directly from farmers during the 2020 rabi season, the ministry said. The procurement of these two commodities is valued at Rs 1,447.55 crore, benefitting 1,83,989 farmers, it added. With harvesting of rabi crops in full swing, arrival of key vegetables like onion, potato and tomato in mandis have been much higher than it was before March 16. According to the statement, out of 2,587 agriculture wholesale markets in the country, 2,069 markets are functional. Meanwhile, the ministry said it has disbursed about Rs 17,876.7 crore to 8.93 crore farmer beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme till date during the lockdown period. The government transfers Rs 6,000 to each beneficiary farmer under PM-KISAN in three-equal installments in a year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harvesting-of-rabi-pulses-potato-almost-complete-wheat-sugarcane-onion-on-track-829157.html
24-04-2020||National||Arnab Goswami moves SC against multiple FIRs for remarks against Sonia Gandhi||Republic TV's Editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami on Thursday moved the Supreme Court for quashing of over 100 FIRs lodged against him in various parts of the country following his controversial comments against Congress President Sonia Gandhi in the wake of the Palghar lynching of Hindu Sadhus on April 16. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah is scheduled to hear the matter at 10.30 am on Friday, April 24 through video conferencing. In his plea, he contended, "Complaints and the FIRs are false, vindictive, frivolous, malicious, precipitated with malice, untenable in law and have been filed with mala-fide intent by the Congress activists to coerce, harass and intimidate him in order to muzzle the media and in particular him, from carrying these news reports and conducting investigative journalism to bring the truth before the public."  Goswami has approached the apex court through his counsel Pragya Baghel. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi is expected to argue on his behalf in the case. The petitioner, who is the main anchor of the TV channel, is aggrieved against the registration of over 100 FIRs against him in Maharashtra, Chhatisgarh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Telangana.  He asked the court to ensure no coercive action was taken by any court on the basis of these FIRs and complaints filed by members of Congress party in gross violation of his fundamental rights, including but not limited to the right of freedom of speech and expression under Article 19 (1) (a) and right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution. He also sought a direction to the Centre to provide adequate safety and security to him and his family members and his family and his colleagues at Republic TV and R Bharat at various locations in the country. Goswami alleged that he and his wife were attacked allegedly by Congress workers on the early morning of Thursday when they were returning to their home from Mumbai studio.  He also maintained that complaints and FIRs were a part of a well-coordinated and malicious campaign by the Congress and its members of instituting false and baseless complaints against him before different police stations simultaneously in various parts of the country. "The machinery of these states have been set in motion with an oblique and ulterior motive and without due and proper application of mind," Goswami claimed. He alleged that facts clearly demonstrated that the prominent political party and its members' harbour ill-will, hatred and personal vendetta against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arnab-goswami-moves-sc-against-multiple-firs-for-remarks-against-sonia-gandhi-829161.html
24-04-2020||National||Mahatma Gandhi's anti-untouchability campaign letter to go under the hammer||A letter written by Mahatma Gandhi in 1932 regarding raising of funds for the newly-founded Harijan Sewak Sangh is set to go under the hammer, officials said on Thursday. The letter will be auctioned online by Boston-based RR Auction and is expected to fetch USD 15,000, the auction house said in a statement. The one-page handwritten letter is signed "M. K. Gandhi," and dated October 9, 1932.  "Dear friends, I thank you for your letter of sympathy. The funds can be sent to the anti untouchability assn formed under the chairmanship by Sjt. G. D. Birla for the furtherance of its subjects," read the letter. It is beautifully mounted, double-matted, and framed. In 1932, Gandhi founded the Harijan Sevak Sangh as part of his efforts to eradicate the concept of 'untouchability' from India's caste system. He put his close friend, the pioneering industrialist Ghanshyam Das Birla, in charge of the organisation. The group's noble efforts have helped the depressed classes to access public places such as temples, schools, roads, and water resources that were previously available only to those of privilege, it said. "It's a superb letter pertaining to one of the overlooked aspects of Gandhi's activism," said an auction official. Additional highlights from the sale include Gandhi's signature with a fountain pen, "M. K. Gandhi," on an off-white slip of paper, it added. The Fine Autographs and Artifacts auction from RR Auction with online bidding is scheduled to conclude on May 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mahatma-gandhis-anti-untouchability-campaign-letter-to-go-under-the-hammer-829169.html
24-04-2020||National||Arnab Goswami’s remarks against Sonia Gandhi spark row||Republic TV founder Arnab Goswami’s remarks against Congress president Sonia Gandhi on the news channel’s programme triggered a row prompting Congress workers across the country to file police complaints against the journalist. Goswami also claimed that he was attacked, allegedly by Youth Congress activists on Thursday when he was returning home with his wife Samyabrata Ray Goswami from the television studio in Mumbai. Senior Congress leaders, including Chhattisgarh Minister T S Singhdeo, Maharashtra Minister Nitin Raut, former Union minister Bhanwar Jitendra Singh and scores of party workers, filed complaints with the police from Punjab to TN. The complaints said Goswami used words and statements that allegedly led to inciting people for riots and spreading communal hysteria. During the same debate, he also used derogatory words against Sonia and made baseless allegations of communal nature against her, the complaints said. The FIRs against Goswami followed after top Congress leaders and chief ministers of party-ruled states slammed the journalist and demanded action against him. BJP president J P Nadda said he was shocked at the attack over Goswami after Congress CMs publicly threatened him. Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar condemned the attack and took a dig at the Congress for targeting the journalist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arnab-goswami-s-remarks-against-sonia-gandhi-spark-row-829171.html
24-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 24, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-24-2020-edition-829179.html
24-04-2020||National||Coronavirus state-wise India update: Total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 24||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly).   Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 24,407 as of April 24. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 770   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 3259 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-state-wise-india-update-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-24-829181.html
24-04-2020||National||Violence not the answer even against bad journalism: PCI on Arnab Goswami attack||The Press Council of India on Thursday condemned the attack on Republic TV chief editor Arnab Goswami, saying violence is not the answer even against bad journalism.  Press Council Chairperson Justice (Retd) CK Prasad also asked the Maharashtra Chief Secretary and Mumbai Police Commissioner to submit a report on the facts of "alleged attack" on Goswami at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/violence-not-the-answer-even-against-bad-journalism-pci-on-arnab-goswami-attack-829183.html
24-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: India’s once lavish weddings now take place on Zoom||Sushen Dang, 26, and his fiancee, Keerti Narang, dreamed of making their wedding an affair to remember -- but not like this. Instead of hundreds of guests descending on a wildlife resort for a multi-day revelry with cocktail parties and elaborate feasts, the couple got married over the video conferencing app Zoom. The date of their nuptials, set for its auspicious astrological coordinates, fell amid a stringent national lockdown precipitated by the coronavirus. Dang appeared on the screen from his parents’ home in Mumbai, a traditional turban fashioned out of his mother’s red scarf. Narang, a makeup professional, was hundreds of miles away in Bareilly in central India, wearing her mother’s wedding lehenga skirt. The priest, based in yet another city, Raipur, chanted hymns in front of the ritual fire and asked the bride’s father to lead a “digital kanyadaan,” or giving away of his daughter. A hundred guests logged on from their homes to bless the couple, then light up a tiled-screen montage as they danced to the latest Bollywood hits. As the pandemic upends industries around the world, India’s $70-billion wedding industry has skidded to a stop in the midst of peak marriage season. Nuptials fixed months before on dates dictated by astrological charts have been hurriedly transformed into digital ceremonies over Zoom, YouTube and Google Hangouts. Gone are expensive hotel bookings and caterers, along with related industries such as home buying. The virus has helped achieve what the government has been trying to do for years: limit unbridled wedding-time extravagance.  The Dang and Narang families had planned elaborate ceremonies for months, from pairing lavish dessert menus with each meal to buying plush gifts for guests. For the main rites, the groom planned a showy entrance on a quad bike rather than the ritual horse. But at the digital wedding, an element of chaos pervaded the celebrations, as unmuted microphones picked up side conversations and pets strolled on screen as people danced. “It’s the great Indian Lockdown wedding,” said Anupam Mittal, founder and chief executive officer of online matchmaker Shaadi.com, which facilitated the Dang-Narang event. “We are helping them make the best out of the situation in these times of adversity.”     Still, Mittal can’t imagine that extravagant ceremonies will disappear. “In India, weddings are social statements,” he said. “A marriage is between the families, not just the couple.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-india-s-once-lavish-weddings-now-take-place-on-zoom-829200.html
24-04-2020||National||Maharashtra: Man beaten on suspicion of being COVID-19 patient, dies||The incident took place on Wednesday morning, when Ganesh Gupta had stepped out of his home to purchase some essentials amid the COVID-19 lockdown, an official said. On noticing some policemen manning the street, the victim took an alternate route, where a few passersby assaulted him after he coughed while walking, he said. The men suspected him of being a COVID-19 patient and attacked him, causing him to fall into a gutter and die, the official said. The deceased's body was sent for post-mortem and a case of accidental death has been registered as of now, the station house officer of the Khadakpada police station said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-man-beaten-on-suspicion-of-being-covid-19-patient-dies-829204.html
24-04-2020||National||Four trainee soldier craftsmen test positive for coronavirus||Four soldier craftsmen undergoing training at the Military Station in Vadodara have tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Friday. This is the first instance in Gujarat where members of the armed forces have been found to be infected with coronavirus, which has claimed over 100 lives in the state so far. These trainee soldiers were admitted to government-run SSG Hospital in Vadodara, over 100 km from here, after their medical reports came positive for COVID-19 two days back, said a statement issued by defence PRO for Gujarat, Puneet Chadha. "Four soldier craftsmen undergoing training at the Military Station in Baroda (Vadodara) tested COVID-19 positive on April 22. "All protocols were followed and necessary actions taken by the Army authorities. All four jawans have been admitted to SSG Hospital," the statement said, adding that the military station premises was sanitised by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation after the first three cases emerged.  The report of one trainee soldier came later, it said. As many as 40 persons, who came into contact with these jawans, were home quarantined as a precautionary measure. According to VMC officials, these trainee soldiers are from other states and came to Vadodara for training well before the lockdown was imposed last month. Vadodara Municipal Commissioner N B Upadhyay refuted the theory that they might have contracted the virus at a nearby ATM centre. "We find no substance in that theory. If ATM was the culprit, then we may have received many more cases, which is not the case at present," said Upadhyay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-trainee-soldier-craftsmen-test-positive-for-coronavirus-829210.html
24-04-2020||National||Death toll due to COVID-19 touches 718; number of cases climb to 23,077||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 718 and the number of cases to 23,077 in the country on Friday, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases is 17,610 as 4,748 people were cured and discharged, and one patient migrated, it said. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said a total 23,502 samples have been confirmed positive for coronavirus so far. The Health Ministry said 77 foreign nationals are among the total 23,077 COVID-19 cases reported in the country. A total of 32 deaths were reported since Thursday evening, of which 14 fatalities were reported from Maharashtra, nine from Gujarat, three from Uttar Pradesh and two each from Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, the ministry said. Of the 718 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 283 fatalities, followed by Gujarat at 112, Madhya Pradesh at 83, Delhi at 50, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh at 27 each. The death toll reached 24 each in Uttar Pradesh and Telangana, 20 in Tamil Nadu and 17 in Karnataka. Punjab has registered 16 deaths, while West Bengal has reported 15 fatalities. The disease has claimed five lives in Jammu and Kashmir, while Kerala, Jharkhand and Haryana have recorded three COVID-19 deaths each.  Bihar has reported two deaths, while Meghalaya, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Assam have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry's updated data. However, a PTI tally of the figures reported by various states as on Thursday showed 722 deaths in the country. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of deaths announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states. According to the ministry's data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 6,430, followed by Gujarat at 2,624, Delhi at 2,376, Rajasthan at 1,964, Madhya Pradesh at 1,699 and Tamil Nadu at 1,683. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 1,510 in Uttar Pradesh, 960 in Telangana and 895 in Andhra Pradesh. The number of cases has risen to 514 in West Bengal, 447 in Kerala, 445 in Karnataka, 427 in Jammu and Kashmir, 277 in Punjab and 272 in Haryana. Bihar has reported 153 coronavirus cases, while Odisha has 90 cases. Fifty-three people have been infected with the virus in Jharkhand, 47 in Uttarakhand and 40 in Himachal Pradesh. Chhattisgarh and Assam have registered 36 infections each so far.     Chandigarh has 27 COVID-19 cases, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands 22, while 18 cases have been reported from Ladakh.  Meghalaya has reported 12 cases, and Goa and Puducherry have seven COVID-19 cases each. Manipur and Tripura have two cases each, while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported a case each. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website. States wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-due-to-covid-19-touches-718-number-of-cases-climb-to-23077-829220.html
24-04-2020||National||Gambhir performs last rites of domestic help after lockdown prevents body from reaching family||Gambhir, also a Lok Sabha from the BJP, posted a tribute on his Twitter page for his employee Saraswati Patra, who was working at his residence for the past six years. "Taking care of my little one can never be domestic help. She was family. Performing her last rites was my duty," he tweeted. "Always believed in dignity irrespective of caste, creed, religion or social status. Only way to create a better society. That's my idea of India! Om Shanti," said the 38-year-old Gambhir, who played 58 Tests for India between 2004 and 2016. Media reports in Odisha said the 49-year-old Patra hailed from a village in Jajpur district. She was admitted to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital a few days ago and was battling diabetes and high blood pressure for a long period. She breathed her last while undergoing treatment on April 21. Union Minister of Petroleum and Steel Dharmendra Pradhan appreciated Gambhir. "Taking care of Saraswati throughout the course of her illness, he also ensured her dignity in death by performing her last rites himself since her mortal remains could not be sent to her family back home in Odisha," Pradhan, who also belongs to Odisha, tweeted. "His act of compassion will enliven the faith in humanity for millions of poor, who are working far from their home for livelihood and will garner respect from all folds of the society."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gambhir-performs-last-rites-of-domestic-help-after-lockdown-prevents-body-from-reaching-family-829224.html
24-04-2020||National||International passenger capacity for India reduced by 89% in April: UN||International passenger capacity for India reduced by 89 per cent so far this month due to COVID-19 pandemic as compared to a “business-as-usual” scenario, according to the latest projections from the United Nations specialised agency for international civil aviation. The International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) said that by September, the world could have 1.2 billion fewer international air travellers, compared to regular originally planned or “business-as-usual”. Estimates by the organisation show a dramatic reduction in international passenger capacity for countries across the world between January and April, as the COVID-19 pandemic spread globally. In February 2020, international passenger capacity reduced by 13 per cent, mainly related to traffic from/to States experiencing an early outbreak and States deeply interconnected to China. By March, global international passenger capacity reduced by 49 per cent, with a significant reduction not only in States experiencing an early outbreak but also worldwide. In April 2020, global international passenger capacity so far experienced by an unprecedented 91 per cent reduction. For India, the international passenger capacity has reduced by 89 per cent so far in April or a negative 6,263,030 capacity change from originally planned or in a business as usual scenario. In January, there was zero reduction for India in international passenger capacity as the pandemic was in its nascent stages across most of the world, except China, and air travel was still not significantly impacted. The passenger capacity reduction was about 2 per cent for India in February. However, by March, when the World Health Organisation had declared COVID-19 a global pandemic and infection rates were soaring across the world, India witnessed a 29 per cent capacity reduction, with capacity falling 2,077,578 as compared to originally-planned. ICAO estimates also show that international capacity globally could drop by as much as two-thirds from what had been forecast for the first three quarters this year, leading airline revenues to drop by as much 160 to 253 billion dollars for the January to September period.  It said Europe and the Asia-Pacific will be hardest hit by the capacity and revenue impacts, followed by North America. Similarly, the most substantial reduction in passenger numbers is expected to be in Europe, especially during its peak summer travel season, followed by the Asia-Pacific. "As overall severity and duration of the pandemic are still uncertain, ICAO has developed six different recovery paths under two indicative scenarios to explore the potential short-term economic implication of the COVID-19 pandemic,” ICAO Secretary General Fang Liu said. The agency said that prior to the outbreak, airlines had planned to increase seat capacity by 4.2 per cent for the first 9 months of 2020, compared to the same period of 2019. According to the latest estimates, passenger seat capacity could instead drop anywhere between 41 per cent to 67 per cent.     Given the originally planned seat capacity, passenger demand could have increased by 64 million for the first 9 months of 2020, compared to the same period of 2019. However, passenger demand could now drop by 705 million-1,177 million depending on whether the first sign of recovery appears in late May or in the third quarter of the year and later. With the originally planned seat capacity and trend line growth of demand, airlines’ gross passenger operating revenues could have increased USD 15 billion for the first 9 months of 2020, compared to the same period of 2019. However, according to the latest estimates, airlines’ revenues could instead plummet USD 160 to 218 billion if the first sign of recovery comes in late May and USD 218 to 253 billion if recovery restarts in the third quarter. Over two third of revenue loss would be recorded by Asia/Pacific and Europe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/international-passenger-capacity-for-india-reduced-by-89-in-april-un-829225.html
24-04-2020||National||Farmer razes 1-acre cabbage crop as prices tank amid lockdown||Upset over a trader offering one-sixth of the market price for his produce, a farmer in Osmanabad district has razed his entire one-acre cabbage crop. Umaji Chavan, a resident of Jagdalwadi village of Omerga tehsil, said the price offered by traders who buy these vegetables from farmers was so low that he was left with no option but to take the extreme step of razing the entire crop. "I razed the entire cabbage field with the help of a tractor and a rotor," Chavan told PTI on Friday. Due to the ongoing lockdown - which is now over a month old in Maharashtra, where it was put in place before the national lockdown began - the demand, transport and sale of vegetables has become a big problem for farmers, he said. "We tried to sell cabbage in the market at Omerga, which is 20 km away from my village. We were offered Rs 20 for 50 kg produce. The price I was offered is almost one-sixth of the normal selling price in the market," he said. "I have spent almost Rs one lakh to cultivate the cabbage crop on the one-acre field. I expected a reasonable return on investment but had I sold the produce at the asking rate, I would not have got even one-fifth of the amount I put in," Chavan said. "There are big markets like Solapur and Hyderabad, where I could have got a better price. But Solapur is 100 km from my village, and Hyderabad is 200 km away. Transportation to these cities amid lockdown is difficult," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-razes-1-acre-cabbage-crop-as-prices-tank-amid-lockdown-829231.html
24-04-2020||National||Centre should come out with health insurance scheme for journalists: Minister||In the last few weeks, several journalists in Chennai, Bhopal and other places have also tested positive, Sarangi said in a letter to Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar. "This unfortunate development has adversely affected the spirit of our fearless journalists for whom this is the worst and most dangerous kind of occupational hazard," said Sarangi, the Union minister of state for micro, small and medium enterprises. He said scribes who have been infected with the deadly virus should be assured of quality treatment free of cost, besides job security and salary during their absence from duty. "The government should make provision for a health insurance scheme for journalists... in the line with the insurance for frontline health workers," Sarangi said in the letter to Javadekar. He also called on the central government to come out with specific guidelines for all field journalists covering the pandemic, such as mandatory use of personal protective equipment (PPEs) and report from designated sanitised areas. "... It is more important that they are able to discharge their duty freely and truthfully, counter disinformation and ensure that our people have access to crucial and timely information," Sarangi said. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting had on Wednesday issued an advisory to print and electronic media, urging journalists covering coronavirus-related incidents to take precautions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-should-come-out-with-health-insurance-scheme-for-journalists-minister-829232.html
24-04-2020||National||One more tests positive for COVID-19 in Odisha; cases rise to 90||A 40-year-old man from Odisha's Bhadrak district has tested positive for COVID-19, raising the total number of cases in the state to 90, officials said on Friday. The man has a travel history to Kolkata, the Health and Family Welfare Department said, adding the contact tracing and other follow-up action is being undertaken. With the fresh case, the number of COVID-19 patients in Bhadrak increased to 12, of whom 10 are active, officials said. Bhadrak District Collector Gyan Das said new containment zones have been notified in Arandua Gram Panchayat and Brahmaniagon Gram Panchayat. Of the state's 90 COVID-19 cases, 56 are active as 33 persons have recovered from the disease. A 72-year-old man from Bhubaneswar died due to the contagion on April 6. In the wake of the spike in coronavirus cases in Bhadrak, Balasore and Jajpur, the state government has imposed a 60-hour complete shutdown in the three districts since 10 pm on Thursday. Together, the three places have reported 30 COVID-19 cases in the last six days, Chief Secretary A K Tripathy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-more-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-odisha-cases-rise-to-90-829238.html
24-04-2020||National||Ensure non-COVID-19 patients get proper medical care: HC||Justice K R Sriram made the observation on Thursday while hearing three different petitions highlighting the plight of people suffering from several chronic or serious ailments, who the pleas said, are being turned away from clinics and hospitals. The petitions also highlight issues such as lack of adequate facilities and medical infrastructure in state, municipal-run, and private hospitals in current times. The judge said the authorities must take a serious note of the issues and directed the Maharashtra government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to file a reply to the pleas by April 29. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, the counsel for the Centre, told the HC the Supreme court, too, was hearing a similar plea where the Union government would list necessary steps being taken.  Therefore, the Union government's reply was not required to be filed before the HC, Anil Singh said. "I would expect the concerned to take these petitions very seriously and come (up) with an effective solution in their affidavits. "Other respondents may also give their suggestions to the Corporation/State Government/Central Government," Justice Sriram said. The pleas, filed by two advocates and a city activist, said that as per news reports and their own findings, several non-COVID patients were being denied admission ortreatment as medical staff feared the spread of coronavirus at their hospitals or clinics, or due to lack of doctors, technicians, medical staff, hospital beds, protective kits. The petitioners cited several such instances before the court during the hearing. Advocate Gayatri Singh, the counsel for one of the petitioners, told the court that often when patients were turned away, it was not because there are not enough doctors or, medical staff. But such staff and doctors were not provided with protective gears and safety kits, among other things, to mitigate the risk of spread of coronavirus, Gayatri Singh said. The petitioners urged the HC to issue appropriate directions to ensurehospitals did not refuse admission of patients sufferingfrom ailments other than COVID-19. One of the petitioners, advocate Mutahhar Khan, also urged the court to issue interim directions to the authorities to take adequate steps to provide ambulances to ferry needy patients from their homes to hospitals, dialysis centres. Khan suggested that if required, the authorities could convert state-run buses or private mini buses into temporary ambulances for the purpose. The court said the petitioners could give their suggestions to the authorities to help them come up with appropriate measures to provide adequate medical assistance to all patients. "In my view, this is an issue with which both the state and central government should be concerned with and therefore, petitioners may address their communications with suggestions, if any, to the Health Secretary of the State Government at Mantralaya and to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in the Central Government," Justice Sriram said. BMC counsel Anil Sakhre told the court that the civic body realised this was an "important issue" and that it would file an appropriate reply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-non-covid-19-patients-get-proper-medical-care-hc-829242.html
24-04-2020||National||13 madrassa students in Kanpur test positive for coronavirus||Kanpur has reported 107 cases of the virus so far. Chief Medical Officer Dr Ashok Shukla said, “50 samples were tested on Thursday of which results of 13 have come positive. They are the students of a madrassa in Coolie Bazaar, a hotspot zone, from where about 30 people have already tested positive." The 13 students had come in contact with Tablighi Jamaat members who were infected with the virus, he said. They had been quarantined and isolated at the madrassa and now are being admitted to COVID-19 isolation wards at government hospitals, the CMO added.  Contact-tracing of all patients testing positive was underway. So far, three people have died of the virus in Kanpur, while the total number of recovered cases is seven.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/13-madrassa-students-in-kanpur-test-positive-for-coronavirus-829244.html
24-04-2020||National||Expedite process of releasing eligible prisoners: HC to Maharashtra government||Justice G S Kulkarni was on Thursday informed by public prosecutor Deepak Thakare that pursuant to a Supreme Court order, the state government has decided to temporarily release prisoners convicted for up to seven years and undertrials facing offences for which jail term is up to seven years. Approximately 11,000 prisoners were to be released on emergency parole for a period of 45 days, the court was informed. Thakare told the court that so far 4,060 prisoners have been released on parole/temporary bail and process is on to release the remaining inmates. He told the court that at present there is not a single case of COVID-19 in any prison in the state. The state government shall expedite steps which are being taken (to release prisoners), so that the orders of the Supreme Court, are implemented in letter and spirit, Justice Kulkarni said. The high court had taken suo moto cognizance of a letter written by advocate S B Talekar raising the issue of prisoners/undertrials lodged in prisons across the state not being released despite directions from the Supreme Court amid the COVID-19 pandemic. On March 23, the Supreme Court, in a suo moto (on its own) petition, directed for a high-powered committee to be set up to determine which class of prisoners can be released on parole or interim bail to reduce crowding in jails in view of the pandemic. The apex court had said the parameters for release of inmates would be nature of the offence, sentence awarded to the convict and severity of the offence. The panel decided that prisoners or undertrials booked in special acts like the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA), the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act, the Narcotics, Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) shall not be released on temporary bail or parole. The high-powered committee issued impugned decision with a blanket disqualification against the persons prosecuted for offences under special acts (other than IPC) like MCOCA, PMLA, MPID, NDPS and UAPA on the ground that there are higher restrictions on grant of bail in these Acts, Talekar argued. With regard to the alleged discrimination being meted out to the prisoners under the decision of the high-powered Committee, it would be appropriate that the said committee considers the representations made by the advocate (Talekar) as early as possible and decide the same, the court said. The court has posted the matter for further hearing on April 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expedite-process-of-releasing-eligible-prisoners-hc-to-maharashtra-government-829249.html
24-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Mumbai NGO provides vanity vans for cops on lockdown duty||After health workers, Mumbai's police personnel are the most overworked lot, as they have been manning the city's streets round the clock ever since the COVID-19 lockdown was imposed last month. Taking into consideration the problems faced by police personnel due to irregular access to restrooms and changing rooms, a city-based NGO has provided two vanity vans to the Mumbai police. The organisation has provided the vans to Nirmal Nagar and Vile Parle police stations in the western suburbs, an official said. "Each vanity van has three rooms and a toilet, apart from a few other features. Policemen and women who are deployed on patrolling duties and nakabandi don't have regular access to restrooms. We hope that these vans provide some relief to them," activist Kunal Sarmarkar said. The organisation plans to arrange for two more vans in the coming days, he added.  "This is a good initiative. The vans will provide big relief to officials who are deployed for nakabandi, especially women personnel," a constable said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-mumbai-ngo-provides-vanity-vans-for-cops-on-lockdown-duty-829251.html
24-04-2020||National||PM says self-reliance biggest lesson from pandemic, hails 'Do Gaz Ki Doori' mantra to combat virus||Applauding people for their grit in fighting the COVID-19 outbreak, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the biggest lesson the pandemic has taught India is to become self-reliant and complimented rural India for defining social distancing in simpler words, 'Do Gaz Ki Doori', to make people understand its importance. Modi said skills and knowledge of people are put to test during the time of a crisis, but India's villages have displayed the best of their efforts to fight the pandemic. "With its simple mantra of Do Gaz Ki Doori (maintaining distance of two yards), rural India has described social distancing in simple words, villages have showcased the best of their principles, traditional values to fight coronavirus," Modi, who had covered his face with a 'gamcha' while interacting with gram panchayat members via video conference, said. The prime minister was interacting with gram panchayat heads and members to mark Panchayati Raj Divas on Friday. The programme was earlier slated to be held in Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh but was held by a video bridge following the coronavirus-induced lockdown.  Modi said the pandemic has thrown up new challenges which the country never faced before, but it also made people learn new things. "The biggest message COVID-19 has given, the biggest lesson it has taught is to become self-reliant," Modi said, underlining that it is now imperative that villages also become self-reliant for their basic needs. Every gram sabha, every block and every district needs to be self-reliant for its basic needs, he added. Applauding people for observing lockdown rules, the prime minister said it is because of them, the entire world today is talking about how India has responded to the COVID-19 outbreak. "COVID-19 is a huge crisis for the world but people of India have shown grit in this fight. We are fighting this and we are moving ahead with new ideas to tackle the virus," the prime minister asserted. Despite limited resources amid the coronavirus crisis, citizens are taking on this challenge instead of succumbing to difficulties, he pointed out. Heads and members of gram panchayats from across the country shared their experiences in handling the crisis and conveyed to the prime minister that people are religiously following the lockdown. During the interaction, a gram panchyat member of Jammu and Kashmir said amid this crisis respect and suspect for the people should go in hand to ensure that spread of the virus is checked. Modi also told them COVID-19 is a unique virus, it doesn't enter homes of the people on its own, "it is you who can bring it home then it spares no one."  He asked a gram panchayat representative from Cachar in Assam whether people of the state were angry as Bihu festival could not be celebrated due to lockdown. The representative said people understood that the decision was taken in larger good. A gram panchayat head from near Pune in Maharashtra gave a similar reply when the prime minister asked whether people were unhappy with him. In his concluding remarks, the prime minister stressed that there was need to ensure that people get correct information and are not swayed by rumours and misinformation. "We have to get people out of every kind of misunderstanding. Correct information should reach every family ... I am confident that all of you will definitely defeat coronavirus with your collective efforts and your determination," he said. He said well-cooked food should be consumed. He also said certain spices and home-made 'kadha' (an Ayurvedic home remedy) are good to develop immunity. He stressed that a body with strong immunity can help remain strong and healthy. Modi said, "Coronavirus pandemic has really changed the way we work." He said earlier such programmes were held where people used to meet in person. But now events are being held via video conference, he said. While urging people to maintain personal hygiene by washing hands regularly and covering the face with home-made masks like 'gamcha', he also pitched for downloading the Arogya Setu application for mobiles. "It is like your body guard," he said. The government had on April 2 launched the mobile app to help people assess themselves the risk of getting infected with coronavirus and alert authorities if they have come in close contact with a person infected with the deadly virus. He said there was a time when less than 100 gram panchayats were connected to broadband. Now, over 1.25 lakh gram panchayats have broadband, he said while talking about various initiatives taken by his government for development of the villages. Prime Minister Modi also launched the e-GramSwaraj Portal and Mobile App to make the operations of Gram Panchayats digital. The unified portal is a new initiative of the Ministry of Panchayati Raj to provide the village panchayats with a single interface to prepare and implement their gram panchayat development plan (GPDP). He also launched the Swamitva Scheme on the occasion, which provides for an integrated property validation solution for rural India. Demarcation of inhabited land in rural areas would be done by the use of latest surveying methods -- drone technology with the collaborated efforts of the Ministry of Panchayati Raj, State Panchayati Raj Department, State Revenue Department and the Survey of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-says-self-reliance-biggest-lesson-from-pandemic-hails-do-gaz-ki-doori-mantra-to-combat-virus-829252.html
24-04-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Kasaragod’s journey from 172 COVID-19 cases to 20 cases||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, Varsha Gowda talks to Dr Narayan Pradeep on Kasaragod’s journey from 172 cases to 20 cases. L Subramani talks to Pradeep Sathyamurthy about his initiative to feed the hungry. We also have sports updates by Roshan Tyagrajan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-kasaragod-s-journey-from-172-covid-19-cases-to-20-cases-829264.html
24-04-2020||National||ISRO invites proposals for development of technologies for human space programme||The Indian Space Research Organisation has invited proposals for development of indigenous technologies for sustained Indian human space programme and space exploration. The Directorate of Human Space Programme of the city- headquartered ISRO has sought proposals for 18 tentative technology development areas. India's first manned mission to space 'Gaganyaan' is planned around 2022. Four Indian Air Force fighter pilots are currently under training in Moscow and are likely to be potential candidates for the mission. July 15 has been fixed as the last date for submission of proposals in 18 areas which include radiation hazards characterisation and mitigation techniques, space food and related technologies, human robotic interfaces, environmental control and life support systems, human psychology for long term missions and simulated gravity technologies. "Proposals are solicited from national research/academic institutions for developing affordable and indigenous cutting edge technologies for human survival in low earth orbits and beyond for space exploration," the Directorate said in its Announcement of Opportunity (AO). The principal investigator of the proposal should provide necessary details and usage of technology or solution for human space program which can bridge the gap in terms of affordability and indigenisation, also capability of developing a space qualified payload or solution, the AO said. ISRO shall constitute a Selection Committee for scrutiny the proposals, it said, adding the screening of the proposals will be based on scientific benefits, relevance, technical content and feasibility perspective.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-invites-proposals-for-development-of-technologies-for-human-space-programme-829265.html
24-04-2020||National||6,120 villagers now employed under MGNREGA in Puducherry: Bedi||Puducherry Lt Governor Kiran Bedi said the union territory is the first government to restart work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) since April 20 when the Centre gave some relaxation in coronavirus lockdown rules and allowed such works. Talking to PTI over phone, she said Puducherry is proud to have employed the maximum number of women in such works among the States/UTs. The former IPS officer said 35 projects worth Rs.3.45 crore in 35 gram panchayats have been taken up in Puducherry and Karaikal districts. The UT has a total of 60,000 workers with job cards under MGNREGA and 50 per cent of them are actively involved in the projects, the governor said, adding that each worker is paid Rs.256 per day as wages. The villagers reside within 2 km radius of the work sites. The workforce is employed in desilting/deepening or cleaning of lakes, ponds, rivers, other water resources and rain water harvesting measures, and the government of India is 100 per cent funding the projects, she said. Strict instructions have been issued to ensure that all those who work under the projects maintain social distance, wear masks and wash their hands with liquid soaps/sanitisers frequently. The masks and sanitisers have been made by members of the women self-help groups of the UT, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/6120-villagers-now-employed-under-mgnrega-in-puducherry-bedi-829268.html
24-04-2020||National||SC grants 3-week protection to journalist Arnab Goswami||The Supreme Court on Friday granted protection to Republic TV's Editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami against any coercive action, including arrest, for three weeks in about 150 FIRs lodged against him. These cases were registered in several states for his remark against Congress President Sonia Gandhi during a TV debate on killings of two Hindu priests in Palghar on April 16. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah issued notice to Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Jammu and Kashmir and others, acting on a writ petition filed by Goswami. The court rejected a plea by senior advocate Vivek Tankha, appearing for the Chhattisgarh government, to restrain Goswami from making further comments similar to the one which resulted in FIRs against him. "There should be no restraint on the media. I am averse to imposing any restrictions on the media," Justice Chandrachud said. In its order, the court said during the period of three weeks protection, Goswami can move the trial court or the Bombay High Court for anticipatory bail. The court said the probe in all the FIRs except the one filed in Nagpur would remain stayed. The Nagpur case would now stand transferred to Mumbai, where it should be investigated along with a case related to the attack on Goswami. It also directed no investigation would take place in future in any FIR lodged with regard to the TV show, aired on April 21. The top court also directed Goswami to cooperate in the probe. It also directed the Mumbai Police Commissioner to grant protection to Goswami and his channel as he and his wife faced attack on April 23 on return from the TV studio to their home. The court also asked Goswami to amend his plea for clubbing the FIRs and put the matter for hearing after eight weeks. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appeared for Goswami. Senior advocates Kapil Sibal represented the Maharashtra government, Tankha, the Chhattisgarh government and Manish Singhvi, Rajasthan government. During the hearing, Rohatgi said no defamation can be alleged by anybody else against the person concerned as this has been settled by this court in the Subramanian Swamy case.  "I have been asked to appear in Chhattisgarh in connection with the FIR registered over there as per a notice received on Friday morning," he said. "The idea is to muzzle the press...involve the channel and editor in these kinds of frivolous complaints. All these offences are bailable," Rohatgi said, adding there cannot be multiple FIR with same cause of action. Rohatgi also claimed that there was a murderous attack on the petitioner and his wife. Sibal, for his part, questioned how Article 32 petition can lie on fake freedom of speech. "You are trying to ignite communal violence here by putting Hindus against the minority," Sibal contended, maintaining that if the FIR has been lodged, it can't be quashed. "If Congress people have filed FIRs then what is the problem? What is wrong if Congress people file the FIR? Is Goswami so special that he will not appear? Don't BJP people file FIR...Rahul Gandhi is appearing in a defamation case. There is no question of protection," he said, adding all the cases registered fell under the exception clause of freedom of speech and expression. Sibal further said the consolidation of cases can happen but the investigation cannot be stopped at this stage. Singhvi contended the statements were made with religious context. He also said FIRs can be registered anywhere. Tankha, for his part, said that there was a case of misuse of the broadcasting licence here.  "It has hurt the sentiments but for COVID-19, there would have been protests across the country. The gentleman who has come before the court is promoting communal disharmony. He vitiated the atmosphere at the time of lockdown.. you should restrain yourself in such circumstances but you are instigating," he said. Tankha asked the court not to give any protection to the petitioner. Countering the arguments, Rohatgi submitted that the petitioner had just asked why this kind of brutal incidents happened despite the police presence in Palghar. "This court has risen to many occasions and granted protection in such cases," he said. He also pointed out the petitioner can't be compared with Rahul Gandhi as he is not a political person.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-grants-3-week-protection-to-journalist-arnab-goswami-829273.html
24-04-2020||National||English news portal founder arrested in TN on charges of carrying "false" reports over COVID-19: Police||The founder of an English news portal has been arrested here on charges of carrying "false" and "provocative" reports against the local administration and government over COVID-19 relief works, police said on Friday. Andrew Sam Rajapandian, who runs 'Simplicity' portal, was arrested on Thursday on a complaint from a city corporation official and produced before a magistrate who remanded him to judicial custody, they said. Coimbatore CPI-M MP P R Natarajan condemned the arrest of Pandiarajan. Journalists associations of Coimbatore and Tirupur were among those who condemned the arrest, saying it was against freedom of the press. Police said a cases was registered against the portal on Wednesday under Indian Penal Code Sections 189 (Threat of injury to public servant) 505 (i) (statements conducing to public mischief) and Sec.3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act on Wednesday. Earlier, a journalist and a photographer of the portal were questioned for over four hours in connection with the case, police said. According to the FIR, the portal had carried reports that government healthcare professionals and workers involved in the fight against coronavirus were not given proper food and employees under Public Distribution System were siphoning off the relief fund meant for the poor. The portal was also posting these "totally false" reports in various social media, including Twitter, WhatsApp and Facebook, against the government which was "struggling to fight" the coronavirus spread. These reports were "provocative" and can turn the workers against the government and upset the entire PDS activities, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/english-news-portal-founder-arrested-in-tn-on-charges-of-carrying-false-reports-over-covid-19-police-829285.html
24-04-2020||National||Six more test positive for COVID-19 in Bihar, Total tally 176||Six more persons, including a 10-year-old boy, tested positive for COVID-19 in Bihar on Friday, taking the total number of such cases in the state to 176, a top official said. The fresh cases were reported from Munger district. Health Department's Principal Secretary Sanjay Kumar said new patients including the boy, two men and three women are residents of Sadar Bazar area of Jamalpur in Munger district. "This is a result of contact-tracing," he said. Jamalpur has reported more than a dozen cases in the past one week, most of which were traced to a 60-year-old vegetable seller who had travelled to Nalanda district last month to attend a Tablighi Jamaat congregation. Munger has now 37 cases while Nalanda accounted for 31, making them the two worst affected in the state. Six patients from Munger have recovered from the disease and one has died, while Nalanda has 29 active cases. Out of 38 districts in the state, 18 have reported COVID-19 cases. Siwan (30) and Patna (24) also account for double-digit figures. The total number of active cases in the state now stands at 130.     Two persons died of the disease while 44 have recovered. The number of samples tested so far in the state is 13,785 There has been a steep rise in the number of cases since Monday when the state's aggregate crossed the three-digit mark. Taking a serious note of the spike in the number of COVID-19 cases, the state health department issued a circular making it mandatory for people to wear face masks while travelling and visiting public places like food, vegetable and medicine shops, and dairies. Those failing to do so will be penalised as per provisions of the Bihar Epidemics Diseases, COVID-19 Regulations, it said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bihar-total-tally-176-829287.html
24-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Plasma therapy has yielded positive results initially, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Four Covid-19 patients, who underwent plasma therapy, in the national capital are recovering well, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday as he appealed to those who recovered to donate plasma. The Centre has allowed the Delhi government to conduct human trials for plasma therapy in Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan hospital to treat Covid-19 patients.  "In the last few days, we have tried plasma therapy on four patients and the therapy has yielded positive results. I appeal to the recovered patients to donate their plasma to help other patients recover and contain the fatalities caused by the deadly virus," Kejriwal said. He also said that Delhi would ask for permission from the centre to use plasma therapy for all serious Covid-19 patients based on the next trials of the therapy. Dr  SK Sarin, Director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences who heads the Delhi government team that monitors Covid-19 cases, said this virus has three phases, first is when the virus enters the body, second is the pulmonary phase which affects the lungs and causes difficulty in breathing. The third phase is when cytokines are released which produce substances that can kill the virus. "The third stage involves high risk as it can lead to organ failure. If the person is treated through plasma therapy in the second stage itself, we can neutralize the virus as well as stop organ failure. So, we can treat a person who is in the second stage and has not reached the third stage. We have seen positive results of plasma therapy in the first four patients," he said.  "We will also be testing the therapy on 2-3 patients in the LNH hospital, and I hope that it works for the better. Our main aim through this therapy is to not let any sick person reach the third stage, which we call the 'cytokine storm', and cure their lung infection as well. But along with the benefits, we also have to know that only the people who have recovered from Covid-19 will have to give their blood. We need people to show their patriotism by donating blood so the others can be treated," he said. He said we lost people because we did not get blood from anywhere. "Our team was depressed thinking whether we do not have such people who are willing to help other people."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-plasma-therapy-has-yielded-positive-results-initially-says-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-829289.html
24-04-2020||National||9 RPF personnel test positive for COVID-19 in West Bengal||Nine Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel, who had recently gone to Delhi for some urgent official work, have tested positive for COVID-19, an official from the South Eastern Railway (SER) said on Friday. The personnel were part of a 28-member RPF contingent from the Kharagpur Division of SER, which had returned on April 14 from the national capital with a consignment of arms and ammunition aboard a parcel express train, he said. After one constable developed coronavirus-like symptoms, his swab was tested at a government facility in West Bengal on Thursday. He was admitted to a designated private COVID-19 hospital at Uluberia after his report came positive, SER spokesman Sanjay Ghosh said. The reports of eight others also came positive, he said.  Apart from the nine RPF personnel, a few tested negative while test reports of the remaining personnel were awaited, the spokesperson said. Ghosh said all the 28 RPF constables had been on mandatory quarantine since their return from Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/9-rpf-personnel-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-west-bengal-829291.html
24-04-2020||National||Mystery of India's lower mortality rates seems to defy coronavirus trend||All over the world, mortality rates are being scrutinised to determine the true impact of the coronavirus, which emerged in China late last year and is known to have infected more than 2.7 million people globally, with nearly 190,000 deaths. While death rates in some countries have risen sharply in recent weeks, in India the opposite seems to be happening, at least in some places, leaving hospitals, funeral parlours and cremation sites wondering what is going on. "It's very surprising for us," said Shruthi Reddy, chief executive officer of Anthyesti Funeral Services, which operates in the eastern city of Kolkata and the southern tech hub of Bengaluru. The company handled about five jobs a day in January but has only had about three a day this month. "We've declared employee pay cuts if revenue falls below a threshold," Reddy said. Other numbers tell a similar story. Central Mumbai, home to some 12 million people, saw deaths fall by about 21% in March compared with the same month of 2019, according to municipal data. Overall deaths plummeted 67% in Ahmedabad, the biggest city in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home state of Gujarat, over the same period. Data from at least two other cities, along with accounts from state health officials, show a similar pattern. Half a dozen funeral businesses and crematoriums also reported slumps in business, especially in April. "If we're not seeing an increase in deaths, the suspicion that there may be more COVID-19 fatalities out there is not true," said Giridhar Babu, professor of epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India. FEWER ACCIDENTS Modi imposed a lockdown of India's 1.3 billion people on March 25 in a bid to stop the spread of the coronavirus, which has infected some 23,077 people, killing 718 of them, according to the latest figures. India has tested about 525,000 people, meaning some 4% were positive. In the United Sates, about 18% of tests are positive, according to the COVID Tracking project. India's apparently lower death rates stands in contrast to what has been seen elsewhere. The Netherlands recorded about 2,000 more deaths than normal in the first week of April, for example, while in Indonesia's capital of Jakarta the number of funerals rose sharply in March. Some towns in Italy also saw a jump in recorded deaths. Indian doctors, officials and crematorium employees suspect the lower death rate is in large part attributable to fewer road and rail accidents. "Road accident cases, and even patients with alcohol or drug abuse, stroke and heart attacks have been coming in fewer numbers," said Dr Himanta Biswa Sarma, health minister for the northeastern state of Assam. Accidents on India's chaotic roads killed more than 151,400 people in 2018, according to official data, the world's highest absolute number. The coronavirus lockdown, which is due to end on May 3, will cut road deaths by at least 15% this year compared with 2018, Paresh Kumar Goel, a director at the Ministry of Road Transport & Highways, said. With passenger trains halted, fatalities from all-too-common rail accidents have also plunged. In Mumbai alone, for example, more than half a dozen people typically die every day on the rail network. FEWER MURDERS TOO? Neeraj Kumar, who is in charge of a crematorium on the banks of the holy Ganges river in Uttar Pradesh state, said victims of crime were also not being brought in. "We used to get at least 10 accident-related bodies every day and many related to murder cases. But after the lockdown we're only receiving natural death cases," Kumar said.  The site used to perform up to 30 cremations a day but in the month since March 22, only 43 people had been cremated, Kumar said after leafing through the crematorium's record book. But the lower rates might also reflect difficulties in reporting deaths during the lockdown, officials said. "There could be an increase when the lockdown ends," said Dr Bhavin Joshi, a senior health department official with the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation.  Requests for India-wide data from the national registrar went unanswered, while an official at the New Delhi Municipal Council said they could not provide numbers. Reuters was also unable to obtain data for the state of West Bengal, where some doctors have accused the government of understating coronavirus deaths. Only a state-appointed committee is allowed to declare that a patient has died from the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mystery-of-indias-lower-mortality-rates-seems-to-defy-coronavirus-trend-829301.html
24-04-2020||National||CBI takes over probe into sea cucumber poaching syndicates in Lakshadweep||The CBI has taken over investigation into sea cucumber poaching syndicates in Lakshadweep on a reference from the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau after 173 dead and 46 alive pieces of the marine mammal were seized from a boat around Suheli Charyakara island. The Forest Department in Kavaratti had intercepted a boat in January carrying 173 dead sea cucumbers, a protected rare sea mammal, preserved with salt while 46 were found alive in the fish tank on the boat having reported value of around Rs 2 crore and four persons aged between 19 and 44 years were taken into custody, officials said. Initially, the case was probed by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau under the Environment Ministry but later it was decided to hand it over to the CBI which took over investigations on Thursday registering an FIR in the matter, they said. More cases related to seizures of sea cucumbers and arrests of poachers are likely to be taken over by the agency soon, they said. Sea cucumbers are much sought after in China and South East Asian cultures for their protein content. The species which enjoys highest protection in India under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act is considered a rare delicacy in fancy restaurants of South East Asia with some species costing over USD 3,000 a kilo and even an ordinary one going for as high as USD 150 per plate. These mammals are crucial to coral reef health as they excrete calcium carbonate, an essential material accumulated by the reef needed for its health and growth, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-takes-over-probe-into-sea-cucumber-poaching-syndicates-in-lakshadweep-829303.html
24-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Man commits suicide after being quarantined in Madhya Pradesh||A 30-year-old farm labourer who was quarantined at a school in Madhya Pradesh's Sidhi district, allegedly committed suicide, police said on Friday. The man, who belongs to the Baiga tribe, was found hanging from a tree near the quarantine facility at Dubri Kala village, some 80 km from the district headquarters, on Thursday, superintendent of police R S Bevanshi said. As per preliminary investigation, the man did not wish to be kept in isolation and wanted to be with his children. The deceased, along with 21 other farm labourers, had returned to the village after harvest from neighbouring Sagar district amid the COVID-19 lockdown on Wednesday, the official said. On their return, the farm workers were taken to a quarantine facility at a school in the village, he said. The deceased had stepped out of the facility after informing the guard that he wished to relieve himself, but failed to return and was found hanging from a tree by some villagers on Thursday, the SP said. Meanwhile, an initial compensation of Rs 10,000 has been given to the man's family, collector Ravindra Kumar Chaudhary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-man-commits-suicide-after-being-quarantined-in-madhya-pradesh-829304.html
24-04-2020||National||Two more COVID-19 patients recover in Chhattisgarh; recovery count at 30||So far, 30 COVID-19 patients have recovered in the state, which has not reported any new case in the last one week, the official said. "Two men from Katghora town in Korba district were discharged at around 11.30 am after their results came out negative in two consecutive tests," a public relations officer of the AIIMS here told PTI. As of now, six persons were undergoing treatment in the hospital's isolation ward and were in a stable condition, he added. Located around 200 km from the state capital Raipur, Katghora has emerged as the COVID-19 hotspot in the state, with 27 cases reported so far there. "Of the 10,346 samples sent for screening in the state till Thursday, 36 tested positive, while 9,206 came out negative and reports of 1,104 persons are awaited," a health official said. As many as 30 people had recovered from the deadly infection in the state, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-more-covid-19-patients-recover-in-chhattisgarh-recovery-count-at-30-829312.html
24-04-2020||National||Gujarat starts using rapid testing kits for COVID-19 surveillance||The Gujarat government has started using the rapid antibody testing kits for COVID-19 surveillance in the state, despite the apprehensions expressed in some quarters in the country over the use of these kits. The state health department said that the rapid testing kits will be used only for the purpose of surveillance and not to determine if someone is COVID-19 positive or not. Earlier, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had asked all the states to put on hold the use of rapid testing kits for some time after inconsistencies were found in the test results. It had later said that these kits could be used for surveillance. "Gujarat has received 24,000 rapid testing kits four days back," Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi, said. "Before starting its use, we calibrated these kits to avoid any issues afterwards. We even imparted training to the staff on how to conduct tests. When our experts found that there was still an issue of calibration, we addressed it," Ravi told reporters in Gandhinagar. "Then the ICMR also informed us to put on hold the tests using these kits. We used that time for imparting training to our staff even at taluka level. Now, we have started rapid testing in 30 (out of 33) districts. This test is for only surveillance. It will give us an idea about the presence of suspected cases in a particular area," she said.  "Antibody tests are not final and conclusive. If we find any positive case using rapid testing, we will confirm it by doing the RT-PCR test, which is considered as final. These RTPCR tests are carried out in 16 government laboratories across the state," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-starts-using-rapid-testing-kits-for-covid-19-surveillance-829313.html
24-04-2020||National||Plea in High Court for cautious use of central ACs to prevent COVID-19 spread, seeks govt stand||The Delhi High Court Friday sought response of the Centre and the AAP government here on a plea that no centrally air-conditioned building, including courts, be used without taking precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice C Hari Shankar issued notice to the Centre, the Delhi government and the Registrar of the High Court seeking their stand on the application moved by a lawyer -- K C Mittal. Mittal, also the head of the Bar Council of Delhi, has contended in his plea that "the cough, sneeze or tear dispersal of an infected person would be in aerosol form" and the "same can be picked, ingested and circulated by the central air-conditioning units", like the ones installed in the high court. He has further contended that while droplet infection can be dealt with by sterilization, once aerosol infection enters the air ducts of the central air-conditioning system, it could potentially infect dozens if not hundreds of persons present in a building. Central government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul, who appeared for the Central Public Works Department, said it has issued guidelines on April 22 with regard to cleaning and maintenance of AC units and added that the same would be placed before the court.  Delhi government additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose and advocate Naman, appearing for the Public Works Department, said it would file a response before the next date of hearing. The bench asked the Registrar General of the High Court to look into the guidelines issued by CPWD and listed the matter for further hearing on May 1. The application was filed in the main petition on air pollution which the Delhi High Court had initiated on its own in 2015 to deal with the poor air quality in the national capital. The court keeps issuing directions on the matter from time to time.  In his application, Mittal has also sought setting up of a committee of experts "to examine the problem and suggest technical solutions thereto, including, but not limited to implanting ultraviolet disinfectant units into the air circulation system of the air conditioning".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-high-court-for-cautious-use-of-central-acs-to-prevent-covid-19-spread-seeks-govt-stand-829320.html
24-04-2020||National||HC asks Centre, Delhi govt to ensure pregnant women face no barriers during lockdown||The Delhi High Court has asked the Centre and the Delhi government to work in tandem to ensure that pregnant women and their family members in coronavirus hotspots face no barriers during the lockdown. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad, which conducted the hearing through video conferencing, directed the Delhi government to ensure that the helpline number proposed to be set up within two days for assisting senior citizens during the pandemic are also made available for pregnant women. “The helpline number shall be publicised adequately in the newspapers and the social media as also through the Delhi Police, wherever possible," the court order said. "Union of India and Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi shall work in tandem to make sure that no barriers are faced by pregnant ladies and their family members residing in hot spots during the lockdown,” said the order passed on April 22 and uploaded on the court's website this afternoon. The court passed the order while disposing of a petition by charitable trust SAMA - Resource Group For Women and Health claiming denial of healthcare and delivery/childbirth services to pregnant women in Delhi and the barriers faced by them and their families in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown declared by the Central and state governments.  The court noted that the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs for enabling delivery of essential health services during the pandemic, which includes care during pregnancy and childbirth, besides prevention and management of communicable diseases, treatment of chronic diseases to avoid complications and for addressing other emergencies. Petitioner's advocate Vrinda Grover submitted that the government has directed all front-line workers of sub-health and wellness centres to maintain a list of persons to whom essential services have to be extended, like pregnant women and those who have recently delivered infants. She also said auxiliary nursing midwives (ANM) and Asha workers must ensure that pregnant women in the last trimester are contacted to ascertain their status. She contended that despite extensive guidelines laid down by the Centre, services on the ground are not readily available. The petition sought direction for proper coordination between the concerned departments of the Centre and Delhi government so that a nodal officer is appointed in every COVID-19 hotspot, whose contact number is made public and a dedicated helpline is set up for pregnant women seeking essential health services, which includes arranging transportation to and from the hospital and securing movement passes.  Advocate Anupam Srivastava, representing Delhi government, told the court that the authorities have no objection if the helpline proposed to be set up for senior citizens, in terms of an earlier order of the high court, is also made available for pregnant women to access medical facilities and to arrange transportation for them to visit hospitals for check-ups, delivery and post-delivery consultation. He also said a sufficient number of Asha workers and ANMs will be made available so that they can reach pregnant women, particularly those who are in the high-risk category for a follow-up and in the last trimester. Central government standing counsel Rajesh Gogna assured the court that necessary compliances shall be made and the coordination between the Asha workers and ANMs shall be seamless.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-asks-centre-delhi-govt-to-ensure-pregnant-women-face-no-barriers-during-lockdown-829322.html
24-04-2020||National||Kerala CM seeks PM's intervention to bring bodies of non-COVID NRKs from Gulf||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi's intervention in bringing bodies of Keralites who died in the Gulf countries due to non-COVID-19 reasons to the state without any delay for performing last rites in their home towns. In a letter, he wanted Modi to direct Indian embassies to issue necessary clearances without seeking individual approvals from the Ministry of Home Affairs and avoid any delay so that the remains reach Kerala early. It has been learnt that a 'clearance certificate' from the Indian embassies concerned was required to process the application for bringing home the bodies. The embassies are insisting on production of no-objection certificate from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, he said in the letter, a copy of which was released to the media here on Friday. The Centre had already agreed that in case the deaths are not COVID related, such certificates are not necessary. The bodies are now being brought in the cargo planes as passenger flights are not being operated due to the lockdown. Chief Minister said he had received several grievances from the NRKs in Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries on the delay in bringing home the bodies of those who died there. "They are already under tremendous stress and anxiety due to the lockdown imposed in those countries and the consequent stoppage of international flights", Vijayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-cm-seeks-pms-intervention-to-bring-bodies-of-non-covid-nrks-from-gulf-829323.html
24-04-2020||National||To avoid crowding,J&K authorities bury militants' bodies in far unmarked graves||In a new development, authorities are quietly burying the bodies of local militants at faraway places in unmarked graves to avoid crowding of people for funerals. This is for the first time in the three-decade-old armed-insurgency in Kashmir that bodies of local militants are not being handed over to their families for the last rites. On April 22, four local militants were killed in an encounter with the security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian district. The slain militants were locals and identified as Basharat Shah, Wakeel Dar, Tariq Bhat, and Uzair Bhat. They were reportedly affiliated with Hizb-ul-Mujahideen, Jaish-e-Mohammad and Lashkar-e-Toiba outfits, but had of late joined Ansar Gazwat-ul-Hind (AuGH), an affiliate of Al-Qaeda in Kashmir. However, the police didn’t reveal their identity, and according to sources, they were buried somewhere in Sonamarg area in Ganderbal district. Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar confirmed that the slain militants were not buried at their native places. “Families identified three out of four militants and participated in a burial in presence of a magistrate,” he said without revealing the identity of the slain ultras. On April 17, despite two families reportedly claiming that the militants killed in another Shopian gunfight were their kin, the authorities quietly buried the two in a Baramulla hamlet of north Kashmir. JK Police has been maintaining that the two slain militants are unidentified. Earlier, this month Police had registered an FIR and later arrested over a dozen persons in Sopore area of Baramulla for allegedly attending the funeral of local Jaish-e-Mohammad militant commander, in violation of lockdown protocol in wake of coronavirus outbreak. Till now, the procedure had been to hand over bodies of local militants to their families, while those of unidentified and non-local militants were buried in few graveyards in remote areas of Baramulla and Kupwara districts. However, according to intelligence reports, in the recent few years, ‘glamorized funerals’ of militants had acted as fertile ground for militants to mobilise opinion in their favour and asking youths to join the militancy. As per a 2018 confidential CID report, post the 2016 unrest in Kashmir, people swarm in large numbers to the funerals of militants, providing a boost of sorts to militancy through the glorification of the killed ultras. It further cited many instances of youths joining a militant group after attending the funeral of a slain militant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/to-avoid-crowdingjk-authorities-bury-militants-bodies-in-far-unmarked-graves-829326.html
24-04-2020||National||2 suspected COVID-19 patients' bodies lie unattended for hours||The bodies of two suspected COVID-19 patients were left unattended for several hours, one of them for nearly 20 hours, in the isolation ward of a civic-run hospital in Andheri here, where other patients were present, sources said on Friday. According to the sources, the hospital staff was not ready to wrap the bodies due to the fear of getting infected. However, the hospital administration finally handed over the bodies to their relatives on Thursday around 4 pm, they said. The incident took place at the Dr R N Cooper Municipal General Hospital. "The hospital staff was not ready to wrap the bodies. One of the bodies kept lying unattended in the isolation ward for nearly 20 hours, while the other one for about 10 hours. Several other patients were present in the ward," the sources said. Talking to PTI, the hospital administration claimed that the delay was mainly because the other staffers were not ready to help the attendant in wrapping the bodies as they were suspected, COVID-19 patients. "The bodies of COVID-19 patients need to be wrapped properly, which a single person cannot do without the help of others. But the other staffers were not ready to help the attendant fearing that they might also contract the infection," Dr Pinakin Gujjar, dean of the hospital, said.  He clarified that there was no shortage of safety gear or material for wrapping the bodies. The city has so far recorded 4,232 coronavirus positive cases. Till now, 168 patients have died due to the infection in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-suspected-covid-19-patients-bodies-lie-unattended-for-hours-829329.html
24-04-2020||National||Valley medico catches COVID-19 infection due to ‘sub-standard’ PPE||The resident doctor, who recently tested positive for COVID-19 in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district, has alleged that sub-standard personal protective equipment (PPE) exposed him to the infection at the emergency wing of the hospital, where he is working. “I am among the frontline doctors and should have proper protective gear. Unfortunately, I was provided with poor-quality masks and gowns, which exposed me to coronavirus,” the 40-year-old medico, working in an associated hospital with Government Medical College (GMC), Baramulla, was quoted by a local newspaper as having, said. He claimed that there were no N-95 masks in the hospital for doctors who have to examine patients in the casualty wing. “It puts doctors to huge risk from asymptomatic coronavirus carriers. Substandard protective gear has put my contacts, including patients, family members, and relatives at risk of infection,” the medico said. He said his wife and children have already started showing COVID-19 symptoms. His wife has already been kept in the isolation facility after she developed symptoms. Her samples have been sent for testing but the report is still awaited. His children, he said, are admitted to a quarantine centre as a precautionary measure. The doctor said that he had probably contracted the infection from one of the elderly patients on April 13 when they came to the hospital emergency for hypertension and other age-related ailments. “They were sick but showing no COVID-19 symptoms. Such patients are silent carriers of the infection as community transmission has already started in Kashmir,” he claimed. However, Medical Superintendent of GMC Baramulla Dr. Syed Masood said that proper protective gear, including N-95 masks, were being provided to doctors and other hospital employees. “He might have contracted infection by other means or in the community, as he has a life outside this hospital as well,” the MS clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/valley-medico-catches-covid-19-infection-due-to-sub-standard-ppe-829330.html
24-04-2020||National||IIT-Ropar researchers develop remote device to detect COVID-19 symptoms||IIT researchers say they have developed a remote-controlled device to detect COVID-19 symptoms by mapping the body temperature, offering healthcare personnel a safer alternative to hand-held devices. The Infrared Vision System monitors the infrared radiation emanating from the human face to decide whether the person has fever or not. It has the decision-making capability to detect suspects based on the relative body temperature, which makes the screening process at railway stations, airports, bus stands, cinema halls and malls risk-free, the researchers at IIT-Ropar say.  The device takes an infrared image of the face and decides within two seconds whether the person is a suspect case or healthy. The image captured during the screening can be uploaded to the processing unit without wire, they say. “It will automatically detect whether a person is suffering from fever or cold and it will tell whether it is a suspect case or a healthy case,” Ravibabu Mulaveesala, associate professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT Ropar, said. InfraRed Thermography (IRT) involves the mapping of the thermal profiles of people to estimate their health condition. IRT plays a vital role in safe, fast and remote screening of (COVID-19) suspects with symptoms like fever, tiredness, shortness of breath, a runny nose, IIT-Ropar said in a statement. The Infrared Vision System measures a wide range of temperatures with a pixel resolution of160X120. The device is portable, economical, safe and has decision-making ability without human intervention, the researchers say. “It is compact and its weight is not more than 400gm,” said Ravibabu. “The prototype is ready for clinical trials and IIT-Ropar invites medical industry experts for clinical trials," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-ropar-researchers-develop-remote-device-to-detect-covid-19-symptoms-829345.html
24-04-2020||National||CRPF commissions 42 new officers in unique 'webinar' graduation ceremony||Donning face masks and gloves, 42 trainee officers were on Friday commissioned into the world's largest paramilitary, the Central Reserve Police Force, after a 'webinar' passing-out parade held amid the COVID-19 outbreak. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy and CRPF chief A P Maheshwari addressed the young officers, seated in an auditorium at the CRPF officers' training academy in Kadarpur village of Gurgaon, from their offices in North Block and Lodhi Road, respectively. The passing-out ceremony was a webinar conference as gathering of people and holding mega events is a strict no as per coronavirus containment protocols, a senior official said. This is the first time in the history of the force that an e-PoP was conducted for officer trainees, rather than the traditional way of holding a parade and ceremonial event under the sky, he said. The 42 directly appointed gazetted officers, including four women, wore face masks and gloves for the event and were administered the oath to serve the country and later the academy officials pipped ranks of Assistant Commandant on their shoulders. The AC-rank is the entry level for cadre officers in the paramilitary or Central Armed Police Forces and they command a company of about 100 personnel. The trainee officers took oath of the Constitution and saluted the national and the CRPF flags that were brought in the auditorium by other ceremonial guards.  They took the traditional 'antim pag' (last step at the training institute) by stepping on a doormat kept at the exit of the auditorium and embossed with these words in Hindi. This was the 51st batch of the DAGOs in the force that had joined the academy last year in February, the official said. CRPF Director General Maheshwari congratulated the new officers and read out the message of Union Home Minister Amit Shah who said the force was the "backbone of internal security". "I hope you will provide an effective leadership to the troops under your command," Shah was quoted as saying by the DG during the video-conference. These officers, selected by the UPSC after an all-India exam, have been imparted a 52-week training in field tactics, combat operations, weapons training and legal education among others. The trainee officers completed their training on March 5. However, their PoP scheduled for March 22 had been put on hold due to the pandemic. "Later it was re-worked into an e-PoP to enable the young officers to render their valuable service to the people during the on-going public health crisis," CRPF spokesperson Deputy Inspector General Moses Dhinakaran said. The officers will stay in the academy till the lockdown period of May 3 and would be deployed or posted in units as per the necessity arising out of the coronavirus challenge, the senior official quoted above said. With about 3.25 lakh personnel, the CRPF is the country's leading internal security force.  Its three main combat theatres are anti-Naxal operations, counter-terrorist offensive in the Kashmir Valley and taking on armed insurgency in the northeastern states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-commissions-42-new-officers-in-unique-webinar-graduation-ceremony-829346.html
24-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Chardham temples to reopen, no pilgrim to be allowed||The Chardham yatra is all set for a low-key opening this year with no pilgrims allowed to visit the Himalayan temples of Gangotri, Yamunotri and Kedarnath when their portals reopen in a few days after the six-month winter closure.  The opening ceremony of the four temples in Uttarakhand is an important annual event attended by thousands of pilgrims but the extended lockdown to halt the spread of coronavirus has cast its shadow on the yatra this year. The Chardham yatra begins with the opening of Gangotri and Yamunotri temples on April 26 this year.   Kedarnath will open on April 29 while the opening of Badrinath has been put off to May 15.         "In compliance with social distancing norms, we cannot allow pilgrims as of now to visit the temples. Only a select group of priests who have to perform the pujas at the opening ceremony and temple committee officials are being allowed," state tourism and culture minister Satpal Maharaj said. When asked how long it will take the state government to permit pilgrims to visit the temples, he said it will depend upon the guidelines from the Centre after the extended lockdown is over.  "Our priority at the moment is opening the portals of the temples in accordance with religious beliefs and traditions associated with them. The rest of the decisions will be taken as per the Centre's directives," Satpal told PTI.     With the spread of the virus dealing a blow to the yatra and tourism in general, he said an action plan is being drawn up on how to recover from the setback.  "We are mulling a number of steps to offset the economic impact of social distancing on the yatra which will continue even after the lockdown is lifted. "One such step is shifting focus to 'Dhyan Kendras' and meditation caves near the temples where social distancing can happen automatically," he said. He said his ministry is also studying the impact of the prolonged lockdown on international tourism and the steps being taken by different countries to overcome the effects.   "We will devise our recovery strategy accordingly. Our priority as of now is to open the temple gates," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-chardham-temples-to-reopen-no-pilgrim-to-be-allowed-829351.html
24-04-2020||National||COVID-19 crisis brings home for nation importance of being self-reliant, says Prime Minister Modi||The fight against the COVID-19 pandemic brought home for the entire nation, the importance of being fully self-reliant, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday, even as he called upon the rural population to strictly adhere to the mantra of “Do Gaj Doori” (Two Yards Apart) to keep the virus away. “The biggest lesson that the COVID-19 crisis and the fight against it have taught us is that we must be absolutely self-reliant,” Modi said while interacting with some Gram Panchayat chiefs during a video-conference on the occasion of the National Panchayati Raj Day. He said that the national endeavor to be self-reliant should start from the villages. “Each village must be self-reliant for the basic needs of its people. Likewise, each district and each state must be self-reliant at the respective levels to finally make the nation absolutely self-reliant. It is something that has become very important.” The Prime Minister launched a unified e-GramSwaraj Portal, which will provide the Gram Panchayats with a single interface to prepare and implement their Gram Panchayat Development Plan. He also launched the “Swamitva Scheme”, which provides for an integrated property validation solution for villages with drones being used for demarcation of inhabited land in rural areas. The Ministry of Panchayati Raj celebrates April 24 as the National Panchayati Raj to commemorate enforcement of the 73rd amendment of the Constitution decentralizing powers on this day in 1993.  The lockdown imposed to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, however, prompted the ministry to drop its plan to hold a national event at Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh and to scale it down to a video-conference with Prime Minister interacting with some Gram Panchayat chiefs in Karnataka, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab and Assam. Modi used the opportunity to take stock of the fight against the COVID-19 and implementation of the lockdown in the villages across the country. He said that it was for strict adherence to the simple mantra of “Do Gaj Doori” in the villages across the country that the country’s response to the COVID-19 was being lauded around the world. “This pandemic is a huge challenge. But we have also seen in the past two-three months that people of the country were not giving in to it and rather facing it, taking on it, notwithstanding resource constraint,” said the Prime Minister. He also said that the practice of social distancing and hand hygiene as well as the use of face masks would continue to be the most effective tool for people to fight against the COVID-19 in the coming days. He stressed on sanitization works in the villages, as well as on making arrangements for quarantining people traveling from the cities to the villages and for ensuring food and other essentials for all. “Irresponsible behavior by one person could put the entire village in peril. There is no scope for laxity or relaxation.”   “A unique feature of the COVID-19 is that it does not go to the house of anyone uninvited,” the Prime Minister said in a lighter vein. “It will go to your house only if you go out and invite it. And, once it is in your house, it will not spare anyone.”    Naveen Kumar, a 'sarpanch' in Chikballapur, Karnataka, briefed the Prime Minister about the arrangements made in his village for quarantining 14 people suspected of being COVID-19 positive as well as for accommodation for nearly 170 stranded migrant workers from Maharashtra. He also told Modi that social distancing norms were being strictly followed in the fruits and vegetable market set up in the village as well as in the implementation of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Pallavi, another 'sarpanch' from Pathankot in Punjab, told the Prime Minister about the social distancing norms being implemented by the farmers of her village while working in the fields. Modi said that it was important to protect the farmers from the COVID-19 infections as they were ensuring the food security of the nation during the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-brings-home-for-nation-importance-of-being-self-reliant-says-prime-minister-modi-829364.html
24-04-2020||National||Proposals to evaluate role of AYUSH interventions in management of COVID-19||The AYUSH ministry on Friday invited short-term research proposals to evaluate role of indigenous alternative medicine system in prevention and clinical management of COVID-19. Hospitals and institutions involved in the management of coronavirus cases have been invited to participate in this scheme which falls under the extramural (ie.for those from outside the AYUSH Ministry establishment) research category. "As of now AYUSH systems are not allowed to treat COVID-19 patients and the reason is that there is no evidence to support that AYUSH has a solution. Thus, this is an important step in this direction," a senior official said. The proposals should be related to evaluating the role and impact of AYUSH interventions/medicines in the prophylaxis and clinical management of SARS-CoV-2 infection and COVID-19 disease, the ministry said in a statement. Project proposals of a maximum of six months duration with Institutional Ethics Committee (IEC) clearance will be considered for support up to Rs 10 lakhs to meet the expenditure on engaging AYUSH clinicians, technical manpower, laboratory investigations and related contingencies. The details including eligibility criteria, mode for submission of application, application form are uploaded on AYUSH ministry's website. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had last month called upon AYUSH (Ayurveda,Yoga, Unani, Siddha, Sowa Rigpa and Homeopathy) practitioners to pitch in and work for scientific evidence-based solutions from the traditional medicine systems to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/proposals-to-evaluate-role-of-ayush-interventions-in-management-of-covid-19-829370.html
24-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Centre sends four interministerial teams to Gujarat, Telangana, Tamil Nadu||The Union Home Ministry has sent four new interministerial teams to monitor COVID-19 situation in Gujarat, Telangana and Tamil Nadu, officials said Friday. These teams, headed by Additional Secretary-level officers, will visit Ahmedabad, Surat, Hyderabad and Chennai, Home Ministry Joint Secretary Punya Salila Srivastava told a press conference here.  These teams will be in addition to six interministerial central teams constituted earlier, she said. The ministry had sent the six previous teams to Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and West Bengal to review the implementation of the lockdown measures after making ground assessment of the situation prevailing in select districts. Two of these teams have been sent to West Bengal -- one team to Kolkata, Howrah, North 24 Parganas and East Medinipur and the other to Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling and Kalimpong. The teams comprise public health specialists and officers of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), whose expertise can be leveraged by the state government for management of COVID-19 pandemic.  The teams were deputed under the authority conferred on the Central government under Section 35 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 which states that "..the central government shall take all such measures as it deems necessary or expedient for the purpose of Disaster Management".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-centre-sends-four-interministerial-teams-to-gujarat-telangana-tamil-nadu-829371.html
24-04-2020||National||NGT directs Centre, states to dispose COVID-19 waste scientifically||The National Green Tribunal on Friday asked both Centre and state governments to ensure scientific disposal of COVID-19 waste. The green bench headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed a team, comprising the Centre and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), to supervise the handling and scientific disposal of COVID-19 waste, in accordance with the Biomedical Waste Management Rules, 2016,  guidelines. The tribunal also asked the CPCB submit a status report about steps taken to dispose waste till the end of the lockdown, May 3, by both CPCB and state governments, by June 15. The bench also directed the Chief Secretary of States and Union Territories to closely monitor the scientific storage, transport, handling, management and disposal of COVID-19 waste as its improper handling poses a grave threat to the environment and the health of people. “At the national level, let a high level task team of Ministry of Environment, Health, Urban Development,Jal Shakti, Defence and CPCB supervise the handling and scientific disposal of COVID-19 waste in accordance with the guidelines,” the bench said.  It also directed the state Departments of Environment and pollution control boards to ensure compliance of Biomedical Waste Management Rules, 2016 and furnish action taken report to CPCB.  The tribunal suggested the Centre and state governments to adopting best practices in disposal of COIVD-19 waste and creating awareness about the precautions and steps to be taken by all handlers and workers as well as citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-directs-centre-states-to-dispose-covid-19-waste-scientifically-829374.html
24-04-2020||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reviews overall preparedness of armed forces||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday directed the top commanders of the armed forces to ensure that India's adversaries do not get any opportunity to exploit the current situation arising out of the coronavirus pandemic, officials said. At a high-level meeting, Singh reviewed the operational preparedness of armed forces and asked the top military brass to be "fully vigilant" to deal with any possible external security challenge facing the nation, they said. Officials the top army brass apprised Singh about the situation along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir as well in areas close to the border with China. Singh also directed the armed forces to ensure judicial utilisation of financial resources in view of adverse impact of the pandemic on the country's economy. Officials said Singh asked top military commanders to identify tasks and projects which could assist revival of economy.  The meeting was attended by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane, Chief of Navy Staff Admiral Karambir Singh, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria, Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar and Secretary Defence (Finance) Gargi Kaul. Top military officials from key commands of the Army, the Navy and the Indian Air Force also attended the meeting through video conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-reviews-overall-preparedness-of-armed-forces-829386.html
24-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: MHA sends central teams to Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Telangana||Last week, the MHA had sent six Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCTs) teams to 11 districts in four states, including seven in West Bengal and two in Maharashtra, saying that the situation in these places were "especially serious". According to an MHA spokesperson, the situation is "especially serious" in major hotspot districts or emerging hotspots in Ahmedabad and Surat in Gujarat, Thane (Maharashtra), Hyderabad (Telangana); and Chennai (Tamil Nadu). Additional Secretary-level officers will lead the teams in these districts too. Two teams are already in Maharashtra's Mumbai and Pune while Thane is the new addition. "IMCTs focus on range of issues, including compliance and implementation of lockdown measures as per guidelines, supply of essential commodities, social distancing, preparedness of the health infrastructure, safety of health professionals and conditions of relief camps for labourers and poor people," the spokesperson said.  At the daily Covid-19 briefing, MHA Joint Secretary Punya Salila Srivastava provided the assessment of the teams, which visited Indore and Mumbai. According to the team that visited Indore, Srivastava said the availability of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) and masks as well as health infrastructure and number of healthcare professionals were adequate. The administration was also implementing the lockdown measures satisfactorily, she said adding the team had visited hotspot and containment zone in Mhow. The team also appreciated efforts of the authorities in ensuring that farmers being able to sell their produce without visiting markets. On Mumbai, Srivastava said the team visited three localities, including Dharavi. In Dharavi, she said, the team found because of use of common toilets, people have to leave atheir homes despite lockdown and suggested that the administration set up portable toilets in localities.  The team also suggested that 2-3,000 people in Dharavi should be sent to institutional quarantine centres as well as increasing the testing capacity and the number of surveillance teams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-mha-sends-central-teams-to-gujarat-tamil-nadu-and-telangana-829401.html
24-04-2020||National||Marriage plans put on hold by coronavirus, lovebirds await end of pandemic||In September, a young man from Punjab's Gurdaspur district reached out to a woman in Pakistan's Karachi city. Not sure how Hindu festivals were celebrated there, he asked her how was her Janmashtami. She explained and what started out of curiosity then soon turned into an innocent love. They have regularly talked on Facebook since.  In November, Amit Sharma, 30, proposed to Summan RantiLal, 28, who said “Yes”. As their love story flourished, overcoming the tyranny of the borders, the coronavirus pandemic struck and the plans for their marriage, initially scheduled for June, now hanged by a thread. Amit knew pursuing a relationship with a Karachi girl would not be easy. “I had to convince my family. The long distance had led to a kind of fear about whether this will be even possible. But Summan's relatives in Gujarat's Ahmedabad and Gurdaspur's Qadian guided us," Amit, a salesman at a private company, said.  Summan is pursuing M.Phil from Karachi University and loves travelling,cooking and reading, he said. “She had always told me that travelling is her hobby and she had visited many places but never travelled alone. Now she will have to travel a long distance for me.” Amit said. After the pandemic subsides, Amit’s family will send a sponsorship visa to Summan’s family, he said, adding his father Ramesh Sharma is eager to visit Pakistan. Summan's family too is waiting to serve the famous Karachi halwa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/marriage-plans-put-on-hold-by-coronavirus-lovebirds-await-end-of-pandemic-829409.html
24-04-2020||National||Kota: 1,400 students from Haryana, Assam leave for home, those from Bihar stage stir||Nearly 1,400 students from Haryana and Assam left Kota for their home towns by buses on Friday morning, while over 2,000 from various places in Rajasthan are scheduled to leave in the evening. Meanwhile, students from Bihar have appealed to Nitish Kumar, the chief minister of their home state, to make arrangements for their return and staged a silent protest here. Over 50 students from the Union territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Diu had left for home in three buses on Thursday noon and more than 250 students from Rajasthan had left for their respective home districts till Thursday night.  Eighteen buses carrying students from Assam and 31 with students from Haryana were scheduled to leave Kota on Friday, ADM (administration), Kota Narendra Gupta, who is monitoring the task, said. At least 50 students from Dadra and Nagar Haveli and six from Diu had left Kota in three buses on Thursday noon, while students from Bundi, Jhalawar and Baran in Rajasthan wre dispatched in 10 buses on Thursday night, he added. Nearly 1,000 students from Haryana left for home on Friday morning and about 400 students from Assam have started the journey towards their home state. The Assam government had hired buses from private operators to take the students from the state back home, an official of a coaching institute who is associated with the task of sending students home, said. Over 2,000 students from various cities and towns of Rajasthan were also scheduled to leave Kota in the evening, he added. "The Haryana government has heard our plight and sent buses to take us back home. We are grateful to the Haryana government," Anjali Singh, an NEET aspirant who hails from Gurugram, said. Meanwhile, over 12,000 students from Bihar, who are stuck here since the nationwide lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus was imposed, appealed to Kumar to call them back on Thursday. They held up placards with the appeal written on those from their respective places while maintaining social distancing. Shahbaz (18), an NEET aspirant, and his roommate in a paying guest accommodation, Aajam Hussain, both from Bihar's Katihar district, said they were desperate to go home as it was getting more and more difficult to spend even a single day here amid a critical problem of food and the panic surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic. The approval to send back 190 students from Punjab and nearly 500 from Jammu and Kashmir is yet to be received from the respective states governments, a district official said. At least 13,000 students from Uttar Pradesh, 2,800 from Madhya Pradesh and 350 from Gujarat had already reached their home towns from Kota, which is known for its coaching centres to prepare students for competitive exams, in the last few days, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kota-1400-students-from-haryana-assam-leave-for-home-those-from-bihar-stage-stir-829413.html
24-04-2020||National||Owaisi demands relief for migrant labourers; transport facility after lockdown to go to their homes||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi has demanded that the NDA government provide relief to migrant labourers who are badly affected during the lockdown and wanted state governments to make arrangements for them to go to their native places after it ends. He also demanded that the NDA government spell out its plan over the view that many jobs would be lost post lockdown. "The first thing after lockdown comes to an end should be, it is the responsibility of every state government to make arrangement for those migrant labourers who want to go to their village, town.  They are anxious," he said on Thursday night, in an online address on the occasion of Ramzan. He alleged that the lockdown was announced in an unplanned manner without providing relief to migrant labourers from states, including Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Jharkhand. Such migrant labourers are suffering a lot now, he said. He claimed 77 million foodgrains was present in the godowns of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and wanted rice to be distributed among the poor migrant labourers. Citing his information that an official in Banaras issued an order that workers from Telangana who are working in the city are being sent back, he wanted to know why migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Bengal working in Hyderabad cannot be sent to their villages. "..what is this matter that you can send from Banaras but we cannot send from Telangana, They are restless," he said. Such labourers want to go to their villages, he added.  He appealed to the Prime Minister to stall the 'Central Vista' project whose cost is put at Rs 30,000 crore and instead use that money to provide relief to the poor. If the fund given to MPs is stopped, which was a good move, why cannot the Central Vista project be stopped, Owaisi asked. He advised Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao to keep cinema halls closed after the lockdown in the state comes to an end on May 7 and also all places of worship, if he felt that the virus may spread with people coming out, for a few weeks or whatever. But, some economic activity should resume after the lockdown, he said. He also alleged that hatred is being spread against Muslims in the country. Owaisi said the Prime Minister was right when he said the virus does not have any religion but it was a Union Minister who said Tablighi Jamaat is Talibani. Condemning the killing of two seers and their driver at Palghar in Maharashtra, he alleged that a BJP spokesperson had blamed Muslims. However, there was no Muslim in the list of accused released by the Maharashtra government, he said. The AIMIM leader said if action was taken in cases of lynching of Akhlaq, Pehlu Khan and others Palghar would not have happened. Owaisi appealed to Muslims to offer prayers at home in the holy month of Ramzan during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/owaisi-demands-relief-for-migrant-labourers-transport-facility-after-lockdown-to-go-to-their-homes-829418.html
24-04-2020||National||SC orders Govt to pay one lakh to ex R&AW officer over mishandling of sexual harassment complaint||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the Union government to pay a compensation of Rs one lakh to a woman officer of the external intelligence agency, R&AW, for violation of her fundamental rights to life and dignity as a result of the improper handling of her complaint of sexual harassment. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari said in this case, the woman officer faced "exceedingly insensitive and undignified circumstances due to improper handling of her complaint of sexual harassment".   The court said regardless of the outcome of the inquiry into the complaint, her fundamental rights have clearly impinged.      "Had it been a case of allegations in the stated complaint of the petitioner been substantiated in the duly conducted inquiry (which the petitioner had failed to do), it would have been still worst and accentuated violation of her fundamental rights warranting suitable (higher) compensation amount," the bench said. Taking into consideration of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace Act, 2013 and the Vishakha Guidelines, the bench said the approach of law in such matters is not confined to cases of the actual commission of acts of harassment, but also covers situations wherein the woman employee is subjected to prejudice, hostility, discriminatory attitude and humiliation in day to day functioning at the workplace. The top court, in the instant case, however, confirmed the Delhi HC's order of 2010 which had approved of her compulsory retirement from the service. It also directed for computing her pension in accordance with the date of notional superannuation, not from the date of actual compulsory retirement. It also asked her to vacate the official accommodation within three months. The court made it clear that there would not be any penal rental charges on her. The woman had joined the Research & Analysis Wing on February 22, 1988. In 2007, she filed the complaint against the top officers. She was however compulsorily retired in 2009.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-orders-govt-to-pay-one-lakh-to-ex-raw-officer-over-mishandling-of-sexual-harassment-complaint-829428.html
24-04-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll rises to 723 in India; total number of cases climb to 23,452: Health ministry||The death toll due to the novel coronavirus rose to 723 with 37 fatalities reported since Thursday evening, while the number of cases saw a record jump of 1,752 to go up to 23,452 cases on Friday, according to the Union health ministry. The previous highest single-day increase was on April 20 when 1,540 cases were reported. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 17,915 as 4,813 people were cured and discharged, and one patient migrated, the ministry said. Thus, about 20.52 per cent of the cases have recovered so far, an official of the ministry said.  The total number of cases include 77 foreign nationals. A total of 37 deaths were reported since Thursday evening of which 14 fatalities were reported from Maharashtra, nine from Gujarat, three from Uttar Pradesh, two each from Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana and one from Karnataka, ministry data stated. Of the 723 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 283 fatalities, followed by Gujarat at 112, Madhya Pradesh at 83, Delhi at 50, Andhra Pradesh at 29, Rajasthan at 27 and Telengana at 26.  The death toll reached 24 in Uttar Pradesh, 20 in Tamil Nadu while Karnataka has reported 18 deaths. Punjab has registered 16 deaths while West Bengal has reported 15 fatalities. The disease has claimed five lives in Jammu and Kashmir, while Kerala, Jharkhand and Haryana have recorded three COVID-19 deaths each. Bihar has reported two deaths, while Meghalaya, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Assam have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry's data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-723-in-india-total-number-of-cases-climb-to-23452-health-ministry-829433.html
24-04-2020||National||Mobile phone makers urges govt to lift sale restrictions||Mobile handset makers body ICEA (India Cellular and Electronics Association) on Friday urged the Centre to remove restrictions on the sale of mobile phones and its repair under essential services category during COVID-19 lockdown period. " As the COVID lockdown enters its 5th week, nearly 2.5 crore Indian users of smartphones, feature phones and mobile devices such as tablets and laptops are now facing the crisis of having to work without a functioning device," the body said in its letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah. "It is critical that mobile device sales via online, and in a phased manner via retail, as well as service centres with facilities for home delivery and pickup must be declared as “essential services”, in addition to grocery and medicines”, said Pankaj Mohindroo, Chairman, ICEA. With the current mobile base at nearly 85 crores,  it is clear that nearly 2.5 crore individuals are suffering due to the non-availability of new devices or repair of their existing devices, he said. The India Cellular and Electronics Association (ICEA), whose members include firms like Apple, Foxconn, Wistron, Flextronics, Xiaomi, Vivo, Oppo and Lava||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mobile-phone-makers-urges-govt-to-lift-sale-restrictions-829434.html
24-04-2020||National||Govt seeks interns from IIMs to help it in COVID-19-related work||The central government has sought interns from the Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) and other knowledge partners to help its empowered groups of officers responding to the COVID-19 pandemic. In a communique, the personnel ministry asked these institutes to provide MBA interns to support the empowered groups in data analysis and evidence-based policy inputs. The government of India has constituted 11 empowered groups for ensuring a comprehensive and integrated response to the coronavirus pandemic.  "It has been decided with the approval of the competent authority that interns may be provided for a period of eight weeks from the date of joining to the said empowered groups," the communique said. The interns proposed by the IIMs and knowledge partners will be interviewed (remotely) and selected on the basis of their bio-data and experience, and interviews, it said. The empowered groups will assign tasks and get outputs as required by the group from the interns, who will be working remotely on the work assigned to them, communique said. The satisfactory completion of the internship shall be confirmed by the relevant empowered group or department concerned to which the interns are attached, the ministry said. On receiving confirmation from the empowered groups, the interns will be issued certificates by the secretary of the department of personnel and training, it added.  "No stipend will be paid to the interns during their assignments," the ministry said. The request seeking interns has been sent to the 20 IIMs, including those in Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Lucknow, Indore, Kozhikode, Shillong, Ranchi, Raipur and Bodh Gaya. Besides, knowledge partners including the Indian School of Business in Hyderabad and Mohali, the Management Development Institute in Gurgaon, The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) in Delhi, the APJ Abdul Kalam Foundation in Rameswaram and the Indian Institute of Public Administration in Delhi, have also been asked to propose the names of interns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-seeks-interns-from-iims-to-help-it-in-covid-19-related-work-829446.html
24-04-2020||National||Coronavirus death toll rises to 723 in India; cases climb to 23,452: Health ministry||The death toll due to the novel coronavirus rose to 723 with 37 fatalities reported since Thursday evening, while the number of cases saw a record jump of 1,752 to go up to 23,452 cases on Friday, according to the Union health ministry. The previous highest single day increase was on April 20 when 1,540 cases were reported. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 17,915 as 4,813 people were cured and discharged, and one patient migrated, the ministry said. Thus, about 20.52 per cent of the cases have recovered so far, an official of the ministry said.  The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that 23,502 samples have been confirmed positive as on April 24 at 9 am. The health ministry's figure of 23,452 cases include 77 foreign nationals. A total of 37 deaths were reported since Thursday evening of which 14 fatalities were reported from Maharashtra, nine from Gujarat, three from Uttar Pradesh, two each from Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana and one from Karnataka, the ministry's data stated. Of the 723 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 283 fatalities, followed by Gujarat at 112, Madhya Pradesh at 83, Delhi at 50, Andhra Pradesh at 29, Rajasthan at 27 and Telengana at 26. The death toll reached 24 in Uttar Pradesh, 20 in Tamil Nadu while Karantaka has reported 18 deaths. Punjab has registered 16 deaths while West Bengal has reported 15 fatalities.  The disease has claimed five lives in Jammu and Kashmir, while Kerala, Jharkhand and Haryana have recorded three COVID-19 deaths each. Bihar has reported two deaths, while Meghalaya, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Assam have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry data. However, a PTI tally of the figures reported by various states as on Friday showed 23,577 cases and 743 deaths in the country. There has been a lag in the Union health ministry figures, compared to the number of deaths announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states. According to the ministry's data updated in the evening, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 6,430 followed by Gujarat at 2,624, Delhi at 2,376, Rajasthan at 1,964, Madhya Pradesh at 1,852 and Tamil Nadu at 1,683. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 1,604 in Uttar Pradesh, 984  in Telangana and 955 in Andhra Pradesh. The number of cases has risen to 514 in West Bengal, 448 in Kerala, 463 in Karnataka, 427 in Jammu and Kashmir,  277 in Punjab and 272 in Haryana. Bihar has reported 176 coronavirus cases, while Odisha has 90 cases. Fifty-five people have been infected with the virus in Jharkhand and 47 in Uttarakhand. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, Chhattisgarh and Assam have registered 36 infections each so far. Chandigarh has 27 COVID-19 cases, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 22 while  18 cases have been reported from Ladakh. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases, and Goa and Puducherry have seven COVID-19 cases each. Manipur and Tripura have two cases each, while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported a case each. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website. States wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-death-toll-rises-to-723-in-india-cases-climb-to-23452-health-ministry-829456.html
24-04-2020||National||Saved India from COVID-19 stage-III: Health Minister Harsh Vardhan||Health Minister Harshvardhan on Friday said the efforts in tackling Covid-19 had saved the country from going into Stage-III of the outbreak and asked state governments to keep up vigil on the pandemic. In a video conference with health ministers of states, Harshvardhan said positive cases of Covid-19 were stable at around four per cent of the total samples tested which was a heartening indicator when compared with other countries. “We are all worried if we are in Stage-III, but we have been able to save the country largely from going into Stage-III. We have all the information connected with clusters and hotspots,” he said. On the rapid antibody tests, the minister said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) was conducting controlled tests of the kits imported from China that were distributed to several states but were found to be faulty. “We will return these kits if they are found to be faulty. We have not even made the payment for the kits,” he said. Harshvardhan told the state ministers that the rapid antibody tests were to be used for surveillance purposes in Covid-19 hotspots and not for a diagnosis.  He noted that the knowledge about the virus was limited and experts around the world were making efforts to understand it better. “We have fewer cases per million. We have a mortality of 3%, which is less. The recovery rate of patients, who contracted viral infection, is better than the world. In March, the doubling rate of coronavirus cases was 3 days; today it is close to 9 days,” the minister adding that the health care sector was well placed to tackle the outbreak. “All over the country wherever the virus is active, we have full information. And, we also know what we have to do to tackle this virus in these areas,” Harshvardhan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/saved-india-from-covid-19-stage-iii-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-829458.html
24-04-2020||National||Do not allow adversaries to take advantage of India's focus on COVID-19: Rajnath to military||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday directed the top military brass to ensure that India's adversaries do not get any opportunity to push their "evil design" by taking advantage of the country's focus on fighting the coronavirus pandemic, officials said. Reviewing India's military preparedness at a high-level meeting, he also asked the armed forces to avoid wasteful expenditure and make sure judicious utilisation of funds in view of the downturn in the economy caused by the pandemic, they said. The top army brass apprised Singh about the situation along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir as well as along the nearly-3,500 KM frontier with China.  Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh briefed Singh about the overall situation in the Indian Ocean region where China has been increasingly expanding its military influence by deploying warships and submarines. A major focus of the deliberations was on situation in Jammu and Kashmir, said an official. Notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic in the region, Pakistan has been resorting to unprovoked ceasefire violations along the Line of Control and making concerted efforts to push militants into Kashmir in the last several weeks, officials said. India has been retaliating strongly to the Pakistani "misadventure" by targeting terror launch pads and ammunition storage across the LoC, they said. On Wednesday, Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbag Singh said Pakistan was sending militants infected with COVID-19 into Kashmir to spread the disease among the people of the valley. "Singh expected the forces to ensure their operational preparedness, while they are battling COVID-19 and that the adversary should not be allowed to exploit the current situation," a defence ministry said in a statement. Besides the Navy Chief, the meeting was attended by Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Chief of Army Staff Gen M M Naravane, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria, Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar and Secretary Defence (Finance) Gargi Kaul.  Top military commanders from key commands of the Army, the Navy and the Indian Air Force across the country also attended the meeting through video conference. In the meeting, the defence minister asked the top military brass to identify and prioritise tasks that could help in revival of the economy after the lockdown is lifted, besides emphasising on the need for ensuring jointness among the three services, officials said. The commanders appreciated recent devolution of emergency financial powers granted to them by the defence ministry, saying the decision has ensured timely procurement of necessary medical supplies to bolster the health infrastructure of the military hospitals, they said. In the conference, the commanders apprised the minister about various measures put in place by them to prevent coronavirus infection among the forces and the assistance extended to the local civilian administration to deal with the pandemic, the ministry said. "These include issue of standard operating procedure on COVID-19, introduction of appropriate modifications in protocols and drills as per the advisories issued by Ministry of Health and other agencies and taking care of the ex-servicemen and their families residing in their respective command areas," the ministry said. It said the armed forces also expressed readiness to pitch in to maintain essential services, locally, if requested by civilian administrations. "In his address, the defence minister appreciated the role of the armed forces for the assistance extended to the local civilian administration and preparatory measures taken to fight COVID-19," the ministry said. The armed force have been playing a key role in the country's fight against the pandemic which has killed over 700 people and infected more than 23,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/do-not-allow-adversaries-to-take-advantage-of-indias-focus-on-covid-19-rajnath-to-military-829467.html
24-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown helped India but bigger challenges await||As India completes a month under lockdown that brought the world's most populous democracy to a virtual standstill, with no or very minimal social and economic activities to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, several medical experts feel that these restrictions were crucial in preventing a "US or Europe-like" situation from materialising in the country.          However, most of the experts also cautioned that a "bigger challenge" awaits the country when it gradually move towards exiting the nationwide lockdown, which has emerged as one of India's biggest weapons so far in the battle against COVID-19.             India's first case was reported on January 30, and 54 days later on March 25, with 519 confirmed cases of coronavirus and 11 deaths, the country was put under a 21-day complete lockdown, hence starting the country's full-blown battle against the pandemic. At the end of the first month of the lockdown on Friday, the total number of coronavirus cases has crossed the 23,000 mark and there are 718 deaths due to COVID-19 in the country. Globally, the total number of cases of infections are over 27.3 lakh and more than1.91 lakh people have died due to the virus with the US and the UK along with some other European countries among the worst affected nations.         After a three week period that ended on April 14, Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended the countrywide lockdown for 19 additional days till May 3 to contain the spread of the pandemic. Though, the number of infections kept on rising through the period of the lockdown, experts believe it is not "alarming" and the situation seems to be under control in India as compared to the US and several other western nations where cases have skyrocketed and the death toll is mounting.            After a week into the lockdown, the tally of cases reached 1,397 and 35 deaths on March 31, a jump of 878 cases and 24 deaths, while at the end of two weeks of the lockdown on April 7, the cases had risen to 4,789 with 124 deaths, witnessing a spike of 3,392 cases and 89 deaths. On the last day of the 21-day first phase lockdown, the death toll due to the coronavirus stood at 353 with the number of cases soaring to 10,815.The third week of the lockdown saw a jump of 6,026 cases and 229 deaths.            The next 10 days saw a spike of 365 deaths and 12,262 cases. As per the Union health ministry Friday update, the death toll due to COVID-19 is 718 and the number of cases 23,077.           Though only a detailed study would be able to throw light on the success of the lockdown, medical experts feel it was necessary and India's situation would have been even more precarious in its absence.            Dr Arvind Kumar, a noted lung surgeon at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said the month-long lockdown has been "immensely beneficial" for India and prevented a "US or Europe-like" situation from materialising in the country.            "More importantly, it has given us a golden 30 days time to prepare our health services and other support services to face the onslaught (of the virus) even if it was to come in the ensuing days," he told PTI.            Kumar also said that as a healthcare worker he would like to see a decision on extension of the lockdown around April 30 or May 1 after assessing the situation at the time.           "Lifting of lockdown should be very gradual. Some facilities should remain closed through the month of May like schools, colleges, malls, cinema halls, religious places and markets. Certain sectors feeling the pinch should open but only in green zones, while red and orange zones should continue in lockdown," he said.           Ravi Shekhar Jha, Senior Consultant and Head of the Department, Pulmonology, Fortis Escorts Faridabad, also hailed the government's decision to impose the lockdown in containing the virus, saying it was "timely".           He, however, asserted that the lifting of lockdown will be "the real challenge", and advocated its phased lifting after identification of hotspots and allowing only essential services there.           The exit from the lockdown has to be based on a very analytical approach, giving priority to scientific rather than economic considerations, he told PTI.         Dr Rommel Tickoo, Associate Director, Internal Medicine, Max healthcare, said the lockdown has been quite beneficial for India when compared to the situation in the US and Europe.          "Ours was quite timely. We have over 20,000 cases, so if you compare it with the US and Europe, definitely we are in a much better condition. Mortality rate is also lower in India at round 3 per cent," he told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-helped-india-but-bigger-challenges-await-829471.html
24-04-2020||National||Decision about college exams only after UGC directions: Govt||In view of the coronavirus crisis, the decision about when to hold university and college examinations in Maharashtra will be taken after instructions come from the University Grants Commission (UGC), state minister Uday Samant said on Friday. No decision had been taken about conducting examinations online, said Samant, minister for Higher and Technical Education, in a statement here. He held a video conference with vice chancellors of non-agriculture universities on Friday, the statement said.  The COVID-19 outbreak and lockdown has affected the examination schedules of several universities and colleges. "Decision will be taken only after instructions from the UGC....online teaching is on. But no decision has been taken about conducting examinations online," Samant said. "Students will be informed about examinations. No student will be deprived of opportunity to appear for examination," the statement quoted the minister as saying. Universities are prepared to conduct examinations at their level, Samant added. He also informed that coronavirus testing laboratories will be set up in all the universities (barring agriculture varsities). One such laboratory has already been set up at Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada University in Nanded, he said.  Setting up of laboratories at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Aurangabad) and Sant Gadge Baba Amravati University (Amravati) was in final stages, the statement said. Savitribai Phule University (Pune) has come up with low-cost ventilators which will be used at five hospitals, the statement said. Samant also suggested that varsities donate some of their funds to the Chief Ministers Relief Fund for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/decision-about-college-exams-only-after-ugc-directions-govt-829478.html
24-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: China opens green channel for clearing cargo aircraft carrying medical supplies to India||China has opened a “green channel” for granting approval for cargo aircraft carrying medical supplies to India, as New Delhi decided to keep procuring from the communist country test kits and ventilators as well as protective gears required for doctors and nurses taking care of the Covid-19 patients.  “China has opened ‘green channel’ for Indian air cargo transport during the #epidemic and approved 35 cargo flights carrying medical supplies, such as PPEs (Personal Protective Equipment), ventilators and testing kits, to India in the need of the hour,” Sun Weidong, Beijing’s envoy to New Delhi, posted on Twitter on Friday.  Notwithstanding controversy over the quality of the equipment coming from China; India decided to keep procuring from the East Asian nations what it would need to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic in the coming weeks – coveralls, masks and other protective gears for the nurses and the doctors as well as test kits and ventilators for patients.  Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), stated that nearly two dozen flights departed from five cities of China for India over the past fortnight – bringing in nearly 400 tonnes of medical equipment, including kits for both RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) and Rapid Antibody tests to diagnose Covid-19 virus as well as thermometers and protective gears for healthcare professionals.  “Around 20 more flights are expected to bring supplies from China in the coming days, and this is likely to be stepped up considerably in the next few months as our procurement efforts gain momentum,” Srivastava told journalists in New Delhi.  The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) earlier this week temporarily suspended the use of the rapid test kits India procured from two companies in China. The ICMR acted after receiving complaints from the State Governments about inaccuracy in the results provided by the rapid test kits procured from the two companies of China.   The two companies – Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech Company Limited and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics Inc – defended the kits, arguing that the rapid tests to detect presence of Covid-19 antibodies in the blood of a patient was more expected to give accurate results only after the “incubation period” of about seven or eight days following infection by the virus. They also said that the ICMR had approved the test kits before they had started exporting the products to India.  Some protective gears donated by China to India had also been found faulty earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-china-opens-green-channel-for-clearing-cargo-aircraft-carrying-medical-supplies-to-india-829480.html
24-04-2020||National||SC sentences two to life term for kidnap and murder of eight-year-old||The Supreme Court on Friday sentenced two men to life imprisonment for kidnapping and murder of an eight-year-old son of a doctor in 2014 in Nagpur for the purpose of becoming rich with the ransom money. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, Indu Malhotra, and Hemant Gupta, however, modified the death sentence awarded to convicts Rajesh Daware and Arvind Singh by the trial court and confirmed by the Bombay High Court. "The motive of the accused to take life was to become rich by not doing hard work but by demanding ransom after kidnapping a young, innocent boy of eight years," the bench said. The court, however, said the case fell short of the “rarest of rare” cases where a death sentence alone deserved to be awarded to the appellants. It decided to impose a special sentence of imprisonment till the end of the life on the duo with a direction that there should not be any remission until they completed 25 years of imprisonment. According to the prosecution, both Daware and Singh, B Com students, used to work at the nursing home run by Dr. Mukesh Chandak. They decided to kidnap their employer's son to earn quick money. They had killed the boy by smashing his face by stones. They were caught on the basis of CCTV footage as well as phone call records, as they demanded Rs 10 crore as ransom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-sentences-two-to-life-term-for-kidnap-and-murder-of-eight-year-old-829503.html
24-04-2020||National||Interim order on COVID-19 data collection row a setback for Cong: Kerala CM||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi VIjayan on Friday said the interim order of the High Court on the COVID-19 data collection controversy is a setback to the opposition Congress which had raised allegations against the Left government. The Opposition Congress has been levelling charges that the collection of data by the U.S firm violated the fundamental rights of the COVID-19 patients and moved the court on Tuesday seeking quashing of its contract with US- based firm. The court Friday permitted the state government to utilise the services of the firm Sprinklr, for processing data, subject to stringent conditions.  However, itrestrained the US-based IT firm from analysing or processing the data related to COVID-19 patients and directed it to re-transfer to the state government, any data it has obtained. Vijayan said the court had not cancelled or stayed the agreementas sought by the Opposition. "The main petition was to cancel the agreement or to stay it. However, it didn't happen and asked us to go ahead. With regard to the security of the data, the state government had taken necessary steps.There is no dilution in that matter," VIjayan said. He said that the court order proves that the state government's stand was right in the matter and make sure about the security of the data collected. Meanwhile, Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, who is a party to the case,told media that the order agrees with the Congress party's concern over security of the data.  Amid opposition charges, the Kerala government on Wednesday constituted a two-member committee to examine whether the privacy of personal and sensitive data of COVID-19 patients from the state has been protected under an agreement entered by it with a US-based IT firm. The state government has said that it had initiated steps to set up a Data Analytics platform to integrate data from various sources available in the government to meet the "exigency of a massive and unprecedented surge of epidemic". During the hearing, the court hailed the state government's fight against COVID-19, but said it was concerned about data confidentiality. The government informed the court that the agreement with Sprinklr has safeguards for data protection "as per standard practices of software as a service model."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/interim-order-on-covid-19-data-collection-row-a-setback-for-cong-kerala-cm-829506.html
24-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown beneficial, shows European study; NITI Aayog member too claims the same||Days before the Centre takes a call on the extension of the coronavirus lockdown, new research has emerged on Friday demonstrating how containment measures have averted approximately 200,000 hospitalizations in Italy as of March 25. Studying the growth of the COVID-19 pandemic in Italy, a team of European researchers have shown that a combination of behavioural changes and containment measures had reduced virus transmission by 45% in Italy, one of the worst-hit countries. The authors modelled disease spread in the absence of some or all of the containment measures. Based on these scenarios, they estimated containment measures averted approximately 200,000 hospitalisations as of March 25. The results – published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences – underscored the positive impacts of the drastic governmental interventions imposed in Italy. It also highlighted the need for massive testing and improved contact tracing for disease containment. One of India’s top health policy experts too argued in favour of the lockdown on Friday citing analyses made by several experts.   Without the travel bans, lockdown and other containment measures, India would have 8,51,505 Covid-19 patients between March 21 and April 23; but the actual number of total cases was 23,077, Dr V K Paul, a retired professor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi and member (Health) at NITI Aayog said in a presentation, arguing in favour of containment.  A second presentation shared by Dr Paul showed that India would have 73,400 Covid-19 cases between March 25 and April 23 if the average daily growth of such patients was 16% as seen between March 25 and April 6. But a substantially lower number successfully illustrated the impacts of containment measures. The PNAS study by Italian and Swiss researchers estimates the effect of containment measures on COVID-19 spread in Italy using computer models in which factors related to human behaviour and government action are fed as parameters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-beneficial-shows-european-study-niti-aayog-member-too-claims-the-same-829516.html
24-04-2020||National||Two militants killed, cop rescued in Kashmir’s Anantnag||A policeman abducted by militants was rescued while two terrorists were killed and a cop was injured in a brief shootout in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Friday evening. Police said that two militants travelling along with an abducted policeman were stopped near a barricade laid by the police and the army at Kharpora-Arwani in Bijbehera, Anantnag, 48 kms from here, in the evening. “The militants, however, fired at the police party and tried to flee. They were killed in a brief shootout while as the abducted cop was rescued,” Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said. During the exchange of firing, a policeman also sustained injury, he said. The police didn't divulge the identity and group affiliation of the slain militants. However, sources said both of them were locals, had recently joined militancy, and were affiliated with the Lashkar-e-Toiba outfit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-militants-killed-cop-rescued-in-kashmir-s-anantnag-829521.html
24-04-2020||National||Plea in Bombay High Court against Arnab Goswami for 'bid to disrupt harmony'||Congress MLC Bhai Jagtap on Friday filed a petition in the Bombay High Court seeking a case to be registered against Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and his channel for trying to disrupt communal harmony and defame Congress president Sonia Gandhi through his show on the channel. The petition filed by Jagtap and Suraj Thakur, Maharashtra state vice president of the Indian Youth Congress, raised concerns over a segment 'Puchta hai Bharat' aired on Republic TV on April 21, in which the anchor (Goswami) unabashedly attempted to paint the Palghar lynching incident as "political and religiously backed". "The petitioners are urging for FIR to be registered against Arnab Goswami and Republic TV for promoting enmity between religious groups. The respondent (Goswami) twisted the Palghar lynching incident and gave it a communal colour despite the government and police saying that there was no communal angle in it," the plea said. Goswami engaged in countless unfounded religious and political insinuations and also made some unfavourable remarks against Congress party leader Sonia Gandhi, the petition said. "The verbal attacks made by Goswami are prejudicial to the maintenance of order in society, especially in such a time when the whole nation is fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. "Such drama on news channels is exceptionally toxic when there is not a single shred of communal, religious or political involvement in the killing of the two Hindu seers at Palghar," the petition said. The petition also sought a direction restricting Goswami from appearing on the news channel or any other news channel until the investigation against him is complete. Several cases were filed against Goswami in Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Punjab, Telangana, Maharashtra and Jammu and Kashmir following the April 21 programme. Goswami on Thursday approached the Supreme Court seeking interim protection from arrest and quashing of all the FIRs lodged against him. The apex court on Friday granted Goswami three weeks protection from any coercive action against him by police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-bombay-high-court-against-arnab-goswami-for-bid-to-disrupt-harmony-829526.html
24-04-2020||National Politics||Sitapur BJP MLA asked to explain anti-party activities after audio of criticising Modi's call goes viral||A BJP MLA from Sitapur, whose purported audio clip criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi went viral on social media, has been asked by the party leadership to explain his alleged anti-party activities "A show cause notice has been served to party MLA from Sitapur Sadar Rakesh Rathore for indiscipline. Complaints were coming against him for his involvement in anti-party activities. He has been given seven days time to explain," a party release quoted BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh as saying. An audio clip went viral on Thursday on social media. In the clip, the BJP MLA, while purportedly talking to a local BJP leader, J P Sahu from Badaun, termed PM's call asking people to clap and clang bells and plates as completely wrong. "Will you remove coronavirus by clapping. You are breaking record of foolishness. Will corona go by blowing 'sankh'? People like you are foolish...They will take your employment...Will clapping remove the virus," the viral audio said. The MLA was not available for comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sitapur-bjp-mla-asked-to-explain-anti-party-activities-after-audio-of-criticising-modis-call-goes-viral-829221.html
24-04-2020||National Politics||Freezing of DA insensitive, inhumane; govt should shelve bullet train, Central Vista projects: Congress||Congress on Friday slammed the Modi government for its “insensitive and inhuman” move to freeze dearness allowance (DA) of middle-class government employees and pensioners. “To cut the DA of central government employees, pensioners and jawans is an insensitive and inhuman decision of the government. It should have suspended the Central Vista beautification project and the bullet train project running into crores of rupees,” Rahul Gandhi, former Congress president said.  Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala asked the government to curtail 30% of its own expenses and shelve the Central Vista redevelopment and bullet train projects to save money to be used to fight the coronavirus outbreak. “This proves misconceived priorities of this government,” Surjewala said. Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar hit back at the Congress for “fighting with the central government” at a time when the entire country was waging a war against COVID-19. “When the whole country is fighting a war against COVID-19, Congress is only fighting against the central government. This behaviour of Congress at this time will be questioned someday and they will have to explain it then,” Javadekar said. The government on Thursday had frozen inflation-linked allowance for its 1.1 crore employees and pensioners, a move states were likely to follow, helping save a combined Rs 1.2 lakh crore that could be used to combat the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/freezing-of-da-insensitive-inhumane-govt-should-shelve-bullet-train-central-vista-projects-congress-829334.html
24-04-2020||National Politics||Nadda spoke to 4 lakh party workers during lockdown to spearhead relief works: BJP||Overseeing the party's relief measures for the poor during the nationwide lockdown, BJP president J P Nadda has directly addressed over four lakh of its members through 70 video and 20 audio conferences, the party said on Friday. In a recent interaction with party leaders through video conference, Nadda had said that the saffron organisation has worked harder during the lockdown than usual, as it uses its organisational machinery to supplement the Narendra Modi government's efforts to help the needy people in this crisis caused by the coronavirus. BJP's national media head and Rajya Sabha member Anil Baluni said the party had adapted its work culture to the needs of the lockdown, relying heavily on technology to spearhead and monitor a host of relief activities down to the level of district and blocks.  Party workers have provided food to over five crore people and given ration kits, which have provisions for a family for one week, to one crore people under the "feed the needy" campaign, he said, claiming that never before has a political party undertaken such a massive exercise to bring meal to the needy. Following Prime Minister Modi’' call, Nadda had also asked party workers to work to ensure that every household in a polling booth gets two face covers, and urged them to impress upon 40 people each to donate to the PM Cares Fund, which was launched by the government to raise money to boost its fight against COVID-19. To keep the party's relief work energised and on course, the BJP president has been interacting with senior party leaders from states and central leadership on a daily basis soon after the nationwide lockdown came into force from March 25. Office bearers, MPs and senior leaders from different states have attended these virtual meetings in which they give feedback to Nadda and share related details.  Nadda's predecessor and Home Minister Amit Shah also joined one such video conference meeting recently in which leaders from his home state Gujarat were present. Shah is an MP from Gandhinagar. The BJP president also holds a daily review meeting with the party's national office bearers. Baluni said the party has also undertaken extensive exercise to promote the download of Aarogya Setu app, which is meant to keep people informed about the coronavirus spread in their location and offers them relevant advice, to laud "corona warriors", a term for emergency workers deployed in the frontline in the fight against the pandemic. The BJP president has directly spoken to workers from big states as well as those representing small regions like Daman and Diu, party leaders said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nadda-spoke-to-4-lakh-party-workers-during-lockdown-to-spearhead-relief-works-bjp-829348.html
24-04-2020||National Politics||'Bankrupt leadership' of Congress opposing every govt measure in fighting coronavirus: BJP||The "bankrupt leadership" of the Congress is opposing every measure of the central government in fighting the coronavirus, the BJP said on Friday, asserting that nobody except "Rahul Gandhi and his gang" is against what Prime Minister Narendra Modi is doing to deal with the pandemic. Senior BJP leader and Union minister Prakash Javadekar said the entire country is together in fighting the coronavirus but the Congress is busy "fighting" Modi and the government.  All sections of society; the poor, government employees or others, are with Modi in fighting COVID-19 unitedly, and the country has managed to do a much better job than other countries. "But there is this bankrupt leadership of the Congress which opposes every move of the government every day. Let the Congress understand the pulse and mood of the nation... Nobody is opposing the government except Rahul Gandhi and his gang," he said. The former Congress president had earlier in the day hit out at the government for its decision to freeze inflation-linked dearness allowance for its employees. Noting that it was "insensitive and inhumane" to do so, he said instead of "hurting" the middle-class employees and pensioners, the government should shelve bullet train and Central Vista redevelopment projects to save money for the coronavirus fight.  Javadekar said people fully understand what the government has been doing to combat the pandemic and back it. "People are with the government. There is anger among them with the Congress. The opposition party will have to answer one day that when the entire country was together in fighting the virus why it stood in opposition," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bankrupt-leadership-of-congress-opposing-every-govt-measure-in-fighting-coronavirus-bjp-829410.html
24-04-2020||National Politics||Shashi Tharoor slams govt over 'faulty' rapid test kits, calls for indigenous production||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Friday attacked the government over reports of India getting faulty rapid antibody test kits from China and asserted that the answer to the problem lies in indigenous development of test kits as done by countries like the US, South Korea and Germany. India's apex medical research body ICMR on Tuesday advised states to stop using the rapid antibody test kits till it examines their quality in the wake of complaints that they are not fully effective. Last week, India procured five lakh rapid antibody test kits from two Chinese firms and they were distributed to several states reporting rising cases of the coronavirus infection. Reacting to the reports of faulty test kits, Tharoor said he read comments on social media over the issue stating that what can the Modi government do about it as other countries also had the same experience. "Yes, that's exactly the point. How smart is a government if it does not learn from the mistakes of other governments. Isn't it foolishness to make the same mistake at the cost of public health and money?" Tharoor said in a series of tweets. The EU Medicine Agency’s guidelines, on par with the US Centers for Disease Control and Preventions (CDC), require that rapid tests be 80 per cent accurate and the Chinese kits bought by India have shown an average of five per cent accuracy, which is the lowest by their own standards, he said. Noting that China said that the kits should be procured from authorised manufacturers, Tharoor highlighted that one of the companies that India ordered from is the same company that the UK government had ordered and then rejected for being flawed. The British are seeking a USD 20 million refund from the two Chinese companies, Tharoor said. "Spain, with one of the largest counts of positive cases, returned around 600,000 faulty kits to China. Czech and Filipino authorities also discarded testing kits imported from China, claiming they had only 20 per cent & 40 per cent accuracy respectively. Slovak PM: 'throw straight into the Danube'," Tharoor tweeted.  "We have options: The answer lies in the indigenous development of test-kits, as the USA, South Korea and Germany have done. Indians are no less capable but has the government been smart enough to facilitate it?" he asked. There are two successful initiatives from Thiruvananthapuram, with which, Tharoor said, he is closely associated. These are the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) and the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB), both Indian government centres of excellence. "SCTIMST's RT-LAMP test, a conclusive, yet faster and cheaper test which can replace expensive and time-consuming RT-PCR tests, and RGCB's antibody rapid test kits (the kind we have now imported from China and found faulty) are still awaiting ICMR approval. Why is the government dragging its feet?" Tharoor asked. "In this emergency, ICMR should be taking decisions in hours and days, not weeks and months! We had given Rs 1 crore funding to SCTIMST from MPLADS on March 30. Since then their kits are ready, trials have worked. RGCB too. But ICMR is unable to move at the rapid pace required. Why?" the Congress leader asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shashi-tharoor-slams-govt-over-faulty-coronavirus-rapid-test-kits-calls-for-indigenous-production-829536.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||26 COVID-19 patients recovers in Indore; to be discharged soon||Twenty-six people have recovered from COVID-19 in Indore city and they will be discharged from a hospital here shortly, an official said on Thursday. These 26 patients, who underwent treatment at Index Hospital, have tested negative twice for coronavirus, the hospitals medicine department head, Sudhir Maurya, said. After formalities, they will be discharged shortly, he said. Maurya said the hospital's COVID-19 ward has 250 patients right now. According to official figures, 945 COVID-19 cases have come to light so far (till Thursday morning) in Indore, the city worst affected by the infection in Madhya Pradesh. Of them, 53 have died due to complications from the virus. Besides, 77 patients in the city have recovered from the disease so far and gone back home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/26-covid-19-patients-recovers-in-indore-to-be-discharged-soon-829143.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||50 terrorists killed in J&K in 2020; 18 during lockdown||Fifty terrorists, including several top commanders of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Tioba (LeT), were killed in counter-terrorism operations by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir this year so far, officials said on Friday. Seventeen security forces personnel lost their lives while fighting the terrorists in the union territory, they said. The militants also killed nine civilians in the last four months, the officials said. Giving details, a senior official told PTI that the slain terrorists included top commanders of JeM, LeT and Hizbul Mujahideen. He said of the 50 terrorists killed so far this year, 18 were eliminated during the ongoing lockdown imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus. Four terrorists, including district commander of LeT Muzaffar Ahmed Bhat, were killed in an encounter with security forces in the Dialgam area of Anantnag district in south Kashmir on March 15, the official said, adding they belonged to LeT and Hizbul Mujahideen outfits On January 25, three terrorists, including JeM self-styled Kashmir chief Qari Yasir, were killed while three soldiers were injured in an encounter between security forces and ultras in the Tral area of south Kashmir's Pulwama district, he said. On January 23, another top militant commander Abu Saifullah alias Abu Qasim, an associate of Yasir, was killed in the Khrew area of Pulwama district, the official said. On April 9, top Jaish-e-Mohammed commander Sajad Nawab Dar was killed by security forces in Sopore in Baramulla district in north Kashmir, he said. A top Hizbul Mujahideen 'commander' Haroon Wani was killed in a fierce encounter with the security forces in the Gundana area of Doda in Jammu and Kashmir on January 15, he said. Giving further details, the officer said 18 terrorists were killed during the lockdown in the union territory since March 14. As many as nine civilians were killed by the terrorists during this year, he said. Besides, seventeen security force personnel were killed during the same period, which includes 13 security personnel, three Special Police officers (SPOs) and one policeman, he added. As many as 160 terrorists were killed and 102 arrested in Jammu and Kashmir in 2019, Director General of Police Dilbag Singh had said earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/50-terrorists-killed-in-jk-in-2020-18-during-lockdown-829250.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Pakistan Army shells forward areas along LoC in Rajouri||The Pakistan Army on Friday shelled forward posts and villages along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district, drawing retaliation from the Indian Army, a defence spokesperson said. "At about 1130 hours, Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along LoC in Nowshera sector of Rajouri", he said. Cross-border shelling between the two sides was going on when last reports came in. This is the 17th consecutive day of shelling and firing by Pakistani forces along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-shells-forward-areas-along-loc-in-rajouri-829270.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Restrictions tightened in Kashmir after reports of coronavirus lockdown violations||Jammu and Kashmir has recorded 434 cases of the virus, even as five patients have died and 92 recovered. Officials said there have been reports of people violating restrictions in some areas of Kashmir. More than 64,000 people have been kept under surveillance including those who are either in government established quarantine facilities or in home isolation. "Till date 64876 travellers and persons in contact with suspected cases have been enlisted for surveillance which include 6039 persons in home quarantine including facilities operated by government, 279 in hospital quarantine, 330 in hospital isolation and 13283 under home surveillance. Besides, 44940 persons have completed their surveillance period," the officials said. As part of the curbs, security forces have sealed off main roads in most places in the valley and erected barriers at several other places to check the unwanted movement of the people and to enforce the lockdown, the officials said. The administration has said the essential services including healthcare personnel have been exempted from the restrictions, while otherwise, only persons with valid movement passes were allowed passage. The declared containment or red zones across the valley have been sealed to ensure strict adherence to the standard operating procedure. The markets across the valley were shut and public transport was off the roads with only pharmacies and groceries allowed to open, the officials said. Educational institutions across Kashmir are closed, while all public places including gymnasiums, parks, clubs and restaurants were shut down more than a week before the nationwide lock down announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. While the Prime Minister announced the country-wide lockdown on the evening of March 24, the union territory administration here had on March 22 announced a lockdown across Jammu and Kashmir till 31 March as part of its efforts to curb the spread of the coronavirus. However, restrictions were first imposed in many parts of the valley on March 19 to contain the spread of the virus infection. The measures were taken after the detection of the first positive case of coronavirus in the valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restrictions-tightened-in-kashmir-after-reports-of-coronavirus-lockdown-violations-829296.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Militancy-related killings on decline in Kashmir||There has been a decline in militancy-related fatalities in Kashmir this year while no stone-pelting incidents were reported during the anti-insurgency operations so far. According to official data, 68 persons, including 44 militants, 14 security forces personnel and 10 civilians, have been killed this year so far. The number of militants killed in the first four months of 2019 was over 80.  Security forces suffered 40 casualties in a single attack when a suicide bomber rammed his vehicle, packed with explosives, into a paramilitary bus they were travelling in on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway on February 14 last year. Among the militants killed this year, officials said, three were non-locals, and the identity of 11 was yet to be ascertained while rest were locals. Among the 14 slain security forces personnel, five from Army were killed along the Line of Control (LoC) in Keran sector of Kupwara district while fighting a group of infiltrators.  “Besides, three policemen and five CRPF personnel were also killed from January 1 till date.” Another positive aspect has been no stone-pelting incidents were reported during anti-militancy operations this year. Stone-pelting protests at the encounter sites had emerged as a major problem for security forces in Kashmir since late 2016. Dozens of civilian protesters died in security forces' action on stone pelters near encounter sites from 2016 till last year. Official data reveals that a total of 154 militants were killed in gun battles across Kashmir in the first seven months of 2019. In the next five months, only 20 militants were neutralised by the security forces as anti-insurgency operations almost came to a halt as security and communication clampdown was imposed to prevent civilian protests in the wake of revocation of Article 370 on August 5. Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said they were trying to avoid any collateral damage during the operations. “The SOP (standard operating procedure) is being followed in letter and spirit during the operations,” he said and added besides killing 44 militants, 12 were apprehended during different operations. “We have also arrested over 70 over ground workers (OGWs) of militants,” he said. Police and security forces also recovered more 25 AK assault rifles near LoC in Keran sector. The consignment was supposedly meant to be handed over to newly-recruited militants.” The Kashmir police chief said through the recovery of these arms they had managed to control the revival of militancy in many areas. Last September, a report prepared by the security agencies had revealed that there were a total of 273 militants operating in Kashmir. “Out of the 273 active militants, 158 are based in south Kashmir, 96 in North Kashmir and 19 in central Kashmir. At 166, the local militants outnumber the 107 foreign militants operating in Kashmir,” the report revealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militancy-related-killings-on-decline-in-kashmir-829299.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Chirag Paswan says 14.5 lakh people in Bihar not getting ration benefits, seeks Nitish Kumar's intervention||In his tweets, Paswan said the Bihar government has not done so despite being told by the Centre many times. He said the central government has asked states to send details of over 39 lakh such people and noted that 14. 5 lakh of them are from Bihar. He said these people, who belong to poor sections of society, are unable to get ration benefits due to this.   His tweets came after his father and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, who as Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Minister oversees the related work, had made a similar statement and asked states to provide them ration cards so that they could benefit from the National Food Security Act. Chirag Paswan expressed confidence that Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar will soon take measures in this regard. Paswan and Kumar, who is president of the JD(U), are allies and members of the BJP-led NDA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-chirag-paswan-says-145-lakh-people-in-bihar-not-getting-ration-benefits-seeks-nitish-kumars-intervention-829328.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Labourers stranded in other states due to COVID-19 lockdown will be brought home: UP CM Adityanath||The Uttar Pradesh government will bring back labourers stranded in other states because of the coronavirus-forced lockdown, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday, and directed officials to prepare an action plan in this regard. At a review meeting with senior officers here, Adityananth asked them to prepare a list of people stuck in other states and have completed 14-day quarantine there so that they can return home in a phased manner. "Uttar Pradesh will bring back its labourers stuck in other states. The labourers who have completed 14-day quarantine there should be brought back in a phased manner," an official release quoted the chief minister as saying.  "The labourers, after being brought up to UP border by the states concerned after screening and testing, will be sent to their villages. But first, they will be kept in quarantine in their districts for 14 days. For this, arrangements should be made and the places should be sanitised," the chief minister said. Those who have completed 14-day quarantine in the state should be sent home with ration and Rs 1,000, he said. A decision has been taken to send two senior officers to districts which have 20 or more coronavirus cases. These officers will camp there for a week and ensure that lockdown is strictly followed, Adityanath said at the review meeting. Stressing that spread of infections in hospitals and medical centres should be prevented, the chief minister said personal protective equipment kits, N-95 masks and sanitisers should be made available to check this.  He said that the "identification of hotspots" and policy regarding it is proving effective and this "Uttar Pradesh model" is becoming popular in the country.  "It should be ensured that public movement is totally restricted in hotspot areas and, only medical teams and sanitisation workers should visit," Adityanath said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/labourers-stranded-in-other-states-due-to-covid-19-lockdown-will-be-brought-home-up-cm-adityanath-829335.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation employee shot dead by unidentified men||An employee of the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited was shot dead by unidentified persons in the Chhapar area here, police said on Friday. Ankit, posted as a computer operator in a power plant in Barla village, was returning home in Sikanderpur when he was attacked, Circle Officer Kuldeep Singh said. He was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead, Singh said. A case has been registered and the investigation is on, he said. Police said the body has been sent for post-mortem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-power-corporation-employee-shot-dead-by-unidentified-men-829340.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Social worker provides 'rath' for final journey, men to shoulder corpse||When the lockdown and fear of coronavirus is keeping even relatives away from the funerals of their loved ones, a social worker here has stepped up efforts to give the dead a dignified send-off. A truck turned into a hearse is at the centre of the effort by Ashok Tapasvi, who makes his money through organic farming. “Tapasvi Seva Rath” is just a phone call away when a body needs to be carried to the cremation ground. If there are not enough relatives around, the volunteers also lend their shoulders to the bier.  "The spread of coronavirus, imposition of the lockdown and social distancing norms have created fear in the minds of people. And this has emerged as a problem in families where a death has taken place,” Tapasvi said. Tapasvi started the service – offered free to the poor and for Rs 2,100 for those who wish to contribute – in memory of his dead father four months back. Besides, the “rath” or “chariot” for the dead, he also runs ambulances. After the nationwide lockdown against coronavirus, the calls for the “rath” have increased. "I am getting thrice the number of calls I used to get. Earlier, I got a maximum of 10 calls a day, but now I receive around 30-40 calls per day,” Tapasvi said. He said he tries to help most of the callers and has plans to acquire more “raths” to expand the service due to the increasing demand. “Some 12-13 persons can sit in the truck while transporting the body. Social distancing norms are adhered to," he said. At times, the loved ones find it hard even to find four people to carry the bier. “We chip in with that task too," he said. "This is a social service. I don't take any money from the poor. For those who can afford it, Rs 2,100 is taken as a support amount to maintain the 'rath' and keep its wheels turning," he said, when asked about the charges. Maharashtra-born Tapasvi also helps police when they need to take an unclaimed body to the cremation ground. "After the lockdown, hundreds of migrants walked towards their homes. The 'rath' was also used to drop them up to the district border," he said. Tapasvi’s ambulance service also runs on the same pattern – free for the poor and a small charge from those who can afford it. "Our ambulances have so far taken 1,636 people to hospital and saved their lives. Besides, bodies of 366 killed in road accidents and other mishaps have been transported," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-social-worker-provides-rath-for-final-journey-men-to-shoulder-corpse-829350.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir has emerged 'as good as Kerala' in fighting coronavirus: Jitendra Singh||He reviewed the preparedness of J-K in combating COVID-19 through video conferencing with senior J-K union territory officers, heads of government medical institutions and colleges, according to an official communique. The Minister of State for Personnel complimented the medical fraternity of the union territory, especially the junior resident doctors and medical officers, who directly deal with patients for effectively fighting the coronavirus. Singh said India has emerged as one of the frontline nations of the world to combat COVID 19.  "He said J-K has emerged as good as Kerala state in fighting the pandemic," the Personnel Ministry statement quoting the minister said. Singh also re-emphasised the use of Arogya Setu app in combating the COVID 19. He said the government was very concerned for the safety of the medical and healthcare workers and for this reason, the ordinance for protection of health care workers has been implemented. "On the UTs request for augmenting the availability of standardized Personal Protection Equipments (PPE) kits and other equipment, the minister said the UT will be getting regular supply of PPE and testing kits for coronavirus," the statement said. Making a presentation on the preparedness of the UT, financial commissioner, department of health, Atal Dulloo informed that till date, there have been a total of 434 positive cases in the union territory. Out of this, 57 are from Jammu and 377 from Kashmir, he said.  The minister was informed that J-K is second only to Delhi in the whole country in testing cases per million of population. The J-K is testing 818 persons per million population.   About 80 zones in Kashmir and 15 in Jammu have been declared as containment zones. Dulloo said dedicated hospitals have been set up in the UT to deal with all categories of cases. Jammu and Kashmir has also re-employed 126 retired doctors, de-contamination tunnels are being set up in hospitals and walk-in sample collection booths have been set up, the statement said, adding that all frontier personnel have been provided with masks and safety kits. The minister was informed that meetings have been held with religious leaders and videos are also being circulated, asking people to cooperate and pray at homes it said.    AYUSH drugs and medicines are being distributed to all frontline staff and people to boost their immunity, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-has-emerged-as-good-as-kerala-in-fighting-coronavirus-jitendra-singh-829355.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||BJP lawmaker makes fun of PM Narendra Modi's 'clap, bang utensils' appeal||BJP was left red-faced after one of its lawmakers from Uttar Pradesh made fun of prime minister Narendra Modi's appeal to the people to ''clap and bang utensils'' to show their support for the health workers fighting the COVID 19. Saffron party MLA Rakesh Rathore, a lawmaker from Sadar assembly seat in Sitapur district, about 90 kilometres from here, was caught on tape ridiculing the appeal of Modi and stating that it was an attempt to divert the attention of the people from the failures of the government. Rathore was served a show-cause notice by the UP BJP after the audio went viral on the social networking sites. In the audio clip, the MLA, who was speaking to an acquaintance of his, was heard saying that the eunuchs clapped and sought money from the people, whenever someone was born in the family.  ''They (govt) want you to clap, bang utensils, blow conch shells....you (public) keep on doing that....you will not think about anything else..your employment has been snatched,'' Rathore was heard saying in the audio. An embarrassed BJP issued a show-cause notice to the MLA. The opposition parties had also criticised the prime minister's appeal and had asked him to focus on improving the health services instead. Modi had last month made the appeal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-lawmaker-makes-fun-of-pm-narendra-modis-clap-bang-utensils-appeal-829361.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Jail superintendent rejects plea seeking 3-week parole to Dera Sacha Sauda chief||Authorities have rejected a plea seeking grant of three-week parole to Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, jailed in Sunaria prison in Rohtak district for raping his two disciples, officials said on Friday. The 52-year-old dera chief's ailing mother Naseeb Kaur had filed the plea for parole on grounds of her illness, they said.  The parole application had been moved before the Sunaria jail superintendent recently. It was rejected on the basis of inputs from the Superintendent of Police, Sirsa. Official sources said that apprehension of breach of peace was the main ground for turning down the parole plea. In June last year, the Dera Sacha Sauda chief had applied for a 42-day parole for farming in his fields in Sirsa. Later, he withdrew the application.  In August last year too, parole plea of the Dera Sacha Sauda chief had been rejected. At that time too, the dera chief had sought parole to attend to his ailing mother. The plea was then found invalid by the Sunaria jail superintendent on the basis of a report of the Sirsa deputy commissioner, who took into account the security considerations, and the opinion of a board of doctors who examined the dera chief's mother. Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh was convicted in two rape cases by a Panchkula court in August 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jail-superintendent-rejects-plea-seeking-3-week-parole-to-dera-sacha-sauda-chief-829366.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi airport to enforce rigorous social-distancing norms once passenger flights resume||The Delhi airport will ensure strict adherence to social-distancing norms once passenger flights resume, with deployment of additional queue-managers, extra check-in area seats and use of coloured-tape and markers to maintain queue-gap, its operator DIAL said on Friday. The GMR group-led DIAL said it will continue to regularly sanitize the "high-contact surfaces" like chairs, elevators; close washrooms for cleaning every hour, install auto-dispensing sanitizers and encourage passengers to use self-check-in facility. India has been under a lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of novel coronavirus. Consequently, all passenger flights have been suspended for this period. To encourage compliance to social-distancing norms at the airport, the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said it will deploy additional queue-managers at kerb side (city side), check-in halls, security check areas and boarding gates, with social-distancing markers. "Signage in coloured tape have been placed at various stand points and staggered seating arrangement with different markers have been positioned on alternate chairs to maintain gap," the DIAL said in a statement. For the safety of passengers and staff, trolleys would be disinfected after each use, it stated. Additional seating arrangements will be made in check-in area for passengers near the check-in counters, security areas and near immigration points, it noted. Regular sanitization of high-contact surfaces, such as desks, chairs, elevators, railings, trolleys, handles, trays and baggage belts inside the terminals is being carried out even now and will continue when the airport reopens, the DIAL mentioned. "Apart from these, washrooms will be closed after every hour to sanitize all its surfaces," it stated. The DIAL will install auto-dispensing santizers in the terminals and in order to avoid crowding at check-in counters, and encourage passengers to either check-in at home or use self-check-in facility at the airport. "The airport also plans to install UV (ultraviolet) machines to sanitize checked baggage," the operator said. The airport will also have facilities to isolate suspected COVID-19 passengers as per government directions, it stated. Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO, DIAL, said, "DIAL is going to continue its awareness drive by educating and encouraging passengers to maintain social distancing while in the queue." "The Delhi airport is also conducting training and assessments of key service personnel, run checks on major facilities, and performing risk evaluations to prepare for resuming operations,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-airport-to-enforce-rigorous-social-distancing-norms-once-passenger-flights-resume-829368.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Uttar Pradesh to ferry ten lakh stranded migrant workers home||Facing flak from the opposition parties for ignoring the plight of the migrant workers from the state, who were stranded in different parts of the country, Uttar Pradesh government on Friday decided to ferry them home. According to the sources here, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the officials to prepare a road map for bringing the stranded migrant workers to UP from across the country in phases. Adityanath said that all the migrant workers, who be brought to the state, would be screened and tested for COVID 19 before being sent to their native places. ''They will also have to spend 14 days at quarantine centres in their districts before being sent home,'' he said. The officials said that there were an estimated ten lakh migrant workers stranded mostly in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Telangana, Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab. ''It is going to be a herculean task,'' remarked an official. Sources said that the UP government could ask the concerned state governments to make arrangements to ferry the migrant workers till the state's borders from where the state government would transport them to their respective districts. The UP government has recently sent buses to bring around eight thousand students, who were stranded at Kota in Rajasthan. The opposition parties had demanded that the state government also made similar arrangements for the stranded migrant workers also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-uttar-pradesh-to-ferry-ten-lakh-stranded-migrant-workers-home-829376.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||13 coronavirus patients recover in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli||Thirteen COVID-19 patients, including 11 Tablighi Jamaat members, have recovered from the disease after their second test samples came out negative in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district, an official said on Friday. Shamli District Magistrate Jasjit Kaur told PTI here that the second sample of 13 people including 11 Jamaat members tested negative. The patients who recovered have been shifted to a quarantine ward for some time, she said. The remaining four sample reports of the total 17 patients are awaited. Authorities have sealed three hotspots in the district and taken necessary precautions, she said. Meanwhile, the district authorities sealed the UP-Haryana interstate border after some labourers tried to cross the Yamuna river in the night in Jhinjhana police station area on Thursday night.   Subdivisional Magistrate Udbhav Tripathi said 12 labourers from different states were caught trying to cross the Yamuna river from the Haryana side. Police rushed to the spot and sent them back to Haryana. Police has alerted several villages situated along the river banks to be alerted of any attempt to enter into Uttar Pradesh throgh the Yamuna river. These villages are Lachmipura, Manglora, Nainagla, Jatan and Chadpura.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13-coronavirus-patients-recover-in-uttar-pradeshs-shamli-829380.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||808 COVID-19 patients recover in Delhi, 735 of them from Apr 18-23||Over 800 coronavirus patients in Delhi have been cured till Thursday, with 735 of them recovering from April 18-23, according to data shared by the city health department. The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital on Thursday rose to 2,376, while the death toll from COVID-19 stood at 50, according to the Delhi government authorities. Of the total number of 50 fatalities reported till date, 27 of the deceased were aged 60 and above, making over 52 per cent of the total death cases. Thirteen of them were aged between 50-59 and 10 were aged less than 50 years, officials said.  As many as 808 patients have recovered and the number of active cases are 1,518 till date according to the Delhi health department's latest bulletin issued on Thursday. On Thursday, 84 patients had recovered. On Wednesday, as many as 113 patients had recovered while the figures for Tuesday and Monday stood at 180 and 141 respectively. On April 18 and April 19, the corresponding figures of those who were cured were 134 and 83 respectively, according to the data. The total number of people who have recovered from April 18-23 stands at 735, a major share of the total number of recovered patients in Delhi till April 23. Doctors at LNJP Hospital, a dedicated COVID-19 facility in Delhi, attributed this to patient care and also will power of people to brave through this crisis. Many have managed to pull through, despite being above 60 years, and having co-morbidities, a senior doctor said. The number of containment zones in Delhi on Thursday increased to 92, with three new zones being added in various areas, authorities said. The health department also shared the age profile of 2,375 coronavirus positive patients. Of these total cases, 1,548 are aged less than 50 years, 384 aged 50-59 and rest 443 aged 60 years and above. According to the Delhi Health Department, out of the total 2376 cases recorded so far, at least 422 are admitted at three leading private hospitals and various government hospitals including LNJP Hospital, RML Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) and AIIMS Jhajjhar, adding 23 of them are in ICU and eight on ventilators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/808-covid-19-patients-recover-in-delhi-735-of-them-from-apr-18-23-829394.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Azan may be carried out during Ramzan in accordance with NGT guidelines: Delhi Police||Delhi Police on Friday said azan may be carried out in accordance with the National Green Tribunal guidelines and urged people to follow the lockdown norms during the holy fasting month of Ramzan beginning April 25. The police's appeal comes soon after a video surfaced on social media where two policemen were purportedly telling people that azan was not allowed during the lockdown as per Lieutenant Governor's order Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, however, clarified that there is no restriction on azan (call for prayer). "In lockdown, there is complete ban on gathering of people for prayers in mosques or at any other religious place," Sisodia tweeted. Delhi Police asked people to pray at home during Ramzan. "The pious month of Ramzan starts from 25.04.2020. While observing roza and prayers, we expect everyone to follow lockdown as per the guidelines," it tweeted. "Azan may be carried out in accordance with NGT guidelines. It is requested that Namaz may be performed while staying indoors and have Sehri at home. All must stand united to fight Covid 19 pandemic and follow the guidelines," it added. Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal shared the Delhi police's post on the microblogging site and wrote, "Observe Ramzan while following the lockdown guidelines". Tagging the video on his Twitter handle, AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan asked if the LG had ordered the police to ban azan during Ramzan. The Okhla legislator said he talked to the Delhi Police commissioner and he is looking into the matter. "It is my request to LG Sahab to not hurt Delhi, we all want to live together," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/azan-may-be-carried-out-during-ramzan-in-accordance-with-ngt-guidelines-delhi-police-829421.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Relationship between elderly and younger family members deteriorating during Covid-19 lockdown: Survey||More than half of elderly people feel that their health is deteriorating and their relationship with family members, particularly with their sons and daughters, have further deteriorated during the Covid-19 lockdown, a survey has claimed. The survey of around 5,000 people over the phone by Agewell Foundation also claimed that every second elderly person was of the view that they are being mistreated, harassed, shouted at, threatened, neglected isolated or marginalised. Around 55% feel that that current lockdown situation is affecting their health condition adversely while 75% said that they missed the "healing touch of their doctor" while 43% have to avoid regular pathological check-ups all of a sudden. Among those surveyed, 54% are staying with their younger family members while 33% were living with their spouse and 13% were living all alone during the lockdown period. If one goes by the survey, 52% have said there is "further" deterioration of the inter-personal relationship between the elderly and their family members due to hardly any communication, conflict of personal ego, interests and attitude. "Due to the current Covid-19 lockdown...elderly are finding themselves at the receiving end, those who are living alone have practical problems and those who are living with families, have psychological issues...Elderly are getting depressed due to lack of assured medical and financial support, social interaction and lack of independence,"  Agewell Foundation Founder Chairman Himanshu Rath said. Almost one-fourth of them believe modern information technology gadgets are the main reason for their disturbed interpersonal relationships while 31% claimed that financial dependence of elders on family members is the primary reason for the bitter relationship.  One-fifth of them claimed that the less space for themselves due to other members staying home while 15% elderly reportedly admitted that neglect of their special needs in old age is the most responsible factor. The survey said, "11% respondents said that they are highly dissatisfied due to selfish attitude of younger family members. Interestingly, 59% of elderly, staying with their other family members, claimed that they still feel psychological loneliness/isolation even amid their family members. Primary reasons for this situation were neglect by younger family members, unsympathetic relationship, discriminatory behaviour against elderly, rising frustration levels, etc."  Sixty-five per cent of those surveyed also complained that due to lockdown, they have lost their independence, self-esteem and even dignity to some extent, as they have to depend upon others for their basic needs. For 38% elderly, it said, their unfulfilled expectations are now dominating their relationships.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/relationship-between-elderly-and-younger-family-members-deteriorating-during-covid-19-lockdown-survey-829454.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||72 cases registered, over 3,200 people detained for defying coronavirus lockdown norms in Delhi||Over 70 cases were registered and 3,229 people detained in the national capital on Friday for violating government orders during the lockdown imposed to control the coronavirus outbreak, police said. According to the data shared by the police, 72 cases were registered under section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code till 5 pm. A total of 3,229 people were detained under section 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers) and 269 vehicles were impounded under section 66 of the Delhi Police Act, they stated. A total of 410 movement passes were issued, police said. Forty-seven cases were registered against people for stepping out of their houses without wearing masks. Since March 24, a total of 1,14,723 people have been detained so far for violating orders under section 65 of the Delhi Police Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/72-cases-registered-over-3200-people-detained-for-defying-coronavirus-lockdown-norms-in-delhi-829457.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Woman ACP tests coronavirus positive in Ahmedabad, Gujarat||A woman Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) attached to the Ahmedabad city crime branch has tested coronavirus positive, an official said on Friday. So far, 46 police personnel in the city have tested positive for the infection, the official said. Moreover, around 200 police personnel were also put under home quarantine as a precautionary measure, he said. "Before the woman ACP, a police inspector attached to Khadia police station in the walled (old) city area of Ahmedabad tested positive," Deputy Commissioner of Police, Control Room, Vijay Patel, said. "The woman ACP, who heads the Mahila Police Station under the city crime branch has been admitted to SVP Hospital after she tested positive today. So far, 46 police personnel of the city were found to have been infected. Eleven of them have recovered and got discharge," he added. Patel said that the woman ACP might have contracted the infection during her duty inside the walled city, which has recorded several positive case, due to which the areas has been was put under curfew for around two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-acp-tests-coronavirus-positive-in-ahmedabad-gujarat-829460.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Over 10,000 people arrested in Rajasthan so far for violating coronavirus lockdown: Police||Over 10,000 people have been arrested and nearly 1.03 lakh vehicles seized for violation of lockdown orders and curfew in Rajasthan so far, a senior police officer said here on Friday. Around 9,000 of them were arrested under section 151 of CrPC, Additional Director General (Crime) B L Soni said. He said over Rs one crore has been collected in fines. "More than 10,000 people have been arrested in the state under different sections in connection with the violation of lockdown," Soni said. The police have filed 164 cases over misuse of social media, he added. The officer said nearly 80,000 personnel of Rajasthan Police and 20,000 home guards have been deployed across the state to ensure compliance of the lockdown imposed to combat coronavirus.  "We are also keeping a close watch on hoarders and black marketing of essential commodities and have registered 109 cases under the Essential Commodities Act," he said. Soni added that nearly 1,200 cases have been registered against people for illegally transporting, selling and storing liquor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-10000-people-arrested-in-rajasthan-so-far-for-violating-coronavirus-lockdown-police-829462.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Indian firm makes COVID-19 vaccine for Oxford trials; DBT also funds three home-grown vaccines against the pandemic||Indian firm makes Covid-19 vaccine for Oxford trials; DBT also funds three home-grown vaccines against the pandemic New Delhi, April 24: Indian vaccine maker Serum Institute of India will manufacture a new Covid-19 vaccine for a crucial clinical trial being carried out by the researchers at Oxford University. The vaccine is a weakened version of a common cold virus (adenovirus) from chimpanzees that has been genetically tweaked in such a way that it is impossible to grow in humans. To this virus, the scientists have further added genes to help the body identify a Covid-19 infection and put up a defence against the rampaging virus. “SII will be manufacturing the vaccine in anticipation of clinical trials succeeding by September - October in the UK. The vaccine will not be made available to the public in two-three weeks as suggested in some media reports,” the company said in a statement. The Oxford product (ChAdOx1 n-Cov-19) is one of the forerunners of the Covid-19 shots being developed around the world. More than 1,100 participants are to be recruited in study sites in Oxford, Southampton, London and Bristol to evaluate the vaccine that was found safe for use in humans. The company said it decided to produce the vaccine at its own risk to have a jump start on the manufacturing so that enough doses become available, if the trials work. With funding support from the Department of Biotechnology, the SII would also initiate a phase-3 clinical trial of recombinant BCG vaccine among high-risk Covid-19 patients. The DBT approval came earlier this week following scientific observations that nations that offer BCG vaccine to the newborns have lower Covid-19 caseloads and deaths.  “It is an astute observation that in countries with universal infant BCG, there is less transmission and death than in countries without universal BCG. This question is being investigated in Germany and Australia. We shall wait and see their results,” commented T Jacob John, an eminent virologist and retired professor of clinical virology in Christian Medical College Vellore. Under the National Biopharma Mission, the DBT has also funded Cadila Healthcare Ltd for a DNA vaccine candidate and Bharat Biotech for its inactivated rabies vector platform-based vaccine candidate. The three vaccine projects are among the 16 programmes that DBT approved for funding to develop (or repurpose) vaccines, diagnostics and drugs to battle the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-firm-makes-covid-19-vaccine-for-oxford-trials-dbt-also-funds-three-home-grown-vaccines-against-the-pandemic-829475.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||HRD Minister felicitates IIT Delhi's team for developing affordable COVID-19 test||Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' on Friday felicitated a team of scientists from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi, for developing an affordable test for COVID-19. A method to detect coronavirus developed by IIT which will significantly reduce the cost of testing, making it affordable for a large population in the country, got approval from the ICMR on Thursday.  IIT Delhi is the first academic institute to have obtained the ICMR approval for a real-time PCR-based diagnostic assay. The development also comes against the backdrop of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) halting the testing for COVID-19 cases through China-made test kits because of massive variation in test results, compounding the challenge to check and contain the pandemic. The current testing methods available are "probe-based" while the one developed by the IIT team is a "probe-free" method, which reduces the testing cost without compromising on accuracy. "I am proud that premiere institutions have came to the forefront and have done a commendable work and are contributing their best in order to combat the situation arising of COVID-19. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also said that we should develop our own strengths and we should not be dependent on the world," Nishank said. "Keeping in view the capability and high standards of research of our institutes, especially IITs, meetings were held with IITs from the very beginning of the onset of pandemic, to step up their research and innovation initiatives with respect to COVID-19," he added. The minister said the kit will not only empower healthcare services but also support the government in the time of crisis. "This assay can be easily scaled up as it does not require fluorescent probes. The team is targeting large-scale deployment of the kit at affordable prices with suitable industrial partners as soon as possible," IIT Delhi Director V Ramgopal Rao said. The research team includes PhD scholars Prashant Pradhan, Ashutosh Pandey and Praveen Tripathi, post-doctoral fellows Drs Parul Gupta and Akhilesh Mishra and professors Vivekanandan Perumal, Manoj B Menon, James Gomes and Bishwajit Kundu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hrd-minister-felicitates-iit-delhis-team-for-developing-affordable-covid-19-test-829482.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||20 new COVID-19 positive cases takes J&K total to 454||Jammu and Kashmir continues to witness a surge in the COVID-19 positive cases as 20 more tested positive for the pandemic on Friday taking the total number of cases to 454 in the Union Territory (UT). Kashmir continued to contribute most of the cases to J&K’s COVID-19 tally with all 20 new patients tested positive today being from the Valley, while no new positive was reported from Jammu division. Officials said that all the 20 cases were confirmed at Viral Diagnostic Lab of tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar and of the nine are from Bandipora, five from Shopian, four from Kupwara and two from Baramulla.  Since 20 April, Shopian has reported 37 new cases of COVID-19, the highest for any district in J&K. As on Thursday, Shopian has 60 positive patients. Among total 454 cases, 57 are from Jammu division and 397 are from Kashmir valley.  According to a daily media bulletin on novel coronavirus, out of 454 positive cases, 340 are Active Positive, 109 have recovered and five have died. Furthermore, till date, 65722 travellers and persons in contact with suspected cases have been enlisted for surveillance which include 6162 persons in home quarantine including facilities operated by government, 260 in Hospital Quarantine, 340 in hospital isolation and 11970 under home surveillance. Besides, 46985 persons have completed their surveillance period, it said. The Bulletin further said that out of 11764 test results available, 11310 samples have tested as negative till April 24.  Kashmir is among the highest COVID-19 case density areas in the country which is over 56 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, Kashmir’s population is seven million. The national average per million population so far is 17. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions, Valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/20-new-covid-19-positive-cases-takes-jk-total-to-454-829483.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Bandipora first district in J&K to cross 100 positive cases||The number of COVID-19 positive cases in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district continues to rise as nine more patients were tested positive on Friday, taking the toll to 108. Those who were tested positive on Friday, include three elderly men and two women, from Gund-Qaiser village, an official said. “The total number of cases in the district now stands at 108 of which 85 are Active Positive while 22 patients have recovered so far. One patient has also died due in Gund-Jahengeer village of Hajin,” he said. “Active screening by 25 dedicated teams of health experts in 12 Red Zones of Bandipora is underway and 30604 persons have been screened so far,” the official said and added in the past four days there has been seen a significant spike in COVID-19 cases in Gund-Qaiser village which has emerged as new hotspot in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-bandipora-first-district-in-jk-to-cross-100-positive-cases-829497.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||All 160 mediapersons examined for COVID-19 in Delhi on Apr 22 test negative||All 160 mediapersons, who underwent the COVID-19 test here on April 22, tested negative for the disease, an official said on Friday. According to the Delhi government, the swab samples of 160 mediapersons, including journalists, photographers and cameramen from print and electronic media, were collected on April 22.  "All of them tested negative for the coronavirus," an official said. After the reports came out, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: "I pray for ur safety and good health. U guys are also our frontline corona warriors, taking news in these critical times to every household. God bless u all." The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi has set up a COVID-19 testing centre for mediapersons working in the national capital. Earlier this week, Kejriwal had announced COVID-19 testing for mediapersons and said they were also at the frontline in the fight against the novel coronavirus. The announcement came after 53 scribes tested positive for the deadly virus in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-160-mediapersons-examined-for-covid-19-in-delhi-on-apr-22-test-negative-829502.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi reports 3 deaths, 138 new cases; tally rises to 2,514, toll climbs to 53||Delhi reported 138 fresh cases and three deaths due to coronavirus on Friday taking the total cases to 2,514 and death toll to 53. Forty-nine people were discharged during the day as the number of those who recovered has risen to 857. At present, there are 1,604 COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment in hospitals in the national capital. A total of 33,672 samples, including 2,152 samples tested in the past 24 hours, have been tested in the capital so far and the results of 4,128 are still pending. According to the medical bulletin, 26,552 people have tested negative.  At present, Delhi has 92 containment zones in which 3.57 lakh people are staying. In these zones, 233 have tested positive for Covid-19 while 1,854 have tested negative. For 3,273 samples, the results are either pending or rejected by labs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-reports-3-deaths-138-new-cases-tally-rises-to-2514-toll-climbs-to-53-829504.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh reports 94 fresh coronavirus cases, tally crosses 1600||The total number of COVID-19 positive cases in Uttar Pradesh rose to 1,604 on Friday, with 94 fresh cases being reported in a day, a health department official said. Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said 57 of the state's 75 districts have so far reported coronavirus cases. As many as 206 people have been discharged after treatment and the death count in the state stands at 24, Prasad said. The fresh cases have been reported from 13 districts, he said. As many as 80 of the 94 fresh cases have been reported from five districts, he said, adding that majority of cases are from the hotspot areas in the state. “The strategy of containment in the hotspot areas during the lockdown appears to be having a good impact and if it continues in this manner, it would help in checking the disease effectively," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-reports-94-fresh-coronavirus-cases-tally-crosses-1600-829518.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police ASI tests positive for coronavirus||An assistant sub-inspector of Delhi Police posted at the Jama Masjid police station has been tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Friday. Five police personnel who came in contact with him have been advised to go on home quarantine for the next 14 days, a senior police official said.  Samples of several other policemen attached with the Jama Masjid police station have been sent for testing after the ASI tested positive on Thursday, he said, adding that their reports are awaited. The ASI has been admitted to a hospital here, the official said. At least 21 police personnel have been tested positive for the virus so far, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-asi-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-829538.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||101 former bureaucrats write to CMs flagging 'harassment' of Muslims||As many as 101 former bureaucrats have written to the chief ministers of states expressing anguish over the "harassment" of Muslims in some parts of the country. They termed as "misguided and condemnable" the action of Tablighi Jamaat in organising a meeting here but mentioned the "utterly irresponsible and reprehensible" action of a section of media in fuelling hostility towards the Muslims. "The fear and insecurity generated by the pandemic is sought to be channelled into the 'othering' of the Muslim community in different places to keep them out of public spaces, purportedly to protect the rest of the population," the former civil servants said in an open letter. The entire country is going through unprecedented trauma, they said.  "We can endure, survive and overcome the challenges that this pandemic has imposed on us only by remaining united and helping each other," they said, and lauded those chief ministers who have been resolutely secular in their approach both in general and, in particular, in relation to this pandemic. These 101 former civil servants belong to the all-India and central services, from all over India and said they "do not subscribe to any particular political ideology but rather focus on issues that have a bearing upon the Indian Constitution". "It is with much anguish that we bring to your attention reports of harassment of Muslims in some parts of the country, particularly following the meeting of the Tablighi Jamaat in March in the Nizamuddin area of New Delhi," the letter said. The Jamaat was criticised for ignoring the principle of social distancing when cases of COVID-19 had started emerging in the country, it said. Although this was hardly the only incident of such gatherings, both political and religious, sections of the media hastened to give a communal colour to COVID-19, including attributing motives to the Tablighi Jamaat in spreading the virus to different parts of the country, the letter said.   "The action of the Jamaat in organising such an event, ignoring the Delhi government's advisories was, without question, misguided and condemnable. However, the action of the media in communalizing it and extending it to the Muslim community as a whole is utterly irresponsible and reprehensible," it said. Such coverage has fuelled hostility towards the Muslim community in parts of the country, the former bureaucrats said, citing different incidents of alleged bias towards Muslim. "More disturbingly, reports of discrimination are also coming in from various places about Muslims being turned away from hospitals and health facilities," the letter said.  In addition, there are reports of the special entitlements of rations and cash, that governments have sanctioned at this time, being denied to Muslim families, they former civil servants claimed. "We call upon you to reassure all the people in your state that by following the instructions for social distancing and the practices regarding using face covering and hand washing, they can keep safe from COVID-19. It needs to be emphasized that there is no truth whatsoever in the rumours that any particular group has more infections than others in our country," they said in the letter. The former bureaucrats said some Muslim nations with whom India has traditionally maintained good relations have expressed serious concerns about the recent development in the country.   "Millions of our fellow citizens live and work in these countries. There has been serious concern expressed in these countries about the recent developments. We should ensure, through our non-discriminatory action and relief measures, that the minorities have nothing to fear in India. This will help assuage the misgivings of these countries and avoid any consequential detriment to the prospects of the sizable Indian diaspora there," the letter said. The former civil servants requested the chief ministers to instruct all public functionaries to be particularly vigilant to prevent social boycott of any community in the state and to ensure that all the entitlements including medical and hospital care, rations and financial assistance are available equally to all those in need. "At this time of grave national and international crisis, we count on your leadership in bringing the people of India together rather than allowing the deepening of fissures in our country," they said. These bureaucrats include former cabinet secretary K M Chandrasekhar, former IPS officers A S Dulat and Julio Ribeiro, former chief information commissioner Wajahat Habibullah, former Lt Governor of Delhi Najeeb Jung and former chief election commissioner S Y Quraishi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/101-former-bureaucrats-write-to-cms-flagging-harassment-of-muslims-829545.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Centre lauds Haryana’s coronavirus response: Anil Vij||The Centre on Friday praised Haryana's COVID-19 response, lauding its performance on multiple parameters including the recovery rate and better-than-national doubling rate, State Health Minister Anil Vij said. He said that Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, who held a meeting on the COVID-19 situation with State Health Ministers over videoconferencing, was appreciative of the steps taken by Haryana. “He appreciated the way Haryana has handled the situation. He was impressed when we informed him that our state's recovery rate was 67.63 per cent. He said it was a good sign. “I also informed him that as of today, the state has 86 active COVID-19 patients, the rate of doubling of infections has now increased from 13.5 days to 17 days, while tests per million being conducted were 743, and the fatality rate was 1.09 per cent,” Vij said. The national doubling rate stood at 10 days as on Friday. Vij said that none of the patients admitted in hospitals in the state is in ICU or has needed ventilator support, adding early detection of cases has helped. He appreciated the role of doctors, nurses and paramedics in taking care of the patients and praised the police force for effectively implementing the lockdown. Vij said that during the meeting, the state was told not to use rapid testing kits, as has already been advised by the India Council of Medical Research, the country’s apex medical research body. Last week, India had procured five lakh rapid antibody test kits from two Chinese firms and they were distributed to several states reporting rise in the number of coronavirus cases. But on Tuesday, the ICMR advised states to stop using these rapid antibody test kits till it examined their quality in the wake of complaints that they are not fully effective. Vij said he brought to the Health Ministry's notice that Haryana had procured 25,000 rapid test kits from a South Korean company and it was not using the Chinese ones, but the state was asked to put these also on hold for the time being. He said over 46 lakh people have been screened for the virus in the state. As many as 9,997 people have complained of some symptoms like difficulty in breathing and the state wanted to use the rapid test kits of the South Korean company for screening them, he said. Vij said he apprised the Union Health Minister that the Haryana government on Monday ordered a probe after four samples reported positive for coronavirus by a private laboratory tested negative in confirmation tests done at government centres. “I said the results of this lab were found not correct when samples of the four patients from Ambala district came negative in confirmation tests done at different government labs. I told the minister that it can create havoc in the state if people who are negative turn positive in this manner,” said Vij. He said Harsh Vardhan has assured that the ICMR will look into the issue and do the needful. As a fallout of the incident, Vij said that a committee has been constituted to inspect all the five ICMR-approved private labs in the state. “This committee may visit the premises of the private labs once in 10 days to have on-the-spot assessment. This committee will report to the Director of Health Services,” an official order said. Meanwhile, Vij said that a central team visited some hospitals and containment zones in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-lauds-haryana-s-coronavirus-response-anil-vij-829546.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Bandipora first district in Jammu and Kashmir to cross 100 coronavirus positive cases||The number of Covid-19 positive cases in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district continues to rise as nine more patients were tested positive on Friday, taking the toll to 108.  Those who were tested positive on Friday, include three elderly men and two women, from Gund-Qaiser village, an official said. “The total number of cases in the district now stands at 108 of which 85 are active positive cases while 22 patients have recovered so far. One patient has also died in Gund-Jahengeer village of Hajin,” he said. “Active screening by 25 dedicated teams of health experts in 12 red zones of Bandipora is underway and 30,604 people have been screened so far,” the official said and added in the past four days there has been a significant spike in Covid-19 cases in Gund-Qaiser village which has emerged as new hotspot in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bandipora-first-district-in-jammu-and-kashmir-to-cross-100-coronavirus-positive-cases-829553.html
24-04-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir denies protection of Gowhar Geelani from interim arrest from UAPA act||The Jammu and Kashmir High Court on Friday sought the government’s stand on a petition by journalist Gowhar Geelani seeking quashing of an FIR registered against him under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Justice Ali Mohammad Magrey sought the government’s stand, issuing notice to it and directing it to file its response to the journalist’s petition before the next date of hearing scheduled for May 20. In his petition, Salih Peerzada, the counsel for Geelani, has questioned the case against his client and the jurisdiction of the Cyber Police Station, while seeking annulment of the FIR, besides interim protection from arrest. “The respondent has no jurisdiction to investigate the offences beyond the purview of the Information Technology Act, 2000. There is no genesis or manner of the commissions of alleged offences mentioned in the FIR, as such, the initiation of persecution being in abuse of the process of law can't be allowed to sustain,” the petitioner said. “The registration of the impugned FIR emanates from the misuse of police powers, as such liable to be quashed,” he contended in the petition. The Cyber Police Station Kashmir Zone on Tuesday registered a case alleging that Geelani was indulging in unlawful activities through social media posts. “The Cyber Police Station Kashmir Zone, Srinagar has received information through reliable sources that an individual namely 'Gowher Geelani' is indulging in unlawful activities through his posts and writings on Social Media platform which are prejudicial to the national integrity, sovereignty and security of India," a police spokesman said. The spokesman said the unlawful activities include "glorifying terrorism in Kashmir Valley, causing disaffection against the country and causing fear or alarm in the minds of the public that may lead to the commission of offences against public tranquillity and the security of the state". Geelani, a freelance journalist, has worked for German broadcaster Deutsche Welle in the past. The spokesman said several complaints have also been received against Geelani for threatening and intimidation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-denies-protection-of-gowhar-geelani-from-interim-arrest-from-uapa-act-829556.html
24-04-2020||Opinion||Hate against Indian Muslims: Widening Gulf?||For the first time since Prime Minister Narendra Modi assumed office, his government is overtly at odds with the civil society and intelligentsia of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. This development has the possibility of casting a shadow on New Delhi's relationship with the six Middle Eastern countries of this political and economic alliance: Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Bahrain, and Oman. The spate of public responses from important personalities in some of these countries has come in the wake of the vilification drive fanned by Hindutva votaries against Indian Muslims and Islam after several people contracted the coronavirus infection after either attending an event organised by the Tablighi Jamaat or by interacting with those who were present. These responses from abroad -- expressed through social media -- do not remotely carry the official tag. Yet, it needs to be kept in mind that in these societies, public discourse -- especially on subjects that could have a diplomatic fallout -- is rarely witnessed unless there is confidence that the regime shall not frown on those articulating such views. Consequently, India faces the prospect of erosion in its diplomatic and strategic capital. Increasing criticism against India Worryingly, India has already earned the ire of the Independent Permanent Human Rights Commission (IPHRC), an expert body with advisory capacity established by the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC). It has formally condemned "the unrelenting vicious #Islamophobic campaign in #India maligning Muslims for spread of #COVID-19 as well as their negative profiling in media subjecting them to discrimination & violence with impunity." It further asked New Delhi to "take urgent steps to stop the growing tide of #Islamophobia in India and protect the rights of its persecuted #Muslim minority as per its obligations under international law." Interestingly, appreciable anger on social media against the attempts to whip up Islamophobia in the wake of the Markaz Nizamuddin incident stands in contrast to the muted response in these countries over the past six years during which Indian Muslims were targets of hostile programmes and drives. The primary reason behind the torrent of tweets in recent days, against Hindutva and its backers, is that the campaign mounted following the outbreak post the Jamaat event was not restricted to Indian Muslims, but became an attack on Islam per se. This development, for these nations, who see themselves as leaders of the Islamic world, was interpreted as a symptom that majoritarian agent provocateurs in India had crossed the proverbial Rubicon. Modi’s balm The Indian government has gone on an overdrive to recover lost ground but the worry is that the response is not just reactive, but too late and muted. The official Indian response is at two levels. The first is the move to recover the situation somewhat with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's blogpost headlined 'Life in the era of COVID-19', on Linkedin. Three sentences containing 31 words from this 1147 worded blogpost in his name has been widely quoted: "COVID-19 does not see race, religion, colour, caste, creed, language or border before striking. Our response and conduct thereafter should attach primacy to unity and brotherhood. We are in this together." Then on April 23, another instance of damage control came in the form of Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi stating in an interview that the entire Muslim community cannot be held responsible for one group’s "crime". He added that most of the minority community members have condemned the group’s action. To return to Modi, his words, written towards the end of the article, were posted on a platform which is primarily a business and employment-oriented service used for 'networking' by professionals. The vital question is, was this message intended for his supporters who have been fanning hatred towards Muslims or was it just to put it on record that the prime minister was opposed to religious profiling of coronavirus patients? Modi's messaging is odd on two counts. One, if this is indeed aimed at signalling to the proverbial bhakts or blind supporters, Linkedin was not the appropriate platform to convey. Secondly, the smear campaign does not contend that the virus 'chooses' victims on basis of their religious identity and instead depicts Muslims as the chief and wilful carriers of the pandemic in the country. Additionally, the campaign has painted just the Tablighi Jamaat as representative of all Muslims. Furthermore, it has been alleged that the event was organised with the devious intention of spreading the virus and that was a grand Islamic design. This argument has worried every Muslim in the world, especially in the GCC countries. Raking up of old, offensive tweets The added anger in these countries is over an old tweet of Bharatiya Janata Party Member of Parliament from Bangalore, Tejasvi Surya, resurfacing on social media. This post was sexually offensive and derogatory towards Arab women. Its circulation, after the consistent anti-Muslim/Islam campaign since end March was reported in the mainstream Arab media, added fuel to fire. A social media user, evidently a Kuwait-based lawyer, responded sharply to Surya's post and tagged Modi, on his personal as well as official handle.  The points made were pointed: a) India's relationship with the Arab world is based on mutual respect; b) how could Modi allow Indian parliamentarians to humiliate Arab women; and c) Arab civil society expected 'punitive action' against Surya. There were others tit-for-tat tweets too, some from luminaries of society. For instance, Princess Hend Al Qassimi, a member of a royal family in the UAE. She posted a long list of Hindu religious festivals that were held across India between March 9-19. She even gave an interview to several Indian media houses and platforms in which she said: "Hatred is not welcome in Emirates. Hate is illegal in UAE... I grew up with Indians all my life, but this attitude (the vilification) was not Indian". Anger in these countries was also directed at members of the Indian Hindu diaspora in the Middle East for embarking on a campaign against Islam in general and targeting Indian Muslims. Such people were ticked off, and warned that anyone openly discriminatory and racist would be fined. India’s late response Significantly, the GCC countries, either governments or civil society, maintained a studied silence when India was in the throes of anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act agitation in late 2019 and early this year, even though several other Muslim nations, Malaysia and Turkey reacted negatively to the new law. The public reaction and response it has evoked from India has once again ensured that countries in this region are the leaders of the Ummah or the Islamic community, as far as resisting attempts to foster Islamophobia, even if it is being done in a nation with friendly ties. Although Hindutva exponents have consistently targeted Indian Muslims for alleged pan-Islamic loyalties, they have never been favoured when compared to Hindu diaspora by Arab nations where they live and work profitably. The Indian government has realised, possibly a bit late, that allowing the hate campaign to spin out of control, especially outside India and to extend to Islam per se, has been counterproductive. Several Indian missions in West Asia have followed the Embassy in UAE in urging the Indian community that they must not sow seeds of discord on basis of religious identity. This is an obvious consequence to the anger seething through the Arab intelligentsia. The Indian embassy in Qatar on April 21 claimed 'fake' Twitter accounts were being used to create schisms within the Indian community. The Indian embassy in Oman has also stressed on the need to stay focused on fighting the coronavirus pandemic and "not get distracted by fake news on social media with malicious intentions". Earlier, the Indian Ambassador in UAE had stated: "Discrimination is against our moral fabric and the Rule of Law. Indian nationals in the UAE should always remember this." While the categorical message from the Indian governmental and diplomatic establishment is a welcome development, the root of the problem is the consistent stigmatisation and disparagement of Muslims and Islam. Unless Modi personally puts down this offensive, the ties with the GCC and other Islamic nations have a likelihood of getting tenuous. While diplomacy demands Modi to come down on his supporters with an iron hand, domestic political compulsions have often prevailed in the past. The path he chooses on this occasion will certainly be closely monitored in the Gulf and this shall have a direct bearing on continued harmonious diplomatic and business ties with nations in this region. (Nilanjan Mukhopadhyay is a Delhi-based journalist and author. His latest book is RSS: Icons Of The Indian Right. He has also written Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times (2013)) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/hate-against-indian-muslims-widening-gulf-829180.html
24-04-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus: Turning a crisis into a policy opportunity||Inherent in this view is a deep-seated belief that it’s only a crisis that can jolt India to resolve its political economy constraints while in normal times such issues aren’t to be touched with a barge pole. Come crisis and we can somehow convince key stakeholders about deeper reform. In this perspective, incremental reforms are for the faint-hearted. The route to real change is to first stumble into a crisis and then turn it around.  If this sounds like an Indian masala movie, that’s because it is one fairy tale. The reality is that crises are no guarantee for reforms either – there are in fact several other requirements as well.  Key idea behind the intuition that crisis leads to reform Nevertheless, this intuition needs further investigation. John W Kingdon’s public policy classic, Agendas, Alternatives and Public Policies, can help us understand the crisis-opportunity paradox better. Kingdon concurs that just a crisis does not ensure reform. Instead, his schema says that an issue surfaces at the top of the decision-making agenda of the government only at the opportune moment when three distinct streams converge – the problem stream, the solution stream, and the politics stream. Look at the problem stream first. Without an acknowledgement at the highest political levels that a problem really exists, the issue won’t even be considered by the government. A crisis often turns out to be a type of problem that forces the government to acknowledge the issue. But it cannot, by itself, cause change. For that to happen, two other streams need to converge simultaneously. In comes the solution stream. This refers to the entire solution set available to the decision-maker. The government is unlikely to pick up a policy problem for decision-making during a crisis unless there is a range of pre-existing solutions in place already. Climate change, for example, is an issue where the problem itself is now well acknowledged. However, given that the solutions are still heavily contested, it is not one of the highest policy priorities for governments.  For the solution stream to be in place, it needs the availability of data and the presence of a policy community which systematically converts ideas into solutions, weighing the costs and benefits of each action. Then comes the expert committee process. Though often seen in derisive terms, expert committees perform the key task of thinking through various policy solutions and string them together into a coherent whole. This entire process needs to have been in place even before the problem becomes urgent and important.  The third stream is the political stream which comprises of the public mood, dominant societal narratives, election results, and global trends. Change in government is often interpreted as a go-ahead for the incoming government’s manifesto. It isn’t surprising therefore that the most challenging reforms are often picked up earlier in the terms of governments. The idea of ‘political will’ is relevant to the alignment of the political stream. Well regarded political actors can change dominant societal narratives. In fact, major crises can even make it easier for them to convince their constituents about reform. This was the idea put forward by Robert Putnam in his seminal paper Diplomacy and Domestic Games. He argued that the politics of many international negotiations can be thought of as a two-level game. At Level 1, the national governments negotiate with international players such as the IMF, World Bank, or the US. At Level 2, the national governments negotiate with domestic groups which pursue their interests by pressuring the government to adopt favourable policies.  The key insight here is that dynamics of negotiations at one level can be used as points of leverage on the other. Take the case of the 1991 Indian economic reforms. Narsimha Rao and Manmohan Singh were able to use the rationale of external pressure at Level 1  (conditionalities imposed by the World Bank) to water down opposition in Level 2 (domestic actors benefiting from the status-quo). The economic reforms were good for India in and of themselves, but the balance of payment crisis provided a political opportunity to execute them using the excuse of World Bank conditionalities. What does this say about the current situation? The situation in the current crisis is different in that there is no international agency at the other end of the negotiating table. Instead, it’s a global pandemic which has crippled livelihoods. The world is heading towards a recession which will hurt low-income economies disproportionately, reducing their chances of playing catchup with the rest of the world. In that sense, an entrepreneurial leadership can still use this moment to convince their own Level 2 constituents about reforms which we anyways needed. For instance, global manufacturing supply chains are likely to get reordered away from China as a result of COVID-19. The conditions required for relocating these global manufacturing to India can be used as a point of leverage to drive in at least some domestic economic reforms.  Luckily, on the economic front, both the problem and solution streams are already aligned. The problems have been well-known over the last two decades. The solutions – reforms 2.0 comprising the liberalisation of land, labour, and capital – too are well-known. Whether the current government, led by a charismatic personality, has the will to align the political stream needs to be seen. Finally, hope can never be a policy. Similarly, expecting a crisis by itself to spur reforms is also being foolishly hopeful. It’s like saying that Team India should always put itself in a follow-on situation in a Test match so that we can replicate the heroics of the 2001 Kolkata Test. Don’t forget that moment also needed a VVS Laxman, a Rahul Dravid, a Harbhajan Singh, massive public support, and lots of luck.  (Pranay Kotasthane is a Fellow at the Takshashila Institution)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-turning-a-crisis-into-a-policy-opportunity-829310.html
24-04-2020||Opinion||Govt push for mandatory bank loans needed to help small borrowers tide over COVID-19 financial emergency||On April 23, bankers effectively told the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) they cannot take the risk of lending to small borrowers. How they did it needs a long explanation, which is outside the scope of this commentary. Suffice to say that they said they cannot take money from the RBI with a commitment to lend to microfinance institutions, to small business, shops and so on.  Labourers for instance, who work in small units that litter towns, like grocers, tentwallahs, milk carts etc. will have to wait longer. These units need cash badly, but the non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) which finance them cannot get money from the banks. The banks are not interested. The one agency which can make good this liquidity are the Indian banks. It is not that they cannot do so. Yet they have told the RBI they are unwilling to lend because the risk of lending to small entities has gone up. A data point will make this clear. As of April 17, the banks have parked Rs 6.9 lakh crore with RBI, earning a decent rate of interest of 4 percent, instead of making any effort to lend. The sum parked with RBI is about 6.7 percent of total bank credit outstanding in the economy at the end of March 2020. If released into the economy, a lot of distress could have been wiped out.  The banks have a simple logic for their extreme risk aversion. They know that the companies and unincorporated enterprises like small scale manufacturing units or shops or farmers, essentially all those who need cash, are in potential trouble. Despite the help from banks many of them will not make it. There is no way to mount a counter-argument that these losses will not happen. The banks worry that they shall be made scapegoats if these losses happen, just as they were supposedly made responsible for the loans they gave out to bring the economy out of trouble, post the 2008-09 global financial meltdown.  Yet, it is impossible for the Indian government to offer any succour to any sector without involving the banks in the picture. Should one suggest that the best option at this juncture is to make it mandatory for banks to offer loans to all customers who approach them now? They should not have the discretion to refuse any plea. Do understand this is not like a national loan mela where all interest is waived off.  What this policy would do is waive the option for the banks to pick and choose the winners. It is the losers who need support now. It is a suggestion that was first mooted by Pronab Sen, former chief statistician of India. Sen has been with the erstwhile Planning Commission for decades where he also wrote the 10th Five Year Plan, so he knows the typical mindset of the Indian banking sector.  A mandatory offer of credit is therefore not outrageous. It will simply mean a banker will be offered almost no option to turn down a loan in the present circumstances. Such a step needs the intervention of the Finance Ministry and not the RBI. The latter is the regulator and it can only nudge the banks in a particular direction. It cannot ask banks to do any more. Decisions of the boardrooms have to be decided by shareholders, in this case, the majority owner, the Government of India, to make working capital loans available on a massive scale. Once it is done, the money will flow easily to all concerned. The shareholders can easily decide on a waterfall mechanism to help small and micro enterprises at first, and only then decide to offer loans to larger enterprises.   What are the risks? There is the apprehension that someone who is unscrupulous will fatten himself. It is possible. But let us examine the counterfactual: Business of all sorts have already begun to petition the government for similar support. If the government accepts the plea of any sector how would it work out? In all probability, the government will offer a sliver of budget support to be topped up generously by bank loans. All those loans will have to be a) based on subjective assessment and b) discriminate among some.  Such an option is more prone to abuse by the unscrupulous. Each such loan will immediately carry the taint of crony capitalism. How is the voter, when evaluating the government’s record, supposed to understand that Sector A is more affected than Sector B when the crash is so massive?  Instead, if loans from banks are made mandatory, subject to a thin set of guidelines, they shall be sector agnostic. The administrative pressure on the banks will be far less. They shall not have to worry about assessing firms sector-wise, to make the case for budget support from the government. This is a huge relief at a time when most of these banks have merged less than a month ago. The officers from the different organisations are not even familiar with their counterparts, across the desk. There is no option at this time other than to offer a simple and transparent scheme like mandatory loans to make the banks reach out to the public.  It would be particularly useful as it will take the sting away from the ‘Triple C’—Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG), Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) at this juncture. When mandated by the government, banks won’t be questioned. The banks will just be the implementing agencies and can go about their task without fear or favour. (The writer is a business journalist and can be reached at s.bhattacharjee@ris.org.in)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/govt-push-for-mandatory-bank-loans-needed-to-help-small-borrowers-tide-over-covid-19-financial-emergency-829324.html
24-04-2020||Panorama||When oil sellers paid buyers to just take it||On April 20, those who were looking at computer monitors in the US could not trust their eyes. May oil futures for the benchmark West Texas Intermediate (WTI) were showing negative prices. After reaching minus (-) $40 per barrel, oil prices finally ended at -37.63/b -- a historic drop of $58/b in one day. How did this come about? The simple explanation is that the May oil contracts would have expired within a day and those who hold contracts have to take physical delivery of oil. Under normal circumstances, this is not a problem. However, there was no storage available. International benchmark Brent futures not only did not fall in negative territory, but showed only a small decline of $2.5/b. In the case Brent futures, cash payment is allowed.  But to understand and appreciate how we ended up with the negative price, we need to learn more about the latest oil drama. This was stage-managed by the world’s “greatest” deal maker, US President Donald Trump, with the help of Russian President Vladimir Putin and Saudi Arabia’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Sultan.  When Russia walked out of the OPEC+ meeting on March 6, oil price dropped to the lowest level since August 2016 and it set the stage for the oil drama, which took place from April 9 to 12. Trump, Putin and MBS thought that they could control the price. In reality, it was the little invisible creature, coronavirus, which was really in charge.  Finally, the OPEC+ ( OPEC plus 10 more oil-exporting countries, led by Russia) agreed to reduce crude oil production on April 9. The next day, G-20 members supported the agreement by agreeing to cut some more.  Soon after the agreement, Trump trumpeted that the negotiated reduction is 20 million barrels per day (mmbd) and not 15 mmbd as reported in the media. When a realistic estimate is made, the true reduction may be around 10 to 11 mmbd.  Because of the lockdown in most countries, oil consumption had already collapsed. One need not be a genius to figure out that the oil inventories will reach historical highs by the end of April and put pressure on storage, which is getting filled rapidly.   According to IEA, the oil demand is likely to drop by 29 mmbd in April and for the whole year, it may drop by 9 mmbd. It is likely that the demand may recover only by a small amount in May and not much in June. Some experts estimate the demand drop in April maybe more than 35 mmbd.  Never in global oil history has the demand fallen so much so rapidly. Unless the global economy picks up within a few months, the oil demand drop may be even larger. Therefore, the production cut stage-managed by the three actors will not be enough to balance demand and supply.  It is indeed a mystery why OPEC+ had to wait for May 1 to implement their production cuts. By early April, there were clear signs that there will be a scramble for storage. Shippers were getting attractive offers and so also those who owned storage space.  Despite such a dramatic development, Saudis and Russians were competing against one another to increase their market share before the production cuts kicked in. While oil companies -- large and small -- in the US and other countries were forced to cut production by market forces, the cuts were not enough to balance supply and demand.  However, if the coronavirus pandemic and death rates start declining quickly, there could be a quick V-shaped economic recovery. In this scenario, oil prices may recover and go over $60/b by the end of the year. But it does not look likely as per the current scenario.  The futures market, although not very reliable, is reflecting that oil prices will climb to around $30/b by year-end. Such an increase will not support shale oil production in the US. That in turn does not help Trump’s re-election campaign. For most shale producers, the break-even cost is around $40/b or higher. As a result 2-2.5 mmbd of shale oil production is likely to be shut down till the market fully recovers and oil price rises above the break-even cost. There will also be market-driven production cuts in other countries which will result in a fairly balanced or tight market if and when the demand picks up later in the year.  But in today’s market, experiencing a ‘black swan’ event due to which demand for oil has dropped 25-35%, neither the OPEC+ nor the non-OPEC members of G-20 can do much to support a higher price. The old strategy of the cartel allocating production quotas will not work.  The historic negative price is another proof of market power when demand is controlled by the little invisible creature and not by any economic factors. Finally, it is the market that will decide who will produce oil depending on who can produce it at below break-even cost. Based on IEA analysis, such a break even cost is around $15 per barrel.  In short, until the lockdowns are lifted in most countries, airplanes begin to fly and economic engines start to hum, even if not to full capacity, and demand reaches over 90% of the pre-pandemic levels, oil prices will be controlled by coronavirus, and not by OPEC+ or President Trump. (The writer is a veteran oil industry professional)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/when-oil-sellers-paid-buyers-to-just-take-it-829207.html
24-04-2020||Panorama||COVID-19: Do not target stray dogs||To add to the anguish, the news report titles suggested ‘stray dogs,’ potentially inciting people to target helpless stray dogs. The title used cannot be much farther from the truth.  The actual title of the journal publication was “Extreme genomic CpG deficiency in SARS-CoV-2 and evasion of host antiviral defense”. The author has referred to ‘feral’ animals – in this instance Canids, a word that is used deliberately to refer to a class of wild animals such as wolves, jackals, foxes, coyotes and others which belong to this class. Yes, the author also suggested the importance of monitoring coronavirus in ‘feral dogs’! The word ‘stray’ does not appear in the entire 23-page journal article.  The public, and most important journalists, must know the difference between ‘ferals’ and ‘strays’.  To make things worse, the news articles were accompanied by pictures of stray dogs normally found on our streets. This is misleading and may trigger violence against these voiceless animals.  Electron microscopic in size, but huge on impact, the coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) has dashed in, challenging our way of living, our disregard of the air, rivers, oceans, forests, valleys and significantly, of the animals. None of the human divisions or borders could stop it, reminding us that it has got to be a level playing field -- religion, nationalities, ethnicity, castes, language, ideology, politics, economy, it’s all rubbish in the face of what nature has evolved over eternity. Animals are the closest of all creations to humans, yet humans disregard and threaten the existence of animals. Why not get to know them -- their diseases and concerns, their happiness, their future, their benevolence, their way of dealing with any situation? Their health is our health in the common environment we are all part of. Together we can collaborate and attend to other creations of nature. Animals actually shield us from many hazards and diseases (called zoonotic diseases), keeping them away from humans. They are smart, kind, caring and loving. Yet, they are vehemently ignored and continuously put under pressure for their own existence, triggering a discourteous signal in the form of coronavirus, a serious example to alert us, humans.  Let the current crisis not go waste. We must have a One Health program as a major initiative, with several centres around the nation and around the world. Each centre must facilitate attracting experts from the fields of environment, plant health, animal health, human health and other relevant areas. Key officials from the government and funding agencies must be on board from the start. To begin with a) Identifying and mapping of pathogens of all sorts in various animals and humans proximate to each other -- domestic and wild.  b) Establishing similarities via comprehensive omics, bioinformatics and evolutionary analyses. c) Working out epidemiology, rate of transmission, speed of infection and, importantly, any chinks there may be in the armour of potential invaders. d) Genome-wide study to figure out how quickly a given virus/pathogen can mutate to attack other hosts -- humans included. e) Development of rapid diagnostic kits.  f) Explore opportunities for the development of both therapeutic and prophylactic vaccine measures.  In short, we need a One Health programme to be ready, or at least move towards readiness.  This will give us a handle on cures for the pathogens affecting animals and those which may transmit to humans. This is extremely important for both domestic and wild animals that have full rights to be on the level playing field. Please note, this time it is the human-droplet transmission of the invader, without the help of any transmission host (like mosquitoes), which has questioned our way of living! Next time, it can be just transmission by air by a different invader! We better get on with being ready. (The writer is a biotechnologist and former principal consultant, Department of IT, BT and S&T, Govt of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-do-not-target-stray-dogs-829211.html
24-04-2020||Right in the Middle||Encounters of the wild variety||Kenneth Anderson must be known to many through his wonderful books on man-eating tigers, leopards and rogue elephants that roamed the south Indian jungles in the fifties and early sixties. His narration is such that you feel as though you are by his side when he tracked those tigers. I came in contact with his writing when I was in SSLC. Our English textbook carried a chapter entitled ‘Bruno Our Pet’- an extract from one of Anderson’s books. It was a real story of a bear cub rescued from a jungle and brought up fondly in his house in Bangalore. When it grew big Anderson's neighbours objected to its 'dangerous' presence. Anderson took it to the Mysuru Zoo left it there and returned with a heavy heart. But his wife and the poor bear pined for each other. Finally, Anderson went to Mysuru accompanied by his wife and brought the bear back to their Bengaluru house where he created a small island surrounded by a moat for his hairy pet. The story was told in a touching way.  Each one of his encounters with maneaters and rogue elephants was unique. The story 'The Black Rogue of Moyar Valley' in his book ' The Call of the Man-eater' is the best. This black rogue was a bull elephant that trampled people to death in Moyar Valley of Nilgiris. Anderson recounts how he and his American friend, a photographer, ran into this rogue and came within inches of its deadly trunk. But it met with a tragic unexpected end. Another story (The Killer from Hyderabad) will make the reader's heart race. It was about a man-eating tigress to shoot which Anderson sat on his haunches in the dead of night in a hole he made on the trunk of a dead tree with the half-eaten corpse of a tribal woman killed by the beast earlier, lying in front of him in the heart of a thick forest in Diguvemetta Andhra Pradesh. Years ago, when I was in Kerala, whenever it rained ceaselessly during monsoon, I used to sit near my bedroom window and read and reread Anderson’s adventures. When it comes to shikari literature, Anderson’s books are the best.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/encounters-of-the-wild-variety-829178.html
24-04-2020||Right in the Middle||We are like that only||When I was eight years old, my mom and I were travelling from Mysuru to Bengaluru by bus. My mom soon discovered that the young man sharing our seat happened to be one of her students. Elated by this happy coincidence, the three of us started chatting. I found the guy to be congenial, affectionate towards me (he even bought me a chocolate!) and respectful towards my mom. He soon launched into a soliloquy.  It comprised of his father’s interactions with the son’s various “stepmothers”. My mom and I exchanged a subtle scandalized glance. It appeared that the father had married multiple times, and all the wives in different establishments.  After a while, the student became comfortable enough to switch his tongue to Kannada. It was then that mom and I realized that in the guy’s parlance, “stepmother” meant aunt! He had, all the while been referring to his Chikammas and doddammas! As someone who began schooling in a vernacular school, I too wasn’t familiar with the English language for the first few years of my life. In all sincerity, I was convinced that the term “horoscope” was actually “horrorscope”. My mum laughingly remarked that my version of the term would indeed hold well if the astrological forecast was a negative one! When I was 17 years old, a friend and I were having a discussion on “dignity of labour”. I observed that while the concept held some value in the West, it sadly didn’t in India.  “Absolutely”, said my friend in zestful agreement, “it would be shameful if someone expected me to socialize with a sweeper!” I muttered an inward “Oh no!” and quickly changed the topic.  There have been many situations which have left me and the other (often, highly educated) party red-faced after I became a ghostwriter. Comments like, “Whoa, I’m frightened of ghosts”, “that’s so cool, I too am into horror” and, “Now lady, you’re spooking me” are an everyday occurrence. With great discomfort, I’ve had to explain to my fellow conversationalist that ghost-writing, in fact, has nothing to do with the paranormal; unfortunately, it is writing for a big name while foregoing all credit, unabashedly for monetary gains.  Undoubtedly, a career is one of the most important things in most people’s lives. Many an educated and successful Indian has no qualms about spelling it as “carrier”. This is hilarious, considering one’s professional graph has nothing to do with tiffin boxes, transport vehicles or, as a friend pointed out, an AC brand! The above are just a few examples. We Indians are also adept at asking people’s “good name”, “passing out of universities” and requesting folks to “prepone appointments”. However, I don’t mind at all. After all, we are like this only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/we-are-like-that-only-829487.html
24-04-2020||Second Edit||It’s time to give up some habits||The spread of the coronavirus pandemic is bound to lead to many changes in the lifestyles, conduct and behaviour of people in private and public in the years to come. Some of them may be short-lived but others will stay for good. Handshakes, hugs and kisses, which are common forms of greeting in many societies, including India, will certainly be suspended as social distancing norms gain acceptance. The pandemic has given an opportunity to draw people's attention to the need to practise personal and social hygiene, as few other health exigencies have. It will hopefully lead to the end of the pernicious habit of spitting in public places, which has been handed through generations and is widely prevalent in all parts of the country. People of all classes are found spitting in public spaces like roads, parks and offices, and it has even become a bad social and cultural marker.  As part of the steps to stop the spread of coronavirus, the government has made spitting in public places a punishable offence. The ban has been brought under the Disaster Management Act and district magistrates have been given the power to take action against violators. The sale of chewable tobacco has also been curbed under the Act. The consumption of gutka and all forms of chewable tobacco leads to spitting in public places. This causes harm to the health of those who chew tobacco and to others. The ban on spitting in public places has existed in most cities and towns for many years. But it has never been implemented with any success, and even law-enforcers have been seen committing the offence. The legitimacy and even the respect that the chewing of pan and gutka has got from tradition may have been a factor.  Awareness about the dangers of coronavirus, which is easily spread through the spittle of the carrier, should lead people to avoid spitting in pubic. But it should be noted that the ban may not be effective as long as there is easy availability of chewable tobacco and people are addicted to its use. Enforcement is another problem. Even if the police decide to implement the ban, it will not find it easy to do so. Raising public awareness about this obnoxious habit is the best way to stop people from spitting in public. Hopefully, it will arise from the sense of hygiene that people may inculcate from their experience of the Covid-19 threat. Spitting can cause the spread of other ailments also, like tuberculosis. It is not just a health hazard but is also a sign of lack of concern for others, and of social etiquette and decorum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/it-s-time-to-give-up-some-habits-829176.html
24-04-2020||Second Edit||Lesson from Pakistan: Secular state is key||Pakistan finds itself in a difficult situation today because successive governments have used clerics to consolidate themselves. Empowered by State support, such clerics are today in a position to determine policy. There are lessons that other countries, including India, can draw from Pakistan’s plight. Pandering to bigots and religious extremists will weaken the State’s capacity over the long run to craft policy that is in the best interest of the nation and its citizens. Pakistan’s problems with its clerics should remind us in India that we have much to gain from protecting our secular Constitution and by keeping the State free from the influence of religious bigots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/lesson-from-pakistan-secular-state-is-key-829490.html
24-04-2020||South||In Kerala, live fish gets stuck in a man's throat||Krishnan, aged around 65, of Chavakkad about 25 kilometres from Kerala's Thirussur city, met with a bizarre incident on Thursday A live fish got stuck in his throat. The fish was later taken out through a surgical procedure. There were two versions of the incident. While some local people said that the fish, said to be a pearl spot, entered his mouth while he was taking a bath in the river. Another version was that Krishnan was engaged in fishing and after catching one fish he kept in tightly between his teeth and was trying to catch another one. The fish then slipped into his mouth. Some local people who witnessed him struggling for breath rushed him to a nearby hospital. He was later taken to a private hospital in Thrissur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-kerala-live-fish-gets-stuck-in-a-mans-throat-829140.html
24-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: 4-month-old COVID-19 positive girl dies in Kerala||The girl child born to a couple at Manjeri in Malappuram district in North Kerala was under treatment at the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital over the last few days. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said that the child was suffering from multiple health problems, including heart ailments, right from birth and hence she was weak. Doctors of the Medical College Hospital tried their best to save the child's life, he added.  The exact source of coronavirus infection of the child was yet to the determined. Though a relative of the child was COVID-19 positive, the family members said that the infected person did not come in any sorts of contact with the child. The child was taken to several private hospitals for birth-related treatment. She was admitted to the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital a few days back following pneumonia. She was tested COVID-19 positive on Wednesday. The parents of the child were also kept under observation and their samples are being tested. Earlier, one person died in Kochi and another in Thiruvananthapuram due to COVID-19. Tough a Mahe native died in Kannur Medical College following COVID-19, the death was not included in the COVID tally of Kerala citing that the person got the infection from Mahe, which in part of Puducherry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-4-month-old-covid-19-positive-girl-dies-in-kerala-829223.html
24-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: When Tiruppur youths came in contact with 'COVID-19 patient'||Five youths on two motorcycles are intercepted by a police patrol team in the knitwear hub of Tiruppur for not wearing masks. Two members of the patrol team ask them why they stepped out of their homes without wearing masks. Their reply is not convincing. For the next two minutes, the youth, now inside the vehicle, try every possible way to sneak out of the vehicle. They run, cry, make noise, and even beg that they be left out.  Except for the 'COVID-19 patient', everything else is real. These scenes are from an awareness video released by the Tiruppur district police on the need to wear masks and how scared people are if they are brought near a COVID-19 patient. As the video went viral, some social media users took strong objection to the use of a “COVID-19 patient” which they said would further stigmatise those infected with the virus. However, Tiruppur district Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal said the video should not be looked at from the angle of stigmatising a COVID-19 patient. “Our intention was not to stigmatise anyone. We just wanted to drive home the point that people run Helter Skelter when they face reality. The intention was to tell people how communicable and highly infectious Coronavirus is,” she told DH. She added that the video has a disclaimer and a policewoman who appears on it makes it clear that the person, who “acted” as COVID-19 patient, is not infected with any virus. “The video was shot to tell people how a person can contract the virus without him knowing that he is coming in contact with the source. Do not look this from the angle of stigmatising a patient. We are only driving the home the point that people should take care of themselves,” Disha Mittal said.  After a few minutes into the video, a policewoman emerges and explains why such a video was shot. She clarifies that the person who “acted as COVID-19 patient” is normal and does not have any virus but agreed to act as one to create awareness among the masses. “These youths were roaming on the roads and they did not give any valid reason for not wearing masks. And we made them board the ambulance to show them what will happen if they do not wear masks. The moment the youth came to know there was COVID-19 patient inside the vehicle, the way they reacted showed how scared people are but don’t understand the seriousness,” the policewoman explains. She then goes onto explain how anyone can contract the virus by coming out unnecessarily and risk himself and others’ lives. “Please don’t come out. Even if you have any urgent work, come out only after wearing masks,” she says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-when-tiruppur-youths-came-in-contact-with-covid-19-patient-829230.html
24-04-2020||South||News portal founder arrested in Tamil Nadu for 'critical reports' against state govt||D Andrew Sam Raja Pandian, the founder of SimpliCity, a bi-lingual news portal based out of Coimbatore, was booked under Section 3 of The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and two sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The arrest came on a day of dramatic developments in Coimbatore, on Thursday when a reporter and photographer of the news portal were detained at a local police station for the better part of the day. Hours after they were let off, police took Pandian into custody and produced him before a local court.  Two articles published by SimpliCity, according to the FIR, on shortcomings faced by government healthcare professionals, and alleged corruption by some employees of the Public Distribution System (PDS) outlets were “false” and “provocative''. The complaint was filed by M Sundararajan, Assistant Commissioner, Personal Administration, Coimbatore Corporation, police said. Pandian has been booked under Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 505 (1) (b) (with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public, or to any section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the State or against the public tranquillity) and Section 3 of The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. However, senior journalists said the real reason for Pandian’s arrest was another article published in SimpliCity that was highly critical of the powerful Municipal Administration Minister S P Velumani, who hails from Coimbatore. They shared the link of the story which quotes Singanallur MLA N Karthik accusing Velumani of “missing from action” during COVID-19 on social media platforms.  DMK president M K Stalin also condemned the action against SimpliCity founder and accused Velumani of “misusing his authority” to suppress journalists and their voices. He also demanded the release of Pandian. Chennai-based Centre of Media Persons for Change condemned Pandian’s arrest and demanded immediate withdrawal of the case against him and his release from jail. In a statement, CMPC said the case against a journalist for writing about the shortcomings is in violation of the rights granted to him in the Constitution. “It is clear that there is an ulterior motive in the complaint filed by Sundararajan. We demand that a committee be formed to enquire Sundararajan to bring out the truth,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/news-portal-founder-arrested-in-tamil-nadu-for-critical-reports-against-state-govt-829274.html
24-04-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh reports 2 more deaths, 62 fresh COVID-19 cases||The toll due to COVID-19 in the state increased by two to 29 while four patients got cured and discharged from hospital, a latest bulletin said. The bulletin said one COVID-19 patient each died in Anantapuramu and Kurnool districts. Kurnool, Guntur and Krishna districts the major hotbeds in the state continued to register fresh cases in tens while no new case was reported in Chittoor district which witnessed a sudden spurt early this week. In Kurnool, 27 more cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the count to 261. The cases in Guntur rose to 206 with the addition of 11, while Krishna went past the century mark to 102, adding 14 new cases. In Anantapuramu district, four patients were discharged from hospital upon recovery from the disease. In all, 145 patients had been discharged across the state till date. In the last 24 hours, 6,306 tests were conducted. The cumulative number of coronavirus tests touched 54,338, of which 53,383 turned negative, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-reports-2-more-deaths-62-fresh-covid-19-cases-829284.html
24-04-2020||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan putting up emotional defence against personal allegation over US deal||As the Opposition Congress in Kerala stepped up attack against Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the government's deal with a US firm by linking his daughter, Vijayan is trying to put up an emotional defence by listing out a series of personal allegations that he faced over the years. It is with the political agenda of creating a dent in the popularity being earned by Vijayan with the state's fight against COVID that the Congress even alleged of links of Vijayan's daughter Veena T, who runs an IT firm in Bengaluru, with the US firm Sprinklr that has been engaged by the government for COVID data analysis service.  Vijayan who termed the allegations rubbish said that he was not moved by such personal allegations as he had been faced many such personal allegations planted by his rivals over the years.  Bringing out the emotions of a father, Vijayan said that his children's education was also made a  controversy by his rivals.   It may be recalled that many of the personal allegations against Vijayan came up when in-fight in the CPM in Kerala was at its peak. During his routine press briefings on COVID updates over the last few days, Vijayan preferred to maintain a strict silence on the alleged irregularities in the deal with the US firm citing that he was more concerned of the fight against COVID. But when personal allegations started coming up, he is putting up an emotional defence citing the personal allegations.  "Do you remember Kamala International?," Vijayan asked journalists who sought his reaction on opposition's allegations regarding his daughter's link with the US firm. When the alleged corruption pertaining to a deal with Canadian firm SNC Lavalin, while Vijayan was serving as Power Minister in Kerala during the 1990s, came up there were allegations linking a foreign firm Kamala International with him as his wife's name happened to be Kamala. My children's education was also made controversy," he said recollecting the allegations that while the CPM in Kerala was protesting against self-financing engineering and medical colleges, his daughter secured admission at a self-financing college outside Kerala. Vijayan also recollected a social media campaign with a picture of a palatial house with the caption that it was his house.  The Kerala vigilance probed the SNC Lavalin allegations did not find any charges against me, he said. Meanwhile, the Opposition is alleging that Pinarayi was trying to create the impression of a martyr as he got no convincing reply to the allegations pertained to  the deal with the US firm, especially with regard to compromising the privacy of health data of nearly two lakh people collected as part of COVID and flouting procedures for entering into a deal with a foreign firm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-putting-up-emotional-defence-against-personal-allegation-over-us-deal-829331.html
24-04-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Tamil Nadu volunteer network helps needy get medicines at home||Sitting in far-away Ahmedabad, Ravikumar, who works with Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), was worried about his 89-year-old mother who lives alone in Tamil Nadu’s Tenkasi district. She was unwell and needed medical attention, but Ravikumar could not even ask his relatives to go and attend to her due to the lockdown. And this CISF personnel thought of trying his luck by tweeting to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami highlighting his mother’s plight and seeking help on April 21. The very next day, two doctors landed up at his house, did a complete health check up on his mother Subbammal and handed over the needed medicines. Palaniswami himself tweeted a reply to Ravikumar by posting a picture of his mother with the medicines that she needed. This heart-warming incident is just a slice of how a network of volunteers, doctors and district administration is working wonders in helping the needy during the Covid-19 lockdown period. Several district administrations in Tamil Nadu have been using the volunteer network to deliver medicines for the aged, cancer patients and others who cannot get them in their towns and villages. People who volunteer to offer their services during the lockdown period register on a website and the government “recruits” them after due checks and mandatory health check-ups. District collectors and Superintendents of Police have been walking the extra mile to ensure patients get their tablets on time without having to travel.  And, social media, especially Twitter, is serving as a bridge between the government and the people. “During pandemic or any other health emergency, we launch a helpline for people to get in touch with us. Twitter and other platforms are now providing everyone the opportunity to reach out anyone resulting in the good,” Tenkasi District Collector G K Arun Sundar Thayalan told DH. Thayalan sent a team of two doctors to Subbammal’s house to deliver medicines and also arranged tablets for a young cancer patient after her relatives tweeted out help to the Chief Minister last week. In neighbouring Tirunelveli district, the city police has been helping those in villages get their medicines delivered at their doorstep.  “Social media acts as a bridge between the administration and the people. If we do, we get complimented and if we do not, we get brickbats on the same platform. And we are able to help people with the volunteers who really help us reach people even in remote areas. All medicines are not available in villages and towns and when people seek help, we ensure their needs are fulfilled,” A Saravanan, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli, told DH. Thayalan said more than 1,600 people have registered themselves to volunteer during the lockdown and they are used to deliver groceries for those in containment zones, maintain social distancing in markets and to deliver medicines. In Tiruvallur district neighbouring Chennai too, medicines are being delivered to those living in hilly and interior areas by volunteers and home guards. District Superintendent of Police P Aravindhan has been tweeting about the help rendered by volunteers and other members of the administration in reaching the needy. Two police men reached a nondescript village called Pathirivedu to deliver medicines for a 12-year-old boy who was suffering from kidney ailment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-tamil-nadu-volunteer-network-helps-needy-get-medicines-at-home-829372.html
24-04-2020||South||COVID-19: Tamil Nadu CM puts Chennai, other urban areas under full shutdown mode||Tightening restrictions further in select urban areas to help prevent the spread of COVID-19, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Friday announced a complete shutdown beginning Sunday in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai for four days, disallowing grocery shops as well and fully curtailing movement of public. Also, Salem and Tirupur in western Tamil Nadu will be shut similarly, albeit for three days from April 26 and Palaniswami assured people that vegetables and fruits shall reach their doorsteps via mobile outlets. "To vend vegetables and fruits, only mobile outlets shall be allowed," the Chief Minister said.  The government had already made mobile outlets (mini trucks and tri-cycles) selling vegetables and fruits operational in urban regions and Palaniswami had time and again appealed to people to buy food staples for at least a week and eliminate the need to visit local markets everyday. Following a review meeting on the COVID-19 scenario in the State, Palaniswami said public health and medical experts have opined that imposing further restrictions in urban regions alone will help prevent the spread of contagion. Till Thursday, Tamil Nadu had 1,683 confirmed COVID-19 cases and Chennai topped the list with 400 infected people followed by Coimbatore (134) and Tirupur (110). Madurai and Salem have 52 and 29 cases respectively. The government has, hence, decided to tighten curbs under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 in select urban regions based on expert opinion, the Chief Minister said in an official release here. "The lockdown will be fully implemented in the corporation areas of Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai from 6 am on April 26 till 9 pm on April 29," Palaniswami said adding Salem and Tirupur corporation zones will see similar complete lockdown between Sunday 6 am and Tuesday (April 28) 9 pm. In all other areas of Tamil Nadu, the curbs already in place will continue to be in force, Palaniswami said and appealed to the people to fully cooperate to halt the spread of COVID-19. He said the movement of people will be fully curtailed in the listed urban areas adding in case of violations, tough action will be taken and vehicles seized. While groceries and vegetable shops are now being allowed to operate till 1 pm daily, such outlets will not be permitted to function from April 26 and vegetables and fruits shall be made available to people through mobile outlets, the government said. During these days of intensified curbs, disinfection tasks will be carried out twice in containment zones and only Amma Canteens, ATMs, hospitals, labs, pharmacies and allied services like ambulances shall be functional. Home delivery of food alone is permitted from restaurants, the government said and listed community kitchens and aid for the indigent people (with approval from authorities) under the limited activities that are allowed. State government offices carrying out essential functions including the Secretariat here will operate with only requisite staff and similarly banks and Central government offices may employ only 33 per cent of employees. While employees in sectors like information technology could work from home, other private sector firms shall remain closed, the government said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tamil-nadu-cm-puts-chennai-other-urban-areas-under-full-shutdown-mode-829388.html
24-04-2020||South||HC directs Kerala Government, US firm to ensure COVID-19 data confidentiality; Expresses reservations over the deal.||The Kerala High Court on Friday directed the Kerala government and US firm Sprinklr to ensure confidentiality of the health data being collected from individuals as part of COVID surveillance. Considering petitions challenging Kerala government's deal with Sprinklr, the court maintained that though it had reservations on many aspects pertaining to the deal, it was not interfering at this point as the fight against COVID was going on. The bench comprising Justice Devan Ramachandran and Justice T R Ravi issued the interim order directing Kerala government to anonymize the data being collected from individuals and take informed consent of individuals for processing date by a foreign company. The US firm was also injuncted from using the name of the logo of the Kerala government for its promotional purposes. The court will be considering the case again after three weeks during which the reservations it expressed on the manner in which the Kerala government entered into the deal with the US firm would be reviewed.  Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that it was a set back for the opposition as the court neither stayed nor cancelled the deal and had also asked the government to go ahead. With regard to data security, the government already took firm steps.  Meanwhile, the Opposition Congress maintained that it was a setback to the government as the HC had to direct the government to ensure data privacy and also expressed reservations over the deal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hc-directs-kerala-government-us-firm-to-ensure-covid-19-data-confidentiality-expresses-reservations-over-the-deal-829400.html
24-04-2020||South||HC directs Kerala Government, US firm to ensure COVID-19 data confidentiality; Expresses reservations over the deal.||The Kerala High Court on Friday directed the Kerala government and US firm Sprinklr to ensure confidentiality of the health data being collected from individuals as part of COVID surveillance. Considering petitions challenging Kerala government's deal with Sprinklr, the court maintained that though it had reservations on many aspects pertaining to the deal, it was not interfering at this point as the fight against COVID was going on. The bench comprising Justice Devan Ramachandran and Justice T R Ravi issued the interim order directing Kerala government to anonymize the data being collected from individuals and take informed consent of individuals for processing date by a foreign company. The US firm was also injuncted from using the name of the logo of the Kerala government for its promotional purposes. The court will be considering the case again after three weeks during which the reservations it expressed on the manner in which the Kerala government entered into the deal with the US firm would be reviewed.  Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that it was a set back for the opposition as the court neither stayed nor cancelled the deal and had also asked the government to go ahead. With regard to data security, the government already took firm steps.  Meanwhile, the Opposition Congress maintained that it was a setback to the government as the HC had to direct the government to ensure data privacy and also expressed reservations over the deal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hc-directs-kerala-government-us-firm-to-ensure-covid-19-data-confidentiality-expresses-reservations-over-the-deal-829402.html
24-04-2020||South||Hard hit Karimnagar in Telangana on road to recovery due to coronavirus||Karimnagar, a nondescript district in Telangana, which hit the headlines after the visit of 10 Indonesian preachers who tested positive for COVID-19, is on the road to recovery with the lifting of restrictions of six of the seven containment zones, due to the administration's tireless efforts, Collector K Shashanka said. "The district, which had as many as 19 cases at its peak, has only two active cases now and if those two recovers and are discharged, the whole district will come under the green zone in case no new case is reported henceforth," he said. The last case was reported on April 15, Shashanka said. Karimnagar had hit headlines after it came to light that the Indonesian preachers visited various places in the district after attending the Tablighi Jamat event in Delhi earlier in March. A case was slapped against them and also some locals who harboured them for alleged negligence and disobedience to the order issued by a public servant. "Time will decide whether we have succeeded in reducing the cases or not. What we can say is that we had very good support form the state government. The second thing is that it is a team effort in Karimnagar. The community also came forward and complied. We have been implementing the States instructions and Government of India's guidelines from time to time. We have tried to involve the community in a big way," the Collector told PTI. According to him, the first case was reported on March 17 which prompted the authorities to track the contacts and identify the foreigners, who were later sent to the state-run Gandhi Hospital after they tested positive.  The district administration, along with local police using the latest surveillance technologies strictly implemented the lockdown announced by both the state government and the centre. "We have used drones to check peoples movement in contaminant zones. We intensified our efforts to ensure that the lockdown is implemented in letter and spirit, Karimnagar police commissioner VB Kamalasan Reddy said. According to official communication from the district, as many as 790 people are in-home quarantine and only seven are in government quarantine centres as on Friday. We had seven containment zones in the district. Right now we have only one containment zone. As per the latest state instructions if there is a single case and 14 days have passed, then we can release the containment zone if no new case is reported, the collector said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hard-hit-karimnagar-in-telangana-on-road-to-recovery-due-to-coronavirus-829403.html
24-04-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: Awareness video by Tiruppur police draws mixed reaction||Five youth in two motorcycles are intercepted by a police patrol team in Tiruppur district for not wearing masks. Two members of the patrol team seek to know why they stepped out of their homes without wearing masks and their answer was not convincing. What happened next is unimaginable. All the five ran helter selter after they were taken near an ambulance and asked to get into the vehicle where a “Covid-19 patient” was sleeping on a stretcher. For the next two minutes, the youth ran wherever they could inside the ambulance and try every possible way to sneak out of the vehicle. They cry, make noise, and even beg to be left out. Hold your breath. These scenes are from an awareness video released by the Tiruppur district police on the need to wear masks and how scared people are if they are brought near a “Covid-19 patient.” As the video went viral, some social media users took strong objection to use of a “Covid-19 patient” which they said would further stigmatize those infected with the virus. However, Tiruppur district Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal said the video should not be looked at from the angle of stigmatizing a Covid-19 patient. She added that except for the police personnel, all are actors. “Our intention was not to stigmatize anyone. We just wanted to drive home the point that people run Helter Skelter when they face the reality. The intention was to tell people how communicable and highly infectious Coronavirus is,” she told DH.  She added that the video has a disclaimer and a policewoman who appears on it makes it clear that the person, who “acted” as Covid-19 patient, is not infected with any virus. “The video was shot to tell people how a person can contract the virus without him knowing that he is coming in contact with the source. Do not look this from the angle of stigmatizing a patient. We are only driving the home the point that people should take care of themselves,” Disha Mittal said. In the video, a policewoman explains why such a video was shot. She clarifies that the person who “acted as Covid-19 patient” is normal and does not have any virus but agreed to act as one to create awareness among the masses.  “These youths were roaming on the roads and they did not give any valid reason for not wearing masks. And we made them board the ambulance to show them what will happen if they do not wear masks. The moment the youth came to know there was Covid-19 patient inside the vehicle, the way they reacted showed how scared people are but don’t understand the seriousness,” the policewoman explains. She then goes onto explain how anyone can contract the virus by coming out unnecessarily and risk himself and others’ lives. “Please don’t come out. Even if you have any urgent work, come out only after wearing masks,” she says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-awareness-video-by-tiruppur-police-draws-mixed-reaction-829412.html
24-04-2020||South||COVID-19 lockdown: Kerala enhances vigil along borders; 57 cross through Kodagu forests||In the wake of the increasing number of people illegally crossing of border to Kerala from neighbouring Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, Kerala has enhanced vigil along the borders. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that 57 persons who crossed from Kodagu in Karnataka to Kannur in Kerala through the forest areas over the last few days were kept in observation at Corona care centres in Kannur. Many who crossed from Kodagu to Kannur were learnt to be Malayali farmers in Kodagu. Several persons who tried to illegally cross over to Kerala from Tamilnadu through forest areas in Idukki as well as by hiding in trucks carrying essential commodities were also held at kept in observation. The police and forest officials have enhanced vigil at the border areas. Even drone surveillance was being made at forest areas to trace illegal movements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-lockdown-kerala-enhances-vigil-along-borders-57-cross-through-kodagu-forests-829416.html
24-04-2020||South||COVID-19: Tamil Nadu reports 72 new cases, tally rises to 1,755||For the first time, the number of recoveries surpassed the active Covid-19 patients in Tamil Nadu on Friday with 114 people leaving various hospitals after getting treated for Coronavirus, though the difference between the number of discharged and active patients is just two. And the state reported 72 fresh Covid-19 patients on Friday with 52 belonging to Chennai alone, taking the tally in the state to 1,755 and in this metropolis to 452. The state also recorded two deaths on Tuesday with the death toll increasing to 22. According to a bulletin issued by the Health and Family Welfare Department, the number of discharges from hospitals stood at 866, while there were 864 active cases. Experts said it was too premature to say if Tamil Nadu was on the course to flatten the curve even though the number of recoveries has surpassed the active cases. The state has also increased its testing numbers in the past week and has so far sent 72,403 samples of which 1,755 persons have tested positive to date. “62,596 samples are tested negative. Testing of 1,483 samples is under process and 6,569 samples are repeat samples of the same persons,” the update said. The testing numbers were increased after the state changed its policies and went into “aggressive testing” mode, especially in containment zones. Govt tightens lockdown in five cities Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu government declared an “intense lockdown” in Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem, and Tiruppur by announcing a complete shutdown. While a complete shutdown will be observed in Chennai, Coimbatore, and Madurai for four days from Sunday morning, Salem and Tirupur will go for an intensified lockdown for three days from Sunday.  The intensified shutdown means grocery shops will not function while medical shops and hospitals will be open. However, mobile outlets selling vegetables will be allowed to function. In a statement, Palaniswami said the decision was taken after public health and medical experts said imposing further restrictions in urban regions alone will help prevent the spread of contagion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tamil-nadu-reports-72-new-cases-tally-rises-to-1755-829423.html
24-04-2020||South||Kerala's total number of coronavirus cases at 450, death toll rises to 3||A four-month-old coronavirus infected child in Kerala died on Friday morning taking COVID death toll in Kerala to three, while three more COVID-19 cases were reported in the state, all from Kasargod, whereas 15 got cured. Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja said that the child born to a couple at Manjeri in Malappuram district in North Kerala was under treatment at the Kozhikode Medical College hospital. She was suffering from multiple health problems including heart ailments since her birth. The exact sources of the coronavirus-infection of the child were yet to the determined.  Meanwhile, a 62-year old woman from Ranni in Pathanamthitta recovered after testing positive 48 days earlier. She was under treatment at Kozhencherry government hospital in Pathanamthitta. Her samples had to be tested for more than 20 times in between. No fresh cases were reported from Kannur district on Friday and Thursday even as the district still topped the tally with 56 infected persons now. Three infected persons in the districts were tested negative on Friday.  Kasargod district got 18 infected persons now with the 3 new cases. All the three found infected on Friday were women who got infected through contact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-total-number-of-coronavirus-cases-at-450-death-toll-rises-to-3-829447.html
24-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Stalin indulging in 'vendetta' for political gains, slams O Pannerselvam||Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam on Friday lashed out at DMK chief M K Stalin for attempting to fault the AIADMK government on the issue of obtaining central funds and said the Leader of Opposition was indulging in "vendetta" for political gains. "At a time when the Amma government is focussed on fighting the dreaded Coronavirus and involving in measures aimed at saving lives, Stalin is indulging in vendetta seeking political gains," Panneerselvam said and claimed that the DMK leader was "unable to digest" the growing popularity of the AIADMK government. "The Governor had already explained the states fiscal position with regard to obtaining funds from the Centre and I had not only mentioned about it in my Budget speech but also replied in detail in the (state) Assembly. And Stalin goes about saying that the state government had received only Rs1,928 crore. But, this sum, in fact, is the first installment of a total of Rs 32,849 crore allotted to Tamil Nadu by the 15thFinance Commission," Panneerselvam said in a statement. A total of Rs 32,849 crore would be received by the state from the central government as part of the tax devolution during 2020-21 fiscal and the Rs 1,928 crore which was received recently was only the first installment. There would be another 13 installments which the state would receive the total amount. "This has been possibly only due to the efforts of Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who while visiting New Delhi, raised the issue with the 15th Finance Commission. He asked the commission to consider 1971 population as its terms of reference instead of the 2011 population," the Deputy Chief Minister said and added that the issue was raised at several meetings too, during commission chairman N K Singh's visit to Chennai.  The government succeeded in increasing the percentage of sharing from 4.083 to 4.189 and was also in getting Rs 4,025 crore this year towards clearing the revenue deficit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-stalin-indulging-in-vendetta-for-political-gains-slams-o-pannerselvam-829455.html
24-04-2020||South||IICT to collaborate LAXAI LifeSciences to reduce dependency on China for active pharma ingredients||The Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) has announced a collaboration with LAXAI LifeSciences to develop and manufacture Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) and Intermediates, to help reduce the dependency of the Indian pharmaceutical sector on the Chinese imports. Both IICT, a constituent laboratory of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and LAXAI, an integrated pharmaceutical company, are based in Hyderabad. “Outbreak of COVID-19 has exposed the disproportionate reliance of the Indian pharmaceutical industry, third-largest in the world by the volume of drugs produced, on the Chinese raw materials. With delayed delivery and increased pricing pressure of these raw materials, the Indian pharma sector is staring at supply shortages,” a press release said. IICT is working with LAXAI for the synthesis of drugs being used in the fight against the Coronavirus. The collaboration would primarily focus on Umifenovir, Remdesivir and a key intermediate of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ). “Realizing that drug security and undisrupted access to essential medicines is critical for public health, the union cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved a special package for promotion of bulk drug manufacturing in India and reduction of our dependence on China.” The IICT and LAXAI LifeSciences collaboration to jointly develop and manufacture APIs and Intermediates is in line with these efforts, the release said.  India, one of the largest producers of anti-malarial drug HCQ, has seen a spurt in demand in recent weeks. India has sent HCQ to over 50 countries over the last few days, including the United States. The collaboration would result in a cost-effective process with minimal dependency on China for key raw materials. In addition, Remdesivir, which has been previously administered to Ebola virus patients, is currently under clinical trials to evaluate efficacy and safety against COVID -19.  The collaboration will use the know-how for commercial manufacturing of the products. LAXAI Life Sciences shall be one of the first few to commercialize these products. The manufacturing of these APIs and intermediates will be taken up at USFDA/GMP approved plants held by LAXAI through its subsidiary, Therapiva private limited, the company said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iict-to-collaborate-laxai-lifesciences-to-reduce-dependency-on-china-for-active-pharma-ingredients-829473.html
24-04-2020||State||Sand sculpture at KIMS Hubballi for coronavirus warriors||After working for four hours on Friday morning, he has come up with a sand art which has the sculptures of doctor, nurse, policeman, pourakarmika, and also has a message "Respect corona warriors'.  The sand sculpture carved in front of KIMS hospital building also has images of novel coronavirus with sharp teeth. It also includes image of a pen representing print media and a TV logo. "A tipper load of sand is used to make this sculpture, which is aimed at creating awareness about the need to respect those who are engaged in the fight against COVID-19, to save the life of people," Manjunath Hiremath said. There is a plan to draw wall painting with a similar theme in a couple of places in the twin cities, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sand-sculpture-at-kims-hubballi-for-coronavirus-warriors-829276.html
24-04-2020||State||Karnataka: Tumakuru locality sealed down as preacher tests positive for COVID-19||Against the backdrop of a 32-year-old preacher (moulvi) of the masjid on 12th main road, Poorhouse colony, Tumakuru testing positive for coronavirus, the area has been sealed down. People of the city have become anxious because a person has tested positive for the pandemic after a gap of 25 days in the district.  A group of 14 preachers had come to the city from Surat in Gujarat for evangelism. The preacher who has now tested positive was among them. After the lockdown was declared, the group of preachers was quarantined in the Poorhouse masjid itself because they had come from outside the state.    As per the quarantine norms, the blood, phlegm, and throat swabs of the 14 people were sent for tests to Bengaluru two days ago. The tests did not reveal any signs of COVID-19. To top it all, the other 13 samples also tested negative for the virus. Now the doctors are baffled how the person has now tested positive for the virus without symptoms. They are struggling to find the source of the infection. They are gathering samples of the people who have been in primary contact with the moulvi - who has tested positive - and sending it for tests and also quarantined them. According to one Health Department source, the preacher could have got infected by someone who has COVID-19 and came to the masjid and met him there.  Seal down Now Poorhouse Colony has been totally sealed down. A radius of 150 metres has been sealed off from the rest of the city. The roads have been blocked with metal sheets and barricades have been set up. Only one entry-cum-exit has been provided for essential services personnel. The deputy commissioner has declared the sealed-off area as a 'containment zone' and an official is put in-charge. All essential items are being delivered to people's doorsteps. Over 100 police personnel are deployed here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-tumakuru-locality-sealed-down-as-preacher-tests-positive-for-covid-19-829395.html
24-04-2020||State||Karnataka: Workers employed under MNREGA in 26 GPs, says Executive Officer Sudarshan||Tiptur taluk panchayat Executive Officer Sudarshan said that workers have been employed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) in the 26 gram panchayats in the taluk.   He said that the beneficiaries are engaged in sapling planting, the building of cattle sheds and the construction of agricultural ponds.  They are mainly engaged in digging holes for the planting of coconut, mango, sapota, and pomegranate saplings in the villages and building bunds for water bodies. They are being paid Rs 275 per day and the amount is being transferred directly to their bank accounts, he added in a release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-workers-employed-under-mnrega-in-26-gps-says-executive-officer-sudarshan-829415.html
24-04-2020||State||Coronavirus Lockdown: MLA M V Veerabhdraiah promises to buy farmers' produce, deliver to the poor||Madhugiri MLA M V Veerabhdraiah said that he had decided to buy vegetables grown by farmers in his constituency and deliver it to the doorsteps of poor people. He spoke at a review meeting here on Friday. He said that in view of farmers undergoing losses without finding a market for their produce since the lockdown, he had decided to buy their vegetables in bulk and distribute it to poor people. "The vegetables can be either brought to my house or to a designated place. I will buy them and pay them money," he assured. Those interested in selling their produce to the MLA may call 9611368438 or 9731814406.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-mla-m-v-veerabhdraiah-promises-to-buy-farmers-produce-deliver-to-the-poor-829477.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: 5 persons who attacked health workers, test COVID-19 postive in jail||Five people among those arrested for the violence let loose on health workers in Padarayanapura here last week have tested positive in jail and consequently shifted to a hospital, Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said on Friday. A total of 126 people had been arrested in connection with the attack on health workers and police in minority-dominated Padarayanapura on April 19 and all of them were lodged in the district jail in nearby Ramanagara after being remanded to judicial custody by a court. "We had tested all the inmates. During the screening, five of them were tested positive for COVID-19. All the five have been shifted to the hospital," Narayan told reporters here. Two of the remand prisoners tested positive late on Thursday and three more on Friday, he said.  Health workers had gone to Padarayanapura for quarantining some people who were the primary and secondary contacts of coronavirus patients from the area when they were thrashed by a violent crowd.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-5-persons-who-attacked-health-workers-test-covid-19-postive-in-jail-829283.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19: Plasma Therapy likely to begin from April 25 in Karnataka||Karnataka is likely to start Convalescent Plasma Therapy for COVID-19 patients, who are critical, from tomorrow, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said here on on Friday. "We have already got approval for Convalescent Plasma Therapy. There is no need for any special permission for it....when I was in BMC (Bangalore Medical College) I spoke to We may probably start it for the first patient from tomorrow itself. The donor has also agreed," Sudhakar said.  Speaking to reporters here, he said the convalescent Plasma Therapy was only for patients who are critical, in Intensive Care Units or on ventilator. According to the latest update, five COVID-19 patients are in ICUs in the state. After attending video conferencing by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan with health and medical education Ministers of all states, Sudhakar said the Minister lauded the good practices adopted by Karnataka in its fight against COVID-19 and asked to share the same with other states. Responding to a question, he made it clear that COVID-19 is something that was not going to end by May 3 or by May end and like other viruses, would continue to exist. Sudhakar, who is leading the government's efforts against COVID-19 in Bengaluru and is in charge of the state war room, said many people are treating corona as a social stigma, which was not right. There was no reason to get frightened about it as the infection can be cured, he said. "We have to take precautions so that it doesn't spread further....like fever, cold and cough- corona also can be cured... 97% people it can be cured, those with comorbidity and those above 60 years have to take some precautions. We have to bring in certain changes in our lifestyle and maintain social distancing," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-plasma-therapy-likely-to-begin-from-april-25-in-karnataka-829398.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: DCs to arrange movement of migrant labourers in Karnataka||Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar has directed all deputy commissioners to arrange for transportation of migrant labourers to their native villages for agricultural work or travel to cities for construction activities within Karnataka. The government will use KSRTC buses for the purpose, in which only 40% seats will be occupied to ensure social distancing norms of the lockdown. "Masks and gloves should be provided compulsorily to all migrant and day-wage labourers during the process," Bhaskar said in a letter to all DCs. The movement will be as per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) prescribed by the Centre to facilitate the movement of labourers within the state where they are currently located. According to the SOP, the labourers will have to be screened for Covid-19 before they are moved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-dcs-to-arrange-movement-of-migrant-labourers-in-karnataka-829523.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Tracking ramped up: testing SARI cases in non-Covid dists||Upping the ante in its fight against the Covid-19, the state government has begun testing the people with SARI and ILI, the vulnerable group for novel coronavirus, in the non-Covid-19 districts in the state. According to Minister S Suresh Kumar, Karnataka in-charge of media briefings on Covid-19, the districts that have reported nil coronavirus case are Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Haveri, Kolar, Koppal, Raichur, Ramnagara,Shivamogga and Yadgir. Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar, in an order issued last Friday, had ordered the administration of non-Covid districts to test 100 samples of the people with SARI/ILI every day for three days starting Saturday and thereafter 50 samples a day.  Till Thursday, 4,631 samples of SARI and ILI patients were collected. Of which, 3,146 have returned negative while the results of 1,485 are awaited.    Dr Ravi M C, district health officer (DHO), Chamarajanagar, told DH, "Following the order, we collected the samples of 100 SARI and 118 ILI patients and sent it to Mysuru for testing. We did not get 100 samples per day as we did not find those many people suffering from SARI or ILI. While all the SARI samples tested negative, ILI reports are awaited." Dr Umesh S N, DHO, Chikkamagaluru said, "Apart from hospital-based survey, the accredited social health activists (ASHA), auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) and anganwadi workers also went door-to-door to draw swab samples, but we could not reach a target of 100 samples per day. The district has, so far, tested 415 people, 53 suffering from SARI and 364 suffering from ILI. none have tested positive and the reports of six are awaited." "If Karnataka goes past 20,000 Covid-19 cases , our district has been asked to prepare to treat 306 patients. We have readied all the required infrastructure for that," Umesh said.  Dr Vijaykumar S N, DHO, Kolar, said, "Samples of 37 SARI and ILI cases have been sent for testing. So far, none has returned positive. Ever since the pandemic began, Kolar has sent 1,233 samples for testing, results of 150 are pending, 18 were rejected and 1,065 have come back negative," he told DH.  Dr Rajendra Doddamani, DHO, Haveri, said that they had tested 465 SARI and ILI patients since Sunday. Of which 126 tested negative while the results of 339 were awaited. The district was able to find more than 100 patients of SARI and ILI everyday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tracking-ramped-up-testing-sari-cases-in-non-covid-dists-829524.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Illicit liquor: Excise officials book over 1,300 cases||With liquor shops closed amid the nationwide lockdown, sale of illicit liquor is on the rise in the state. Excise department officials have conducted raids cracking whip on the unauthorised trade. In a span of one month, between March 23 and April 23, officials have registered as many as 1,388 cases, with 591 persons arrested in this connection. According to official data available with the excise department, during various raids, a quantity of 44,081 litres of IML, 30,776 litres of beer, 980 litres of wine, 2,665 litres of toddy, 4,575 litres of ID (illicitly distilled) liquor have been seized. This apart, a huge quantity (27,152 litres) of wash (unfermented ID) was also seized during the raids from different parts of the state. While the largest quantity of IML (18,283 litres) was seized in the Hosapete division, that for beer (12,236 litres) and illicit distilled liquor (2,725 litres) was seized in Belagavi division. A senior official in the department said the illicit trade was being driven by those in the know of the business, some of who have previously had similar charges against them. Even as the department is cracking down on illicit liquor sales, it is also grappling with lack of revenue the past month, owing to the lockdown. In the budget, the state government has set an excise revenue target of Rs 22,700 crore for the financial year 2020-21, which accounts for 18% of the state’s own-tax revenues. Towards the end of the 2019-20 fiscal, the government collected Rs 19,701 crore against a target of Rs 20,950 crore. The government even announced an increase in the Additional Excise Duty on IML by 6%, in a measure to boost revenue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/illicit-liquor-excise-officials-book-over-1300-cases-829525.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sanjeevini SHGs produce 10 lakh masks in state||Sanjeevini - Karnataka State Rural Livelihood Development Agency (KSRLDA), a Government agency implementing the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) programme in Karnataka has produced around 10 lakh face masks made by 1,524 women of various self help groups (SHGs) in 21 districts of the State. Health department officials provided the initial training for production of three-layer face masks which are procured by them, other Government departments and various private companies. The masks sold at reasonable rates, provide added income to the women. “Social distancing and wearing of face masks are the best ways to curb the spread of Covid-19. The rampant spread of the disease caused panic buying of face masks among the public leading to a huge shortage. Officials at Sanjeevini saw this as an opportunity for members of their SHGs, who were trained in tailoring. They produce around 18,000 to 25,000 face masks every day,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Health Commissioner.  “We strongly advise citizens to continue using face-masks even after the lock-down is lifted, as we need to be aware that the virus is still prevalent in certain parts and could lead to a second wave if necessary precautions such as social distancing and wearing of face masks are not strictly followed,” said Jawaid Akthar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sanjeevini-shgs-produce-10-lakh-masks-in-state-829527.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||State selected for drone survey of rural properties||Karnataka is among the eight Indian states selected under the Swamitva Yojana, a project that will employ drones to survey rural properties, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa announced on Friday. Briefing mediapersons, he said that the announcement was made during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address on Panchayat Raj Day that was observed on Friday. Details of the rural property survey, which will be taken up on a pilot basis in Karnataka, are awaited. The state government has surveyed urban properties using drones and a similar methodology will be used for rural properties too, according to officials. Eshwarappa said that administrative approval was granted to develop 3,226 km roads and 26 bridges under Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana-II. The Center will contribute Rs 1,274.4 crore, while the state’s share will be Rs 1,455.26 crore for the 2,729.66 crore project. NREGA works are being taken up following lockdown relaxations in rural areas and will pick pace in the coming days, headded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/state-selected-for-drone-survey-of-rural-properties-829528.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Board for widespread testing of domestic, wild animals to map KFD spread||As the number of patients with Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD) rise in the Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru and Uttara Kannada, officials have urged the government to take up widespread testing of both wild and domestic animals to map the spread of the disease. Though the disease has been reported from 12 districts in the last 50 years, a complete study of the virus and regular monitoring of its geographical spread is yet to be done.  Karnataka Biodiversity Board Chairman Anant Hegade Ashisara met Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa , seeking urgent measures. “The government’s efforts in vaccination, upgraded testing and treatment has helped in improving the curative measures. But we need to go deeper into the preventive measures. So, there is an urgent need to begin testing of both wild and domestic animals to understand vital clues about the spread of the virus,” Ashisara said. He said experts from National Institute of Virology in Pune and other reputed institutions have recommended comprehensive studies of the virus. “A multidisciplinery study involving experts from the field of epidemiology, pathology, zoonotic disease, environmental science and forest departments need to come together to understand the problem,” he said. Dr Kiran, the nodal officer for Kyasanur Forest Disease, said, the existing vaccination has shown good results. As many as 229 cases have been reported from three districts, including by 160 from Shivamogga and 29 from Uttara Kannada.  “Of them, only 9% had a history of vaccination. We believe the vaccine has been very effective in fighting the disease. Only those who did not receive the three rounds of vaccine in time have been affected. We need better awareness on vaccination among adults,” he said. Health officials in Shivamogga said setting up a Biosafety Level-3 lab in Shivamogga will help the district to prepare better for the fight against thevirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/board-for-widespread-testing-of-domestic-wild-animals-to-map-kfd-spread-829529.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Fuel stations serve more than diesel, satiate the hunger pangs of truckers||As most of the hotels and dhabas on highways remain closed, the goods vehicle drivers transporting essentials have no option, but to work on empty stomachs. The government has told fuel stations on highways to serve more than diesel, by distributing free food packets. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has identified 23 petrol pumps in 12 districts where the drivers can get free food. The stations are among the 501 identified across the country based on their location on the national and the state highways. Drivers arriving at Kiran Petroleum on NH4 near Nelamangala town do not go hungry. This is one of the stations notified by the government, said Asha Kiran N A, the dealer. “We distribute food packets in the afternoon based on the demand. Generally, we get alerts from the goods vehicles or truckers’ associations in the morning. I used to order food from a home for our staffers. Now, we have scaled up the number of plates based on the demand from truckers,” she said. Interestingly, the oil companies recognised the importance of the fuel stations’ network in food supply last month itself and some stations joined hands with petroleum dealers to supply food to drivers. N D Mathur, general manager in charge of retail sales, Indian Oil Corporation Limited, welcomed the government move. 40 stations roped in “At IOCL, we have roped in 40 fuel stations across Karnataka to provide food to the drivers. Most of the dealers took up the task actively and we have assured them of sharing 50% of the cost. The government notification has come as a morale booster for us,” he said. He said other oil companies have also begun similar services. “It is not just truckers. We are helping even migrant labourers and other persons in need of food. Many truckers were stranded for weeks and we tried to ensure regular supply of food to drivers and cleaners,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fuel-stations-serve-more-than-diesel-satiate-the-hunger-pangs-of-truckers-829530.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DCs to arrange movement of migrant labourers||Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar has directed all deputy commissioners to arrange for transportation of migrant labourers to their native villages for agricultural work or travel to cities for construction activities within Karnataka. The government will use KSRTC buses for the purpose, in which only 40% seats will be occupied to ensure social distancing norms of the lockdown. "Masks and gloves should be provided compulsorily to all migrant and day-wage labourers during the process," Bhaskar said in a letter to all DCs. The movement will be as per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) prescribed by the Centre to facilitate the movement of labourers within the state where they are currently located. According to the SOP, the labourers will have to be screened for Covid-19 before they are moved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dcs-to-arrange-movement-of-migrant-labourers-829531.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Boy among three contract virus in Bagalkot||After a lull of four days, Bagalkot district saw three new cases of Covid-19 on Friday. A 14-year-old boy from Mudhol, son of the Patient 380, tested positive for Covid-19 in Mudhol. Throat swab sample of a 24-year-old man, the neighbour of P380, has returned positive for the virus. The third case from the district is a 46-year-old from Jamkhandi with no travel history. His source of infection is being investigated. All three have been admitted to the Covid-19 ward in Bagalkot district hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/boy-among-three-contract-virus-in-bagalkot-829532.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||India's longest viaduct thrown open in Vijayapura dist||A 14.73-km long aqueduct (an elevated canal with a road on top) of Tidagundi Branch Canal, the longest and the tallest structure in the country, is thrown open to public on Friday. The Tidagundi viaduct, a part of Mulawadi Lift Irrigation under Upper Krishna Phase III project, was constructed at a cost of Rs 280.26 crore. The elevated canal with road atop stands on over 400 giant pillars at the height of 30 metres from Bhuranpur godown to Bhuthnal. The aqueduct will irrigate 63,190 acres of land in its catchment in 29 villages of Vijayapura and Indi taluks. The canal is expected to fill 25 lakes and ponds in the region. The project was completed in just two years using precast concrete structures with pre-tensioned tendons. Also, it did not face the land acquisition hassles as the land required for the project wasminimal.   Babaleshwar MLA M B Patil, Vijayapura MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, Nagthan MLA Devanand Chauhan inaugurated the viaduct by offering Baagina to the canal at its source at Buranpur. Basanagouda Patil Yatnal addressing the gathering at the inaugural function, said, “Tidagundi viaduct is a model for the country. This elevated canal has taken Krishna to the border of the state. The credit for this engineering marvel should go to M B Patil.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/indias-longest-viaduct-thrown-open-in-vijayapura-dist-829533.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||VTU joins Covid fight big time, funds research projects||The Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) is funding more than 25 research projects related to Covid-19. The project topics include development of affordable and portable rapid diagnostic kits or tools, computational identification and validation of Covid-19 molecular targets, drug re-purposing against key targets and in-vitro/clinical dose testing of nutritional supplements for immunity. Vice-chancellor Dr Karisiddappa, in a press release, informed that the research projects were aimed at identification of Covid patients using artificial neural network from X-rays and CT scans, virtual autopsy of dead patients, food dispensing unit in affected zones, designing and fabrication of low-cost/portable ventilators, low-cost IoT based Ambu-bag compressing machine, thermal scanners, mobile apps on Covid-19 and solar powered disinfectant tunnels/chambers. Students and teachers are working on these ideas and the outcome would be reported soon. A smart band for identifying the symptoms of Covid (like increased body temperature and shortness of breath) has been developed by Swati Hegde, a student from Mysuru. The band also alerts authorities and the police if the person wearing it has the symptoms and comes out during the quarantine period. Online classes, counselling In order to continue the teaching-learning process, the VTU directed engineering institutions to continue imparting education using technology through online classes, e-learning platforms and virtual classes on social media platforms. The lockdown has confined students to their homes with no socialisation with their friends, which is an important aspect of the student life. Besides this, students are worried about the uncertainty around almost all aspects of life, especially academics andplacements. The VTU has directed all the institutions to introduce online psychological counselling facility and supporting centres at the college level to help students cope with the disruption caused by the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vtu-joins-covid-fight-big-time-funds-research-projects-829534.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt orders probe into Nanjangud mystery||The state government on Friday ordered a probe into the spread of the coronavirus in Mysuru's Nanjangud, which has emerged as a mysterious cluster involving a pharmaceutical company.  In an order, Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar gave IAS officer Harsh Gupta one week to submit a report. Gupta is currently the nodal officer for Covid-19 containment in the Mysuru district. Till date, Mysuru has 88 Covid-19 positive cases, 73 of which are linked to Jubilant Generics, promoted by Noida-based Jubilant Life Sciences Ltd. "Despite stringent measures, the main reason for Mysuru district to emerge as a hotspot (for Covid-19) is the Jubilant factory in Nanjangud," Bhaskar said in his order. The probe will look into the origins of the disease in the town and the causes for the same. The role of the factory and others in the spread of the pandemic will also be enquired into, according to the order. The first Covid-19 positive case at the Nanjangud plant was Patient-52, a 35-year old. Soon after, 24 employees of the company and their relatives tested positive for the virus and the number increased subsequently. Jubilant Generic was recently declared a Covid-19 hotspot. The state government, which is trying to ascertain the source of the virus, had sought details of the foreign nationals who visited the factory before Covid-19 cases were reported. Adding to the mystery was the company clarifying that it neither had any of its employees travel abroad in the last six months nor did the raw material samples from the plant test positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-orders-probe-into-nanjangud-mystery-829535.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Doctor of Kodagu origin feted in USA||The citizens of USA have offered a hearty felicitation to Dr Keekanamada Preethi, a Kannadiga doctor of Kodagu origin, who is treating Covid-19 patients, as a gesture of thanksgiving for her dedicated service. Recently, Dr Uma Madhusudan, a native of Mysuru who is also serving in the US, was felicitated grandly by the American citizens.  Incidentally, Dr Preethi lives in the same residential layout where Dr Uma resides in South Windsor, Connecticut. Dr Preethi lives with her husband Keekanamada Subramani. Dr Preethi graduated in medicine from M S Ramaiah College in Bengaluru and migrated to the US in 1999. She is currently working at St Francis Hospital in South Windsor. As a heartfelt gesture, the patients who have recovered from the deadly disease, police and fire and emergency service personnel recognised the service of Dr Preethi by announcing her contributions on publicity vehicles. Dr Preethi, replying to this unique felicitation, said that she accepts the honour with all humility. The video clip of Dr Preethi’s felicitation is being widely circulated on social media. Dr Preethi is the daughter of Mundanda Rajappa, a native of Nelaji village. Rajappa was the first player to represent Kodagu district in the state Ranaji cricket team. He is currently based in Bangaluru. He said he is proud of her daughter’s work. Her spouse Subramani hails from Birunani village of Kodagu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/doctor-of-kodagu-origin-feted-in-usa-829537.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||A stitch in time makes this tailor a cut above the rest||There is no new fresh work for Shanta Narona, a tailor at Talaguppa in Sagar taluk, due to the lockdown. However, he is as busy as ever. He puts to use his time, money and skills to stitch face masks, an essential in the fight against COVID-19. The service of local police in maintaining law and order and distributing food kits to the poor motivated him to serve people in whatever way possible to him. When he came to know about the necessity of face masks to prevent the spread of the disease, he decided to give it a try. Soon, he started stitching three-layer face masks. His movement is restricted due to a physical disability. His friends joined hands in distributing the masks. In the past one month, Shanta has made over 3,200 face masks and donated to people who can’t afford to buy them. He has spent over Rs 30,000 from his savings on this. Narona purchased cotton cloth by paying Rs 90 per metre. Around 65 metres of cloth was used to prepare the masks.  He spends four to five hours a day stitching face masks. Now that the word has spread, people come to the shop to collect the same. “My shop is open from 8 am to 12 noon only every day, due to the lockdown. Later, I continue the work at home. My wife Mary Narona has been helping me in preparing the masks,” Narona said. While people in Talaguppa, Guddemane and some other areas of Sagar taluk have already been covered for the supply of masks, there has been a growing demand for these cotton masks. The unavailability of masks in rural areas and lack of training in preparing masks at home have made his service all the more important in the first one month of the lockdown.  However, Narona says he may not be able to continue the service for long due to financial constraints. Talaguppa gram panchayat member S Krishnamurthy Soona said that apart from giving away masks, Narona was creating awareness among the rural people about the importance of wearing face masks to protect themselves from the virus, thus promoting their use.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/a-stitch-in-time-makes-this-tailor-a-cut-above-the-rest-829540.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Senior IAS officer to inquire COVID-19 cases of pharma company: Karnataka govt||The Karnataka government on Friday appointed a senior IAS officer to inquire into COVID-19 infections to Jubilant pharma company factory's employees at Mysuru's Nanjanagudu. Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar in an order has asked IAS officer Harsh Gupta, who is the nodal officer to oversee COVID-19 control measures in Mysuru to inquire into and submit the report in a week's time.  Stating that Nanjanagudu's Jubilant pharma company is the main reason for Mysuru to emerge as COVID-19 hotspot, the order said it is reason for several people getting infected by coronavirus. So to inquire into how, from whom and where the infection first spread in Najanagudu, what are the reasons for the spread, what is the responsibility of the company and others in the spread, Harsh Gupta has been appointed, it said. As per data available till this evening, Mysuru with 88 positive cases has the second highest number of positive cases, after Bengaluru with 120. Seventy-three of the 88 cases in Mysuru are linked to Nanjanagudu's Jubilant pharma company's factory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/senior-ias-officer-to-inquire-covid-19-cases-of-pharma-company-karnataka-govt-829541.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, govt opens up rural industries in 9 districts||Rural industries in nine districts will be allowed to start operations, the government has said, furthering the lockdown relaxation in a bid to revive the state’s economy.  Industries located in the rural areas of Yadgir, Koppal, Shivamogga, Chikmagalur, Kolar, Chamarajnagar, Raichur, Haveri and Hassan have been permitted to operate, Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar has said in an addendum to his Wednesday order that partially lifted lockdown restrictions on select activities.  These nine districts are unaffected by Covid-19.  Ramanagara appears to have missed the bus as Bhaskar’s order specifically states that the relaxation for rural industries excludes this district. Ramanagara was a green zone until five of those accused in the Padarayanapura vandalism, who were lodged in the Ramanagara prison, tested positive for Covid-19.  The government has already allowed industrial units of essential goods - drugs, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, their raw materials and intermediates - food processing industries in rural areas and urban areas (bread factories, milk processing, flour/dal mills etc), coal production (mines and mineral production and activities incidental to mining) and manufacturing of packaging materials. Construction work in urban and rural areas have also been allowed provided labourers stay on site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-govt-opens-up-rural-industries-in-9-districts-829543.html
24-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||K'taka records 29 new cases, total cases jump to 474||A total of 29 nine new cases were reported in the state on Friday. Out of 304 active cases in the state, five are in ICU. The number of people discharged stands at 152 and the number of fatalities remain 18. Dakshina Kannada district administration on Thursday night had a tough time during the cremation of Patient 432, a 75-year-old woman who died of Covid-19. The authorities had arranged the cremation at Pacchanady crematorium. But due to the protest by the locals, the body was shifted to Moodushedde, where they were again met with resistance by the locals and their MLA Umanath Kotian. Finally, the body was cremated at Kaikunje in Bantwal amid tight police security. Minister S Suresh Kumar condemned this incident as disgraceful. "This is inhuman. This is happening because of lack of education among local residents. If a Covid-19 deceased is one of our own, will we behave the same way?," asked the minister.  Of the new cases reported on Friday, 19 were reported from Bengaluru Urban. Bagalkot reported three cases of which two are from Mudhol and are direct contacts of Patient 380. One from Jamkhandi has influenza-like illness. Belagavi and Vijayapura have reported two cases each. All four are direct contacts of the previously diagnosed patients. Chikkaballapur and Mandya have reported one case each, both are primary contacts of the infected. One case from Tumakuru has a travel history to Surat in Gujarat.  "There are 111 containment zones in the state. In these zones, 377 patients are residing as these are the ones who have been diagnosed in the last 28 days. Also, there are 81 incident commanders for 6,77,673 houses in buffer zones, which has a population of 31,68,886," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ktaka-records-29-new-cases-total-cases-jump-to-474-829544.html
24-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Two minors test positive for COVID-19 in Belagavi||P448, a 10-year-old girl, had come in contact with P150 and P463, a15-year-old had come in contact with P148, at Kuduchi town.   Swab samples of both the minors sent for tests came out positive and they have been admitted in Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences-District Hospital for treatment. For the past two days, none of the suspect's tested positive and it had come as respite, but with two minors testing positive, the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district has now increased to 45.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/two-minors-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-belagavi-829260.html
24-04-2020||West||Cases are rising in Gujarat because of aggressive testing, full transparency: State government||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cases-are-rising-in-gujarat-because-of-aggressive-testing-full-transparency-state-government-829148.html
24-04-2020||West||Gujarat reports its first two coronavirus positive cases after recovery||In what could be a major set back for the state government that has been pushing for plazma therapy, that uses antibodies found in the blood of persons recovered from coronavirus, to treat other infected patients, two persons recovered nearly a week ago from the virus were tested positive again on Wednesday in north Gujarat's Patan district, leaving the the health officials baffled as these are said to be the first two cases of relapse reported in the state and both are asymptomatic.  Confirming the development, Patan district collector Anand Patel told DH, "A 55 years old woman and a 60 years old man were tested positive who had recovered from the virus. Their previous tests conducted twice in 24 hours period as per the protocol before their discharge were found negative but today when their fresh reports came they were found to be positive." Patel added that both the patients have been isolated and are asymptomatic."   A health officer in the district said that both the patients are from the group of a dozen residents, all relatives, of Nedra village who had been tested positive. Last week, 11 of them were cured and discharged from the hospital but the district authority put them under quarantine facility created to boost their immunity due to many of the patients' advanced age. "We took samples of five of the persons from the same group randomly of which two of them were tested positive," the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-reports-its-first-two-coronavirus-positive-cases-after-recovery-829160.html
24-04-2020||West||Maharashtra sees 778 coronavirus cases in a day||Maharashtra recorded its highest single-day rise of Covid-19 cases with 778 people testing positive on Thursday. This is the biggest jump in the last six weeks since the first case was detected in the state. The total number of virus cases have increased to 6,427 with 283 deaths in the state. In all, 840 patients have been treated and discharged. On Thursday, 14 deaths were reported, including six in Mumbai, five in Pune and one in Navi Mumbai. So far, the cases in Mumbai have increased to 4,205, with 167 deaths.  Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray chaired a meeting of top officials of Mumbai and Pune, which is the worst-affected belt in the country. In Maharashtra, 96,369 tests have been done so far, of which 6,427 were positive. Worli-Koliwada zone Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the state government has increased surveillance, screening, testing and treatment in a bid to arrest the outbreak and cited the encouraging results emanating from Worli-Koliwada containment zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-778-coronavirus-cases-in-a-day-829172.html
24-04-2020||West||Govt allows pre-monsoon works in coronavirus-hit Mumbai, Pune||The Maharashtra government has amended its revised lockdown guidelines to allow carrying out of pre-monsoon-related works in Mumbai, Pune and Pimpri- Chinchwad, badly hit by the coronavirus outbreak. In its revised guidelines issued on April 21 regarding relaxation of lockdown rules, the government had withdrawn all concessions to Mumbai and Pune regions, which account for a bulk of the more than 6,000 coronavirus cases in Maharashtra. However, in an order issued on Thursday, the government said all pre-monsoon related works, including metro rail and any work permitted by the municipal commissioners of these three cities, will be allowed. Bedside, attendants and caregivers of senior citizens residing in their homes will also be allowed to function during the lockdown, the order said. The government has relaxed norms for some other activities in the rest of the state provided social distancing measures are followed. In relaxation to agriculture and horticulture, facilities for export/import such as pack houses, inspection and treatment facilities for seeds and horticulture produce, research establishments, inter and intra-state movement of planting materials, honey bee colonies, honey and other beehive products have been permitted, it said. Essential goods supply will include food processing units like bread factories, milk processing plants, flour mills and dal mills, the order said. Shops selling electric fans have been included in relaxations provided to private and commercial establishments,it said. The order said responsibility of implementing social distancing and proper hygiene practices while carrying out these activities will be with the head of the organisation concerned to ensure compliance with lockdown norms. PTI MRGovt allows pre-monsoon works in coronavirus-hit Mumbai, Pune||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/govt-allows-pre-monsoon-works-in-coronavirus-hit-mumbai-pune-829248.html
24-04-2020||West||FIR against Kannan Gopinathan for not resuming duty||The union territory of Daman and Diu police has registered an FIR against IAS officer Kannan Gopinathan for not resuming the duty despite his resignation application being rejected and summons issued to him to get back to work, police said.  Gopinathan, who quit the elite Indian Administrative Service (IAS) while criticising the central government's policies last year, was last posted as secretary, power department of the union territory of Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli.  The union territory has remained unaffected with the outbreak so far. The FIR comes after Gopinathan refused to resume despite repeated notices and summons. Officials said that last notice issued to Gopinathan to resume work was on April 10 but since he didn't turn up, the government ordered registration of FIR against him for illegal absent. The FIR has been lodged at Moti Daman police station.   In August 2019, Gopinathan hit headlines after he resigned from the civil services criticising the central government for curbing freedom of expression in Jammu and Kashmir. However, his application for the resignation was not accepted by the Ministry of Home Affairs. He was issued show cause notices and was later charge-sheeted for being absent from duty without leave among other charges.  Gopinathan, meanwhile, turned into activism and became one of the leading voices in protest against the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fir-against-kannan-gopinathan-for-not-resuming-duty-829257.html
24-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Goa govt to provide thermal guns to industries||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said the government will provide all necessary infrastructure, including thermal guns and screening devices, to industries to fully resume their operations in the state. The Goa government granted conditional permits to industrial estates in the state, which have started operating in phases since April 20, after all COVID-19 patients in the state had recovered. Industries should take proper precautions in order to prevent the spread of the disease, Sawant said, adding that it was mandatory for all industrial compounds to use thermal guns for screening at their entrances. "Employees will be allowed to return to work only after getting their temperature checked," he said. The state government had procured thermal screening devices so that even small industrial units can resume operations after installing them at their gates, the Chief Minister said. Sawant spoke to reporters after visiting the North Goa district hospital at Mapusa along with state Port Minister Michael Lobo. Goa had detected seven cases of COVID-19 and all patients have recovered from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-goa-govt-to-provide-thermal-guns-to-industries-829300.html
24-04-2020||West||Zone of comfort: Three Maharashtra districts keep coronavirus at bay||Administrations in these districts have ascribed the result to early preventive steps taken in view of the COVID-19 threat, strict adherence to social distancing, tracing and isolating people who have entered their jurisdiction from abroad and other parts of the state and citizen cooperation. At the same time, the administrators of these Vidarbha districts said they are not being oblivious of the threat, but more vigilant every day in the face of the big challenge the disease has posed worldwide. When asked about the steps taken, Wardha District Collector Vivek Bhimanwar said the authorities swung into action by closing down educational institutes, swimming pools and clubs early in March and sealed district borders tightly. He said in line with the stress of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on social distancing to contain the spread of the coronavirus, the district administration identified crowded places and quickly decongested them. Expounding his point, Bhimanwar said the authorities decongested a big market in Wardha at 18 places. Likewise, they allotted time slots on different days to ration card holders to pick their quota of food grains from public distribution system (PDS) shops. We cannot stop goods movement to the district completely. But at our level, we stopped vegetables coming from the adjoining districts. To avoid scarcity, we linked the wholesalers with farmers directly. Hence, there was no shortage (of food items), he told PTI over the phone. Bhimanwar said the administration has been keeping a vigil on those who have come to Wardha from abroad and other districts. We identified around 16,500 people coming to the district from Mumbai and Pune and also 192 who came from abroad and isolated them, he said. Similarly, Bhimanwar said 22 individuals from Wardha, who had attended the religious congregation the Tablighi Jamaat had organised in Delhi last month, were traced within seven-eight hours and isolated. The religious congregation had emerged as a key source of the coronavirus spread in the country. We took their samples and fortunately, all of them tested negative. We kept a watch on them so that they did not mix with the other local people, he said. Mindful of neighbouring Nagpur, Amravati and Yavatmal districts reporting COVID-19 cases, the official said the authorities are not taking any chance and are engaged in house-to-house surveys. We have also got 61 labour camps, in which 8,800 migrant workers are living right now. Fortunately, no positive case has been reported till date. "But we are taking care and next one month will be a challenge again, he added. Bhandara District Collector M J Pradip Chandren, too, said to have taken prompt steps in anticipation of the crisis. He talked about shutting down hotels, industries and schools in a phased manner a few days before the nationwide lockdown came in force (on March 25) and stopping movement on small roads by erecting wooden barricades. The official said the administration carried out door-to-door surveys in the district, which has a population of around 13 lakh, and added that the fourth round of such inspection is on right now. We prepared the list of who came from abroad, who came from other districts and who are showing symptoms (anyone having fever, cough, running nose). We kept a watch on these three groups. We kept a lot of people under home quarantine. Even now, the figure is 11,000 (of people who are under home quarantine). "We were very strict about the quarantine and even VIPs were kept under observation, Chandren said. Chandren also said to have studied in detail the first 50 positive cases reported in Maharashtra and decided the course of Bhandara administrations actions accordingly. He, however, praised the local administration and citizens for their support in ensuring there were no positive cases in the district till date. Gadchiroli District Collector Deepak Singla could not be reached for his comments despite repeated attempts. According to the Maharashtra government, Washim district reported one positive case as of April 23, but the patient has now tested negative and will be discharged. Hence, there is no positive case in Washim too, it said on Friday. As of April 23, Sindhudurg, Parbhani, Beed, Nanded and Gondia districts have reported one positive case each. Maharashtra has reported 6,427 positive cases and 283 deaths till Thursday. Of these, Mumbai has reported 4,205 positive cases and 167 deaths -- highest in the state. Pune is second in terms of COVID-19 cases and fatalities in the state. According to the state government, 840 coronavirus- infected people have recovered and discharged from hospitals as of Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/zone-of-comfort-three-maharashtra-districts-keep-coronavirus-at-bay-829308.html
24-04-2020||West||Maharashtra's Nanded university gets ICMR nod for coronavirus testing||Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada University has received the Indian Council of Medical Research's (ICMR) approval to commence testing, university vice-chancellor Uddhav Bhosale said in a release. The Government Medical College in Aurangabad was the only testing facility in the region till now. The lab at the Nanded-based university has already started testing since Thursday and has a capacity to study 500 samples a day, public relation officer Ashok Kadam said. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-nanded-university-gets-icmr-nod-for-coronavirus-testing-829321.html
24-04-2020||West||'50,000 students from India stranded abroad'||More than 50,000 students are stranded abroad and facing immense difficulties, former chief minister of Maharashtra and senior Congressman Prithviraj Chavan said. Of these, between 5,000 to 7,000 are from Maharashtra, said Chavan. In a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray,  he said that the government must make efforts to bring back the students. "They are facing difficulties in lodging,  boarding, food," he said. The technocrat-politician said that over 2,000 students from Maharashtra are stranded in Rajasthan's education hub of Kota. "Uttar Pradesh chief minister (Yogi Adityanath) organised 250 buses and brought back over 7,500 students to home state," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/50000-students-from-india-stranded-abroad-829336.html
24-04-2020||West||Bring back students stranded abroad, in Kota: Chavan to Uddhav  ||Senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan on Friday asked Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to make arrangements to bring back students stranded overseas and also state pupils stuck in Kota town of Rajasthan due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown. In a letter to the Chief Minister, Chavan said out of around 50,000 Indian students stranded abroad, 5,000-7,000 are from Maharashtra. He said Thackeray should contact the Centre for their safe passage back home.  Many students from the state, who had gone to Kotain Rajasthan to study for competitive examinations, are stranded there, Chavan said and added that Maharashtra should follow Uttar Pradesh in bringing them back. "About 2,000 students (stuck in Kota) are from Maharashtra. Special buses need to be sent to get them back. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had sent 250 buses to bring back 7,500 students from his state," Chavan said. Chavan said distribution of newspapers should be started so that people get accurate news about the coronavirus pandemic. Cable companies should be asked to lower their tariffs for the next three months, the Congress leader said. Also, telecom companies should be asked to lower tariffs of WiFi which has become an essential service with people staying home and extensively using the wireless networking technology, the former chief minister said.  Chavan, whose party is a constituent in the state's MVA government, said there should be a clarity on who should pay for COVID 19 testing. "There should be clear directions that the testing will be done under the Mahatma Phule Jeevandayi Health Scheme (launched by the state government). Private doctors and nursing homes should be provided PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) kits," Chavan said. The former Union minister demanded that each migrant labourer in Maharashtra be paid Rs 2,000on the lines of similar financial aid given to construction workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bring-back-students-stranded-abroad-in-kota-chavan-to-uddhav-829359.html
24-04-2020||West||Educational institute offers mosque hall for quarantine in Pune||An educational institute in coronavirus-hit Pune district has offered a hall in a mosque inside its premises as a quarantine facility. The hall, situated in the campus of Azam Institute in Bhavani Peth area, one of the virus hotspots in Pune, is 9,000 square feet in area and can easily accommodate 80 people after implementing social distancing norms, an official said. "We can provide food as well to those quarantined if need be. These are extraordinary times and every person must come forward to help combat the coronavirus outbreak," said PA Inamdar, president of Maharashtra Cosmopolitan Education Society which runs Azam Institute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/educational-institute-offers-mosque-hall-for-quarantine-in-pune-829378.html
24-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Maharashtra gets permission for pool testing, plasma therapy||The Ministry of Health and Family welfare has given the formal permission,  Maharashtra's Public Heath Minister Rajesh Tope said.  The state got the permission after Union Health Minister Dr Harshavardhan conducted a meeting health ministers of all states through video-conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-maharashtra-gets-permission-for-pool-testing-plasma-therapy-829414.html
24-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: Six new coronavirus cases in Dharavi||Six new coronavirus patients were detected in Mumbai's Dharavi on Friday, taking the tally of cases in this sprawling slum-dominated area to 220. One of these patients succumbed during the day, taking the death toll due to the pandemic in the area to 14, said a senior Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officer.  New cases were found in Gopinath Nagar, Kalyanwadi, Janta Nagar, Banwari compound and Maulana Azad Nagar localities, he said. The number of new cases in Dharavi has come down compared to the last few days. On Thursday, the area had reported 25 new cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-six-new-coronavirus-cases-in-dharavi-829450.html
24-04-2020||West||Gujarat reports lowest tests in four days, reports 15 deaths, 191 fresh COVID-19 cases||Even as Gujarat grapples with the rising number of coronavirus cases with every passing day, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Friday said that it is "well prepared to tackle the situation" and defended its efforts in containing the virus. He said that "it is not important" to talk where does Gujarat figure in the list of worst-affected states in the country.  Meanwhile, on Friday Gujarat reported one of the lowest number of tests it undertook in the past one week. According to the latest data released by the state government only 1,438 samples were tested in the past 24 hours compared to 2,963 on April 23. On April 22, the state had tested 2,516 samples and the number was 3,513 on April 21. While on April 20, a total of 4,212 samples were tested, the highest in 24 hours. On April 20, the total cases in the state were nearly 1,900 which rose to more than 2,800 on Friday while it added 56 new deaths in these five days. As a matter of fact, for the past two days, the state government also changed the format of its news bulletin in which it used to give a total number of tests undertaken in the past 24 hours. Since Thursday, it also stopped giving data of new cases in the morning bulletin on the ground that it used to create "confusion" in the compilation of data. When journalists asked during news briefing whether the state is lowering the number of tests since the number of positive cases was increasing alarmingly, Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi denied it. She claimed that the state is testing nearly 3000 samples every day.  She said that state is setting up a new lab in Gandhinagar for which nod has been granted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and permission has been sought to start another lab in Bhuj for testing more samples. She also said that state is planning to test more in the coming days and Ahmedabad, the major hotspot of virus that alone has 1,821 cases, has the highest number of tests per million compared to other places in the country.   On the other hand, chief minister Rupani made his first public speech on Friday after isolating himself for a week following a meeting with a Congress MLA Imran Khedawala who tested positive. Rupani attributed the rising numbers of infected persons to "intense testing" exercise undertaken by the state and comorbid conditions or pre-existing diseases behind the increase in the number of deaths of COVID-19 patients.  "Some people are asking why Gujarat is second among the affected state. I want to say that such a ranking is not important. We are doing everything possible to contain the virus. We had searched all the 6,0000 people who had travelled history but it was only after members of Tablighi Jamaat who returned from their congregation in Nizamuddin, Delhi that spiked the infection," the chief minister said. He added that the state is prepared to tackle the situation and will soon have over 25,000 beds and other facilities to take care of COVID-19 cases. Meanwhile, Gujarat on Friday reported 15 more deaths and 191 fresh cases, taking the total death toll to 127 and the total number of cases to 2,815. According to the data, in the past five days, 56 patients have died while more than 900 new cases have been added that has put Gujarat in the list of second worst-affected states after Maharashtra in the country. On Friday, the mortality rate was found to be a little over 4.5% which more than one per cent higher than the national average.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-reports-lowest-tests-in-four-days-reports-15-deaths-191-fresh-covid-19-cases-829539.html
