25-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Veteran RSS leader in Karnataka gets call from PM||Senior RSS leader H Somashekhar Bhatt received a call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday enquiring about his health. Bhatt got emotional hearing the Prime Minister's voice at the other end, family sources said. The Prime Minister called at 8.30 AM and began the conversation with 'Somashekharji' and spoke for about six minutes. The 85-year-old veteran recalled how the Jana Sangh came to power in Udupi municipality under the leadership of V S Acharya in 1968 and about his association with the Sangh Parivar through the decades and his imprisonment during the Emergency. Bhatt, former Udupi municipality president, later said it was a rare honour for him. "I am very glad that PM Modi called and spoke to me. I shared the experience of meeting him at the Jaipur session. Asked to take care of health and expressed concern," he said. The Prime Minister has been calling senior functionaries of the party who worked for the Sangh Parivar in the time of adversities to build up the BJP in its present form and seeking advice from them. He had also called in recent days former MLA Ram Bhat who was elected from Puttur in Dakshina Kannada and D H Shankar Murthy, who was former chairman of the state legislative council, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/veteran-rss-leader-in-karnataka-gets-call-from-pm-829675.html
25-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus Lockdown: Cardiac-related cases decline in Mysuru||With the outbreak of COVID-19, the number of people visiting hospitals over heart-related ailments has drastically come down. According to cardiologists, mental and physical stress has declined among the people. Besides, owing to healthy habits there is a decline in cases. As per experts, the cases have declined at least by 50% during the lockdown. Dr K S Sadananda, Medical Superintendent of Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, Mysuru, said healthy habits among people and less stress has resulted in good cardiac health. “Due to the lockdown, people are not undergoing much physical as well as mental stress. Even pollution rate has declined and a majority of people are undergoing health diet,” he said. Consumption of tobacco and alcohol result in heart-related issues. But, during lockdown consumption of such products has declined. This has also resulted in a decline of some cases, he says. In Jayadeva Hospital alone, an average of 40 to 50 patients used to undergo angiogram and 15 to 20 people were being installed stent per day. But now, hardly 10 to 15 people undergo angiogram and six patients are being installed stent. The number of patients visiting the OPD has come down to 100 from 600. According to Dr Upendra Shenoy, cardiac surgeon, Columbia Asia Hospital, Mysuru, since the lockdown the number of cardiac related cases has come down by more than 50%. By mid of every month, we used to get 10 cardiac related patients on an average. But, during lockdown we have seen three patients, he said. The health professionals advised the patients to avoid visiting hospitals for routine checkup, unless emergency, to avoid exposure to Covid-19. The patients can continue with the same tablets prescribed by the doctors during previous checkup. It is better to contact doctors over telephone, rather than visiting them, they suggest. As of now, only emergency cases are being attended and patients with non-emergency are requested to postpone their visit, said Dr Sadananda. Every day, an average 600 people used to come for OPD, but, now it has come down to 100. However, the hospital authorities are attending to all patients visiting the hospital, the doctor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-cardiac-related-cases-decline-in-mysuru-829875.html
25-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Coronavirus proves hurdle in achieving SDGs’||Coronavirus pandemic has given sleepless nights to many across the globe. The pandemic is not only affecting human life and the business sector, but is also badly impacting the efforts in achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the United Nation (UN). SDGs are a set of 17 global goals, designed to achieve a better and more sustainable future by 2030. The UN General Assembly adopted them in 2015. According to A M Rajashekara, faculty at the Centre for SDGs, Administrative Training Institute (ATI), COVID-19 is proving to be a curse on Agenda-2030. Apart from other sectors, its impact would be prominently visible on SDGs. What started as a global dream project on ending poverty, to improve health and education, to reduce inequality, to push economic growth and with a vision of peace and prosperity for the planet, through strong and intense partnerships and synergy is badly stuck, he said. “It is a testing time for mankind. The world has handled many such unknown enemies in the past and has moved ahead. This phase will also get over. Instead of losing hope, it is time to gather the courage to tackle this enemy collectively. The pace of our journey towards the goal may get slower, but, we should not give it a chance to diminish our confidence of reaching our goal,” he says.  The annual SDGs report of UN provides an overview about the global picture on the areas of progress. After four years of implementation, it reported some progress in areas such as reduction of poverty, immunisation, decrease in child mortality rate, access to electricity among others, he says. He said that the year 2030 is just a decade away and it is rightly said by UN Secretary General, that the coming years will be vital to save the planet and to achieve sustainable, inclusive human development. Some of the critical challenges to be addressed are finding adequate funding, environmental insecurity, natural occurrences like earthquakes and tsunamis, protracted conflicts between the countries often leading to wars, population explosion, poverty and poor urban planning, said Rajashekara.  The year 2019 was considered as the defining year for the implementation of SDGs. Significant investments are required in the next decade (2020-2030) to bring SDGs to life. It is estimated that about $3 to 4.5 trillion is required from both public and private funding per year. However, the availability of funds at present is far from satisfactory. There is an average annual funding gap of about $2.5 to 3 trillion per year. According to an expert from the International Monitory Fund (IMF), the average additional spending needed in low income countries represents 15% of their GDP, according to Rajashekara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-proves-hurdle-in-achieving-sdgs-829876.html
25-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Karnataks's KSRTC converts bus into Mobile Fever Clinic||The district administration and Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), Mysuru Rural converted an old bus into a mobile fever clinic to screen the rural people in the district. The initiative is the first of its kind in the state and the bus will travel in rural areas across the district. KSRTC has extended its full support to the district administration and the Health Department to combat coronavirus in the district. The KSRTC had converted two of its old buses into mobile sanitisers, ‘Sarige Sanjeevini’, to disinfect people. The people enter the buses from the front door and exit from the back door to get disinfected. They were modified at a cost of Rs 20,000 each, with sprinklers installed to spray disinfectants. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar launched the mobile clinic in front of his office in Mysuru on Saturday. The DC said, “The health professionals, who are working to combat COVID-19 had inspected the bus, which was converted into a clinic in a short period of time. They have certified the mobile clinic for screening patients.” The mobile clinic service will concentrate mainly rural areas as Mysuru city already has 10 fever clinics, hospitals and the district hospital for screening. The mobile clinic has facilities to screen the patients suffering from fever, cold, cough and diabetes. The bus will move in rural Mysuru, particularly the areas that have been declared as Covid-19 hotspots, Sankar said. The mobile clinic service consists of a doctor, nurse and other staff. However, the mobile clinic has no facility to collect samples of a swab. In the case of swab collection, the patient will be taken to the nearest swab collection centre in an ambulance. It has to be noted that the KSRTC has extended its full support to the district administration and has also assured of further cooperation to fight COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-karnatakss-ksrtc-converts-bus-into-mobile-fever-clinic-829877.html
25-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Coronavirus Lockdown: Ramanagara cases trigger political slugfest in Karnataka||After five persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the Ramanagara prison, a political battle erupted with the Congress and JD(S) making the most of this against the ruling BJP, which is trying to make inroads into the Vokkaliga bastion. It was Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, the Ramanagara district-in-charge minister, who came under the crosshairs of Congress’ D K Shivakumar and JD(S)’ H D Kumaraswamy. The two Vokkaliga leaders teamed up to launch an attack on Narayan, also a Vokkaliga, signifying the boiling political undercurrents in Ramanagara. Narayan's appointment as the minister in charge of Ramanagara was seen as a move to help the BJP establish itself in the Vokkaliga-dominated district. Of late, the Sangh Parivar, too, has shown determination to build a strong base in the district to take on the Shivakumar-Kumaraswamy combo. Kumaraswamy, a former chief minister who represents Channapatna, said he had warned the government against transferring those accused in the Padarayanapura vandalism to the Ramanagara prison. "Does he have any sense?" Kumaraswamy thundered, referring to Narayan. "Five people have tested positive. Who allowed that to happen?" The BJP government had "neither a mind nor body", Kumaraswamy said, adding that this "calamity had been introduced into the district". Kumaraswamy's wife Anitha Kumaraswamy, the Ramanagara MLA, alleged a conspiracy. "The government did not pay heed to (Kumaraswamy's) advice. Narayan, who is also a certified doctor, has to show accountability," she said. Shivakumar, the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president, wondered whether the government was taking revenge against Ramanagara for not electing a single BJP MLA. "There were hostels, convention centres, Victoria Hospital and other quarantine centres. Why did it have to be Ramanagara? If Ashwath Narayan has anger, let him vent it out in some other way," Shivakumar said, demanding that the government "protect" Ramanagara and ensure it remained a green zone. Shivakumar also defended Kumaraswamy, saying the "former chief minister is sensible, educated and responsible". This political bonhomie between them is not new. Defending the government's decision, Narayan said: "It’s true that Kumaraswamy opposed it, where else could we shift them? Was there any other small jail nearby? The government hasn't been careless." Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai also defended the move. "There will be accusations about whatever we do. If we had kept them in a hospital here, people would have questioned that also," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-ramanagara-cases-trigger-political-slugfest-in-karnataka-829572.html
25-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah seeks scrapping of 'unrealistic' day pass for movement of patients||Leader of the Opposition in the Karnataka Assembly Siddaramaiah has urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to do away with the "unrealistic" day pass issued for movement of patients and their families to hospitals during lockdown, and instead consider their medical records for the purpose. In a letter to the Chief Minister dated April 24, he has asked for a directions in this regard to be issued to district administrations.  The former chief minister said there are complaints from heart, kidney, cancer patients and their families about problems they are facing to go to hospitals, because of police restrictions. Patients from Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada and other districts go to hospital at Manipal and there are complaints about passes required to reach there.  "So I urge you to do away with unrealistic 24 hours pass system, and based on the medical records movement of patients and their families for medical purpose should be allowed, and directions should be issued to district administrations in this regard," he added. As of now, those in need are required to approach local police stations for day pass for movement in case of any medical emergencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-seeks-scrapping-of-unrealistic-day-pass-for-movement-of-patients-829906.html
25-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Karnataka: MLCs appreciate efforts to contain coronavirus in Kolar district||MLC C R Manohar on Saturday hailed efforts of health department officials, Asha workers, Anganwadi workers, police and civic bodyworkers in containing coronavirus in the Kolar district. He was speaking here after distributing free rice to poor and physically disabled people. “Medical staff are working like warriors to get rid of the novel coronavirus,” he said. “The COVID-19 has given a big blow to the world. The State and the Central governments are making efforts to prevent the spread of the virus. The district has been able to cope up with the situation due to honest efforts of the health department, Asha workers, Anganagwadi workers, civic body workers and the police. Several people have lent their hand to support the poor and the marginalised,” he said. Manohar said that steps have been taken to provide free drinking water through tankers in the wake of summer. He visited the SNR district hospital for inspection. “A fully equipped ambulance with ventilator facility will be given to the hospital. A five-bed intensive care unit will also be commissioned,” he said. He said that the government has granted permission to transport of horticultural and agricultural produces. Farmers are in distress due to decline in the prices. He will buy produces and help farmers,” he said. Manohar said that he would help the people in the district if the lockdown is continued after May 3.   “People should compulsorily follow Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government as the number of positive cases are on the rise,” MLC R Chowda Reddy said. CMC member B M Mubarak, JD(S) district unit president Nataraj, taluk unit president Babu Mauni and taluk panchayat member M Manjunath were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/karnataka-mlcs-appreciate-efforts-to-contain-coronavirus-in-kolar-district-829841.html
25-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Karnataka: Rainfall brings respite in Kolar district||Heavy rains in parts of the district on Saturday brought some respite to farming community. It began raining around 3 pm and lasted for over half an hour. The rains brought some relief from sweltering heat for the last few days. Kolar, Bangarpet and KGF taluks received good rains creating hopes among mango growers. In the remaining taluks in the district, it drizzled for a while. At some places, heavy winds partially damaged the mango trees. In Kolar, rain water flowed on roads. People had to take shelter under buildings for a while. Low-lying areas were inundated for sometime. Road users had tough time in using railway under bring as rain water had accumulated. The rains did not wreak havoc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/karnataka-rainfall-brings-respite-in-kolar-district-829843.html
25-04-2020||Mysuru||One more tests positive for COVID-19 in Mandya||Patient 431 is a 37-year-old man from Mandya. He has a contact history of P 78. He is treated at the designated COVID-19 hospital in Mandya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/one-more-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-mandya-829724.html
25-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Centre sends teams to Ahmedabad, Surat, Thane, Hyderabad and Chennai||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Friday sent five Central teams to make an on-the-spot assessment of coronavirus situation in Ahmedabad, Surat, Thane, Hyderabad and Chennai following these cities witnessing violations of lockdown measures that is posing "serious health hazard". Last week, the MHA had sent six Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCTs) teams to 11 districts in four states, including seven in West Bengal and two in Maharashtra, saying that the situation in these places was "especially serious". According to an MHA spokesperson, the situation is "especially serious" in major hotspot districts or emerging hotspots in Ahmedabad and Surat in Gujarat, Thane (Maharashtra), Hyderabad (Telangana); and Chennai (Tamil Nadu). Additional Secretary-level officers will lead the teams in these districts too. Two teams are already in Maharashtra's Mumbai and Pune while Thane is the new addition. "IMCTs focus on a range of issues, including compliance and implementation of lockdown measures as per guidelines, the supply of essential commodities, social distancing, preparedness of the health infrastructure, safety of health professionals and conditions of relief camps for labourers and poor people," the spokesperson said.  At the daily COVID-19 briefing, MHA Joint Secretary Punya Salila Srivastava provided the assessment of the teams, which visited Indore and Mumbai. According to the team that visited Indore, Srivastava said the availability of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) and masks as well as health infrastructure and the number of healthcare professionals were adequate. The administration was also implementing the lockdown measures satisfactorily, she said adding the team had visited hotspot and containment zone in Mhow. The team also appreciated the efforts of the authorities in ensuring that farmers being able to sell their produce without visiting markets. On Mumbai, Srivastava said the team visited three localities, including Dharavi. In Dharavi, she said, the team found because of the use of common toilets, people have to leave their homes despite lockdown and suggested that the administration set up portable toilets in localities. The team also suggested that 2-3,000 people in Dharavi should be sent to institutional quarantine centres as well as increasing the testing capacity and the number of surveillance teams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-centre-sends-teams-to-ahmedabad-surat-thane-hyderabad-and-chennai-829561.html
25-04-2020||National||Row over RPF staff testing coronavirus positive||Clarifying its stand on allegations made by Trinamool Congress over nine Railway Protection Force ( RPF) personnel testing positive for Covid-19, the national transporter on Friday said that its staff travelled in parcel train during lockdown as a part of their official duty. According to railway officials, a  28-member RPF contingent from the Kharagpur division of the South Eastern Railway (SER), left for Anand Vihar on March 19 to collect arms and ammunition and reached the destination next day. The RPF staff had to stay back at  RPF/RPSF barracks in Dayabasti, Delhi due to nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the evening of March 24. After parcel trains started operating from March 31, it was decided to send these staff to West Bengal in these train in the view of the scarcity of ammunition in the SER. It is pertinent to note that duty movement of armed forces was exempted from the restrictions imposed during the lockdown. RPF contingent collected the arms and ammunition on April 12 and left Delhi for Howrah by a special parcel train in the early morning of April 13, said a railway official.  The RPF contingent reached Howrah at about 8.40 am on April 14 and left for Kharagpur in an RPF bus, it said. "Staff posted at en-route stations deboarded from the bus during the road journey. They were quarantined in the respective barracks. Rest of the staff with ammunition was taken to Kharagpur. The bus arrived at Kharagpur at 13.30 hours of April 14," a statement from the national transporter said. A constable, who was part of the contingent, boarded another parcel train from Kharagpur and reached Balasore in Odisha on April 14 night. After a constable, who was part of the contingent, developed coronavirus-like symptoms, his swab was tested at a government facility in West Bengal on Thursday and the results were positive. He was quarantined. The railway also said all the 28 RPF personnel have already been tested and no one is left for testing. Those tested positive have been isolated. It also clarified that RPF personnel, while undertaking the journey, did not come in contact with the public. There has not been any violation of the guidelines issued for the management of Covid-19 by the central government or any state government," the statement from the railways said. The Indian Railways set up a committee to find out how members of the RPF contingent got infected with the virus. Expressing concern,  Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Derek O'Brien tweeted, "Why were positive patients traveling during #lockdown? WHO SENT THEM ? Screening? How many people did they met (sic)?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/row-over-rpf-staff-testing-coronavirus-positive-829562.html
25-04-2020||National||Coronavirus outbreak under control, doubling rate has slowed: Centre||The government’s top health advisor on Friday said the coronavirus curve in India had “begun to flatten”, with the doubling rate of the infection slowing down to 10 days.  Addressing a press conference in New Delhi, V K Paul, Member (Health), Niti Aayog, credited the robust surveillance network set up by the National Centre for Disease Control and the nationwide lockdown for slowing the doubling rate. “The curve has begun to flatten. Had we not taken the decision to clamp the nationwide lockdown, we would have had around 1 lakh COVID-19 cases by now, as per a reasonable estimate. Now, the outbreak is under control,” said Paul, who chairs the Empowered Group-1 as part of Centre’s coronavirus response. Paul said on March 21, before the lockdown was announced, the number of COVID-19 cases used to double every three days, which had slowed down to five days after the March 22 Janata Curfew and the subsequent mix of travel restrictions and the practice of social distancing promoted by the government. Paul also sought to allay apprehensions on the low number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the country, saying there was no spike in the pneumonia cases nor a surge in consumption of medicines – parameters that are tracked by the government regularly. “There is no undercurrent of cases,” Paul said, noting that the claims under the Pradhan Mantri Jana Arogya Yojana, too, had not seen an uptick. S K Singh, Director of the National Centre for Disease Control, said the government had begun surveillance for coronavirus before the first case was reported in the country. He said more that 9.45 lakh suspected COVID-19 patients were under the surveillance network at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-outbreak-under-control-doubling-rate-has-slowed-centre-829564.html
25-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Shops barring ones in malls to open, relaxation is not applicable for containment zones, says MHA||However, the relaxations are not applicable in hotspots and containment zones. Also, individual states can decide not to implement the order as the April 15 revised guidelines for lockdown allows them to impose stricter measures keeping in mind the local situation. According to the amendment to the revised guidelines signed by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, these shops, which are registered under the Shops and Establishment Act of the respective state, can operate only with 50% of the workers. They will also have to compulsorily wear masks and maintain social distancing. All shops, including those in residential complexes and market complexes, in rural areas, can function. However, in urban areas, shops in market/shopping complexes are not allowed while others, including those in neighbourhood shops and stand-alone shops, can function.    None of the malls, both multi-brand and single brand, cannot open across the country while the delivery of non-essential by e-commerce continues to be prohibited under the guidelines for lockdown, which has been extended till May 3. The government had on April 19 issued an order reversing its decision to allow e-commerce firms to deliver non-essential items. Till now, only shops selling essential services like groceries were allowed to open. The move is expected to help the retail traders, as the government moves to open up economic activity. The order adds more services to the revised guidelines published on April 15 and additions and exclusions later on April 16, April 19 and April 21.  Earlier, the MHA had allowed selling educational book shops and electric fans as well as inter-state movement of planting materials and honey bee colonies, honey and other beehive products besides prepaid mobile recharge utilities and food processing units in urban areas. Under the agriculture sector, facilities for export and import such as pack houses, inspection and treatment facilities for seeds and horticulture products are also allowed. Movement within and outside the state of planting materials and honey bee colonies, honey and beehive products are also allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-shops-barring-ones-in-malls-to-open-relaxation-is-not-applicable-for-containment-zones-says-mha-829568.html
25-04-2020||National||Chhattisgarh: AIIMS Raipur nursing officer tests coronavirus positive||A male nursing officer posted in the COVID-19 ward of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Chhattisgarh capital Raipur tested positive for novel coronavirus on Friday, an official said. He was quarantined on April 14 as a precautionary measure and his report returned positive on Friday evening, an AIIMS public relations officer told PTI. "He was posted in the COVID-19 ward and was taken off duty after 10 days on April 14 and quarantined. On Friday, he developed symptoms following which his samples were sent for testing," he said. In a tweet, AIIMS Raipur said, "One of AIIMS Raipur nursing officer is found positive in COVID 19 test today. This Brave corona warrior was posted in COVID Ward. He was in quarantine since 14 April after 10 days of duty. We are committed to take care of him." Chattisgarh's COVID-19 count currently stands at 37, with 30 having been discharged after recovery. All seven active cases in the state are being treated in AIIM Raipur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-aiims-raipur-nursing-officer-tests-coronavirus-positive-829597.html
25-04-2020||National||S Jaishankar discusses coronavirus with counterparts from Qatar, Niger, UAE, Palestine||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday spoke to his counterparts from Qatar, the UAE, Niger, Palestine and Czech Republic and held discussions around the coronavirus infection. In conversation with Qatar Foreign Minister Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani, Jaishankar discussed their experience of dealing with coronavirus infection and also thanked him for taking care of the Indian community. "A cordial conversation with FM @MBA_AlThani_ of #Qatar. Discussed our #coronavirus experiences. Thanked him for taking care of the Indian community. Such challenging times will only further strengthen our friendship," he said in a tweet. Jaishankar also spoke to United Arab Emirates Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed. "Pandemics further highlight the need for international cooperation. Few better examples than our relationship with #UAE. Applaud the generosity of spirit and clarity of policy that has characterised its approach. Thank HH @ABZayed for the warm conversation today," he said in another tweet. Jaishankar also spoke to Niger Foreign Minister Kalla Ankourao and assured him of India's support in meeting the coronavirus challenge, including medicines.   "Just spoke with FM @kallaankourao of #Niger. Assured him of India's support in meeting the #coronavirus challenge, including medicines. Discussed its global implications in the context of the United Nations," he tweeted. Jaishankar also discussed the coronavirus situation with Palestine Foreign Minister Riad Al Malki. "Welcomed speaking with FM Riad Al Malki of #Palestine. Discussed the #coronavirus situation. Assured him of Indian medical assistance," he said in a tweet. He also exchanged experiences on coronavirus response with Czech Foreign Minister Tomas Petricek. The minister said the two leaders agreed that there are valuable lessons for international cooperation. "Glad to catch up with FM @TPetricek of #CzechRepublic. Exchanged our experiences on #coronavirus response. Agreed that there are valuable lessons for international cooperation. Look forward to keeping in touch," he said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-discusses-coronavirus-with-counterparts-from-qatar-niger-uae-palestine-829601.html
25-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: 140 stranded Kashmiri labourers leave Himachal Pradesh for Jammu and Kashmir in six buses||About 140 stranded Kashmiri labourers left Shimla for Jammu and Kashmir on Friday evening. They left in six buses on Friday at 10.30 pm after Himachal Pradesh government gave them the permission amid the coronavirus curfew, a Kashmiri labourer Fayaz said before leaving Shimla. Thanking Himachal Pradesh government and local people for helping them during the curfew, Fayaz said a total of 168 Kashmiri labourers have been provided permission to go to their native places in Jammu and Kashmir. However, only 140 of them are going to their native places in J&K as the rest had to get some money from some people, he added. Fayaz expressed his gratitude to HP government for permitting them to go to their native places and taking up their matter with J&K administration for the same. They will go up to Kathua's Lakhanpur on Punjab-J&K border in the six buses. From Lakhanpur, the J&K administration will make arrangements to facilitate them to reach their native places, he added. Fayaz said the district administration and local people provided them with every possible help including ration but they wanted to go back to their homes as they had not earned even a single paisa for over a month due to corona-triggered curfew and lockdown. Most of these Kashmiri labourers work here as porters for local people by carrying their heavy luggage and household items from one place to another. They were staying in Jama Masjid near Middle Bazar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-140-stranded-kashmiri-labourers-leave-himachal-pradesh-for-jammu-and-kashmir-in-six-buses-829613.html
25-04-2020||National||India Nobel laureate urges rescue for child workers trapped in coronavirus lockdown||Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi urged India on Friday to help rescue child labourers caught in the country's coronavirus lockdown after a young girl died of exhaustion while walking back to her village. Satyarthi shared the 2014 Peace Prize with Pakistani activist Malala Yousafzai for his lifelong campaign against illegal child labour. But he said the risks to millions of vulnerable youngsters, pressed into work in India's factories and plantations, were now so desperate that employers should be offered a temporary amnesty if they immediately release their underage workforce. "Extraordinary situations call for extraordinary steps," he wrote in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "I strongly feel that in order to save the lives of... children trapped in slavery and child labour across the country, this step is the only option left." India has more than 10 million child labourers, according to the country's 2011 census. Many are trafficked into their jobs and kept confined to their workplace by their employers. Underage labourers are among the millions of migrant workers who lost their jobs overnight last month after India imposed the world's biggest lockdown, prompting vast numbers of people to make arduous treks home with little money or food. Satyarthi said he had been "deeply anguished" by the story of Jamlo Makdam, 12, who was one of at least 20 people that media reports said had died making that journey. She had been trafficked to work at a chilli plantation in Telangana state but last week decided to return to her village around 150 kilometres (95 miles) away. With transport halted by the lockdown, she walked for three days before collapsing, officials told local media. Satyarthi said that in businesses around the country, owners had retreated to the safety of their homes after the lockdown was announced, while child labourers were kept on site and were not being provided food. The strict lockdown was also preventing anti-child labour activists from attempts to check on their welfare, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-nobel-laureate-urges-rescue-for-child-workers-trapped-in-coronavirus-lockdown-829619.html
25-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 25, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Here is today’s edition of the newspaper and beat the lockdown blues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-25-2020-edition-829623.html
25-04-2020||National||Coronavirus state-wise India update: Total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 25||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 26,250 as of April 25. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 811 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 5063 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-state-wise-india-update-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-25-829624.html
25-04-2020||National||Fact-check: Fake order attributed to Tourism Ministry claims restaurants, hotels to remain closed till October 15||Alt News has received several requests on its official Android application to fact-check a letter circulating on social media. The letter is a supposed order issued by the Tourism Ministry which says that hotels and restaurants will remain closed till October 15. The order also says that “all tourism departments of India” have been informed. At one point, it specifically talks about closing north Indian hotels, restaurants and resorts. It also says that in case of any violation, a case will be filed against the owner of the property.      Earlier, we had debunked a fake notice which was circulating in the name of the World Health Organisation (WHO).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-fake-order-attributed-to-tourism-ministry-claims-restaurants-hotels-to-remain-closed-till-october-15-829625.html
25-04-2020||National||Coronavirus crisis highlights need to be self-reliant: PM Narendra Modi||The fight against the COVID-19 pandemic brought home for the entire nation, the importance of being fully self-reliant, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday, even as he called upon the rural population to strictly adhere to the mantra of “Do Gaj Doori” (Two Yards Apart) to keep the virus away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-crisis-highlights-need-to-be-self-reliant-pm-narendra-modi-829635.html
25-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: MBA interns to assist empowered groups on COVID-19 data analysis and policy inputs||The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) has already written to 26 premier institutes, including 20 IIMs, across the country asking them to propose the names of interns who could be considered for the internship.  The Training Division of the DoPT has been in discussion with the IIMs and other institutions, including Indian School of Business, Management Development Institute and APJ Abdul Kalam Foundation among others, to take its long-standing collaborations and partnerships with them to leverage to support the efforts of the government to fight COVID-19. A senior official said one of the decisions of these discussions was to provide MBA interns for "data analysis and evidence-based policy inputs". The interns will be selected from the panel given by these institutions after an interview conducted remotely. They will be attached to the Empowered Groups for eight weeks from the date of joining. "The Empowered Groups will assign tasks and get outputs as required by the group from the interns assigned, who will be working remotely on the work assigned to them. The entire collaboration will be managed through different channels created for each interested Empowered Group using Slack as the app," the DoPT letter said. No stipend will be paid to the interns during the assignments, it said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on March 29 appointed these 11 Empowered Groups of senior bureaucrats for quick planning and implementation of strategies to deal with the pandemic. Set up under the Disaster Management Act, each of the 11 groups will include a senior representative from the Prime Minister’s Office and Cabinet Secretariat.  Each group has been assigned a specific area to look after. While one of the group will handle medical emergency management, another will look after the availability of hospitals. Separate groups will look after issues related to setting up of isolation and quarantine facilities, ensure supply of masks, Personal Protection Equipment, gloves and ventilators as well as augmenting human resources and capacity building.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-mba-interns-to-assist-empowered-groups-on-covid-19-data-analysis-and-policy-inputs-829649.html
25-04-2020||National||Two militants, an associate killed in encounter with security forces in J&K||Two militants and a "hardcore" militant associate were killed in an encounter with security forces in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, police said. Security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in the Goripora area of Awantipora in the south Kashmir district in the early hours of Saturday after receiving specific information about the presence of some militants there, a police official said. The search operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon the forces, who retaliated, he said. In the ensuing gunfight, two militants and one "hardcore" associate of the militants were killed, the official said. He said searches were going on in the area and further details were awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-militants-an-associate-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jk-829656.html
25-04-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll rises to 775, cases climb to 24,506: Health Ministry||The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 18,668 while 5,062 people were cured and discharged, and one patient has migrated, the ministry said. The total number of cases include 77 foreign nationals. A total of 52 deaths were reported since Friday evening -- 18 from Maharashtra, 15 from Gujarat, nine from Madhya Pradesh, three each from Delhi and West Bengal, two from Tamil Nadu, and one each from Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Of the 775 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 301 fatalities, followed by Gujarat at 127, Madhya Pradesh at 92, Delhi at 53, Andhra Pradesh at 29, Rajasthan at 27 and Telangana at 26. The death toll reached 25 in Uttar Pradesh, 22 in Tamil Nadu while Karnataka and West Bengal have reported 18 deaths each. Punjab has registered 17 fatalities so far. The disease has claimed five lives in Jammu and Kashmir, while Kerala, Jharkhand and Haryana have recorded three COVID-19 deaths each. Bihar has reported two deaths, while Meghalaya, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Assam have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry data. However, a PTI tally of the figures reported by various states as on Friday evening showed 778 deaths in the country. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of deaths announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states. According to the Health Ministry data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 6,817, followed by Gujarat at 2,815, Delhi at 2,514, Rajasthan at 2,034, Madhya Pradesh at 1,852 and Tamil Nadu at 1,755. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 1,621 in Uttar Pradesh, 984 in Telangana and 955 in Andhra Pradesh. The number of cases has risen to 571 in West Bengal, 474 in Karnataka, 454 in Jammu and Kashmir, 450 in Kerala, , 298 in Punjab and 272 in Haryana. Bihar has reported 223 coronavirus cases, while Odisha has 94 cases. Fifty-seven people have been infected with the virus in Jharkhand and 48 in Uttarakhand. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, Chhattisgarh and Assam have registered 36 infections each so far. Chandigarh and Andaman and Nicobar Islands have 27 COVID-19 cases, while 20 infections have been reported from Ladakh. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases, and Goa and Puducherry have seven COVID-19 cases each. Manipur and Tripura have two cases each, while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported a case each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-775-cases-climb-to-24506-health-ministry-829657.html
25-04-2020||National||Maharashtra: Eight new COVID-19 cases recorded in Amravati||As many as eight persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Maharashtra's Amravati city in 24 hours, taking the total number of active cases to 12 here, an official said on Saturday. The city has recorded 16 coronavirus cases so far, of which four patients succumbed to the infection, while four others were discharged following a recovery on Friday, the official said. The active cases include two men aged 65 and 45 years, who had come in contact with two women from Kamela Ground and Hyderpura localities who had tested positive for the infection post their death, a release here stated. As of now, there are 12 active cases in the city, which has 26 containment zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-eight-new-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-amravati-829658.html
25-04-2020||National||7 more test positive for COVID-19 in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, total cases rise to 29||All of them are residents of the Bambooflat area in the south Andaman district, he said. "Of the new cases, six are from one family, and all of them came in contact with a COVID-19 patient detected earlier," the official said. All the patients are undergoing treatment at the GB Pant Hospital here, a health department official said. Five cases were reported from the Bambooflat area on Thursday. Last week, a 39-year-old police radio operator had tested positive for COVID-19 in the locality, which has now been declared a hotspot, and all the cases were either his family members or related to him. Of the total cases reported in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, home to several vulnerable tribes, 18 are active now. Eleven persons -- 10 with links to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi and a student who travelled on a flight with some of them -- have recovered from the disease. A total of 2,679 samples have so far been sent to the Regional Medical Research Centre here for tests, and of these, results of 2,433 have come while 246 are awaited, the health department official said. The department has so far received 3,800 rapid test kits from the Centre, he said. The Andaman and Nicobar Islands administration has set up an isolation centre at the GB Pant Hospital with 50 beds, and a total of 961 people are now in quarantine centres, the official said. The Union Territory administration has adopted the "pool testing" method using less kits for more tests in the fight against novel coronavirus. The local administration has urged people to stay at home and follow the lockdown order imposed to contain the outbreak of the dreaded virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/7-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-andaman-and-nicobar-islands-total-cases-rise-to-29-829664.html
25-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Indore's death toll rises to 57; cases jump to 1,085||Two men, aged 75 and 55, died due to COVID-19 in the last three days, Chief Medical and Health Officer Praveen Jadia said. One of them suffered from bronchitis, he said. According to him, the number of coronavirus positive patients in the city has gone up to 1,085 after 56 more people tested positive in the last 24 hours. Of them, 107 have recovered and returned home so far, Jadia added. As per the data, the city's COVID-19 mortality rate stood at 5.25 per cent till Saturday morning, which is higher than the national average. The city has a population of over 30 lakh. Curfew has been imposed in the city since March 25, after the first case of coronavirus infection came to light. Strict lockdown has been in place at other places in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indores-death-toll-rises-to-57-cases-jump-to-1085-829666.html
25-04-2020||National||Facebook live sessions by experts, celebrities to keep Churu residents motivated during lockdown||Apart from scheduling live sessions of TV actors, motivational speakers and theatre personalities in the series, the Churu Police is also planning to invite Bollywood actresses like Mahima Chaudhary and Lara Dutta, and Punjabi singer Guru Randhawa. On April 20, health experts appeared on a live session on the Facebook page of Churu Police and gave tips to the viewers for achieving a positive mindset. "People are getting emotionally depressed during the lockdown period and it is very important to keep them motivated. Positivity in society also helps in good policing therefore, we arranged live sessions of various celebrities and experts on the Churu Police's Facebook page," Churu SP Tejaswini Gautam told PTI. Gautam, who herself is associated with theatre, thought of the initiative to instill hope and positivity among the people after the 30-year-old man committed suicide fearing that he had contracted coronavirus. "He was a security guard and was depressed due to the coronavirus pandemic and all that negativity. He feared that he had contracted the infection and took the extreme step. The man did not have any such infection but he took the extreme step under depression and negativity which was very alarming,” the SP said. "After this, I thought of engaging people with positivity and decided to connect them with celebrities and experts of various fields. I explored this with my batchmates, friends, their friends and got the experts from different fields like acting, singing and sports onboard," she said. The initiative, supported by Samriti and Filmsthan organisations, started with Churu Collector Sandesh Nayak's session which was followed by the live session of javelin thrower Devendra Jhajharia on April 20. Jhajharia interacted with Churu residents during the Facebook live session and gave tips for keeping their motivation high at all times and despite all odds. He shared his struggle with the viewers and said that he had to wait for 12 years for the Olympics. "The lockdown is a matter of just a few days, so please follow the advisories of the government and protocol. Everybody should utilise the time they are getting due to the lockdown,” Jhajharia said in his live session. “Theatre expert Atul Satya Koushik immaculately shared very interesting and useful things and it was an enriching session for theatre artists and students,” the SP said. The average viewership of sessions is around 22-25,000 but health care entrepreneur Priya Prakash's session received a huge response on Thursday as nearly 36,000 viewers attended the session during which she shared tips on health and hygiene, Gautam said. "The initiative is receiving a very good response, both from the public and from those who want to go live on our page,” she said. "The response is beyond our expectations. Currently, we are holding the sessions between 5 and 6 pm till May 3. By doing this, we have noticed a 50 per cent decrease in the number of people on roads. As we have several other guests to go live, we would be doubling the number of sessions,” the SP said. Filmsthan's Mudit Tiwari said sessions of sufi singers Roohani sisters, poet Ikram Rajasthani, artiste Gargi Malkani, author Kumar Ajay and theatre actor Dinesh Pradhan have already been fixed, and actors Hemant Pandey, Pankaj Tripathi, Kumud Mishra and singer Anamika have also agreed to do live sessions. “Besides, talks are on to connect singer Guru Randhawa and actor Anoop Soni with Churu people through this initiative and the number of sessions would be increased from one to two sessions per day,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-live-sessions-by-experts-celebrities-to-keep-churu-residents-motivated-during-lockdown-829682.html
25-04-2020||National||UGC panels recommend academic session in varsities from September, online exams wherever possible||Two committees were constituted by the UGC to look into the issues of academic loss and online education in the wake of the lockdown in the country due to the coronavirus pandemic. One of the committees led by Haryana University Vice-Chancellor RC Kuhad was formed to look into the ways of conducting exams in universities amid the lockdown and work on an alternate academic calendar. The second committee, to suggest measures to improve online education, was led by Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) V-C Nageshwar Rao. Both the panels submitted their reports on Friday. "One panel has recommended that the academic session be started from September than July. The second panel has suggested that universities should conduct online exams if they have the infrastructure and means or wait for the lockdown to get over and then decide a date for pen-and-paper examinations," a source said. According to HRD Ministry officials, the two reports will now be studied and official guidelines in this regard are expected to be notified by next week. "It is not binding that all the recommendations will be accepted. After deliberating on the feasibility issues and keeping the situation in mind, guidelines will be issued," an official said. Another hurdle in starting the academic session is the delay in conducting entrance examinations as well as the pending board exams, the panel has pointed out. "As of now the plan is to conduct entrance examinations like NEET and JEE in June. But it is extremely important to keep reviewing the COVID-19 situation," the official said. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the Union government announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the outbreak. Later, a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24 which has now been extended till May 3. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has already announced that it will conduct pending board exams for only 29 subjects which are crucial for promotion and undergraduate admissions. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 775 and the number of cases climbed to 24,506 in the country on Saturday, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 18,668 while 5,062 people were cured and discharged, and one patient has migrated to another country, the ministry said. The total number of cases include 77 foreign nationals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ugc-panels-recommend-academic-session-in-varsities-from-september-online-exams-wherever-possible-829683.html
25-04-2020||National||HC seeks report from prison authorities on steps taken to prevent COVID-19 spread in jail||The Delhi High Court has sought a report from authorities on steps taken for preventing the spread of COVID-19 in jails here. Justice Brijesh Sethi issued the direction while hearing the interim bail plea of an accused in a murder case who cited potential risk of COVID-19 infection to seek the relief. "Let a report be called from the concerned Jail Superintendent as to what steps have been taken to protect the prisoners from COVID-19 pandemic like social distancing etc. in jail. "Let nominal roll of petitioner (accused) be requisitioned for the next date of hearing," the court said. It also sought response of the prison authorities on the application for interim relief moved by the accused and the matter was listed for further hearing on April 29||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-seeks-report-from-prison-authorities-on-steps-taken-to-prevent-covid-19-spread-in-jail-829687.html
25-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Anxiety and angst as Indians mark one month of lockdown||It has been a month. Of life slowing to a crawl, of going back to the basics, of recalibrating equations with family, friends and colleagues and waking up, as if from a dream to the vast inequalities and commonalities that underlie Indian society. India went under lockdown to stem the spread of coronavirus on March 25 after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's announcement the evening before. In the days since, 1.3 billion Indians, wealthy and poor, in the heartland and in distant corners, have faced up to the fear of a pandemic spreading across the globe. No one was spared the anxiety of the lockdown, extended till May 3, that kept most of India behind closed doors, not corporate biggies in gilded mansions, not the middle class inside their homes and not part-time domestic workers in claustrophobic tenements. That was the equaliser, but the inequalities also hit home almost immediately. As India went quiet and millions snuck into their homes to wait out the lockdown, migrant workers and daily wagers, stranded miles away from home, stared at an uncertain future without money, food or jobs. Most middle and upper-class families found it challenging to spend so much time with their immediate families, and many isolated without them spiralled into depression. The journey of getting used to a new way of life – without domestic help, without the necessity of dressing up to step out and just staying cooped up indoors -- has been out of the ordinary, equal parts good, bad and ugly. According to Preeti Singh, a clinical psychologist at Gurgaon’s Paras hospital, the lockdown has encouraged people to differentiate between a need and a want and helped them “prioritise their requirements”.  “It has helped people realise that one can survive with a minimalist lifestyle, and the futility of all the materialism that drives the world,” Singh told PTI. From these 30 days -- that will go down as one of life’s markers, an always-to-be-remembered month -- emerged innovative ways of social interaction, celebrations and even mourning in keeping with the need for social distancing. It has been an extraordinary time of looking inwards to rediscover reserves of strength and sometimes hidden talents, said many people. Chetna Beniwal, a customs inspector posted in Madurai and now with her parents in Gurgaon, said the lockdown has been an opportunity to discover the joy of simply talking with her family. “Due to my work, I hardly get to visit home so I have actually been enjoying staying with my parents. I have realised that when you spend more time together, you get to know the small issues of the house,” the 28-year-old told PTI.  For some, the challenging part was to spend most of the day confined at home with a close relative, even if one hugely loved, be it parent, child or spouse. “I am finding it hard to be around my father 24/7,” said Kolkata-based Indrani Paul. “I have realised that staying within the walls of your own house can be as difficult as staying 10 hours in the office. It is as good as being under house arrest,” the 29-year-old said. Families, however, have come closer too. Mahender Sahni, a Delhi-based plumber, was in his village in Bihar when the lockdown was announced. He hasn’t earned a rupee since March but said he has become closer to his sister, who has been helping him and his wife out with ration and food. “She has been very kind to us,” the 56-year-old said. Jammu-based Kamla Devi, 71, said she is happy her sons can spend time with their children but the future of their restaurant and catering business fills her with anxiety. “All bookings for weddings in the last month had to be cancelled, and our employees need to be paid. We are extremely anxious about the days ahead,” she said. She is also lonely and missing her friends. “What I have missed the most is going to the park for my evening walk and chatting with my friends. I am spending more time on WhatsApp and phone calls these days,” she said. According to Singh, Kamla Devi’s loneliness is not uncommon in these trying times and can be seen across all age groups. “Mental health has taken a hit with increasing cases of anxiety, depression, mood swings, obsessive-compulsive disorder among others. There are also cases of alcohol abuse, increased anger issues, domestic violence, and marital discord,” the doctor said. In times like these, “lack of emotional support often leads to a sense of hopelessness”. At least 30 people have reportedly committed suicide due to the fear, anxiety and panic of being in isolation. The extended lockdown has put normal life on hold. Even treatment for illnesses, regular medical check-ups and health problems other than COVID-19. Ricky Sharma’s brother ended up with a gum infection after he was unable to see a dentist.     “My brother had intense pain due to his wisdom tooth but no doctor agreed to see him. Eventually, a local chemist prescribed a medicine. But it hasn’t been of much help. He is still in pain,” Sharma, an IT professional in Gurgaon, said. According to Shweta Sharma, a psychologist at Gurgaon’s Columbia Asia Hospital, there are challenges in surviving a lockdown but it is also important to look at the positive aspects and take some of them forward in a post corona life. “This lockdown made people recognise the true value of relationships, and teamwork while sharing household responsibilities. Pollution-free environment and consumption of homemade food have been the valuable perks of this lockdown. “These are also things that must continue after the pandemic. Perhaps, work from home can be accommodated in our routines to regulate pollution, and save resources, and exercising at home must continue, as should a certain amount of ‘me time’,” Sharma said. Actor Rajeev Khandelwal who was in his holiday home in Goa when the lockdown came into effect, said his biggest takeaway has been that one “should not be dependent on others for his/her happiness”. "It should not be borrowed happiness. One should not feel frustrated if they cannot step out of the house if there is no one around them. One should be able to spend time with oneself. It is important to find things to engage with to find happiness.” Lubdhak Chatterjee, a Kolkata-based filmmaker, said the most difficult thing to come to terms with has been the “fragile” nature of human life as well as the “collective lifestyle of the modern world”. “This has been a more challenging reality to accept than just being restricted to my home, and the process is psychologically draining. In fact, this might be just the beginning of a long process and thus it is important to accept and adapt accordingly,” he said. COVID-19 has infected almost 2.8 million people across the world and claimed at least 1,95,000 lives. In India, the death toll has risen to 775 and the number of cases to 24,506, according to the Union Health Ministry on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-anxiety-and-angst-as-indians-mark-one-month-of-lockdown-829690.html
25-04-2020||National||Sena takes dig at Raj Thackeray over his demand to reopen wine shops||The Shiv Sena on Saturday took a dig at MNS president Raj Thackeray over his demand to restart wine shops in Maharashtra to boost revenues, and sought to know whether he was really concerned about the state's treasury. It said that Raj Thackeray should know that due to the lockdown not just the wine shops, but even the liquor factories are shut. "You don't get revenue just by starting the shops. The government gets revenue in the form of excise andsales tax when a distributor purchases the product from the factories. In order to start these units, workers are required. Besides, if the shops re-open, no social distancing will be followed," the party said in an editorial in its mouthpiece 'Saamana'. Raj Thackeray, in a letter to the Chief Minister's Officer (CMO) on Thursday, had said that allowing wine shops to remain open does not mean trying to cater to the needs of alcohol consumers, but to ensure revenue inflow during difficult times. He had also called for allowing hotels and kitchens providing affordable foods to run saying that as a big chunk of Maharashtras population is dependent on them. The Uddhav Thackeray-led party, however, mocked the MNS chief for demanding reopening of liquor shops and eateries together. "Through his demand, he has pointed it out to the government that like food, alcohol is an essential commodity. He has given invaluable information that as a rice plate is important for people,they are also dependent on 'quarter' and 'peg'," it said. It sought to know whether he has made the demand out of the concern for the state's revenues or on behalf of the tipplers. "The opposition leaders should advise the government on how to improve the economic situation in times of crisis, but the leader of opposition hasn't been able to do so," the ruling party said without naming Devendra Fadnavis. "Raj Thackeray has put forward the plight of the poor and the less privileged people and a section of the society will bless him for that. But the government will have to take a decision considering the overall situation," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sena-takes-dig-at-raj-thackeray-over-his-demand-to-reopen-wine-shops-829693.html
25-04-2020||National||One more doctor at AMU-affiliated hospital tests positive for COVID-19||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Aligarh has now risen to eight, they said. A spokesperson of the medical college said the doctor who tested positive on Friday neither has a known history of any contact with a COVID-19 patient nor was he connected to the isolation ward. The doctor also has no travel history and investigations about how he contracted the infection were on. Earlier this week another doctor of the JLN Medical College hospital, affiliated to the Aligarh Muslim University, had tested positive for coronavirus. The spokesperson also said "none of the sixty odd doctors and paramedics who were quarantined three days back after coming in contact with a coronavirus positive patient have tested positive. They would, however, continue to remain in isolation". Meanwhile, the Resident Doctors Association at the medical college has urged the District Magistrate to ensure that the names of the doctors who have been infected with COVID-19 should "not be flashed all over in media reports " to avoid stigmatisation and mental harassment.   The president of the RDA, Dr Hamza Malik, said the doctors are performing their duties on the frontline in the battle against coronavirus and revealing their names and identifying their family members was unethical and would "deter suspected cases from approaching health authorities".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-more-doctor-at-amu-affiliated-hospital-tests-positive-for-covid-19-829696.html
25-04-2020||National||Lockdown: Lord Jagannath's Chandan Jatra, Akshaya Tritiya festivals to be held on Puri temple premises||The 'Chandan Jatra' and 'Akshaya Tritiya' festivals of Lord Jagannath will be held on the temple premises in Odisha's Puri on Sunday, in view of the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of novel coronavirus, Gajapati Maharaja of Puri, Divya Singha Deb said. The decision was taken during the temple managing committee's meeting with Govardhan Peeth Shankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati on Friday night, he said. "As per the advice of Guruji (Shankaracharya), it has been decided to conduct both the Akshaya Tritiya and the Chandan Jatra on the temple premises. The Guruji said the tradition of the temple should be maintained and the centuries-old rituals cannot stop," Deb told reporters. The rituals will be performed by selected priests and servitors but devotees will not be allowed inside the temple premises, he said. The Gajapati Maharaja had earlier said the temple administration will not undertake any activities outside the religious institution's premises in view of the lockdown. Akshaya Tritiya is held at the 'Rath Khala' outside the temple while the Chandan Jatra is organised in a tank in Puri. He, however, said the decision on holding the Rath Jatra will be taken after May 3. Apart from Gajapati Maharaja, members of the Jagannath Temple Management Committee, including Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) Chief Administrator Krishan Kumar, the Puri district collector and the superintendent of police had met the Shankaracharya to seek his advice on how to conduct the rituals amid the lockdown. The Gajapati Maharaja said the lockdown guidelines prohibit religious congregations both inside and outside the temple. The 12th-century shrine has been closed to devotees since the imposition of lockdown in Odisha on March 22.  SJTA Chief Administrator Krishna Kumar said the collector and the SP will hold a meeting with the servitors of the temple on Saturday to decide on the place in the premises where the Chandan Jatra and Akshaya Tritiya rituals will be held. "During the Chandan Jatra, or the 'sandalwood voyage' of Lord Jagannath, images of the deity are floated on a boat in a sacred tank in Puri. It is the longest festival of Lord Jagannath that is held for 42 days in two phases," Bhaskar Mishra, a researcher on the Jagannath culture, said. Akshaya Tritiya marks the beginning of construction of chariots for the annual Rath Yatra||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-lord-jagannaths-chandan-jatra-akshaya-tritiya-festivals-to-be-held-on-puri-temple-premises-829698.html
25-04-2020||National||Sanjay Kothari appointed Central Vigilance Commissioner||Sanjay Kothari was appointed as the Central Vigilance Commissioner on Saturday, according to a Rashtrapati Bhavan communique. He was working as the Secretary to President Ram Nath Kovind. "At a ceremony held today at 1030 hrs at Rashtrapati Bhavan, Sanjay Kothari was sworn in as the Central Vigilance Commissioner," the communique said. He took the oath of his office before the president, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sanjay-kothari-appointed-central-vigilance-commissioner-829703.html
25-04-2020||National||Rs 11,000 reward for those who give information about Tablighi Jamaat members: BJP MP||BJP MP Ravindra Kushawaha said on Saturday that he would give a cash reward of Rs 11,000 to anyone providing specific information about people, including Tablighi Jamaat members, who hid information about their travels and avoided screening for COVID-19. The MP from Salempur constituency claimed in a statement that several people, who had been to Tablighi Jamaat congregations or any foreign country, did not report to the authorities and "are living without proper testing". Such people need to inform the administration about their travel history and undergo a test for the novel coronavirus, he said, adding that anyone providing specific information about such people would be rewarded. A Tablighi Jammat congregation in Delhi last month emerged as a major coronavirus hotspot after many of its participants carried the infection to several parts of the country. Soon after the Delhi congregation came into the news, the district police had asked those who had attended it to report to the authorities, but no one turned up.  The district has not reported any COVID-19 case so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-11000-reward-for-those-who-give-information-about-tablighi-jamaat-members-bjp-mp-829721.html
25-04-2020||National||18 family members, another person test positive for coronavirus||Nineteen people including 18 members of an extended family have tested positive for coronavirus in the district and have been admitted to hospital, a senior administrative officer said on Saturday. A student of the Darul Uloom Deoband seminary who had come to the district last month had tested positive for coronavirus earlier this week. His family members and close relatives were subsequently kept in quarantine and their samples were sent for testing, of which 18 have been found to be positive, District Magistrate Ravish Kumar Gupta said. One person from Tilathi village in Bakhira police station area has also tested positive for the virus, Gupta said. This patient had recently returned from Mumbai. His sample was sent to Gorakhpur medical college and the report was received Saturday, the DM said, adding that his family members have been quarantined and their samples sent for testing.  The District Magistrate said with these new cases, the number of coronavirus positive patients in the district was now 21. The areas from where these cases have been reported have been sealed off, he added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/18-family-members-another-person-test-positive-for-coronavirus-829723.html
25-04-2020||National||One more tests positive for COVID-19 in Puducherry, tally rises to 4||One more person tested positive for COVID-19 in Puducherry on Saturday, pushing the tally to four. Director of Health and Family Welfare Services S Mohan Kumar told reporters here that the 18-year-old patient now admitted to the Indira Gandhi Government Medical college hospital has contact history as he is related to one of the three patients undergoing treatment for some days now. With this the total active cases in the Union Territory has risen to four. The hospital would conduct one more test on Sunday on the remaining one patient and also ascertain whether any one had had contact history Kumar said the Indira Gandhi Government Medical college hospital was a designated hospital authorised by the ICMR to conduct the tests. "There are facilities to test atleast 50 patients every day," he said adding that the hospital uses the RTPCR equipment to conduct the test. The RT kits received from the Centre were not used as the ICMR had asked the health department here to avoid using the RT kits for some days now. The Director said the Health Ministry had sent a circular to take all steps to protect the doctors, nurses and other health professionals involved in the treatment of the COVID 19 patients here. "If there is any insecurity to the doctors and others they can report to a Nodal Officer appointed by the Police Department for follow up action," it said. The culprits posing threat or inflicting violence on doctors would face stringent action and suffer serious imprisonment as envisaged under the law. Kumar said as there was inflow of patients from neighbouring Tamil Nadu districts of Villupuram and Cuddalore, to Puducherry, a team of doctors have been stationed at the entry points. They would ascertain the seriousness of the condition of the patients coming to Puducherry from the neighbouring districts identified as hotspots and only very serious and emergency cases would be permitted to get treatment here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-more-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-puducherry-tally-rises-to-4-829728.html
25-04-2020||National||Migrant workers fall through cracks in coronavirus lockdown||Most days, you can find Dayaram Kushwaha and his wife, Gyanvati, hauling bricks for stonemasons in a booming northern suburb of New Delhi. They bring their 5-year-old son, who plays in the dirt while they work. But now a hush has come over the clattering construction site, silenced by India's nationwide order to shelter in place to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. Site managers no longer come to the intersection where Dayaram and many others stand, hoping to pick up work. And so, with no way to feed his family or pay the rent, Dayaram hoisted his son Shivam onto his shoulders and began to walk to the village where he was born, 300 miles away. He tried not to worry about what would happen once he got there, with empty pockets instead of the money he usually sent home to help support those left behind. At least he would have a home. By dusk on the second day, Dayaram and around 50 others from his extended family had reached a deserted expressway running south out of the capital. The family were hungry, thirsty and tired, and the police were never far away. Every time they stopped to rest, officers would shout at them to keep moving in single file, to maintain distance from one another to avoid spreading the virus. Officers are under orders to enforce the lockdown, but on that day they were allowing people to move. Dayaram, 28, looked around. Thousands of other migrant workers were doing the same thing, in one of the biggest mass movements of people in the country since the partition of India and Pakistan in 1947. It began to rain. Dayaram's thoughts turned to his other son, 7-year-old Mangal, who had been left behind in the village with elderly relatives because it was too hard to care for two children while he and his wife worked. He missed him. In the middle of a pandemic, there was one consolation: "At least I will be with him."   PUSH AND PULL For decades, villages across India have been emptying out. To many people, the decision is one of simple arithmetic: to earn $6 per day instead of $3 back home. In areas like the parched Bundelkhand region of Madhya Pradesh state, home to Dayaram's ancestral village, living off the land has become increasingly difficult as rainfall recedes. Others seek something more abstract: the prospect of escape that pulls anyone toward a big city. But after the shutdown, the cities themselves began to empty. Dayaram and his family were among the first to move. As the days went on, and the situation became more desperate, hundreds of thousands of migrants emerged from factories and workplaces in search of a way home. Indian officials say the shutdown is necessary to beat coronavirus in the densely populated country of 1.3 billion people, with a health infrastructure that can ill afford a widespread outbreak. But for Dayaram and many of India's estimated 140 million migrant laborers, the epidemic is much more than a threat to their health – it endangers their very economic survival. In the shutdown, India has banned domestic and international travel, and factories, schools, offices and all shops other than those supplying essential services have been shut. Taken together, the measures amount to one of the harshest lockdowns in the world. Cases here have spiked to nearly 17,000, with more than 500 deaths. On April 14, the government extended the curbs until at least May 3, prompting clashes between police and migrants trying to leave India's financial capital, Mumbai. Migrants are the backbone of the urban economy. Construction workers such as Dayaram are a necessity for India's rapidly expanding cities. Others clean toilets, drive taxis and deliver takeout. They predominantly earn daily wages, with no prospect of job security, and live in dirty, densely populated slums, saving money to send back home. That money is essential to the young and elderly left behind in villages. Around $30 billion flows from urban to rural areas in India each year, according to government and academic estimates. Now that infusion of money, transferred through rural banks or in worn stacks of rupees borne home on rare visits, has come to a halt.   TURN BACK TIME The journey from New Delhi deep into rural India is one not just of distance, but of traveling back in time. Skyscrapers and well-paved toll roads give way to fields of wheat and okra. Bare-backed men till the land with buffalo; an elderly shepherd herds his goats down a dusty lane. After four days of walking and hitching lifts on a series of goods trucks, Dayaram, Gyanvati and Shivam reached their family's two-room concrete hut in Jugyai, a farming village of 2,000 people. In a dingy room in the house filled with sacks of grain and clothes, an unframed poster hangs on the wall. It depicts a handsome red-roofed house on a lake, sun setting behind snow-capped mountains. A pair of mallard ducks fly overhead. "I want to turn the clock back to when people lived in small villages and took care of each other," it says. Though he can't read the English text on the poster, Dayaram agrees with the sentiment. He misses this village that can no longer sustain him. "It's not that I love Delhi," he said. "I need the money to survive. If we had it, we would have stayed here. This is home." His mother, 53-year-old Kesra, is more practical. She too had gone to New Delhi with her family, leaving the village behind. "Home is wherever the family is," she said. "At least in Delhi there is money to buy food." But now they are all back, and there is no money to buy food. Making it even worse, suspicion is never far away. The returnees must deal with new prejudice from villagers who used to be their friends. "I am scared," said Sai Ram Lal, a neighbor who works in a soybean-oil factory here. "It was spreading in Delhi, and I am worried that they have brought it here. We keep our distance. We don't interact with them like we used to before." For Dayaram, that has left him an outsider in his own village.   "WE ARE LIKE GARBAGE" The Bundelkhand region is famous for the towering 16th century sandstone temples and mausoleums of nearby Orchha. It has its own distinct culture, and young men still listen to high-tempo music in the local Bundeli language on their mobile phones. The region used to get up to 35 inches of rain per year, according to the India Meteorological Department, but over the last decade, that has almost halved. For many of the villagers, who have traditionally earned their living farming, it is a slow-motion disaster, forcing most able-bodied men and women to migrate in search of work. It is early April, and even before the full onset of the fierce Indian summer, where temperatures climb toward 50 degrees Celsius, or 120 Fahrenheit, the air is already uncomfortably dry. In a neighboring village where the majority of Dayaram's extended family lives, two dozen men stood idling by the road. Only one, 62-year-old Lal Ram, has never been to Delhi. "I had some money, so I never went," he said with a shrug. He's also the only one with a ration card, a sore point for those who migrated to Delhi. The Targeted Public Distribution Scheme allows India's poorest to purchase 5 kilograms of subsidized grains per month each. But because the migrant workers are no longer permanent residents, they're left without access to the food doled out from a nearby grain silo. "Nobody listens to us," one of the men said bitterly. "We are like garbage." Harshika Singh, the top government official in the district where both villages lie, didn't respond to requests for comment on the migrants' case. After this story was published, Indian government spokesman K.S. Dhatwalia issued a statement to Reuters on Friday outlining measures being taken to assist the poor during the pandemic. The government was offering food and cash for essential supplies to poor and marginalized people, Dhatwalia said, and relief camps have been set up in different parts of the country. Dayaram's father, 58-year-old Takur Das, was the first in the family to set off for New Delhi in search for work when it became increasingly difficult to make a living off the parched land. That was a decade ago. Eventually, he sent for his son, too. The work there was hard, but it was steady. "We can get some money for your wedding," he told Dayaram. Many people in New Delhi would struggle to find Alipur, the Delhi suburb where they settled, on a map. It rarely makes the national news but for misfortune involving laborers: 25 children rescued by authorities in a series of warehouse raids; four men, including two brothers, crushed to death by sacks of rice. Dayaram says his heart sank when he saw the crowded, tarpaulin-roofed slum where the family slept 12 to a room. His first thought was to run away back to the village. But he stayed. What else could he do? Dayaram talks continuously about fate. His marriage, his move to New Delhi, his flight back home – all were decisions made not out of choice, but necessity. Dayaram's maternal aunt played matchmaker when it came time for him to marry. He and Gyanvati were from the same Kushwaha caste, from a lower rung of India's ancient social order who traditionally worked in agriculture. They first met a month before their wedding day. "She was OK," Dayaram said, a smile briefly crossing his face, remembering their meeting. "But whatever is in my fate is fine, whether it is good or bad." After Mangal was born, Gyanvati stayed behind in Jugyai to look after him. When he was 1½, she came to New Delhi with him, too. But after Shivam was born, they were faced with a choice: take Mangal, too, or leave him in the village. "It's easier to carry one child while working, but two is too difficult," Gyanvati said. "So we had to leave him behind."   NO ALTERNATIVE The family's return this month coincided with harvest of the winter wheat crop. One morning, after a night on a rope-strung bed under the light of the pink supermoon, Dayaram put on a shirt ripped at the left armpit and headed to a nearby field. His sons trailed behind, picking unripe berries from a bush. Shivam, wearing the same faded shirt in yellow checks as when he left New Delhi, put his hand on his elder brother's shoulder. Dayaram, Gyanvati and three other relatives began cropping stalks by hand with well-worn scythes. After three days there, harvesting almost a ton of wheat, they received no payment – just 50 kilograms of the crop to take to the village flour mill. The family's basket of lumpen potatoes would last a week. When that ran out, they would have to survive on bread alone. In good months in New Delhi, they were able to save 8,000 rupees, or about $100, a month to send back home, and to repay a loan taken out when Gyanvati fell sick early in their marriage. But soon, Dayaram said, he would be forced to borrow again from local money lenders, charging interest at 3% a month – a rate that can quickly spiral into unpayable debts. Despite being separated for months at a time, Mangal and Shivam are still close. Both have their father's broad nose and mother's lively eyes, the same matching bowl haircuts with unevenly shorn sides. "They cut each other's hair," said Gyanvati, laughing. "That's why they look like that." Both boys shrugged when asked if they wanted to go school, as if the issue had never really been discussed. Dayaram worries that the shutdown will end any hope of providing his children with an education. "No parent wants their child to work as a laborer," he said. But there is no alternative, he said: "They will have to do what I have done." Beneath the brilliant red blossoms of the Indian coral tree, the family finished the field on the stroke of midday, a white sun directly overhead. Mangal and Shivam were tired from chasing dragonflies through the freshly cropped stubble, and sat quietly watching cartoons on a mobile phone. Dayaram came over to where they were sitting. He wiped the sweat from his brow, looked at his boys and smiled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-workers-fall-through-cracks-in-coronavirus-lockdown-829729.html
25-04-2020||National||Tripura govt orders probe into misuse of funds in procuring COVID-19 test kits||The Tripura government has ordered a probe into alleged misappropriation of funds for purchasing COVID-19 test kits and other materials under the National Health Mission (NHM) and removed two officials for an "impartial enquiry", a minister said on Saturday. State finance secretary Tanushree Debbarma and urban development department's secretary Kiran Gitte have been asked to enquire into the misuse of the resources, and submit a report at the earliest, state law minister Ratan Lal Nath said. "Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb has ordered an enquiry into the matter after former health minister and BJP MLA Sudip Roy Barman wrote to him, alleging that the government's fund was misused in procuring COVID-19 kits," Nath said. State health secretary Dr Debashish Basu and NHM director Aditi Majumder were removed from their present posts for an "unbiased and impartial enquiry", he said. Roy Barman alleged that bottles of hand sanitiser were procured at a price, higher than the maximum rate fixed by the Centre. "...the Centre has fixed the rate of hand sanitiser in a gazette notification as not more than Rs 100 per bottle of 200 ml. The prices of other quantities of hand sanitiser shall be fixed in the proportion of the price. "NHM Mission director placed an order for 500 ml hand sanitiser at Rs 359 including GST, nearly 20 days after the central guidelines arrived," Roy Barman alleged in his letter. According to the government guidelines, the price of a 500 ml hand sanitiser should not be higher than Rs 250, he said.  Accusing a section of the health department officials of violating central guidelines for procuring the product, he claimed that "Rs 5.45 lakh was paid in excess for supply of 5,000 such hand sanitiser bottles during the crisis of COVID- 19 outbreak and the lockdown". "The orders for coronavirus test kits were placed at Rs 2,912 per piece against the price of Rs 1,150 from the previous order three days back," Roy Barman, who was divested of the state health department's charge last year, said. The chief minister is currently holding the health portfolio as additional charge. Roy Barman, further, alleged that the health department has "miserably failed to store and make necessary data entry of the COVID-19 related stock (mask, soap, sanitiser, hand wash etc.) as received from various government agencies, PSUs, private bodies under their CSR activities".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tripura-govt-orders-probe-into-misuse-of-funds-in-procuring-covid-19-test-kits-829733.html
25-04-2020||National||Priyanka Gandhi calls for transparency over coronavirus tests being conducted in UP||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday called for transparency over coronavirus tests being conducted in Uttar Pradesh as hiding data can prove fatal. Sharing some suggestions for the Yogi Adityanath government in UP to prevent the spread of COVID-19, she said it is known the world over that testing is the key to fighting the deadly disease and it should be scaled up. "Many people are expressing concerns over testing in UP. Transparency is a big thing in the fight against coronavirus. The entire society and the government can together defeat this epidemic. In this context, I am sharing some suggestions here," she said in a tweet in Hindi. "UP has stopped testing for the past two days and should start testing on a large scale, while adopting transparency in this regard. Hiding data and the truth can prove fatal," Priyanka Gandhi said. The Congress leader also sought to know how many tests are being conducted at state labs daily. She said all guidelines should be followed while doing pool sample testing for coronavirus. “Health experts have laid down strict rules for pool sample tests. If those guidelines are not followed properly, it can lead to damage,” Priyanka Gandhi said.  It is important to follow WHO guidelines at quarantine centres and the state government should put out a report about the food being supplied at quarantines centres and the cleanliness there, she said. The Congress leader said the UP government should inform the public about its plan to conduct tests of those who have returned to their homes after being released from the quarantine centres. According to the Union Health Ministry, there are 1,621 COVID-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh and 25 people have lost their lives due to the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-gandhi-calls-for-transparency-over-coronavirus-tests-being-conducted-in-up-829735.html
25-04-2020||National||India can't have lockdown of people, economy lockout: Kapil Sibal||Congress on Saturday called for a re-think on the lockdown measures, citing the adverse impact of the stringent restrictions to fight coronavirus on the economy. “You cannot have a lockdown of the people and lockout of the economy,” senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal told reporters at a press conference through a video link. Sibal accused the Modi government of not formulating a national plan for handling the coronavirus crisis. “We are not criticising. We are only saying it is time to rethink. We are with the government. This is constructive criticism,” the former union minister said. He said under the Disaster Management Act, the government was duty-bound to formulate a national plan but strangely the government has maintained a “conspicuous silence”. Sibal claimed that the Centre has delegated its responsibilities to the state government and left it to them to deal with the Covid-19 situation without the necessary infrastructure and financial resources. The Congress Working Committee, at its meeting on Thursday, had asked the government to utilise the remaining period of the lockdown to formulate an exit strategy and a comprehensive map for the future. Congress President Sonia Gandhi had warned that the extension of lockdown in the present nature would be more devastating. “Our Prime Minister’s limited role, so far as we can see, is addressing the nation from time to time. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) made no preparations to put in place a plan despite the WHO declaring the virus to be a public health emergency towards the end of January,” Sibal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-cant-have-lockdown-of-people-economy-lockout-kapil-sibal-829741.html
25-04-2020||National||Lawyer appears in online bail hearing in vest, draws judge's ire||A Rajasthan High Court lawyer appeared in an online bail hearing in vest, drawing the ire of a judge. Justice Sanjeev Prakash Sharma of the high court's Jaipur bench criticised the lawyer for not appearing in proper uniform during the hearing via video-conferencing on Friday. Lawyer Ravindra Kumar Paliwal was appearing for accused Lalram, a Gurjar, according to the court order. The judge wanted to dismiss the bail plea, but later accepted the public prosecutor's request to not punish the accused for aberration on part of the defence lawyer and postponed the hearing to May 5. In view of the nationwide lockdown to check the spread of the novel coronavirus, the Rajasthan High Court has been hearing urgent matters online using the 'Jitsi Meet' application. "This court has already observed that during this pandemic where court functioning is being done through video conferencing, lawyers must appear in proper uniform... keeping in view that the petitioner's counsel was not in proper uniform, the matter is adjourned," the court said. The high court has issued a notification asking lawyers to appear for hearing in uniform after a similar incident earlier this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyer-appears-in-online-bail-hearing-in-vest-draws-judges-ire-829743.html
25-04-2020||National||One-day-old baby treated for rare congenital anomaly of intestines in Pathankot Military Hospital||Doctors at Pathankot Military Hospital in Punjab had to treat a one-day-old baby with rare congenital anomaly of intestines without a pediatrician as they could not arrange one due to the lockdown, a defense spokesperson said on Saturday. The baby, born out of a caesarian section last week, was suspected to have Hirschsprung's Disease, Jammu-based Army PRO Lt Col Devender Anand said in a statement. He said a prompt diagnosis was made but the condition of the baby was critical and he was not fit for transfer to the nearest pediatric surgery centre of the Armed Forces, Chandimandir, due to the coronavirus lockdown. Surgical specialist of Pathankot Military Hospital Major Adil Abdul Kalam performed the intricate and challenging operation of opening up the abdomen of the new born baby who was on a ventilator, Lt Col Anand said. He said this was for the first time in the Armed Forces Medical Services wherein such an intricate operation on a newborn has been performed at a zonal hospital with no pediatric surgeon, pediatric anesthesiologist or neonatologist. "The operation was performed in emergency which even if delayed by a few minutes could have resulted in exacerbation of multi organ failure, leading to death," the statement said. "It was an extremely challenging and stressful task to manage the case successfully despite absence of super specialty facilities," the doctor said. The baby is now taken off the ventilator and is on the way to a healthy recovery, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-day-old-baby-treated-for-rare-congenital-anomaly-of-intestines-in-pathankot-military-hospital-829747.html
25-04-2020||National||Girl in need of jaw surgery waits with her father who has back injury in tent outside AIIMS for lockdown to end||During meal distribution every day, Sneha Kumari hopes that the volunteers will dole out khichdi rather than any other dish. The semi-solid rice and lentil stew is the only food she can swallow without having to chew, for the comfort of her dislocated jaw. "My jaw hurts due to which I can't eat food. Because of the pain, I only prefer something light like juice," said the 16-year-old who has been staying in a tent outside the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here along with her father since the lockdown began. The father-daughter duo came to the national capital from Nepal's Parsa district in February for Kumari's jaw surgery at the premier medical institution. She had a tumour in her jaw which doctors at the AIIMS surgically removed around three years ago along with her jawbone, which they had replaced with metal plates. "In February 2018, we came to Delhi after the Cancer Hospital in Nepal referred my daughter to AIIMS. The doctors here took out the jawbone and placed a metal plate. They said that after one year, they will take a bone from her leg and place it in her jaw," said Nand Kishore, Kumari's father. Kishore, 39, himself cannot walk without support from a stick due to a backbone injury for which he underwent surgery in Nepal around four years ago.  Kumari's surgery, initially scheduled for February 25, was postponed several times, finally being rescheduled for March 24. "But the Prime Minister imposed a lockdown in the country after the Janta Curfew on March 22. We spoke to the doctors and they said nothing can be done about my daughter's condition till the lockdown is in place," Kishore said. The metal plates in Kumari's jaw have now dislocated. In need of urgent surgery, she is mostly under enormous pain.  "I had Rs 15,000 when I left Nepal and thought it would be enough for us to sustain for around 15 days. But we are stuck here for so long and have run out of money. We can't even return to our country," said Kishore, who worked for an NGO in Nepal. Unable to travel back to their country because of restrictions in people's movement, they now live in a tent outside the hospital and depend on food distributed by the Delhi government, police and NGOs. Kumari feels lucky on the days when khichdi is on the menu as otherwise, she has to stay hungry. "If I try to eat dal-rice, my jaw hurts because of the effort made to chew," she said. Not having any idea about if and when his daughter's surgery will take place, Kishore longs to return home. "When the lockdown will be removed, I will ask someone in Nepal to put some money in my account so that we can go back," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/girl-in-need-of-jaw-surgery-waits-with-her-father-who-has-back-injury-in-tent-outside-aiims-for-lockdown-to-end-829753.html
25-04-2020||National||Entire Delhi not a hotspot: Delhi health minister on lockdown relaxations||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said there are 92 coronavirus hotspots in the national capital but the entire city is not a hotspot. Jain was replying to a query on whether the Delhi government was considering easing the curbs enforced to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier this week said the lockdown will continue as usual in the national capital and no relaxation of prohibitions will be allowed before a review meeting of experts on April 27. "There are 92 coronavirus hotspots in Delhi. The entire district or the entire city is not (a hotspot)," he said. The health minister also said the rate at which coronavirus cases are doubling in Delhi has now slowed down to 13 days, from a lesser number of days earlier. Delhi has so far witnessed 2,514 coronavirus cases. These include 138 people diagnosed with COVID-19 on Friday, he said.  Of all the cases, 857 people have recovered completely, while 53 have died. Twenty-nine patients are in the ICU, the minister added. On plasma therapy trials, Jain said, "We have tried it on six patients. Two patients got it four days ago, two on Thursday and two on Friday. Those who got it four days ago have almost recovered. The results are encouraging." The Union Ministry of Home Affairs issued a fresh order Friday night, allowing all shops in rural areas to open. "In urban areas, all standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes are allowed to open. Shops in markets/market complexes and shopping malls are not allowed to open," the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/entire-delhi-not-a-hotspot-delhi-health-minister-on-lockdown-relaxations-829758.html
25-04-2020||National||COVID-19: HC directs for Centre, Delhi govt to take care of pregnant women||COVID-19 pandemic has turned upside down the treatment schedule of all other patients with hospitals even turning away pregnant women. This issue was raised before the Delhi High Court in a PIL where the Union and the Delhi governments agreed to issue necessary advisory and setting up of helpline for such women.  A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad directed that both the governments should work in tandem to make sure that no barriers are faced by pregnant ladies and their family members residing in hot spots during the lockdown. "The helpline number which is proposed to be set up, for assisting senior citizens in Delhi, shall also be made available for pregnant ladies. The helpline number shall be publicised adequately in the newspapers and the social media as also through the Delhi Police, wherever possible," the bench said. In the PIL, Sama, a resource group for Women and Health, highlighted denial of healthcare, and more specifically, denial of delivery and childbirth services to pregnant women in Delhi and the barriers faced by them and their families in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown declared by the central and the state government. The Union government's counsel stated that the revised guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare included essential services like reproductive and neonatal healthcare services to pregnant women, besides prevention and management of communicable, deceases, treatment of chronic deceases to avoid complications and for addressing other emergencies. The Delhi government, for its part, said a sufficient number of Asha workers and ANMs, (Auxiliary Nursing and Mid-wives) will be made available in their respective areas so that they can reach out to the pregnant ladies and particularly those who are in the high-risk category for a follow-up. Adequate assistance will be provided to pregnant women, particularly, in the last trimester for the visit to the hospital for pre-delivery, delivery, and post-delivery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-hc-directs-for-centre-delhi-govt-to-take-care-of-pregnant-women-829763.html
25-04-2020||National||Special court rejects Teltumbde's interim bail plea||A special court here on Saturday remanded activist Anand Teltumbde to judicial custody in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist link case and rejected his plea for temporary bail, which he sought in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. The National Investigation Agency had arrested the Dalit scholar on April 14 after he surrendered before it following the Supreme Court's directives. Teltumbde, the grandson-in-law of Dalit icon Dr B R Ambedkar, was produced before special NIA court judge A T Wankehede, who remanded him to judicial custody. The activist then sought temporary bail citing the COVID-19 pandemic.  In his bail application, Teltumbde said he was suffering from respiratory problems and was at risk of contracting the deadly infection while in prison. The court, however, rejected his plea. Teltumbde, civil rights activist Gautam Navlakha and nine others, have been booked under stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for allegedly having Maoist links and conspiring to overthrow the BJP-led government. The activists were initially booked by the Pune police following violence that erupted at Koregaon-Bhima in the district.  According to police, the activists made inflammatory speeches and provocative statements at the Elgar Parishad meet held in Pune on December 31, 2017 that triggered violence the next day. The police also said that these activists were active members of banned Maoist groups. The probe was later transferred to the NIA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/special-court-rejects-teltumbdes-interim-bail-plea-829765.html
25-04-2020||National||Spike in coronavirus cases in Mumbai raises concern||The steep northward jump of 2,500-plus COVID-19 positive cases in Mumbai in a span of 10 days is a major cause of concern in India's financial capital. Some of the concern areas in Mumbai are Dharavi, Worli,  Mahalaxmi,  Govandi, Shivajinagar, Byculla. If one looks at the data compiled by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) and Medical Education and Drugs Department (MEDD),  in the last 10 days from 15-24 April, the positive cases have increased by 2,551 while 64 deaths have been reported. In the six weeks,  since the first case was reported in the state, Mumbai has reported 4,447 cases and 178 deaths. In the same period, Maharashtra has reported 6,817 cases and 301 deaths. "We are working in areas like Dharavi to effectively contain Covid-19," public health minister Rajesh Tope said, adding that in some cases home quarantine may not be the best option.  "We are looking at institutional quarantine for family members and close contacts of positive patients and for this we are opening school buildings and community halls,  there are hotel rooms also," he added. According to Mumbai's municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi,  more than 55,000 tests have been conducted in Mumbai alone. The Centre now has permitted pool tests and plasma therapy in Mumbai. "Pool test would enable the medical authorities to scan people," sources said. Over the past month,  more than 4 lakh people have been screened across the containment zones.  "Mumbai is one of the most thickly populated places in India and the world. That makes the chances of spread wider," says Dr. Suhas Pingle,  chairman, action committee, Indian Medical Association-Maharashtra State. Doctors in Mumbai and MCGM authorities said that most of the patients are asymptomatic and in the low-risk categories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spike-in-coronavirus-cases-in-mumbai-raises-concern-829777.html
25-04-2020||National||India records lowest daily growth rate in coronavirus cases since it crossed 100 cases||India on Saturday reported the lowest daily growth – 6 per cent – in COVID-19 cases since the confirmed infections crossed 100 in March, the government said. In 24-hours ending at 8:00 am on Saturday, India had witnessed an increase of 1429 confirmed cases of COVID-19, taking the tally to 24,506. By evening the number of confirmed cases had increased to 24,942 with the death toll climbing to 779. Health Minister Harshvardhan chaired a meeting of the Group of Ministers (GoM) on COVID-19 where officials said the death rate due to coronavirus is about 3.1  per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate is over 20 per cent. As of Saturday, 5,210 persons recovered from the infections and discharged from hospitals. The GoM also reviewed the testing strategy and availability of kits across the country along with the strategy for hotspots and cluster management. The Centre is yet to spell out its advisory on the rapid antibody tests for COVID-19, which were introduced with much fanfare, but were found to be faulty. The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) had asked state governments to stop using the rapid antibody tests pending field validation by its team of experts. The apex health research body was yet to come out with a fresh set of guidelines on continuing with the tests.  The GoM also reviewed the state-wise details of dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, along with the adequacy of isolation beds and wards, PPE kits, N95 masks, drugs, ventilators and oxygen cylinders, among others, an official statement said. “As on date, more than one lakh PPE kits and N95 masks are being manufactured every day in the country. There are, at present, 104 domestic manufacturers of PPE and three of N95 masks in the country,” it said. In addition, production of ventilators by domestic manufacturers has also started and orders have been placed for more than 59,000 units through nine manufacturers, it added.  The GoM also deliberated on the various tasks assigned to several empowered committees and it was informed that around 92,000 NGOs, self-help groups (SHGs) and civil society organisations are working and contributing by providing food to migrant workers across the country. It was also informed that the national level meta-data of health workers, NSS, NYK, NCC, doctors etc. have been shared with all the states, districts and other officials to mobilise resources and volunteers to much-needed locations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-lowest-daily-growth-rate-in-coronavirus-cases-since-it-crossed-100-cases-829779.html
25-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Restaurants, salons not to open, clarifies MHA||Restaurants, salons and barber shops will remain closed during the COVID-19 lockdown, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) clarified on Saturday. The MHA clarification came following queries about whether these facilities will be opened from Saturday. On Friday night, the MHA had announced further relaxation in lockdown norms allowing all shops to be opened barring those in shopping malls. "In view of queries coming from various sections of society, it is clarified that all restaurants, salons and barber shops will remain closed. They render services. The relaxations given under lockdown restrictions on Friday pertain only to shops selling items," an MHA spokesperson said. A senior official said the restrictions on these facilities need to continue to ensure social distancing. Once these shops are open, the official said, it would be difficult to control the crowd there and it will fail the purpose of the fight against coronavirus. E-commerce companies also cannot deliver non-essential items. So far, only shops essential items were allowed during the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Officials said the Friday night order allows shops selling garments, mobile phones, hardware and stationery items to open. However, similar shops in malls cannot open. They said the move will help both the consumers as well as the businessmen. The opening of hardware shops will aid the government's decision to open up the construction sector.  Common people were also facing trouble, especially those with infants and small children with the continuation of the closure of garment shops, as the weather has changed. The clothes needed for small children could not be arranged as the lockdown was announced suddenly on March 24. The decision to open all shops came following inputs that these are needed as the government has already allowed resumption of industrial activities with limited exemptions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-restaurants-salons-not-to-open-clarifies-mha-829780.html
25-04-2020||National||Indian farm workers broke, uncertain as rural lockdown eased||As India eased its tough coronavirus lockdown for farmers, some agricultural workers said they were unaware they could return to the fields after weeks without income during the peak harvest season. India's 1.3 billion people will continue to live under strict curbs until May 3, but the government said farms and factories could resume activity on Monday in the hinterland, which has been less hard-hit by COVID-19. "We didn't know the restrictions were lifted," farm worker Mukesh Sahani told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone from his village in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, saying weeks without earnings had left his family with "just about enough to eat and live."  "We have incurred the biggest loss ever this year. My parents and I managed to get two days of work this month for 400 Indian rupees ($5), as against the 15-20 days of work we get on various farms every year," he added. April is normally a month of strong demand for farm workers but the lockdown, which is now in its fourth week, has brought the countryside to a virtual standstill and harvest festivals have been muted this year. It was unclear exactly how many of the country's millions of agricultural workers were unaware that the controls had been partially lifted, as farming unions sought to spread the word in the countryside. Seema Kulkarni of the Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch, a network of civil society groups and women farmers which has been sending out messages to its members this week, said there was "eagerness" among farm workers to get back to their jobs. Nearly 70% of India's population live in rural areas, where more than half of men and nearly 70% women are engaged in agricultural work, government data shows. Due to circumstances a government spokesperson said daily wages under a rural employment scheme had been increased to 202 rupees ($2.65) from about 180 Indian rupees ($2) and nearly 55 billion rupees ($655 million) disbursed among 16 million people. These were among the many steps - including allowing agricultural activities and setting up call centres to coordinate transportation of farm produce - undertaken by the government to mitigate hardship in rural India, he said. K.S. Dhatwalia, principal director general of the Press Information Bureau of the Indian government, said in an email that both sowing and harvesting activities were on course, with the sowing area coverage better than last year. Distress Recent videos shared by farmers on social media show fields bursting with crops including cabbages, peppers, tomatoes and grapes waiting to be harvested, or being dumped by farmers unable to sell their produce. "Farm produce traders, who would harvest crops from my land to sell it at the wholesale market, couldn't make it this year," said farmer Kannaiyam Subramanium, whose video of his bumper cabbage crop went viral on Twitter.  "There are many farmers who haven't got workers to harvest. Vegetables won't wait for the lockdown to be over before they perish," he said. For some farm workers, however, the easing of the controls brought a little relief. Pawan Laluram, 20, went to visit his employer to pick up wages he was due to be paid: two sacks of wheat. "I couldn't bring the wheat sacks last month when the lockdown was announced as I had to walk nearly 40 miles (65 km)to reach home," he said. "There's no work in the village and there was no food at home. The wheat may last us a few months," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-farm-workers-broke-uncertain-as-rural-lockdown-eased-829781.html
25-04-2020||National||NGO files plea in SC for bringing back mortal remains of Indian citizens from Gulf countries||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngo-files-plea-in-sc-for-bringing-back-mortal-remains-of-indian-citizens-from-gulf-countries-829786.html
25-04-2020||National||Railways parcel trains brings king of fruits to North India||People of North India did not miss the opportunity to savour of the king of fruits- mangoes during lockdown period as railways able to transport large quantities of fruits from southern states including Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. In April, North India gets mangoes from southern states due to early harvest in that region. This year due to lockdown many traders struggled to get fruits as it generally transported through trucks. However, railways special parcel trains came as a relief to both farmers and dealers in transporting fruits. Konkon Railway' special parcel trains from Thiruvananthapuram to Okha in Gujarat, helped farmers to send Alphonso mangos grown in Maharashtra while parcel train operated by Waltair Division of East Coast Railways (ECoR) from Vizianagaram to Delhi came as handy to transport mangos grown in Andhra Pradesh. Besides mangoes, this time, other fruits like bananas, grapes, oranges, pomegranates also transported using parcel trains to Adarsha Nagar and Azadpur wholesale markets in  New Delhi. Large quantities of bananas were also transported from Bhusaval in Maharashtra to Delhi while oranges from Nagpur transported to Odisha and West Bengal. Nagpur division in Central Railways transported 400 quintals of oranges to Rourkela in Odisha and Tata Nagar in Jharkhand for the past few days, says railway officials. "Orange take the train. People across the country now savour their favour Nagpuri oranges as 400 quintals have been dispatched in trains," Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted. Since railways stopped passengers trains due to lockdown, it operates only freight trains to transport essential commodities. The national transporter also operating over 500 parcel trains including 55 Annapurna trains to transport rice, wheat and pulses to be distributed poorly under public distribution system and 8 Jai Kisan trains to transport perishable items like fruits and vegetables.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-parcel-trains-brings-king-of-fruits-to-north-india-829793.html
25-04-2020||National||COVID-19: LS, 5 state assemblies set up control room for coordination among lawmakers, public||Control rooms have been set up in Lok Sabha and five state assemblies for coordination between lawmakers and the public in the fight against COVID-19, the Lok Sabha Secretariat said on Saturday. Speaker Om Birla during a videoconference with presiding officers of state legislatures on April 21 had suggested setting up such control rooms at the Lok Sabha Secretariat and state assemblies to help migrant labourers and students stranded due to the ongoing lockdown to combat the novel coronavirus.  A Control Room has been set up in the Lok Sabha Secretariat with a view to facilitate quicker interface between MPs, MLAs and the public for emergency assistance in the fight against COVID-19, the secretariat said in a statement. Talking about the role of lawmakers in providing relief to the people during the pandemic, Birla had emphasised that legislatures across the country stand firmly with the executive. He had said MPs and MLAs/MLCs will remain at the forefront in the effort to contain the spread of coronavirus. The control room in Lok Sabha can be approached through these two telephone numbers: +91 1123035160, +91 1123035163.  Five states -- Rajasthan, Haryana, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, and national capital Delhi -- have also set up control rooms in their respective legislature secretariats and they have already started functioning. The country has been under a lockdown since March 25 to check the spread of the deadly virus. The shutdown will continue till May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ls-5-state-assemblies-set-up-control-room-for-coordination-among-lawmakers-public-829795.html
25-04-2020||National||Nitin Gadkari undergoes angioplasty||Union minister Nitin Gadkari underwent angioplasty recently, a close aide told PTI on Saturday. He underwent the procedure at a private hospital here on Monday, the aide said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda were among those who called Gadkari and inquired about his health, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitin-gadkari-undergoes-angioplasty-829802.html
25-04-2020||National||J&K sees highest single-day jump with 40 COVID-19 positive cases||Registering single biggest jump since the beginning of COVID-19 pandemic, Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday (April 25) saw 40 more people testing positive, taking the total number of coronavirus cases to 494. The previous largest single-day spike for J&K was on April 8, with 33 cases. The highest single-day rise in COVID-19 positive cases comes at a time when the J&K government claims to have done 1000 tests per million. Earlier, it was 703 per million. “Finally J&K breaks the 1000 test barrier- 1071 samples tested in the last 24 hours. But that also means more positives- so 40 new cases today- all from Kashmir. Total positive cases now 494. Jammu-57 Kashmir-437. An unfortunate death too; total deaths now 6 (sic),” J&K government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal, tweeted.  Earlier in the day, a 72-year-old patient from north Kashmir's Baramulla district died at a Srinagar hospital, taking the number of deaths due to novel coronavirus to six in J&K. On Friday six children below the age of 16 were among 20 new COVID19 cases in J&K. The youngest among these was a five-year-old male child from Herpora in south Kashmir’s Shopian. Over 50% of cases in Kashmir valley are from two districts of Srinagar and Bandipora.  Gundjehangir, a nondescript village in Bandipora has become a hotspot for COVID-19, recording over 50 positive cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-sees-highest-single-day-jump-with-40-covid-19-positive-cases-829805.html
25-04-2020||National||Bar association against video conferencing becoming new normal, says it must be limited to COVID-19 crisis||About a month after the top court introduced hearing through video conferencing due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court Bar Association has said that this must be limited to the current crisis. It should not become the 'new normal' and should not replace 'open court hearing'. The lawyers’ body also asked the Supreme Court to ensure live streaming of the hearings be introduced in the spirit of the judgement delivered in the Swapnil Tripathi case (2018). "Once the lockdown is lifted and once the Ministry of Health permits, open court hearing should commence with social distancing and crowd management measures being made mandatory inside the court premises. Live streaming as well as daily transcription of court proceedings should be continued along with open court hearing," it said. The SCBA also cited a nine-judge bench judgement in the Naresh Shridhar Mirajekar case (1966) stating public trial in open court is undoubtedly essential for healthy, objective and fair administration of justice. It also quoted Bentham who said, "Where there is no publicity, there is no justice. Publicity is the soul of justice." On April 6, the top court, by a judicial order, authorised all courts to adopt measures required to ensure robust functioning of the judicial system through the use of video conferencing technologies in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. It had then said, court hearings in congregation must necessarily become an exception during this period of lockdown imposed since March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bar-association-against-video-conferencing-becoming-new-normal-says-it-must-be-limited-to-covid-19-crisis-829810.html
25-04-2020||National||Coronavirus will lead to realignment of globalisation: WTO chief economist||The ongoing crisis  vis-a-vis COVID-19 pandemic will lead to realignment of globalisation rather than de-globalisation and would see near-shoring and companies will diversify their supply chain away from China,  according to Dr. Robert Koopman, Chief Economist, World Trade Organization. Manufacturers will rethink just-in-time inventory and increase their inventory carry and will also increasingly adopt digitisation and automation,  he said while addressing a webinar on impact of COVID-19 on trade and industry. The webinar was organised by All India Association of Industries (AIAI) and MVIRDC World Trade Center Mumbai.    Dr Koopman suggested that India should take proactive steps to benefit from the realignment of global supply chain in the post-COVID-19 period. In order to benefit from this global realignment, Dr Koopman suggests Indian government to keep its supply chain moving, facilitate trade finance, attract FDI and support MSMEs. WTO expects the COVID-19 crisis to reduce India’s GDP growth by 5.4 per cent from the expect growth of around 6 per cent in 2020 under optimistic scenario. However, the economy is expected to recover in 2021 depending on the evolving scenario of the pandemic. Dr Koopman warned countries against taking protectionist measures as these actions will trigger retaliation from trade partners and hurt global investment. He informed that 80 countries have imposed export restrictions amidst COVID-19 crisis to increase domestic supply of medical goods. Protectionist measures will increase cost of trading, which will in turn reduce world GDP growth and exports between 16-34 per cent under various scenarios, Dr Koopman warned. Trade cost in India has increased by 3.5 per cent due to disruption in supply chain amidst this pandemic and increase in protectionist measures, Dr Koopman informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-will-lead-to-realignment-of-globalisation-wto-chief-economist-829821.html
25-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Vidya Balan pledges to donate 1000 PPE kits to healthcare staff||Actor Vidya Balan has decided to donate 1000 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits to the frontline healthcare staff across India. In a video message posted on her Facebook page, the actor announced that she is also collaborating with celebrity shout-out platform Tring to raise money for additional 1000 PPE kits.  “In the war against COVID-19 our health care professionals are like our soldiers at the border fighting for our health and freedom. Just like we equip our soldiers for the battle we must do the same with our medical staff. There is a critical shortage of PPE for our senior doctors, residents, nurses and ward boys in their daily work. “As a result, a lot of our hospitals are not functioning at full capacity. Join me in changing this now. I am donating 1000 PPE ktis to hospital and medical staff across the country. And I am pledging to raise money for another 1000,” she said. According to a statement issued by the actor’s team, she has joined hands with Tring to provide additional 1000 PPE kits, in association with Manish Mundra of Drishyam Films and photographer-producer Atul Kasbekar.  For donations made through Tring, Vidya will be recognising the support of every donor by sending a personal thank you video message, and a chance for a two-minute video call with her. Vidya said each PPE kit is worth Rs 650 (all-inclusive of delivery costs and applicable taxes) and it consists of one coverall laminated and waterproof, nitrile gloves, goggles, face shields, 3-ply surgical mask and shoe covers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vidya-balan-pledges-to-donate-1000-ppe-kits-to-healthcare-staff-829823.html
25-04-2020||National||Sonia's seventh letter to Modi; seeks succor for MSME||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Saturday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce a special package for revival of the micro-small and medium enterprises sector that was on the brink of economic ruin due to the nation-wide lockdown to combat Covid-19. “Government has acknowledged MSMEs to be the backbone of our economy. It is time it takes measures to ensure the revival and strengthening of that backbone,” Gandhi said in a letter to Modi, her seventh since the lockdown. The Congress President suggested a five-pronged approach that was evolved after deliberations by the 11-member high-level committee, chaired by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh.  Gandhi demanded that the government announce an Rs one lakh crore ‘MSME Wage Protection’ package for the 11 crore employees in the sector who face an uncertain future. She also sought another Rs one lakh crore credit guarantee to provide immediate liquidity to the sector that contributes to one-third of the country’s GDP and accounts for 50% of exports. The Congress President said the actions taken by the RBI should be reflected in the actions taken by commercial banks to ensure adequate and timely credit supply to MSMEs. She also wanted the RBI to extend the RBI’s moratorium on payment of loans beyond the stipulated period of three months. Gandhi also wanted the Prime Minister to address the issue of high collateral security and the limits on margin money that prove to be a hindrance in access to credit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonias-seventh-letter-to-modi-seeks-succor-for-msme-829824.html
25-04-2020||National||COVID-19 lockdown: Newspapers lost Rs 4-5k Crore in 2 months, INS demands stimulus||Emphasizing that the print media has already lost Rs 4,000-4,500 crore in the last two months with economic activities collapsing due to Covid-19, the Indian Newspaper Society (INS) has urged the government to immediately announce a two-year tax holiday for newspaper establishments and increase official advertisement rates and budget spending on the sector. INS President Shailesh Gupta shot off a letter to Information and Broadcasting Secretary Ravi Mittal urging him also to immediately settle payment towards outstanding bills of advertising from the Bureau of Outreach and Communication (BOC) as well as advising various state governments to do so. With newspaper industry among the worst affected sectors in India today with "hardly any revenue coming in" from either advertising or circulation”, Gupta said the government should provide a "two year tax holiday for newspaper establishments" beside an increase of 50% in advertisement rate of BOC and 100% rise in budget spend for print media. "Since economic activity has nearly collapsed and there is no likelihood of advertising from the private sector, the losses are expected to continue at the same rate for the next 6-7 months (implying an additional loss of Rs 12-15,000 crore over the next 6-7 months) unless a strong stimulus is implemented by the government at the soonest," he said. The losses already incurred have had "very severe repercussions" for 30 lakh workers – 9-10 lakh direct employment and 18-20 lakh in indirect employment, he said. "For the last several weeks, due to severe losses and choking of cash flows, the newspaper establishments are finding it very difficult to even disburse salaries to employees and payments to their vendors," Gupta said. The letter highlighted that newsprint accounts for 40-60% of the total cost and the removal of 5% customs duty on newsprint will have no impact on domestic manufacturers or any 'Make in India' efforts, as there is no domestic production of uncoated glazed and light-weight coated papers below 70 gsm. "The imposition of customs duty on these grades does not offer any support to domestic industry and only burdens the publishers," Gupta said adding that newsprint consumption in India is estimated at 2.5 million tonnes and the capacity to produce in India is only around one million tonnes. "Hence, more than 50% demand has to be necessarily met through imports. Most of the indigenous newsprint capacity is of swing in nature, which allows the manufacturers to shift to other paper grades on the basis of demand and price," he said. He said the quality of newsprint is very important as the editions are generally closed at midnight, which leaves only 3-4 hours for printing. "Domestic newsprint has been consistently inferior to imported newsprint in key performance areas such as tensile strength, opacity, brightness and grammage. Poor quality has deeper implications than the loss of productive time. It generates much higher production waste, directly burdening the environment," he said. He reminded that the indigenous newsprint mills are "severely polluting" in nature and 'jeopardise' important flagship programmes like 'Swachh Bharat Abhiyan' and 'Namami Gange' projects and most of them have been issued notices in the last few years to close their operations, as they have failed to comply with the prescribed environmental standards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-newspapers-lost-rs-4-5k-crore-in-2-months-ins-demands-stimulus-829830.html
25-04-2020||National||COVID-19 impact: 'Declared foreigners' released from Assam detention camps after court orders||The fear of coronavirus helped Bongshidhar Rajbongshi, a 63-year-old man from western Assam's Chirang district to come out of a detention camp on Wednesday, two years, and nine months after he was declared a foreigner and put behind the bars.  "I have been requesting everyone to release us for a long time. But nothing worked. We were scared inside after hearing about coronavirus. Today I am a little relieved," said Rajbongshi, who came out of Goalpara detention camp. Rajbongshi was declared a foreigner by a quasi-judicial Foreigner Tribunal after he failed to prove that he lived in India before March 24, 1971, the cut-off date fixed to determine citizenship in Assam. Over 800 of them like Rajbongshi are still lodged in six detention camps inside jails in Assam.  Nearly, 200 of them, however, have been released on bail since April 16, when Gauhati High Court gave the Assam government one week's time to release those who spent two years in detention camps, in view of the fears about the possible spread of the coronavirus.  The Supreme Court on April 13 also asked the Centre and Assam government to release them after Justice and Liberty Initiative, a human rights body in Guwahati moved the Chief Justice of India to release all the declared foreigners fearing the spread of COVID-19. "As human beings, they also have at least the basic human right to live and not to die of COVID-19 in the precincts of a prison, which has despicable living conditions,” said advocate Aman Wadud on behalf of JLI. Sources in the border branch of Assam police said that more than 700 "declared foreigners" completed two years inside detention camps and the process was on to release all of them on bail as per the conditions put forth by the Supreme Court. A list of the persons will also be submitted to the high court and the Supreme Court.  The conditions include capturing and storing the biometrics of the iris of both eyes and all 10 fingerprints, declaration that a detainee shall report once a week to the police station or outpost within his or her verifiable address of stay after release and an undertaking that the detainee would be liable to be caught again and tried in a tribunal if any of the other conditions are violated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-impact-declared-foreigners-released-from-assam-detention-camps-after-court-orders-829845.html
25-04-2020||National||Free supply of PDS pulses under PMGAY to speed up in 1st week of May: Govt||Distribution of free pulses to 20 crore PDS households across the country will speed up in the first week of May as the massive operation of transportation and milling of 5.88 lakh tonne of pulses for the same is underway, the government said on Saturday. Most of the beneficiaries will receive the quota for the first month within April or latest by the first week of May. Several states would be able to distribute pulses for all three months in the first go itself, it said. For the remaining states, the efforts are being made to complete the distribution for all three months within May itself, preferably within the third week of May, it added.  Nearly a month back, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced free distribution of 1 kg pulses for three months to each householder registered with public distribution system (PDS) under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Anna Yojana (PMGAY) to ensure protein needs of the poor during the COVID-19 lockdown. "While, as on date, about 30,000 tonnes of pulses have been distributed, this would speed up in the first week of May," the Consumer Affairs Ministry said in a statement. While the monthly requirement of pulses is about 1.96 lakh tonne under the PMGAY, about 1.45 lakh tonne of milled and cleaned pulses have so far been offered to states for distribution through PDS, also called ration shops. About  one-third of the monthly requirement of pulses has been taken by states and union territories to final destinations for distribution, it said. Around 17 states and Union territories such as Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Andamans, Chandigarh, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, and Telangana have begun distribution. Several other states and UTs have decided to distribute pulses along with foodgrain distribution in the first week of May for reasons of social distancing and public safety. Some states and UTs such as Andaman and Nicobar, Chandigarh, Dadra Nagar Haveli, Goa, Ladakh, Puducherry, Lakshadweep and even Punjab have been provided milled / cleaned pulses for all three months in one go, it said. Several states with dal mills within their jurisdictions have been asked to lift the milled pulses by themselves to speed up the process, it added. Asserting that a "massive operation for transport and milling of pulses is underway", the ministry said about 8.5 lakh tonne of pulses will have to be milled for distribution of 5.88 lakh tonnes of milled and cleaned pulses under the PDS for three months under the PMGAY.  The cooperative NAFED is executing the task, it said and noted that "the scale of this operation is massive and far more complex than foodgrain movement". Each kilo of pulse goes through at least three (in many cases four) trips by truck and as many cycles of loading and unloading. While for long distances, transport is being done through goods trains, in most cases transportation is by road through trucks, the ministry added. This kind of massive operation would involve about two lakh truck trips and loading as well as unloading operation over a period of 4 weeks, the ministry said, adding that it is challenging during the lockdown as many dal mills and godowns are located in the hotspot areas. "Managing operations safely in such areas is crucial. In such areas, availability of trucks and labour for loading and unloading has been a huge problem," it said. According to the ministry, NAFED has been allowed to use the pulses stock lying in its 165 godowns for this purpose. The cooperative, which has roped in over 100 dal mills so far, is selecting the millers through online auctions. Also, a five group of officers of both Consumer Affairs and Agriculture Ministries have been created for coordinating with states, NAFED, dal millers and warehousing corporations. The Cabinet Secretary is personally monitoring the distribution on a day to day basis, the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/free-supply-of-pds-pulses-under-pmgay-to-speed-up-in-1st-week-of-may-govt-829846.html
25-04-2020||National||Plea filed in Madras High Court seeking quashing of TN coronavirus lockdown||A plea has been filed in the Madras High Court seeking quashing of the complete lockdown announced by the State government for four days from Sunday in some cities and three days in some other municipal corporations. Challenging the shutdown the petitioner submitted it was unlawful and unconstitutional. According to the petitioner, a day after the announcement on April 25, all the five corporations witnessed large gathering of public to stock up essential commodities and vegetables in complete violation of social distancing.  "Only because of the sudden announcement public has thronged markets to purchase essential Items. When restriction under section 144 of the CrPC is already in force across the state, this sudden announcement of complete lockdown in select cities has raised suspicion among public," the petitioner said. The plea is expected to be taken up through video conference by a bench which has been constituted to hear urgent cases from Monday. Meanwhile the High Court Registrar General issued a circular stating that judicial or administrative function of the courts for the complete lockdown period of four days from April 26 to 29 in five corporation limits including Chennai Madurai and Coimbatore and three days from April 26 to 28 in Salem and Tiruppur Corporations shall be carried out through video conferencing or any such communication facilities only.  There shall be no physical movement of the staff on the above mentioned days. "The officers of the courts or any other staff, if required, may communicate through video-conferencing or WhatsApp calls," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-madras-high-court-seeking-quashing-of-tn-coronavirus-lockdown-829860.html
25-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Crisis: Govt hopes good harvest will help revive economy, asks states to focus on water conservation||The Centre has asked the Government of Karnataka and the other states to focus on water conservation and irrigation, as the prediction of a normal monsoon raised hope that a good harvest would help revive the economy battered by the coronavirus crisis. Four secretaries of the Union Government jointly wrote to the chief secretaries of all the States, stressing on the convergence of not only village job programme, but also the other schemes funded by the Union Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD) and the Ministry of Jal Shakti (MoJS) to ensure the use of all available resources for conservation of water during the monsoon. The Centre asked the State Governments to assign the local authorities to conduct a quick and comprehensive survey of all traditional water bodies, including irrigation tanks, old step-wells and ponds. It would be followed by the removal of encroachment around such water bodies. Finally, the water-bodies should be renovated by engaging the villagers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). The renovation should include de-silting, construction or strengthening of inlets and outlets and afforestation in the catchment areas around the water bodies, the secretaries of the MoRD and the MoJS wrote to the chief secretaries of the State Governments. With India Meteorological Department forecasting a normal monsoon this year, the Ministry of Agriculture set the food-grain production target for the nation for 2020-21 crop-year at 298.3 million tonnes – two per cent more than the record yield during the current year. The Union Government is expecting that a bumper harvest might help it steer the economy out of the slowdown caused by the Covid-19 crisis. The Centre had to drop its plan to deploy its officials to re-run the Jal Shakti Abhiyan this year in view of the travel and transport restrictions and the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the COVID-19 pandemic.  The Union Government had run the Jal Shakti Abhiyan in two phases – first phase from July 1 to September 15 and the second phase from October 1 to November 30. Last year, with its officials working with the State Governments to implement the “mission-mode” campaign for the renovation of over 75 lakh water bodies and construction of more than one crore water conservation and rainwater harvesting structures in 256 water-stressed districts across the country, including 18 in Karnataka.  Though the plan for a wider and more intensive Jal Shakti Abhiyan across the country this year had to be dropped, the Centre asked all the State Governments to ensure optimal deployment of all available resources “to catch the rain” during the coming monsoon. Apart from the water conservation and irrigation activities allowed under the MGNREGA, a number of related activities can be taken up under other schemes being implemented by the MoJS and Department of Land Resources of the MoRD, the Centre wrote to the State Governments. The communiqué specifically asked the State Governments to focus on augmentation of existing water sources, groundwater recharge, rainwater harvesting and greywater management for reuse and recharge (construction of community soak pits or leach pits or waste stabilization ponds) under the Swachh Bharat Mission (Grameen) as well as repair and restoration works under the Watershed Development Component of the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana (WDC-PMKSY).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-crisis-govt-hopes-good-harvest-will-help-revive-economy-asks-states-to-focus-on-water-conservation-829872.html
25-04-2020||National||Stranded migrants from MP get relief as Guj govt arranges buses for return trip||The relief to the workers comes hours after the state government announced the reopening of standalone shops from Sunday barring those areas falling under hotspot zones of coronavirus infection. Sources said that workers from neighbouring Rajasthan and other states are also likely to get relief soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stranded-migrants-from-mp-get-relief-as-guj-govt-arranges-buses-for-return-trip-829886.html
25-04-2020||National||Bodies of Indians who die abroad due to coronavirus can be brought back: MHA||The Home Ministry Saturday said the bodies of Indian nationals and OCI cardholders, who died abroad due to COVID-19, can be brought back, but with strict adherence to relevant guidelines. In an official communication, the ministry said airport authorities have to follow the protocols laid down by different government agencies in this regard. It is clarified that “immigration functions in respect of the arrival of dead bodies and mortal remains of the Indian nationals/ OCI cardholders are permitted subject to strict adherence to the guidelines/ instructions issued by various ministries and departments related with the management of COVID-19 and submission of no objection, approval and concurrence from the Ministries of Health and External Affairs in this regard," the communication said. The Home Ministry also said the Standard Operating Procedures issued by the health ministry in this regard must be strictly adhered to. According to the SOP, the human remains mean the dead body and the exhumed body of confirmed or suspected COVID-19 patients. It says the importation of the human remains of confirmed or suspected COVID-19 case into India is not recommended. The MHA said if, contrary to the above recommendation, human remains of the suspected or confirmed case of COVID-19 arrive at Indian airports, the concerned Airport Health Officer (APHO) has to follow certain procedures. The APHO will verify the death certificate mentioning the cause of death as confirmed COVID-19 or suspected COVID-19, it said. It will also verify the no-objection certificate (NOC) for the transportation of human remains of the deceased issued by the Indian Embassies or High Commissions or Consulates. Embalming certificate issued by an authorised agency, the ministry said. On the examination of packaging or human remains, it said the concerned airline shall ensure that the external packing of coffin is undamaged. The APHO will verify the required documents and inspect the packing in accordance with the provisions under the Indian Aircraft (Public Health) Rules. 1954, the MHA said. If there are any obvious signs of damage to the coffin, the handlers shall use full PPE, cover the coffin in plastic sheets to avoid any contact with the body or body fluids before hand-over of the human remains to the concerned authority for final burial or incineration. The personnel handling the human remains should follow the laid down procedures for donning and doffing of Personal Protective Equipment and follow other protective measures for COVID-19 like hand-washing with soap and water, etc. to ensure that they remain protected during the procedure, it said. The coffin shall be buried or incinerated following the norms for burial or incineration for human remains with high-risk pathogens, the MHA said, adding the handlers would be monitored for 28 days and the designated vehicle disinfected as per the norms. In all such cases, the APHO must direct the concerned airline (carrying the damaged packing containing human remains) to carry out the disinfection of the aircraft as per the norms, it said. In addition, the staff handling the cargo (human remains in question) shall be quarantined for 28 days. The MHA said the ashes remaining after the cremation pose no risk to the relatives who handle such mortal remains and will be cleared in accordance with the provisions under the Indian Aircraft (Public Health) Rules, 1954.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bodies-of-indians-who-die-abroad-due-to-coronavirus-can-be-brought-back-mha-829892.html
25-04-2020||National||IIT-Delhi researchers develop affordable test kits of coronavirus||Researchers at IIT-Delhi have developed an affordable COVID-19 detection kit that has received approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), becoming the first academic institute to achieve the feat. “This is the first probe-free assay for COVID-19 approved by ICMR and it will be useful for specific and affordable high throughput testing,” IIT-Delhi Director V Ramagopal Rao said. The coronavirus test kit developed by IIT-Delhi’s Kusuma School of Biological Sciences uses SYBR Green dye instead of the fluorescent probes that have to be imported for use in RT-PCR kits. “This assay can be easily scaled up as it does not require fluorescent probes. The team is targeting large scale deployment of the kit at affordable prices with suitable industrial partners as soon as possible,” Rao said. HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ felicitated the research team including Prashant Pradhan, Ashutosh Pandey, Praveen Tripathi, Dr Akhilesh Mishra, Dr Parul Gupta, Dr Sonam Dhamija, Prof. Vivekanandan Perumal, Prof. Manoj B. Menon, Prof. Bishwajit Kundu, Prof. James Gomes of IIT Delhi. Using comparative sequence analyses, the IIT Delhi team identified unique regions – short stretches of RNA sequences – in the COVID-19/SARS nCOV-2 genome, an IIT-Delhi statement said.  These regions are not present in other human coronaviruses providing an opportunity to specifically detect Covid-19, it said. This method uses primers targeting unique regions of Covid-19 that were designed and tested using real time PCR. These primers specifically bind to regions conserved in over 400 fully sequenced Covid-19 genomes. This highly sensitive assay was developed by extensive optimization using synthetic DNA constructs followed by in-vitro generated RNA fragments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-delhi-researchers-develop-affordable-test-kits-of-coronavirus-829915.html
25-04-2020||National||Developed nations trying to learn from India's experience in fighting coronavirus: Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra SIngh on Saturday said that developed countries are trying to learn from India's experience in fighting COVID-19 pandemic. The minister said this in a video conference with former bureaucrats from across the country while discussing measures to combat coronavirus and to brief them about the efforts being made by the Modi government to contain the pandemic, besides obtaining their inputs in this regard.   Singh gave a chronology of measures undertaken under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on a proactive basis, as a result of which, he said, India's record was much better compared to most other countries of the world.   "Today even the more developed countries of the world are looking forward to India, not only for support in terms of medicine supplies like chloroquine but are also trying to learn from India's experience in fighting COVID pandemic," the minister was quoted as saying in a statement issued by Personnel Ministry.   Describing all the senior bureaucrats as men of wide experience, he said, their feedback and inputs carried great value because for several years, as part of the government, they were familiar with the working of the government machinery and at the same time, after superannuation they had the opportunity to view the things from another perspective as well.   "At the same time, they are more familiar with the state and place where they had settled after superannuation and can therefore also offer suggestions specific to that region," said Singh, the minister of state for personnel. The officers were quite appreciative of the minister for having invited them to offer their views and also of the initiatives taken by the government.   They also acknowledged the government's efforts in containing the pandemic through various measures and shared their views about the exit plan in the post-lockdown period, the statement said. The economic and social scenario in the post-lockdown period also came up for discussion and officers had some important inputs to offer based on their experience of having worked with different departments of the government including those related to finance, commerce and taxation, it said. During the video-interaction, the former bureaucrats also underlined  issues like phased withdrawal of lockdown, more usage of technology in administration for example e-office, fiscal stimulus to kick-start the economy, financial security to the poor, introduction of more online courses and exams to utilize the academic year and facilitation of migrant workers to reach their native places. Building up individual immunity through Vitamin C intake, AYUSH and other drugs as well as development of vaccines and testing kits indigenously to give a fillip to Make in India concept, also came up for discussion, the statement said. Singh thanked the retired bureaucrats for their valuable suggestions on the subject and said that such kind of outreach will continue in future as well to get the distilled wisdom from all quarters to fight the menace of the pandemic. Former IAS officers Sudhir Bhargava, Rama Sundaram, Rakesh Kumar Gupta, Satyananda Mishra, P Panneervel and K V Eapen, besides ex-IRS officers Sangeeta Gupta and Sheila Sangwan participated in the discussion. The discussion assumes significance as 101 former bureaucrats had recently written to the chief ministers of states expressing anguish over the "harassment" of Muslims in some parts of the country. They had termed as "misguided and condemnable" the action of Tablighi Jamaat in organising a meeting here but mentioned the "utterly irresponsible and reprehensible" action of a section of media in fuelling hostility towards the Muslims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/developed-nations-trying-to-learn-from-indias-experience-in-fighting-coronavirus-jitendra-singh-829933.html
25-04-2020||National||JP Nadda discusses govt coronavirus response, party's efforts with eminent personalities||BJP president JP Nadda Saturday interacted with intellectuals and eminent personalities from different walks of life and shared with them the steps taken by the Centre and his party to combat COVID-19 and uplift the economy. “Today, had a video conference with august people on political and economic scenarios around COVID-19 issue. Shared the work being done by the Union government and BJP to combat the pandemic along with taking effective measures to uplift the economy,” Nadda said in a series of tweets. He also held deliberations with intellectuals through videoconferencing and shared various strategies of the government to tackle the situation arising due to the pandemic. “An insightful conversation with acclaimed intellectuals through video conferencing. Shared various strategies and efforts of the Union government and BJP in combating COVID-19 and helping needy sections and asked for suggestions,” he said. Nadda said the participants praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi's able leadership in handling the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jp-nadda-discusses-govt-coronavirus-response-partys-efforts-with-eminent-personalities-829934.html
25-04-2020||National Politics||Congress leader Shahsi Tharoor urges PM Narendra Modi to facilitate return of Indians stranded in GCC nations||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to facilitate the return of Indians stranded in Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) region and set up region-specific task forces using local community resources to streamline relief and repatriation operations. In a letter to the prime minister and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Tharoor highlighted the difficulties being faced by Indians in the Gulf and shared his suggestions to help address some of their existing concerns. Tharoor called for developing region-specific task forces using local community resources in order to streamline relief and repatriation operations. "While our embassies have been admirably executing their duties thus far, the government must also look into leveraging the substantial resources that we have in the region, including established Indian cultural organisations and expatriate groups, prominent community and business leaders and civil society organisations, which will help bolster the capacity of our government to reach out to Indians affected in these regions," Tharoor said. The task force should be representative of the diversity that these groups represent and could be convened by India's ambassador in that specific country, with the joint secretary in the Ministry of External Affairs who is in charge of that particular region, also closely involved in a suitable capacity to ensure coordination with the ministry, Tharoor said.  He also called for developing protocols to ensure the expedited repatriation of the mortal remains of Indians who have passed away in GCC countries. He urged the prime minister and the external affairs minister to facilitate the evacuation of certain economic and social groups from these regions back to their respective states. There are a number of groups that the government must look into evacuating such as the elderly and senior citizens, pregnant women, those with expired visit visas, the jobless, those on their final exit, persons released under pardon and so on, who do not otherwise form a part of the critical service providing segment in these countries, Tharoor said. Through special charter flights or commercial operations, it is imperative to look into evacuating these groups in a structured, phased and timely manner, the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said. "In order to ensure their safety and of Indian citizens in the country, a strong protocol should be developed in coordination with state governments, which, among others, would require any individual who is being evacuated to provide proof of COVID-19 testing, register their details with the central and state health ministry, and undergo both mandatory screening upon arrival as well as quarantine either at their respective homes or at a hospital," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leader-shahsi-tharoor-urges-pm-narendra-modi-to-facilitate-return-of-indians-stranded-in-gcc-nations-829609.html
25-04-2020||National Politics||Manmohan Singh slams govt over dearness allowance freeze||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh has slammed the government over freezing of dearness allowance, asserting that it was not necessary at this stage to impose hardships on government servants and armed forces personnel. "We should be on the side of people whose dearness allowance is being cut. I sincerely believe it is not necessary at this stage to impose hardships on government servants and also on the armed forces people," Singh said during the Congress's consultative group meeting whose video was released by the party on Saturday. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi also slammed the government over the issue, saying the problem was with the government's going ahead with the central vista redevelopment project. "You are taking away money from the middle class, you are not giving money to the poor people and you are spending it on your central vista," Gandhi told the meeting. Senior Congress leader and former finance minister P Chidambaram said, "When you (government) have not cut back expenditure on the bullet train, central vista development, those are the programmes which should be first put on halt before you halt people's dearness allowance." The Centre last month approved the land use change for execution of its ambitious central vista redevelopment project in Lutyens' Delhi with the issuance of a notification by the Union housing and urban affairs ministry. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the nation''s power corridor -- envisages a triangular Parliament building next to the existing one, common Central Secretariat and revamping of the 3-km-long Rajpath -- from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said it would have been fine if the money was being transferred to migrant labourers. "But you are continuing with the new Parliament House, new building for ministers, new house for PM, you are continuing with zero cut on expenditure of the government which could save you close to 2-2.5 lakh crore rupees. But, you are denying relief to your armed personnel, to your pensioners, to your government servants," he said. Former Union minister Manish Tewari said the first thing the government should have done before cutting allowances, salaries, etc. was to set up an expenditure rationalisation commission. Congress general secretary, organization, KC Venugopal said there is a lot of anguish among the government employees over the dearness allowance issue as it will harm them very much. The Congress last week had constituted a consultative group with former prime minister Singh as its chairman to deliberate on "current concerns" and formulate views and policy of the party on important issues. Besides Singh, Gandhi, Surjewala, Venugopal and Tewari, former union minister Jairam Ramesh, Praveen Chakravarty, Gaurav Vallabh, Supriya Shrinate, and the party's social media head Rohan Gupta are also part of the panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/manmohan-singh-slams-govt-over-dearness-allowance-freeze-829691.html
25-04-2020||National Politics||Rajya Sabha lost 4,186 hours to disruptions in 41 years, 27.57% time spent on law-making||Rajya has lost 4,186 hours to disruptions in 41 years during 1978-2018 while it utilised 3,429 hours on lawmaking, a first of its kind analysis by Rajya Sabha Secretariat has shown. It showed that 27.57% of the total functional time (13,946 hours) during the sessions in 41 years were spent on legislation while 40.20% was utilised for deliberating various issues of public importance. It also showed 32.22% of the time was spent in ensuring the accountability of the executive. The analysis, which is done for a 41-year period since 1978 for which required data is available, came after Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu sought to know the time spent by the House on legislative, oversight and deliberative. The Rajya Sabha had 3,022 sittings during the 41 years under analysis where 18,132 hours were available for business. However, business could be transacted for only 13,946 hours or 76.91%, due to disruptions. The Upper House transacted business at an average of 340 hours per year excluding disruptions. In effect, it said this equalled to 57 sittings without any disruptions per year while 17 sittings on an average were lost due to disruptions every year. In these 41 years, Rajya Sabha spent up to 20% of its time on making laws in 12 years, 21% to 30% in 21 years, 31% to 35% in the next six years and 36% to 40% in next two years. On legislation, the analysis showed that 24.05% of the time spent on consideration and passing of the government Bills and 3.52% on Private Members’ Bills. During this period, the House spent 3,429 hours on dealing with government Bills and 489 hours on Private Members’ Bills. The report said legislation is need-based and time for discussing Bills is allocated by the Business Advisory Committee. The adequacy of the time spent on such proposals  or otherwise may not be amenable to any objective assessment. It said time spent on government Bills ranged from 10.87% of the total time in 2015 to 40.09% in 2002.  However, this has touched a record high of 45.90% during the 250th Session of Rajya Sabha last year.  A record 15 Bills were passed with the House spending 49.08 hours out of the total session time of 107.05 hours during this session. When it comes to deliberative functions, the analysis showed that general discussion on Budget took 7.08% of the total functional time during 1978-2018 while the share of debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's Speech comes to 4.36%. Zero Hour and Special Mentions took about 10% of the time and functioning of ministries took 3.93% of the time. The Oversight function of the House is ensured through Questions (timeshare of 14.19%), Calling Attention Notices (7.11%), Statements of Ministers on various issues (6.33%), Private Members’ Resolutions (3.16%) and Half an Hour Discussions (1.25%) among others. Rajya Sabha during 1978-2018 in a snapshot:  * Total sittings: 3,022* Total Transacted business:13,946 hours (as against total available time of 18,132 hours)*  Productivity of the House: 76.91%*  Lost due to disruptions 23.09%* Transacted business at an average of 340 hours per year excluding disruptions. In effect equals to 57 sittings without any disruptions per year * Sittings lost every year due to disruptions: 17* Actual functional time, excluding disruptions, range: 139 hours to 580 hours per year* Rajya Sabha functioned for 139 to 200 hours in 5 years; 201 to 300 hours – 14 years; 301 to 400 hours – 7 years; 401 to 500 hours – 9 years and over 500 hours in 6 years* All instances of working for above 500 hours per year were during 1978-1988* Since 1995, there were only 6 instances of the House functioning for more than 300 hours per year during the 23 years* Since 2010, it has been below 300 hours per year||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-lost-4186-hours-to-disruptions-in-41-years-2757-time-spent-on-law-making-829734.html
25-04-2020||National Politics||Cong seeks Goa CM's apology on reduction in culture dept spend||"Sawant must immediately withdraw his statement and apologise to the artists' community of Goa. It is unfortunate that the chief minister did not utter a word about the hard times faced by various artists in Goa after the lockdown was announced (on March 24). "All the programs, dramas, concerts, weddings etc got cancelled which has rendered thousands of artists jobless. The future of artists is bleak as no one knows when this pandemic will come to an end," said Goa Pradesh Congress Committee spokesman Siddhanath Buyao. Buyao said the CM should first check "wasteful expenditure and corruption" in the PWD, Tourism, Sports, Garbage Management and other departments before imposing restrictions on cultural activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cong-seeks-goa-cms-apology-on-reduction-in-culture-dept-spend-829751.html
25-04-2020||National Politics||Formulate a national plan for handling coronavirus crisis: Congress to govt||The Congress on Saturday urged the government to formulate a national plan for handling the coronavirus crisis under the Disaster Management Act. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal said at a press conference via video-conferencing that it is time the government should rethink on lockdown measures as the country cannot have the "lockdown of people and lockout of the economy". "You cannot have a lockdown of people, and a lockout of the economy. That is not the way to formulate policy. We are not criticising, we are only saying it is time to rethink, we will support the government in every possible way,"he said. Sibal also called upon the judiciary to evolve a policy to ensure that the justice delivery system is considered an essential service during such crisis. Sibal alleged that bureaucrats, who do not have any idea about ground realities, were formulating policy for the government during the lockdown.  The former union minister said as per the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the Union government was duty bound to formulate the National Plan to deal with COVID-19, but strangely the government has maintained "conspicuous silence" on the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The Union government, in the absence of a National Plan to deal with COVID-19, seems to have delegated its responsibilities under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to state governments, he alleged. Without the necessary infrastructure, both human and physical, and adequate financial resources, state governments are not in a position to effectively deal with this pandemic, he noted. "Our prime minister’s limited role, so far as we can see, is addressing the nation from time to time. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) made no preparations to put in place a plan despite the WHO declaring the virus to be a public health emergency towards the end of January. "Why were detailed plans not made within seven weeks of the WHO declaration when on March 24, the prime minister announced a national lockdown? We are in the fourth week of April, yet there is no plan in place even now," Sibal said. "We would like the prime minister to inform the people of this country about the minimum standards of relief that are required to be provided to persons affected by the disaster. Instead of discharging its solemn responsibilities to provide succour to the poor and helpless stranded migrants, the Union government has chosen to shift the onus to state governments to do what they can without a plan and without guidelines prescribing minimum standards of relief," Sibal alleged. "It is unfortunate that even till date, there is no plan. We are all aware that the provisions in shelters are pathetic without adequate sanitation, medical cover, food and clean drinking water. States are not able to make available adequate food supplies to those affected," he said.  The secretary, Ministry of Home Affaires (MHA), presumably presiding over the National Executive Committee (NEC) under the Act, is issuing directions to state governments to deal with the situation as best as they can. He said the secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), presumably presiding over the National Executive Committee (NEC) under the Act, is issuing directions to state governments to deal with the situation as best as they can. "Bureaucrats sitting in North Block are formulating policies. I am sorry to say they have no capacity to do that as they do not know what is happening on the ground. "This top-down approach would not work, it has to be a bottoms-up approach," the Congress leader demanded. The Congress leader also said the impact of lockdown on small businesses has been devastating. Not only are their finances stretched but many of them do not have the capacity to pay, he said, adding if they do not, they are liable to be penalised and prosecuted. He said Section 10(2) of the Act does not even authorise NEC to issue any such directions, leave alone the MHA. It envisages the constitution of a fund to be called the National Disaster Management Fund (Section 47), he said, adding that it is for “projects exclusively for the purpose of mitigation”. Sibal said one wonders whether laws enacted by parliament are meant to be followed or disregarded by governments. "Jettisoning laws passed by parliament is constitutionally impermissible. Apart from the fact that the Union did not have a plan of action and foisted its responsibilities on state governments, the Union’s outreach for saving lives and protecting human dignity reached rock-bottom," he said. Public functionaries must conduct affairs of state in accordance with the constitution and the laws, he noted, adding that no one is above the law. "Rule through diktat by men belonged to another era. Our country deserves better," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/formulate-a-national-plan-for-handling-coronavirus-crisis-congress-to-govt-829787.html
25-04-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi hits out at govt on DA freeze, says wasteful expenses should be cut||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra questioned the government on Saturday over the decision to freeze the dearness allowance (DA) of its employees and pensioners, and asked it to curtail wasteful expenditures. She asked the BJP-led government what was the basis of freezing the DA of health workers and policemen, who were putting in extra hours at work in this time of crisis.  Gandhi also asked the government to stall the bullet train and new Parliament complex buildings instead. "What is the logic of cutting the DA of government employees? While the pressure of work on them has increased manifold in these times, what is the rationale for cutting the DA of health workers and policemen serving day and night? The third and fourth class employees are pained by this. Why are people dependent on pension being hurt," the Congress general secretary said in a tweet in Hindi. "Why do governments not stop their wasteful expenses? Why a 30 pc reduction in government expenditure is not being announced? Why is Rs 1.25-lakh bullet train project and Rs-20,000 crore new Parliament building project, which are unnecessary, not being stalled," she also asked. The Congress has been making this demand to the government for some days now, while calling the decision to freeze the DA of employees and pensioners unjust.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-hits-out-at-govt-on-da-freeze-says-wasteful-expenses-should-be-cut-829804.html
25-04-2020||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi seeks economic package for revival of MSMEs from PM Narendra Modi amid coronavirus lockdown||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce a financial package for the revival of the MSME sector, saying if ignored, the problem can have a devastating and expansive ripple effect on the country's economy. In a letter to Modi, Gandhi also made some suggestions for the revival of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), which is reeling under the adverse impact of the coronavirus lockdown. She urged the prime minister to announce a Rs 1 lakh crore "MSME Wage Protection" package as also a credit guarantee fund of an equivalent amount, besides a 24X7 helpline for helping them out of this crisis. While highlighting the crisis, she said MSME sector is suffering around Rs 30,000 crore loss every day due to the lockdown and efforts should be made to help revive them as they are the backbone of the economy. "If ignored, this issue has the potential of having a devastating and expansive ripple effect on our economy," she said in the letter. She also added that as the nation continues to fight against COVID-19, it essential to highlight an economic concern that needs immediate attention and intervention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhi-seeks-economic-package-for-revival-of-msmes-from-pm-narendra-modi-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-829835.html
25-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus Lockdown: Pulse politics in pandemic times||Pulse politics has kicked up in the midst of the pandemic. While the government has been repeatedly reeling out figures of food and ration supply to the poor as one month of the 40-day lockdown to fight coronavirus has been completed, Opposition Congress on Saturday raises questions on the supply of free pulses to the poor. “There are 19.55 crore beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act. Even after a month since announcement, the government has disbursed only 10 percent of free pulses for the poor. While lakhs starve and suffer, the government expects the nation to clap,” Youth Congress said. Data of Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution showed that till Wednesday out of total monthly allocation of 1.95 lakh metric ton (LMT) pulses under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY), only 19,496 ton have been distributed by the states. On Saturday the Government issued a detailed statement. claiming that the “biggest operation for distribution of pulses underway”. “NAFED is to distribute about 5.88 LMT pulses to about 2 crore NFSA households through ration shops for three months under PMGKAY The operation will involve about two lakh truck trips and loading/unloading over 4 weeks,” Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution said in a press statement. The ministry also chose to emphasize that the scale of this operation is massive and “far more complex than food grain movement”. “Each kg of pulse goes through at least three (in many cases four) trips by truck and as many cycles of loading and unloading. While for long distances, transport is being done through goods trains, in most cases transportation is by road through trucks,” it said.  The ministry also argued that while the exercise is ambitious in normal times,  it is “very challenging during lockdown with many of the dal mills and godowns located in the hotspot areas”. Starting a hashtag #BalconySarkar, the Congress meanwhile trained guns on the government for having implemented the lockdown abruptly without a single consideration for the lakhs of migrant workers and daily wage earners. “Thousands across the nation still have no access to food, shelter and water even after walking hundreds of kilometers Shameful.  As much as we respect the decision to impose lockdown, the way it was imposed affecting millions of migrants should be critically examined. The plight of migrants has not changed even after one month of lockdown. They are still struggling for food & shelter,” the Youth Congress said. Drawing parallels, former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah said the government should take full responsibility for this fiasco. “Migrants are as humans as the NRIs. Similar arrangements could have been made to ensure safe travel for migrants. The miserable response of the government has exposed the classist attitude of the government,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-pulse-politics-in-pandemic-times-829838.html
25-04-2020||National Politics||Vishwa Hindu Parishad terms Maharashtra's Palghar incident 'premeditated anti-Hindu conspiracy'; Congress alleges BJP involvement||While the Maharashtra government has ruled out any communal angle into the Palghar killing of two Hindu monks, Vishwa Hindu Parishad has kept the pot boiling. Alleging that Christian missionaries and leftist activities are the geneses of incidents like Palghar, the VHP unveiled programmes from Saturday to till April 28 including sending petitions to President Ram Nath Kovind and Governors in various states on Palghar incident. Paying tributes to the Hindu monks killed in Palghar and seeking ‘sadbudhi’ (good sense) to Maharashtra government, VHP announced plans for ‘deepdan’ (offering candles) in religious meetings of its women wings Matri Shakti and Durga Vahini on Saturday. In a statement, VHP general secretary Milind Parande, who had on Thursday termed the Palghar incident as “premeditated anti-Hindu conspiracy”, scaled up the attack on Christian missionaries and leftist organisations in Palghar further after the “murderous attack” on saint Dandi Swami Pushpendra Ji Maharaj in Hoshiarpur in Punjab. “It is extremely worrying that the main perpetrators of the Palghar murders are still not captured and in the same way, the Punjab attackers have also not been arrested by the Punjab government,” the VHP said in a statement. Parande said murderous attacks being mounted ever more on Hindu saints is a matter of great concern for the Hindu society.  Congress member Gaurav Pandhi, however, tweeted “among 101 accused who are arrested in Palghar lynching case, many of them are local BJP leaders. No wonder BJP leaders are hiding and lapdogs aren't daring to question the BJP on its involvement in the lynching. INDIA DEMANDS BJP TO COME OUT AND EXPLAIN!” Among 101 accused who are arrested in Palghar lynching case, many of them are local BJP leaders. No wonder BJP leaders are hiding and lapdogs aren't daring to question the BJP on its involvement in the lynching.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vishwa-hindu-parishad-terms-maharashtras-palghar-incident-premeditated-anti-hindu-conspiracy-congress-alleges-bjp-involvement-829856.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Army jawan dies in Jammu and Kashmir after his service weapon goes off accidentally||An army jawan died of injuries sustained in the accidental discharge of his automatic weapon in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, officials said. Havildar Rakesh Kumar, posted at Hirri in Kupwara, got injured when his service weapon accidentally went off at an army camp, the officials said. They said he was taken to a military hospital in Drugmulla where he succumbed to injuries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-jawan-dies-in-jammu-and-kashmir-after-his-service-weapon-goes-off-accidentally-829570.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||CRPF jawan injured in grenade attack in Jammu and Kashmir's Budgam district||A CRPF jawan was injured in a grenade attack by militants in Jammu and Kashmir's Budgam district on Friday, officials said.  The militants hurled a grenade at a CRPF camp at Dooniwara in the district's Chadoora area around 6.30 pm, they said. The officials said the jawan suffered minor injuries in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-jawan-injured-in-grenade-attack-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-budgam-district-829579.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Maoist urban support netork busted in Chhattisgarh; seven held||The Chhattisgarh Police on Friday claimed to have busted an alleged Maoist urban support network, with the arrest of seven people, including three construction contractors, from separate places in the state. While two persons, identified as Tapas Palit and Dayashankar Mishra, were arrested last month, five others were held recently by Kanker district police, Inspector General of Police (Bastar Range) Sundarraj P told PTI on Friday. On March 24, the police had arrested contractor Palit while he was allegedly transporting a huge consignment of shoes, fabrics and walkie-talkie sets, meant for Naxals in his SUV, from Siksod police station area of Kanker district, he said. During his interrogation, he revealed about the Maoist couriers network, which had beeen supplying various kinds of material and cash to Maoists since the last two years in northBastar, he said. Mishra, who was associated with him, was later arrested from Rajandgaon district, the official said. For an extensive probe into the matter, a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of Kanker police led by Additional Superintendent of Police Kirtan Rathore was constituted, he said. The SIT recently arrested five more persons- Ajay Jain (45), Komal Prasad Verma, both contractors from Rajnandgaon, Rohit Nag (33) of Koyalibeda in Kanker, Sushil Sharma (50) of Uttar Pradesh and Suresh Sharnagat (28) of Madhya Pradesh in this connection, he said. As per the preliminary probe, two other Rajnandgaon- based contractors were allotted road construction works under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY) in Antagarh, Amabeda, Siksod, Koyalibeda and other Naxal-affected areas of Kanker district by the government department concerned, the IG said. The two contractors then authorised Ajay Jain, Komal Prasad Verma and Palit to carry out the construction work, he said. "The trio allegedly established communication with the Naxals. They had been supplying shoes, Maoist uniforms, walkie-talkie sets and other materials along with lakhs of rupees of cash to the Maoists since the past two years," he said, adding that the remaining arrested persons are their accomplices. Two cars and ten mobile phones were also seized from their possession, he said. The involvement of some other people in the offence is being probed, he added. According to police, the Maoists have suffered a huge blow with these arrests as the ongoing lockdown has already paralysed their supply chain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/maoist-urban-support-netork-busted-in-chhattisgarh-seven-held-829580.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police sanctions Rs 1 lakh each to its personnel who contracted COVID-19 while on duty||The Delhi Police has sanctioned Rs 1 lakh each to its personnel who have tested positive for coronavirus while on duty, officials said on Friday. There are 21 Delhi Police personnel who have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The list of coronavirus-infected personnel comprises 14 personnel from Central district, six from northwest district and one from the traffic police. The police headquarters will arrange the payment from Delhi Police Welfare Society for the personnel expeditiously through the DCPs concerned, according to a letter. Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Thursday directed authorities to create a dedicated COVID-19 facility to treat infected Delhi Police personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-sanctions-rs-1-lakh-each-to-its-personnel-who-contracted-covid-19-while-on-duty-829595.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Tigress dies of kidney failure in Delhi zoo, it was tested coronavirus negative||A tigress has died in Delhi Zoo due to "acute renal failure" and old age-related health problems, and its samples were sent for coronavirus testing as the authorities feared the death might have been due to the infection. However, the samples have tested negative, officials said. The 13-year-old big cat named Kalpana died on Wednesday evening and the carcass was cremated on Thursday following directions to minimise human-animal interface, an official from the Environment Ministry said. The tigress had grown frail. Post-mortem revealed high creatinine levels, the official said on Friday. "Only a few officials were present during cremation of the tiger carcass, which was done in accordance with guidelines issued in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak," he said, adding, "Samples were sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly, for coronavirus testing. The reports are negative." Former member secretary of Central Zoo Authority (CZA) D N Singh on Friday alleged lapses on the part of the zoo authorities. "The tigress seems to have died due to dehydration. A senior veterinary officer from Jabalpur had advised the zoo officials to administer saline through rectum, as it is easier to absorb in the body this way, but the zoo staff did not do that," Singh alleged. "Also, no senior official was present when the animal was being cremated, which is in violation of the rules," he said.  In September last year, an eight-year-old tiger, Rama, had died of kidney failure in Delhi zoo. A blood report had stated that very high phosphorus content and creatinine levels impacted the functioning of the animal's kidneys. Earlier this month, the Environment Ministry and National Tiger Conservation Authority had issued strict guidelines to minimize human-animal interface after a tiger in the Bronx Zoo, in the US, contracted coronavirus from an infected caretaker. The CZA has also asked zoos across the country to remain on "highest" alert and collect samples fortnightly in suspected cases. The samples can be sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease in Bhopal, the National Research Centre on Equines in Haryana's Hisar and the Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tigress-dies-of-kidney-failure-in-delhi-zoo-it-was-tested-coronavirus-negative-829600.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||3 staffers of civic bodies test positive for coronavirus in Delhi||An assistant sanitary inspector from the north corporation and two sanitation workers from the south Delhi civic body have tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Friday. The 54-year-old North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) official is a resident of the Wazirpur JJ Colony and belonged to Rohini Zone. As many as 39 of his co-workers have been sent to home quarantine, they said. Two sanitation workers, a man and a woman, of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) have also tested positive for coronavirus. While the man worked in Bhogal area, the woman worked in Tagore Garden, the officials said. The male sanitation staff also suffers from liver-related issues. He was admitted to AIIMS on April 22 and is on ventilator support. He had attended duty only twice this month and was not posted in any hotspot area or engaged in disinfection work, they said. The woman SDMC staffer has been admitted to LNJP Hospital. Nine of her colleagues have been asked to go for home isolation, according to the officials. The woman's husband, who is also an SDMC sanitation worker in Tagore Garden, was found negative for COVID-19 on Thursday. But he was called for a re-test at LNJP Hospital. The couple lives in Mangolpuri, they said. NDMC authorities on Friday issued guidelines for sanitary staff and their supervisors, including wearing proper protection kits, using sanitisers and taking other precautions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-staffers-of-civic-bodies-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-delhi-829607.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdonw: Vasundhara Enclave’s Mansara Apartment Delhi’s first containment zone to be de-sealed||The Mansara Apartment in East Delhi's Vasundhara Enclave that was declared a coronavirus containment zone was de-sealed after no new cases were reported over past few weeks, officials said Friday. A government official said that this is the national capital's first COVID-19 containment zone which has been "de-contained". In a tweet, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal hailed his government's ''Operation SHIELD'' and the cooperation of people in its "success". "No new case in Mansara Apts in Vasundhara Enclave. Therefore, this containment zone is being de-contained. Operation Shield was successful becoz of cooperation from people living in this zone," Kejriwal tweeted. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia also said the Mansara Apartment was de-sealed and it has now come out of "hotspot zone category". East Delhi District Magistrate Arun Kumar Mishra has issued a de-containment order of Mansara Apartments. As on Thursday, there were 92 containment zones in the national capital.  The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital on Thursday rose to 2376, with 128 new cases and two fresh deaths being reported in a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdonw-vasundhara-enclave-s-mansara-apartment-delhi-s-first-containment-zone-to-be-de-sealed-829610.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: While trying to maintain social distancing, 3 cops injured in stone pelting by mob in Jharkhand||Three policemen were injured in an attack by a mob here on Friday when they tried to convince a group of people gathered near a religious place to maintain social distancing, police said. Five people have been arrested in connection with the incident which took place in Marao village under Thakurgangti police station area, they said. A police patrol team noticed that some people had gathered near a religious place in Marao village in Mahagama block and it asked them to follow social distancing, Superintendent of Police (SP) Sailendra Prasad Barnwal said. The group suddenly started pelting stones at the patrol team. Three policemen were injured and a windowpane of the police van was broken in the attack, he said.  Barnwal said five people have been arrested in the case and an FIR has been lodged against 60 unknown people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-while-trying-to-maintain-social-distancing-3-cops-injured-in-stone-pelting-by-mob-in-jharkhand-829611.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Man arrested for killing parents in Delhi||A 37-year-old man was arrested for allegedly killing his parents at their home in southwest Delhi's Chhawla area on Friday, police said. The accused, Satish, is unemployed. His wife, Kavita (35) is also being questioned in connection with the case, they said. Information about the incident was received at 11.15 am. The bodies of the two victims -- Raj Singh (61), a retired Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) official, and his wife Omwati (58) -- were found lying on a bed with cut marks on their faces, a senior police officer said.  The family stays in Durga Vihar. The exact cause of the couple's death is not clear. It will be ascertained after post-mortem, the officer said. The victims' son Satish has been arrested. Kavita is being interrogated and she will also be arrested, the police said. Sources said Satish was embroiled in a property dispute with his parents. Police said Singh's daughter had come to meet her parents on Friday morning. However, Satish and his wife did not let her enter the house. She got suspicious and informed the police. Satish has two kids and lived with his parents. He is unemployed was financially dependent on them, they said. Since the lockdown began, Satish used to have heated arguments with his parents. It is suspected that during one such heated argument he or his wife attacked the elderly couple, the police said. A probe is underway to establish the sequence of events, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-man-arrested-for-killing-parents-in-delhi-829614.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi: 31 staff including 11 doctors test positive for COVID-19 at Babu Jagjivan Ram hospital||Thirty-one staff at a Delhi government hospital, including 11 doctors, have tested positive for coronavirus till date, officials said on Friday. A senior official of the facility said some of the doctors and other staff have been admitted at LNJP Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, and some private hospitals, while rest have been sent to quarantine facilities, including one in Narela. "Till Thursday, seven doctors and seven other staff had reported positive for COVID-19, and the number has grown to 31 now. Four more doctors have tested positive," he said. He said the reason for such high rate of infection is possible because there seems to be a "community transmission" of the disease in Jahangirpuri area of north Delhi, where there are various containment zones. "Many people have been coming to our hospital without any symptoms and that could have spread the disease," he added. On Friday, besides doctors, nurses and paramedics, security guards, and deskpersons were also reported positive, the official said. First positive case at the hospital was reported on April 22 after tests were conducted on various staff, he said. Over 350 people have been tested for infection in the last several days, out of which 31 have tested positive, the official said. About 5-6 bodies have been brought from Jahangirpuri area to the hospital's morgue in the last few days, and it is suspected they may have had COVID-19, so swabs have been taken from them for testing, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-31-staff-including-11-doctors-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-babu-jagjivan-ram-hospital-829615.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Press Club of India slams action against 3 journalists in Jammu and Kashmir||The Press Club of India on Friday deplored the action against three journalists by law enforcement authorities in Jammu and Kashmir, saying it appeared designed to intimidate the media. In a statement, the press club said events of the past week underline the fact that the new norm in Kashmir is for the police to call journalists to police stations in connection with their published reports, photographs, or their social media posts, and to file FIRs against journalists. A case under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act has been filed against a young photo-journalist, while the correspondent of a prominent national daily has had a case registered against him for reporting that the police buried bodies of two men killed in an encounter when the family of at least one of them was ready to identify the alleged terrorist, it said. Another journalist is being sought to be prosecuted for his social media output where he questioned current methods against the media, the statement said, without naming the three journalists -- Masarat Zahra, The Hindu reporter Peerzada Ashiq and freelance journalist Gowhar Geelani. "In light of this background, the events of the past week appear designed to intimidate the media. Perhaps the effort is to convert the entire media into official media through arm-twisting, or to render them into a silent media," the press club alleged. "We deplore this trend. We demand that the criminal cases registered against journalists be withdrawn right away," the statement signed by press club president Anand Sahay said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/press-club-of-india-slams-action-against-3-journalists-in-jammu-and-kashmir-829616.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Uber offers free rides worth Rs 75 lakh to Delhi govt for healthcare workers, non-coronavirus patients||Uber on Friday offered free rides worth Rs 75 lakh to the Delhi government for transporting frontline healthcare workers, government officials on COVID-19 related duties and for other essential services. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind  Kejriwal acknowledged the offer in a tweet.  "Thank you for your support for Delhi's healthcare workers. It is heartening to see so many organizations pitching in to help fight Corona," he tweeted. As part of its offer, the ride hailing firm has partnered with the government to deploy 200 UberMedic cars, free of charge, to transport non-COVID-19 patients in coordination with the Centralised Ambulance Trauma Services (CATS) helpline, it said in a statement. The partnership with the Delhi government is part of Uber's global commitment to provide 10 million rides and food deliveries free of charge, recently announced by CEO Dara Khosrowshahi. "The Delhi Government has been working tirelessly to contain the spread of COVID-19. We feel privileged to be supporting the Delhi government in these challenging times and stand ready to provide essential services to help move what matters by leveraging our global experience, technology and network of drivers," Uber India and South Asia Director Operations and Head of Cities Prabhjeet Singh said. The company said all the UberMedic cars being provided to Delhi government are being fitted with a roof-to-floor plastic sheeting enclosing the driver, thereby limiting contact with the rider. Additionally, to maintain safety and hygiene standards, all drivers are being trained in safety procedures and being provided with personal protective equipment such as masks, gloves, sanitizers and disinfectants to sanitise the cars between rides. Uber's recently launched UberMedic service is already facilitating the provision of transporting frontline medical workers in 28 hospitals across 14 Indian cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uber-offers-free-rides-worth-rs-75-lakh-to-delhi-govt-for-healthcare-workers-non-coronavirus-patients-829617.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Community kitchens in Udhampur prepare over 7k food packets daily for stranded migrant workers||"In these community kitchens, the meals are cooked, packed and distributed among the needy at different locations of the district. The initiative has been widely hailed by people and till date, more than one lakh meals have been provided to needy persons at their doorsteps," a district officer said. Over 7,000 food packets are prepared and distributed among the needy in Udhampur town on a daily basis amid the lockdown imposed across the country to contain the spread of coronavirus, he said. The community kitchens have been set up at different locations to efficiently cater to the needy in the peripherals areas, he said. Initially, one community kitchen was set up by the district administration for feeding the stranded labourers and truck drivers. After observing the growing demand of food from different areas and getting requests from the poor, the district administration with the help of some volunteers later added two more community kitchens at different locations, the officer added. "Professional cooks prepare food in these community kitchens, volunteers pack and distribute the food packets among the needy at different locations. A distribution road map has been charted out, keeping in view all health advisories while cooking and distributing food," he added. For proper management of these community kitchens, DDC Udhampur Piyush Singla was appointed, GM DIC Suram Chand Sharma was appointed as Nodal Officer, assisted by Chief Horticulture Officer (CHO) Udhampur B V Gupta and three trainee officers Manik Singh Rathore, Ankush Tripathi and Sandeep Singh. A central stock store has been established under the supervision of the CHO at his office, from where raw material is provided to the three community kitchens, the officer said. Contact details of all the officers concerned and volunteers were widely circulated among the public, he said. "People in need of food called on the phone numbers and got food packets delivered at their doorsteps," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/community-kitchens-in-udhampur-prepare-over-7k-food-packets-daily-for-stranded-migrant-workers-829661.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||25 new coronavirus cases in Rajasthan, infection tally rises to 2,059||The state has so far seen 32 deaths due to COVID-19, with state capital Jaipur accounting for 18 deaths. "As many as 25 fresh cases have been reported in six districts of the state. However, the growth rate curve of coronavirus cases in state has flattened," Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said. Singh said that of the 25 fresh cases, eight were reported from Ajmer, five each from Jodhpur and Jhalawar, four from Kota, two in Dholpur, and one in Dungarpur. A total of 2,059 cases of the virus have been reported in the state so far. He said 691 patients have so far recovered for the infection in the state, of whom 198 have been discharged from hospitals. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran to Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/25-new-coronavirus-cases-in-rajasthan-infection-tally-rises-to-2059-829671.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Another COVID-19 patient dies in Jammu and Kashmir, death toll mounts to 6||Medical Superintendent at JVC Hospital, Dr Shifa Deva said the patient from Qaziabad, Tangmarg in Baramulla, who was tested positive for COVID-19 died in the morning. “The patient was admitted in the hospital on April 13,” she said, adding that the patient was suffering from hypertension and other illnesses.  With his death, the number of casualties due the coronavirus has reached six in Jammu and Kashmir.  In the state, the first death due to the coronavirus was reported on March 26, second on March 29, third on April 7, fourth on April 8 and fifth on April 17. Till April 24 evening, 454 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Jammu and Kashmir. Among the total 454 cases, 57 are from Jammu division and 397 are from Kashmir valley. Kashmir is among the highest COVID-19 case density areas in the country, which is over 56 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, Kashmir’s population is seven million. The national average per million population so far is 17. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions, Valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/another-covid-19-patient-dies-in-jammu-and-kashmir-death-toll-mounts-to-6-829688.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Two unidentified militants, ‘associate’ killed in Pulwama gunfight||Two unidentified militants and their ‘associate’ were killed in an encounter with the security forces in Awantipora area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Saturday, police said. A police official said on ‘specific input’ about the presence of militants, a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) was launched in Goripora area of Awantipora, 30 km from here, early Saturday morning, by joint team of Army’s 50 Rashtriya Rifles and J&K Police. During the searches, the hiding militants fired upon security forces, which was retaliated, triggering an encounter, he said. Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said that two unidentified militants and one ‘hardcore associate of terrorists’ were killed in the gunfight. He did not divulge further details. Pertinently, this was the second encounter in south Kashmir in the last 24 hours. On Friday evening, two militants were killed and a policeman received injuries in a brief shootout in Kharpora-Arwani area of Anantnag district while police said an abducted cop was rescued during the operation. After the outbreak of COVID-19, at least 20 militants have been killed in Kashmir. This includes five militants who were killed in a fierce gunfight in the Keran sector along the Line of Control, in which five Army soldiers also lost their lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-unidentified-militants-associate-killed-in-pulwama-gunfight-829710.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||7 new COVID-19 patients in Firozabad, total cases rise to 78||All the fresh cases have been reported from hotspot in the Ramgarh police station area here, Chief Medical Officer SK Dixit said, adding that the area has been completely sealed off. A list of people who came in contact with them is being prepared, the CMO added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-new-covid-19-patients-in-firozabad-total-cases-rise-to-78-829744.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Standalone shops of mobile phones, garments, hardware allowed to open during coronavirus lockdown, but not markets||Neighbourhood and standalone shops, including those selling garments, mobile phones, hardware and stationery items have been allowed to open but those located in market places, malls and COVID-19 hotspot and containment zones, will continue to remain shut till May 3. In rural areas, all shops, except those in single and multi-brand shopping malls, are allowed to open. While allowing these shops to open, a move seen as a relief to people who have been under lockdown since March 24, the government order issued on Friday night said that the shops will be functioning with 50 per cent of the workforce and after adhering strictly to precautions which include social distancing and wearing of masks. The Union Home Ministry also said malls, liquor and cigarette shops, sale of non-essential items through e-commerce platforms continue to remain shut. Restaurants, hair salons and barbershops will not be allowed to open as these render services and do not fall under the shop category. Amending its April 15 order, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said in the Friday night order that "all shops, including neighbourhood shops and standalone shops, shops in residential complexes, within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, registered under the Shops and Establishment Act of the respective State and UT" will be allowed to open during the lockdown. The ministry also said shops located in registered markets located outside the municipal corporations and municipalities can open after following the drill of social distancing and wearing of masks but with 50 per cent of strength. However, single and multi-brands shall continue to remain closed in these areas also. "All shops registered under the Shops and Establishment Act of the respective State/UT, including shops in residential complexes and market complexes, except shops in multi-brand and single-brand malls, outside the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, with 50 per cent strength of workers with wearing of masks and social distancing being mandatory" will be allowed to function, the order said.  In a statement on Saturday, the home ministry said the order implies that in rural areas, all shops, except those in shopping malls are allowed to open. In urban areas, all standalone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes are allowed to open. Shops in markets and market complexes and shopping malls are not allowed to open. "It is clarified that sale by e-commerce companies will continue to be permitted for essential goods only," the order said and also added that sale of liquor and other items continues to be prohibited as specified in the national directives for COVID-19 management. The ministry said that liquor shops were given licence under the Excise Act of the states and the establishments thrown open from Saturday were covered under the Shops and Establishment Act of the states. Sale of cigarettes, gutka are continuing to be prohibited during the lockdown. "As specified in the consolidated revised guidelines, these shops will not be permitted to open in areas, whether rural or urban, which are declared as containment zones by respective States and Union Territories," the statement said. The lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 in a bid to combat the Coronavirus endemic. It was further extended till May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/standalone-shops-of-mobile-phones-garments-hardware-allowed-to-open-during-coronavirus-lockdown-but-not-markets-829766.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Five members of family found dead in a house in Uttar Pradesh||Bodies of five members of a family were found in a house in Singar Nagar locality here on Saturday, police said. On receiving information that the body of a woman, Divya (37) was lying in the house of her in-law, police rushed to the spot to find four more bodies. The other deceased are Divya's sister Bulbul (27), son Aarush (8), another child. Their bodies were found in one room. The body of the woman's father-in-law 75-year-old Rajeshwar Pachauri was found in the second floor of the house, a police official said. He said there were injury marks on the neck of the woman while sulphas tablets and a bottle of disinfectant were found near other bodies. Further investigation is on, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-members-of-family-found-dead-in-a-house-in-uttar-pradesh-829769.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||HC gives 2 weeks to 5 Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee schools to pay salary arrears of teachers||The Delhi High Court has granted two weeks' time to five schools run by the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) to pay salary arrears to its teachers, some of whom have not been paid since December last year. A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Sangita Dhingra Sehgal said "there can be no justification for non-payment of salaries" when fees were being charged from the students. The schools had contended that the salaries could not be paid as fee arrears from students had accumulated. The bench rejected the contention and granted the schools two weeks' time to "positively clear and pay all the arrears" to the affected teachers. With the direction, the court listed the matter for May 11, when the schools will have to show that they have complied with the order. The order came on appeals filed by the teachers of the five schools located at Fateh Nagar, Tilak Nagar, Nanak Piao, Hargobind Enclave and India Gate here. The appeals were filed against a single-judge order of the high court, which had not granted any interim relief to them and asked the Directorate of Education to decide on their representation for implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission recommendations, advocate Nikhilesh Kumar, who appeared for the teachers, said. In the appeals, filed through Kumar, the teachers of the Fateh Nagar, Tilak Nagar and Nanak Piao schools had claimed that they were not paid salaries since December last year and Rs 15,000 were paid to them as an ad-hoc amount on April 23. The teachers of the Hargobind Enclave school had said only the salary of March was not paid to them. The teachers of the school at India Gate had said they had received 85 per cent of their January salary and nothing thereafter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-gives-2-weeks-to-5-delhi-sikh-gurdwara-management-committee-schools-to-pay-salary-arrears-of-teachers-829791.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||UP govt starts bringing back workers amid coronavirus lockdown; Over 2,000 return from Haryana||The Uttar Pradesh Government has started bringing back workers hailing from the state who were stranded in other parts of the country due to the lockdown and as many as 2,224 labourers have returned in the first phase, a senior official said on Saturday. Briefing reporters here, Additional Chief Secretary (Home and Information) Awanish Awasthi said the first batch of workers was brought back in 82 buses from Haryana on Saturday, and 11,000 workers will return by Sunday. All the workers will be kept in a 14-day quarantine. "Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had issued directions to bring back labourers belonging to UP from other states in a phased manner. "In this regard, on Saturday as many as 2,224 labourers were brought back in 82 buses from Haryana. These labourers hail from 16 districts of western UP," Awasthi said. Orders have been issued to prepare shelter homes in the state in a major way so that the returnees can be quarantined there. "Instructions have been issued to install public address system at the shelter homes, and make arrangements for food and toilets," Awasthi said.  It has also been directed that once the quarantine period of the labourers coming from other states ends, preparations should be made to provide them employment near their village, the official said. Migrant workers in several states have demanded that they be sent back to their native places as many, especially daily-wagers, were facing financial hardships after a lockdown was imposed from March 25 to check the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-starts-bringing-back-workers-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-over-2000-return-from-haryana-829794.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Northern railways develops hands-free washbasins for contactless experience||The Railways plans to roll out hands-free washbasins at all its stations, field units and hospitals to protect its employees and passengers from coronavirus infection. An order was issued Saturday to develop and carry out trial for similar contactless washbasin system for passenger coaches as well. In this washbasin, the user has to primarily press a pedal attached to the contactless basin with his feet for water and soap to come out from separate dispensers, without touching any knob with his or her hands.  A Northern Railways workshop has, however, manufactured different models of contactless washbasins with the help of local resources and in-house engineering skills - foot-pedal operated with clutch-wire mechanism, foot-pedal operated with mechanical linkage, electro-mechanically operated system, and a sensor-based automatically operated system. The timeline for the roll-out of the washbasins will depend on the number of orders being given to the Northern Railways' workshop which has developed the model, a senior official of the zone said. "These hands-free washbasins can be used at stations field units, workshops and hospitals. We are exploring ways to put them on passenger coaches as well and we will start trials soon. "We have recognised that the pandemic will spread if we continue with our conventional ways of hand washing at conventional wash basins,” Arun Arora, the Principal Chief Mechanical Engineer, Northern Railway, told PTI. “The touch-free rugged and reliable washbasins where people can wash their hands as many times as they want without touching the tap or soap dispenser is the answer to this problem." One unit of the contactless washbasin will tentatively cost around Rs 8,000-Rs 11,000.  Arora said the prices would decrease significantly once they are mass-produced. The Jagadhri workshop of the Northern Railways, the national transporter's largest zone, has gone big with its contactless innovation, has developed this gadget, leveraging mechatronics. Seventy such washbasins have already been installed at several field offices of northern railways. Loaded with automatic sensors, the washbasin is electrically operated along with a standby manual mechanical paddle operation, allowing the user a completely hands-free experience. Such hands-free washbasins have already been provided at various field units, workshops and other places of the Northern Railway like the Central Hospital, New Delhi. "Before the resumption of normal work in field units post-lockdown, we plan to install hundreds of such washbasins at all the field units of Northern Railway," said Arora. Meanwhile, the Electric Loco Shed in Angul, Odisha, has also tried to manufacture a foot-operated hand washbasin which allows people to avoid any contact with water tap or the soap dispenser by hand. Easily operated using the feet, this design has separate levers for running water and soap dispensers and is being used by the shed staff. Another attempt has also been made at the East Central Railway (ECR)'s Barwadih Wagon Care Centre in its Dhanbad Division, where a modified washbasin has been developed in which the water tap and the soap-dispenser are mechanically operated without touch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-northern-railways-develops-hands-free-washbasins-for-contactless-experience-829798.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||No public gatherings in Uttar Pradesh till June 30: CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh government will not allow any public gathering till June 30, well beyond the end of the current nationwide lockdown, officials said on Saturday. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has told officials that the situation will be reviewed after June 30. “Chief Minister @myogiadityanth ji has directed officials not to allow any public gathering till June 30. After that a decision will be taken considering the circumstances,” the CM’s office tweeted in Hindi.  The current lockdown across the country is schedule to end on May 3, if no further extension is announced. The chief minister’s media adviser also put out a similar tweet. “Chief Minister Yogi Adityanathji has given strict instructions to officers that no crowd of any kind gathers anywhere till June 30. This decision has been taken with the intention of keeping coronavirus under check,” Mrityunjay Kumar said. The restriction will have a direct impact on Eid festivities, apart from other religious gatherings.  In a video conference with district magistrates and police chiefs, Adityanath also referred to the just-begun month of Ramzan, an official said. “In view of the coronavirus outbreak, all religious leaders have appealed to Muslim brothers to offer namaz at their homes,” the official quoted the CM as saying at the meeting. “Therefore, it needs to be made sure that no programme is organised anywhere. There is no mass gathering as there are all chances of the infection spreading,” the CM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-public-gatherings-in-uttar-pradesh-till-june-30-cm-yogi-adityanath-829806.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||157 fresh coronavirus cases reported in Uttar Pradesh; total now 1,778||As many as 157 new cases of COVID-19 infection were reported in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, taking the total in the state to 1,778, a senior government official said here. With this, the number of active cases climbs to 1,504, Principal Secretary, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad added. "Till now, 248 COVID-19 patients have been discharged in the state, while 26 deaths have taken place," he said. Prasad added that 57 of the state's 75 districts have so far reported coronavirus cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/157-fresh-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-uttar-pradesh-total-now-1778-829808.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||After defeating coronavirus, fasting doctor takes lead in plasma donation||A resident doctor himself, Tauseef Khan had been infected with coronavirus while treating COVID-19 patients at KG Medical University hospital here and remained under treatment for twenty days. Though he felt weaker and was also keeping 'Roza' (fasting by the Muslims during the holy month of Ramzan), Khan not only decided to donate his plasma for the treatment of the other coronavirus infected patients, but also took the lead in convincing many other patients, who had recovered from the infection. Khan requested the doctors to take his plasma first so that the other recovered patients could be encouraged to do the same. It is not that the decision to donate plasma was easy for Khan. His family members advised him against doing so, apparently thinking that it may weaken a convalescing Khan. But for him the welfare of the patients was the first priority.   ''Plasma therapy trials have shown encouraging results...After all, it is my duty to look after the patients,'' he said. The therapy uses antibodies developed within an infected person as part of the body's natural immune response to the coronavirus. A patient, who has recovered from the infection, can donate his blood, which can be used to treat the other infected patients.  Plasma, which contains the antibodies, is extracted from the blood and injected into the body of the infected patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-defeating-coronavirus-fasting-doctor-takes-lead-in-plasma-donation-829809.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Ola partners Delhi govt to offer free emergency mobility to citizens||Ride-hailing major Ola on Saturday said it has partnered with Delhi state government's health department to offer free medical transportation to people. Citizens in need of mobility support for any non-COVID medical care can dial 102 and the health ministry team will allocate a cab for the patient to be transported to a hospital free of cost, a statement said. "Ola is providing convenient, reliable and safe transport services for all non-COVID medical trips such as scheduled check-ups, dialysis, chemotherapy and for immediate medical needs such as injuries, amongst others," it added. Ola said it is facilitating a clean and safe ride experience by ensuring that all earmarked cabs are equipped with essential protective equipment like masks and sanitizers and are operated by specially trained driver-partners following proper sanitary measures as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Health. "We are grateful to the Delhi Government for this collaboration and the opportunity to enable mobility support for the state's healthcare system amidst the ongoing crisis. Access to healthcare, especially for non-COVID related emergencies is becoming a major challenge in our cities," an Ola spokesperson said. Through this initiative, Ola will be able to supplement the existing ambulance network with access to quick and safe mobility for anyone in need to get to the hospital, the spokesperson added. The company is also partnering with state governments across the country and will continue to support them with their emergency response efforts, the spokesperson said. Ola has also collaborated with the Ministry of Health, Karnataka and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to provide essential mobility services in Bangalore and Mumbai, respectively by ferrying medical staff, healthcare workers and paramedical staff from homes to hospitals. The company has rolled out its new category, 'Ola Emergency' that will provide transport for medical trips to and from hospitals across 15 cities - Mumbai, Bengaluru, Gurugram, Vizag, Nashik, Varanasi, Indore, Bhopal, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Mohali, Rourkela and Bhubaneswar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ola-partners-delhi-govt-to-offer-free-emergency-mobility-to-citizens-829811.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Four new COVID-19 cases in Jharkhand; total rises to 63||Four people tested positive for coronavirus in Jharkhand on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 63, officials said here. Of the fresh cases, three are from Ranchi's Hindpiri locality and one from the city's Kantatoli area, a health official said.  The number of active cases in the state now stands at 52, Ranchi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) director Dr D K Singh said. Four samples tested positive for COVID-19 infection on Saturday, he said. Till date, eight people have been cured of the disease in the state, the official added. A medical bulletin said two people have died in the state due to the contagion so far, while another died due to comorbid conditions after testing negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-new-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand-total-rises-to-63-829840.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||'Govt should expedite sanctioning amount from Rs 25,000 crore stress fund for stalled housing projects'||Realty firms are not able to access money from the government's Rs 25,000 crore stress fund to complete stalled housing projects, and all roadblocks should be removed for the success of this scheme, said Anthony De Sa, Chairman, Madhya Pradesh-RERA. He was speaking at a webinar organised by industry body Nardeco. Real estate regulators, set up under the Real Estate (Regulations and Development) Act, called RERA, of various states, addressed over 1,000 members of the association. The regulators agreed that there is a need to give relief to the sector to tide over the crisis. The authorities assured that they would look into various demands, including an extension of the timeline for completing projects. At the outset, Uttar Pradesh RERA Chairman Rajive Kumar said the construction activities need to start whenever the government permits.  In view of the ongoing lockdown, Kumar said the real estate demand is expected to fall. "There is an issue of funding as well". The UP-RERA chairman also stressed on adoption of safe practices and proper training to the labour force for maintaining hygiene as well as social distancing once construction work starts on the sites. Anthony De Sa said the problems of liquidity crisis and demand slowdown have exacerbated because of the lockdown. Talking about the stressed fund, he said the government had in November last year created a special window of Rs 25,000 crore for completion of over 1,500 stalled housing projects. However, he said there are issues in the implementation of this scheme, which seeks to help complete 4.58 lakh housing units across the country. Anthony said existing lenders are not giving the NoCs (no-objection certificates) for creation of the first charge to SBI CAP, which is managing this fund.  "Builders are unable to access this fund. We need to remove this bottleneck," he said, adding that some guidelines need to be issued by the Reserve Bank of India or the finance ministry in this regard. The scheme will become a non-starter, if this roadblock is not removed, said Anthony De Sa. The UP RERA-chairman also pointed out that the pace of sanctions of amount from this stress fund was slow. On demand for reduction in GST and stamp duty, the MP-RERA chairman said these are policy issues, but should be considered if needed to boost demand. However, he reminded that many builders did not pass the benefits of previous GST reduction to homebuyers. Anthony De Sa also stressed on the need to rationalise the circle rates in various states so that these reflect the current market situation. Haryana RERA Chairman K K Kahndelwal said steps need to be taken to kick-start engine again and that too at fast pace, as real estate has a multiplier effect on the economy. He pitched for the single window approval system for development of real estate projects to bring down the property cost. Nardeco President Niranjan Hiranandani said the industry is facing a challenging time and the financial issues faced by its developer members are "beyond imagination". He demanded that authorities should provide relief to the industry. Nardeco-UP Chairman R K Arora raised the issue of not getting funds from the Rs 25,000 cr special window. Naredco Chairman Rajeev Talwar, Vice Chairman Parveen Jain and Naredco Maharashtra President Rajan Bandelkar were also present in the webinar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-should-expedite-sanctioning-amount-from-rs-25000-crore-stress-fund-for-stalled-housing-projects-829854.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Over 2,800 people detained in Delhi for violating lockdown: Police||Over 100 cases were registered and 2,861 people detained in Delhi on Saturday for violating lockdown orders, police said here. According to data shared by the police, 125 cases were registered under section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code till 5 pm.  A total of 2,861 people have been detained under section 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers) and 241 vehicles impounded under section 66 of the Delhi Police Act, it showed. A total of 366 movement passes were issued, the police said.  Fifty-five cases were registered against people for stepping out of their houses without wearing masks, they added. Since March 24, 1,17,584 people have been detained for violating orders under section 65 of the Delhi Police Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-2800-people-detained-in-delhi-for-violating-lockdown-police-829866.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||103 new coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh, count 1,945, seven deaths||With 103 more people testing positive till Saturday afternoon, 56 of them in Indore, the number of coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh climbed to 1,945, health officials said. Seven deaths were also reported since Friday evening, taking the COVID-19 death toll in the state to 99. Four deaths were reported in Ujjain, two in Indore and one in Hoshangabad, officials said. Indore, the worst affected district, alone now accounts for 57 deaths. Since Friday night, Indore recorded 56 new infection cases, followed by Bhopal at 28, Jabalpur at 12, Hoshangabad at four and one each in Ujjain and Khandwa. Indore has the highest tally of COVID-19 cases at 1,085 followed by Bhopal (388) and Ujjain (103). The number of coronavirus cases in Jabalpur has now climbed to 43. Hoshangabad has 30 cases, Khandwa 36 and Chhindwara five. Number of cases in other districts is: Barwani 24, Raisen 26, Morena and Vidisha 13 each, Ratlam 12, Mandsaur eight, Shajapur six, Sagar five, four each in Gwalior and Sheopur, three in Alirajpur, two each in Shivpuri and Tikamgarh and one each in Betul and Dindori. No fresh cases were found in these districts on Saturday. Two patients hail from other states. Apart from Indore where the death toll has reached 57, 15 patients have died in Ujjain, nine in Bhopal, six each in Dewas and Khargone and one each in Jabalpur, Chhindwara, Mandsaur, Agar Malwa, Dhar and Hoshangabad. So far, 281 patients have recovered and returned home. 499 containment areas have been set up in affected cities. Coronavirus figures in Madhya Pradesh, thus, are as follows: Positive cases 1,945, deaths 99, discharged 281, active patients 1,565, number of people tested so far 36,887.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/103-new-coronavirus-cases-in-madhya-pradesh-count-1945-seven-deaths-829874.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi reports 111 fresh coronavirus cases, one death on Saturday||Delhi reported 111 fresh cases of coronavirus and one death on Saturday taking the total number of cases to 2,625 and toll to 54. Twelve people have been discharged during the day with the number of those who recovered now rising to 869. According to the bulletin, 1,702 people are still in hospital. Delhi has so far tested samples of 35,519 people of which 28,693 were reported negative for COVID-19. Results of 3,709 samples are pending.   In 95 containment zones where 3.02 lakh people are residing, 257 people have tested positive for COVID-19 so far. Authorities have so far sent samples of 5,360 people. Delhi government also issued an order to all hospitals, including those in private sector, that no non-COVID-19 patient who reaches to the non-COVID-19 hospitals should be denied treatment or admission in hospital. Also, they must ensure that all safety protocols are being followed by their doctors and other health care workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-reports-111-fresh-coronavirus-cases-one-death-on-saturday-829903.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||HRD wants universities to study how India handled 1918 Spanish flu, revived economy||The HRD Ministry has asked universities to study how India handled the Spanish flu pandemic in 1918 and what measures were taken to boost the economy. The ministry has also advised the universities to set up research teams and study the levels of awareness of COVID-19 in villages near their campuses. "The HRD minister has desired that universities should study how India handled the 1918 pandemic (H1N1 Virus) and what measures were taken to boost the economy after the pandemic," a senior ministry official said in a communication to the universities. "It has also been desired that universities and institutions in India should study 5-6 villages adjoining or adopted by them regarding best works done in response to COVID-19. The study can be around what the awareness levels in the village are and how they withstood various challenges posed by COVID-19," the official added. The HRD Ministry has been encouraging academic institutions to make research contributions to aid the fight against the deadly coronavirus. According to the Union Health Ministry, the death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 779 in the country on Saturday and the number of cases stood at 24,942, registering an increase of 56 fatalities and 1,490 cases since Friday evening. The 56 deaths were the maximum reported in the country in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 18,953, while 5,209 people have been cured and discharged, and one patient has migrated, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hrd-wants-universities-to-study-how-india-handled-1918-spanish-flu-revived-economy-829907.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Lockdown may need to be extended till mid-May in Delhi: COVID-19 panel chief||Amid rising coronavirus cases in the national capital, a top official in the Delhi government's COVID-19 committee has suggested that the ongoing lockdown will have to be continued till mid-May for the epidemic curve to flatten. The Delhi government had announced a lockdown in Delhi on March 23 followed by a nation-wide lockdown by the Centre from midnight of March 24 till April 14. The lockdown was further extended to May 3  by the Centre.  "India is still on the ascending limb of the epidemic curve and so, to ease the restrictions will mean the cases will multiply uncontrollably. And, Delhi has a large number of containment zones, so it will be wise to extend it," Dr S K Sarin, chairman of Delhi government's committee on combating COVID-19, said on Saturday. "The lockdown will have to be extended till May 16 as that is when the epidemic curve is likely to start declining, which happens after the flattening of the curve," he said. The total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi on Friday rose to 2,625 with 54 deaths. Asked how the May 16 date was arrived at, Sarin said, Delhi had recorded its first coronavirus case on March 3 and mathematical modelling of the pandemic from China suggests that it takes about 10 weeks for the epidemic curve to decline. Explaining what constitutes flattening and decline in the curve, he referred to "reproduction number" of the cases. The curve is said to flatten when the reproduction number is one, meaning for example, 10 people giving infection to only 10 people, and the decline is said to happen if the reproduction number is less than one, meaning 10 people (primary cases) passing on the infection to less than 10 persons, say 8 people (secondary cases) and those persons in turn passing it on to less than eight people, and so on.  "But, after the flattening of the curve, its decline also needs to be seen over a few weeks to make any assessment," Sarin said. In India, the reproduction number for coronavirus cases is ranged from 1.7 to 2.5, he said. In Australia, on the other hand it is about 0.5, he said. Experts have warned that if lockdown restrictions are eased before flattening of the curve, cases could "flare up like wildfire". As per data shared by the Delhi Health Department, the mortality rate till April 24 has been highest (6.32 per cent) among patients aged 60 years and above. The mortality rate among those aged between 50-59 year was 3.42 per cent and 0.61 per cent in people who were aged less than 50.  Nearly 85 per cent of the number of deceased, had co-morbidities, as per the data. Co-morbidities refer to conditions such as hypertension, diabetes and kidney disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-may-need-to-be-extended-till-mid-may-in-delhi-covid-19-panel-chief-829908.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 lockdown: Himachal Pradesh to give relaxation in curfew for morning-walkers||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur Saturday indicated the curfew will remain in place in the state till May 3, but extended the daily relaxation from existing three hours to 5.5 hours from Monday, including 1.5 hours for morning-walkers. During a video-conference with Deputy Commissioners (DCs), Superintendents of Police (SPs) and Chief Medical Officers (CMOs), Thakur said the curfew imposed to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus has adversely affected the economy of the state. “It is vital to chalk out an appropriate action plan to revive the economic activities post curfew/lockdown from May 3 onwards,” he said. He said the state has not reported many cases over past several days and therefore, the government has decided to relax curfew norms from Monday for at least 5.5 hours, barring in hotspots.  The relaxation will include one-and-a-half-hour easing of curbs from 5.30 am to 7 am daily for morning-walkers, he said. However, the Shimla district administration revised the relaxation timings for morning walkers from 6 am to 8 am, the Shimla Police said in a social media post. The state has so far reported 41 positive cases - 20 recovered, 15 active and under treatment. four shifted outside Himachal and two dead. Thakur said the curfew relaxation for buying essential items would be increased from Monday to four hours from existing three hours. The relaxation timings will be decided by concerned DCs, he said. In Kangra, DC Rakesh Prajapati decided to relax curfew from 8 am to 12 noon from Monday. However, wearing masks, maintaining distance of at least 1.5 metre will be mandatory. The CM said the relaxation may further be increased in coming days.  Efforts are being made to bring back Himachal students and other residents stranded outside, he added. Similarly, the people of other states stranded in Himachal Pradesh must also be facilitated to go back to their respective states, he told the officials. Thakur directed that the DCs concerned must also ensure that all private hospitals and clinics in their jurisdictions function smoothly. The CM said the state government has decided to allow inter-district movement of trucks carrying construction materials from mining sites to project areas. The government has also allowed inter-district movement of road construction machinery to the construction sites, he said, adding works under job guarantee scheme MGNREGA must be allowed by maintaining mandatory distance of at least 1.5 metres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-himachal-pradesh-to-give-relaxation-in-curfew-for-morning-walkers-829913.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Noida reports 3 new coronavirus cases; but recovery rate is 52.7%||Three men, including one who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi in March, tested positive for novel coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Saturday, taking the tally in the district to 112, officials said. On the brighter side, three more people got discharged from hospital after treatment, taking the number of those who have recovered from the infection so far to 59, they said. Gautam Buddh Nagar in western UP is among the worst coronavirus-hit districts in the state, but has a recovery percentage of 52.67. The recovery percentage of Gautam Buddh Nagar is the best in the country, the district administration said in a statement. "Total 151 reports have been received in the last 24 hours and three of them have tested positive and 148 negative for COVID-19. The cumulative positive cases of coronavirus in Gautam Buddh Nagar is now 112," District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said. The fresh cases include a 28-year-old man from Sector 18, a 20-year-old man from Sector 45 and a 38-year-old resident of Sector 80, officials said, adding they have been admitted at the Sharda hospital. The 38-year-old man had attended the Tablighi Jamaat, an Islamic congregation, held at its markaz (headquarters) in Delhi's Nizamuddin area in March, the official added. "So far, 59 of the 112 patients have been cured and discharged, leaving 53 active cases in the district," he said. According to the Health Department, 2,903 samples were taken for COVID-19 test till Saturday evening. So far, 1,967 people have been identified across Noida and Greater Noida who have travelled abroad in recent months and they have been put on surveillance, while another 563 were in institutional quarantine, it added. According to District Magistrate Suhas L Y, there are currently 40 hotspots in Gautam Buddh Nagar which have been categorized in three zones - red (new case detected in last 14 days), orange (no new case in last 14 days) and green (no new case in last 28 days). As of now, 17 hotspots are in red zone, 13 in orange and 10 in green, he said on Twitter on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-reports-3-new-coronavirus-cases-but-recovery-rate-is-527-829918.html
25-04-2020||North and Central||Thermal screening, random COVID-19 testing for home delivery executives: Noida police||Delivery executives of e-commerce firms will undergo thermal screening and random sample testing for coronavirus in Noida and Greater Noida, Commissioner of Police (CP) Alok Singh said on Saturday. Singh said this at a meeting with senior police officials of Noida and Greater Noida, where he also instructed them to "actively monitor" the social media during Ramzan, a month considered pious in Islam. The commissioner asked the officers to ensure strict adherence to social-distancing norms in all activities during the lockdown, as he reviewed law and order, and the crime-control situation in Gautam Buddh Nagar. The western Uttar Pradesh district adjoining Delhi has recorded 112 coronavirus cases so far, while 59 of these patients have been cured, according to official figures.  "Thermal screening must be done of all the home delivery executives of e-commerce companies and sample testing should be done on a random basis. Officials must speak to the e-commerce companies concerned regarding this. "In view of Ramzan, there is a need to actively monitor the social media space," Singh said at the meeting, which was also attended by Additional CPs Akhilesh Kumar and Shriparna Ganguly, all DCPs of the district and other senior police officers. He also directed the officers to intensify patrolling and flag marches at the hotspots and sensitive areas. "The ongoing action against illegal liquor will continue," the CP said. Singh said the police personnel and rapid response teams on duty must wear personal protection equipment (PPE) and use the visor (helmet) provided to them. All police personnel stationed at checkposts and barriers must also wear the visor, he added. "Adequate safety equipment are available and all police personnel on duty must remain safe," Singh said, while instructing the officials to keep safety kits at all spots where police personnel are stationed. The CP said the police personnel must ensure that crowding does not take place at "mandis" (wholesale markets) and procurement centres. "They must see to it that social distancing is strictly implemented," he said. Singh said all liquor shops must be inspected by the DCPs concerned in coordination with the district excise officers. He also asked the officials to prepare a roster for inspecting the liquor shops, saying any discrepancy will not be tolerated. Singh also discussed issues relating to bringing back the labourers from Uttar Pradesh, who have completed the 14-day quarantine process but are stranded in other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/thermal-screening-random-covid-19-testing-for-home-delivery-executives-noida-police-829927.html
25-04-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus lockdown: Don’t hurt big retail, e-commerce to help small players||The reversal of the earlier decision that allowed these firms to deliver non-essential items was justified on the grounds of providing a level playing field to the smaller retail players. The latest rules easing restrictions (in urban areas, they allow only standalone shops and those in residential complexes) continue with this ban on e-retailers delivering non-essentials. The discrimination is now extended to shops in market complexes and in malls.  This continues to make life difficult for people who may need non-essentials as well as large retail formats. It is the rare standalone shop that stocks, for example, many work-from-home related tools. Only the e-retailers and shops in market complexes or malls have them. Retail chains in malls can sell only groceries but not non-essentials, while the standalone shops can. This defies all logic.  If the idea was to not have people throng market complexes, some creative solutions could have been worked out. The fact that instead of doing this, the government simply imposed a ban shows the enormous clout enjoyed by the small traders' lobby, which has led the charge against corporate retail chains, foreign direct investment in retail as well as e-retail. Each time the bogey of an existential threat to mom-and-pop stores (and hawkers in the case of fruits and vegetables) has been deployed successfully to block any attempt to facilitate organised retail. And governments, regardless of the party in power, have meekly surrendered. Big versus small retail  Retail industry experts would object to the word 'bogey', pointing out that experience from across the globe shows that the threat to small stores from big retail chains as well as e-retail is very real. But let’s not overlook the fact that India’s unorganised retail, which accounts for more than 70 percent of the market (over 90 percent in the case of food and groceries) has held its own against big retail formats that emerged in the early 2000s.   The counter to this is that these advantages may, at best, only slow down the process of eventual and inevitable annihilation at the hands of large players with deep pockets. That is a genuine concern, admittedly. But two points need to be underlined here. One, moving from unorganised/informal setups to organised/formal setups is part of the development process, just as transitioning from an agriculture-dominated economy to a services-dominated economy is. Should this natural evolution be stopped through the government openly tilting the playing field in favour of the unorganised sector, in the name of levelling it? Again, retail industry experts would cite international examples of governments protecting mom-and-pop stores. That cannot be a good enough reason. The ultimate test of sound policy has to be the extent to which it increases overall efficiency and gives choice to the consumer. Blocking large retail formats or e-retail formats in the name of protecting the livelihood of micro players cannot be sound policy, by this yardstick. A quick aside. The general consensus is that the ecommerce players have not been entirely kosher in the way they have operated. If that is the case, let the policy and regulatory loopholes that they may have exploited be closed. But their alleged misbehaviour cannot become a justification or excuse for privileging small players over consumer interest. Two, a better response will be to strengthen smaller players to hold their own as best as they can. Last year, the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) was renamed as Department of Industry and Internal Trade, as a way of placating the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) which had been demanding a separate ministry for small retail. Why doesn’t the ministry undertake a study of the problems mom-and-pop stores face and help them deal with these? If a surfeit of local regulations are to blame, why not convince state governments and local bodies to ease them?  Strengthening the hands of smaller players It is quite possible that many mom-and-pop stores may prefer to remain small in order to remain under the regulatory radar (as many small and micro industries do). In 2016, the Union Government brought out a model Shops and Establishments Act that relaxed a lot of the rules shops had to comply with. As in the case of other model Acts relating to state subjects, very few states enacted this law. Why doesn’t CAIT push for this? If access to credit for small shops is difficult, can the Union Government not take this up with banks and the Reserve Bank of India, as it does in the case of the micro, small and medium industry? Why, also, cannot lobby groups and governments give a helping hand to small stores to up their game? In 2012, CAIT had a pilot programme in Nagpur, training kirana stores to spruce up their premises, computerise operations and tone up procurement. There have been individual examples of startups helping small retail digitise their processes or get on to the e-retailing bandwagon as well as of large chains as well as e-retailers forging tie-ups with the kirana stores (the former has not been very successful, though).  More such efforts need to be encouraged. This way small shops can also grow and perhaps employ more than the one or two persons they currently do. Arbitrary bans on large firms, on the other hand, only hamper their growth and job-generating capacity.  And the consumer is left with limited choice. If the government has to have a role in mediating this David vs Goliath battle, it has to make sure that consumer interest is not compromised in any way. (The writer is a senior journalist and author. She tweets at @soorpanakha) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-lockdown-don-t-hurt-big-retail-e-commerce-to-help-small-players-829749.html
25-04-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus: Localise efforts to tackle water shortage||While most of the discourse has been focused on how technology fits into the picture, we have ended up missing more fundamental means of coping with the problem. Ubiquitous elements, particularly water, have been overlooked and taken for granted.  Water is going to be an essential part of any country’s strategy when dealing with COVID-19. If you are reading this, there is a significant chance you have been told about the importance of washing hands or have watched a video of how to do so properly. Healthcare professionals, essential workers, and law enforcement have and will be subject to a higher risk of exposure to the virus. As our most important line of defence against the pandemic, they will need to sanitise themselves regularly. This involves washing their clothes and taking regular showers.  Unfortunately for India, in recent years, the country has been dealing with acute water shortages. While major Indian cities have increased in size and their water consumption, villages lack water for basic sanitation, bearing witness to lowering levels of groundwater. Keeping in mind the lack of access to clean water for nearly 163 million people in 2018,  the Union Government created the Ministry of Jal Shakti in 2019 to integrate water resource management efforts.  Under the Jal Shakti Abhiyan, the Ministry plans to ensure the availability of running tap water for domestic purposes in all households across the country. While the mission of the Ministry of Jal Shakti has been off to a promising start, there is only so much it has been able to accomplish in a year. Due to lack of both administrative will and centre-state politics, much of the water projects could not be successfully completed before the outbreak of the virus. COVID-19 and the water crisis A summer induced water crisis is not a new phenomenon for India. The depleted water levels and the already exploited government managed resources have made India rank 13 of the 17 water-stressed countries. Access to freshwater is now important and urgent. Without water to sanitise, villages once exposed to COVID-19, will find it harder to recover and to contain the virus.  In the recent past, an inexorable rise in the population residing in clustered areas makes self-isolation a privilege that not many can afford. Given the historically limited state capacity, necessary demands for social distancing, and a time-sensitive situation, it is going to be a lot harder to ensure clean tap water reaches water-scarce areas. The lack of adequate supply, particularly during a lockdown, will prevent households from ensuring domestic sanitisation and lead to an increase in open defecation during this period. This socio-economic standing of the larger Indian community is a ticking time bomb which may be scheduled to explode at Stage 3 of social transmission of the virus.  Importance of finding local solutions This brings us to what should be done to mitigate the crisis. There have been some attempts to allocate scarce resources amongst states across the world. Most notably, the Federal Government in the US created competition among states, creating a bidding war for medical equipment. As a result, it created an environment where medical equipment was not distributed based on need but on the purchasing power of states. Of course, a bidding war for medical equipment leaves open the risk for poor areas impacted by the disease not getting enough medical supplies to manage the spread. Learning from the US, and instead of turning to a market to mitigate an impending water crisis, it might make sense to take a different approach. The stakes now have abruptly been raised. What the spread of the pandemic has done is to leave the inadequacies in Indian infrastructure exposed. They needed to be fixed yesterday, and they need to be fixed now. Communities must mobilise their efforts to find solutions to the water crisis locally. The Union government cannot be expected to build adequate infrastructure overnight if doing so has not been possible in over 70 years. Given the social distancing requirements, time and capital constraints, these inadequacies cannot be fixed using a top-down approach. Instead, changes need to be made at the grassroot level so that the water available is optimised for usage. Along with local efforts, nudges towards desired behavioural changes for water optimisation might be the most viable option. Water optimisation thus, involves promoting the usage of greywater for irrigation, and when possible, collecting rainwater in previously built infrastructures. Along with revisiting traditional methods of preserving water, reusing already existing structures like dried-up ponds, reservoirs, tube-wells etc. can also be a low-cost source of clean water. At this point May 3, 2020 is a line in the sand. The pandemic will not end on May 4, neither will the need for water across India. Local efforts may not be enough to meet the surged demands, but steps taken today should contribute to a better scenario tomorrow. (Rohan Seth is a technology policy analyst at the Takshashila Institution and Rashi Sharma is a research assistant at the Observer Research Foundation) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors’ own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-localise-efforts-to-tackle-water-shortage-829771.html
25-04-2020||South||'Lab technicians not qualified for taking COVID-19 samples in Tamil Nadu, plea in Madras High Court||The Tamil Nadu Government Medical Laboratory Technicians Association has moved the Madras High Court seeking to restrain the state government from making the association members take samples of suspected COVID-19 patients. The association, while making it clear that lab technicians are not qualified to collect samples of throat swab and nasal swab to test for COVID-19, submitted that only qualified ENT doctors can be engaged for such jobs. Referring to the Centre's letter dated April 8 which has also given guidelines in respect of qualified personnel to collect samples, the association submitted that making its members take the samples would amount to violation of medical rules, the petitioner-association moved the court. When the petition came up for hearing before it, the Division Bench comprising Justice M. Sathyanarayanan and Justice M. Nirmal Kumar adjourned the plea to May 13. According to the association, the country is in the midst of an unprecedented outbreak of COVID-19 and one of the key components of the association's strategy to combat this outbreak is contact tracing and collecting of throat swab (oropharyngeal) and nasal swab (nasopharyngeal) samples of potentially infected persons.  "They said samples can be collected only through the trained healthcare worker in presence of a clinician. Only qualified and trained persons particularly ENT specialist doctors and postgraduate training doctors who have studied the anatomy and physiology of throat and nasal swab can do the job," the petitioner said. Even the Union government through a communication dated April 8 has issued guidelines and has directed all the states and union territories to take necessary steps to utilise the services of ENT professionals and post-graduate trainees to take such samples. The WHO has also issued a similar guideline, the association added. This apart, the lab technicians have only basic qualification of diploma in medical laboratory technology without any expertise in the anatomy and physiology of a human body making them ineligible to collect such samples, they said. Therefore, the petitioner-association wanted the court to direct the state to immediately stop engaging lab technicians for collecting swab samples and instead engage qualified ENT doctors for the purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lab-technicians-not-qualified-for-taking-covid-19-samples-in-tamil-nadu-plea-in-madras-high-court-829594.html
25-04-2020||South||COVID-19 impact: Goddess Meenakshi’s celestial wedding to go live in Tamil Nadu||For the first time in history, the celestial wedding of Goddess Meenakshi and Lord Sundareswarar at the world-famous Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple in the ancient city of Madurai will be held without devotees’ participation.  The temple, an important place of worship for Hindus, remains closed since mid-March when the Tamil Nadu government decided to shut all places of worship as part of measures to contain COVID-19. The wedding of Goddess Meenakshi and Lord Sundareswarar is an integral part of Madurai’s culture and the month-long festival attracts lakhs of devotees and tourists from across the country. And this year, another event which attracts lakhs of participants, the journey of Lord Kalazhagar from Azhagar Kovil to Madurai, has also been cancelled. Kalazhagar makes the ceremonial trip every year from his abode to Madurai – a distance of 20 km – to take a dip in River Vaigai. Madurai wears a festive look for the entire Tamil month of Chithirai (mid-April to mid-May) and will be soaked in a myriad of colours. “To fulfil the prayers of devotees and to their satisfaction, the celestial wedding will be held in the first corridor of the sanctum sanctorum of the temple on May 4, 2020. The temple website will beam live the proceedings,” N Natarajan, Joint Commissioner, Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple, said.  P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan, the DMK MLA from Madurai (Central) constituency and whose family had played a key role in the renovation of the temple in 1963, told DH this is probably the first time that the Chithirai Festival was cancelled. “I have never heard or read in the diaries of my grandfather and father about the cancellation of the festival. This is probably the first time and the government should ensure that the rules it has drafted apply to everyone. Nobody should be allowed inside the temple by violating the rules,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-impact-goddess-meenakshi-s-celestial-wedding-to-go-live-in-tamil-nadu-829720.html
25-04-2020||South||Coronavirus cases cross 1000-mark in Andhra Pradesh, 61 more confirmed||Coronavirus cases crossed the 1000-mark in Andhra Pradesh on Saturday reaching 1,016 as 61 more tested positive in the last 24 hours. Two deaths were reported taking the toll to 31 in the state. The latest COVID-19 bulletin said 26 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery. After Kurnool and Guntur districts, Krishna is now fast becoming the pandemic's hotbed in the state as 25 fresh cases were registered in the last 24 hours. There was no let-up in the disease's spread in Kurnool as 14 more cases were added, taking the total to 275. Incidentally, two districts registered one new COVID-19 death each, the bulletin said. Significantly, the north coastal district of Srikakulam also joined the list on Saturday, confirming three cases after remaining clean all these days. The three cases are related to Tablighi Jamaat attendees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-cases-cross-1000-mark-in-andhra-pradesh-61-more-confirmed-829732.html
25-04-2020||South||Intensified lockdown from April 26; panic buying in Tamil Nadu||The government on Friday announced that it would implant “intensified lockdown” for four days from Sunday in Chennai, Madurai and Coimbatore after the shops were shut at 1 pm. The government said provision shops will be closed during the four days while asserting that vegetable shops will be open and milk supply will continue unhindered.   However, as shops upped their shutters on Saturday morning, hundreds of people thronged them to stock up their refrigerators. Huge queues were seen at all departmental stores in three cities, especially in Chennai, even as stocks ran out. As people indulged in panic buying, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami extended the shop timings to 3 pm to enable people to buy provisions for the next four days. Social distancing was the biggest casualty as people jostled with each other to buy provisions, vegetables and milk. Pictures shared on the social media showed social distancing going for a toss in most places. “ If the government wanted to implement an intensified lockdown, they should have give us enough time. The announcement was made yesterday after the shops were closed. So many people came out today. Who is to be blamed now,” a resident in Chennai's K S Kodambakkam area asked.  The government said it decided to go for an intensified lockdown as an expert committee said this was the best way to contain further spread of coronavirus in urban areas. Chennai has more than 400 COVID-19 positive cases, while the state’s tally is 1,755.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/intensified-lockdown-from-april-26-panic-buying-in-tamil-nadu-829760.html
25-04-2020||South||Stop issuing defamatory statements, Tamil Nadu Municipal Administration Minister S P Velumani tells M K Stalin||Tamil Nadu Municipal Administration Minister S P Velumani on Saturday asked DMK chief M K Stalin to stop spreading canards by linking him to the arrest of a news portal owner in the city. When the entire world was taking all-out efforts to combat COVID-19 and Tamil Nadu becoming a model for other states in fighting the disease, Stalin was issuing an unnecessary statement against the state government out of jealousy, Velumani said in a press release. Stating that he was not bothered about Stalin's allegations, the Minister said the people and the media were aware of the efforts taken by him and the government to prevent the spread of the disease in Chennai, Coimbatore and Nilgiris. The arrest of the news portal owner was made following the complaint made by a corporation official for publishing articles which could have led to provoking the government staff and doctors against the Government, he said. "I condemn the way Stalin was linking me to the arrest, even when I do not know about such a news portal," he said. Unable to bear the success of the government in fighting the disease, Stalin, forgetting political decency, was issuing half-baked statements and supporting some elements who wanted to create unrest among the government staff and doctors, Velumani said. Stalin on Friday had condemned the arrest of Andrew Sam Raja Pandia, the portal owner, and accused the state government of misusing its powers during the crisis and also Velumani for using the police to arrest journalists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stop-issuing-defamatory-statements-tamil-nadu-municipal-administration-minister-s-p-velumani-tells-m-k-stalin-829764.html
25-04-2020||South||84-year-old man recovers from coronavirus in Kerala; seven more test positive||An 84-year-old man in Kerala has recovered from COVID-19 on Saturday, adding yet another feather in the cap of Kerala health sector. While coronavirus infected people aged above 60 are considered in the high-risk factor, even a couple aged around 90 in Kerala recovered from COVID-19 and it received much attention. Abubacker, a native of Koothuparambu in Kannur district, was under treatment at Kozhikode government medical college hospital. The octogenarian was having age-related ailments and kidney ailment also.   Even then he could survive coronavirus infection, said Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan who congratulated the doctors and health workers. Meanwhile, seven more persons in Kerala tested coronavirus positive on Saturday, while seven other recovered. Only one fresh case was reported at Kannur district that has the highest number of COVID-19 patients in Kerala now, 55. While people who came from aboard more than a month ago still being tested positive, the Chief Minister said that according to experts, in some cases though there would be presence of virus in a person for quite long time, the transmission stage of the virus would only be during the initial days of incubation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/84-year-old-man-recovers-from-coronavirus-in-kerala-seven-more-test-positive-829829.html
25-04-2020||South||Coronavirus cases in Andhra Pradesh cross 1000-mark||61 new coronavirus cases reported on Saturday morning took the Andhra Pradesh’s tally to 1016 cases, with 171 recoveries and 31 deaths till now. Srikakulam, one of the two districts which remained virus free so far has reported three cases, with the person – a Delhi returnee – presumed to have infected three of his family members testing negative. According to Dr M Chenchaiah, the district medical and health officer, the three COVID-19 cases are from Seedhi in Pathapatnam area. “The 28-year-old man working as a clerk in Delhi Metro had returned on March 17 by AP Express - well over a month back. He did not show any symptoms; was home quarantined but was not tested then. However, as he complained of cold and cough a few days ago, a TrueNat kit test was conducted, which showed him as positive.” “Following this, he and his family members were subjected to RT-PCR tests for confirmation, which revealed his father-in-law, mother-in-law and sister-in-law as positive while the man, his wife and their eight month child tested negative,” Dr Chenchaiah told DH.   “The man would have passed on his infection, while he recovered. We have so far identified 67 people who came in contact with him, for examination. We are treating the village and surrounding areas as a containment zone,” the official said. Thus, Srikakulam’s neighboring Vizianagaram remains the only district with no cases now, while Kurnool with 275 cases accounts for over a quarter of all cases (1016) in AP. The state has at present 814 active cases undergoing treatment in the government hospitals, according to COVID-19 command control room data. Andhra Pradesh, which has become the top state with highest number of tests conducted per million population, has been reporting a spike in case numbers from the last few days. On Friday, health officials announced 62 new cases, on Thursday it was 80 and on Wednesday 56. Officials attribute the high numbers to the large number of samples they are testing in order to identify the infected early and thus, prevent them from becoming super spreaders. Till Saturday morning, the total number of samples tested in the state was 61,266, with 8141 tests carried in Visakhapatnam district alone, followed by Guntur (6541).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-cross-1000-mark-829834.html
25-04-2020||South||Chennai corporation declines nod to exhume COVID-19 doctor victim's body||Civic authorities on Saturday turned down a plea for exhuming the body of a doctor who died of COVID-19 here and burying it in another cemetery, citing health experts' view that it was unsafe to do so. Citing a request from the wife of the deceased doctor to allow exhumation and then re-burial at a cemetery in Kilpauk, the Greater Chennai Corporation said it sought a report from a committee of public health experts to ascertain the feasibility of entertaining her plea. The spouse of the doctor had appealed to the GCC on April 22 to exhume and bury again her husband's body. She had said that burial in the Kilpauk cemetery here was her husband's last wish and he had conveyed it to her before he was put on a ventilator. The report of experts has said that "it is not safe" to exhume and again bury the body of a COVID-19 victim and hence "it is not possible to accept her request," the GCC said in an official release. On April 19, a city-based 55-year-old neurosurgeon died of coronavirus and his burial at the Velangadu crematorium here was marred by violence. A mob which falsely feared that the burial may lead to the spread of contagion had attacked the corporation health employees and associates of the deceased doctor. The doctor's wife and son also had to leave the burial ground in view of the violence. The body was brought to Velangadu as people of Kilpauk area had opposed his burial there. Over a dozen men involved allegedly in violence were arrested and remanded to judicial custody. Later, in a video message, the surgeon's wife had said that it was her husband's last wish to be interred at the Kilpauk cemetery as per Christian rituals  Chief Minister K Palaniswami and DMK president M K Stalin had spoken to her on Wednesday over the phone and condoled her husband's death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-corporation-declines-nod-to-exhume-covid-19-doctor-victims-body-829842.html
25-04-2020||South||Number of coronavirus recoveries increases in Tamil Nadu, rises up to 960||As many as 104 children under the age of 12 have so far tested positive for Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu, even as the state continued to report more recoveries on Saturday with the gap between discharges and active cases widening. As of Saturday, the number of active cases stood at 835, while the recoveries went up to 960 with 94 patients getting discharged from hospitals across the state. For the first time, the number of recoveries surpassed the active coronavirus patients in Tamil Nadu on Friday, though the gap between the two was just two. However, the state continued to report positive cases with 66 fresh patients being tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the tally to 1,821. One death was reported as the death toll mounted to 23. Chennai continued to be the hotspot for COVID-19 infection with 43 new cases on Saturday, which takes the total number of confirmed patients in this metropolis to 495. Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar, who briefed reporters, said the increasing number of recoveries is convincing. “We have been taking all precautions and due to our treatment protocol, the recoveries are much more than the active cases today. People should cooperate with the government by staying indoors to prevent further spread,” he said. An update from the Health Department said 104 children under the age of 12 have tested positive for COVID-19. Of these, 55 are boys and 49 are girls. He also said doctors have been successfully ensuring that newborn are not infected with Covid-19 even if their mothers have the virus. As many as 1,503 patients belong to the 13-60 age group, while 214 are above 60. The total number of men affected by coronavirus is 1,240, while the number among women is 581, the update said. Admitting containing the spread of Coronavirus in Chennai was “challenging” due to the city’s population and the contagious nature of the virus, Vijayabhaskar said the government would ramp up testing in the city by increasing the number of tests from Sunday.  He also said six PG doctors and a nurse, who were discharged from RGGH on Saturday, have given their consent to donate their plasma for treating COVID-19 patients. The update said a total of 80,110 samples have been tested so far.  “69,390 samples are tested negative. Testing of 1,754 samples is under process and 7,145 samples are repeat samples of the same persons,” the update said. The testing numbers were increased after the state changed its policies and went into “aggressive testing” mode, especially in containment zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/number-of-coronavirus-recoveries-increases-in-tamil-nadu-rises-up-to-960-829844.html
25-04-2020||South||Plea in HC on using only kits cleared by virology institute or EEU for coronavirus tests||A lawyer has approached the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Union and state governments to use only rapid test kits that have been tested to be satisfactory either by National Institute of Virology or by European Economic Union for coronavirus tests. According to the petitioner, there was very high global demand for testing kits and specifically rapid testing kits for diagnosis of COVID-19. There have been reported instances of defective or ineffective rapid test kits of Chinese origin been sold to those in desperate need for some form of testing in their pursuit to stop spread of the virus. Spain and Turkey have been victims to such sale of defective/ineffective kits, he said. He further submitted that test results have been found to be erroneous with both false negatives and false positives thereby making the exercise of test with the kits a futile one. Some states like Punjab have returned these kits back to the Indian Council of Medical Research. Subsequently, on April 21 ICMR instructed all the states to halt testing for the virus using the rapid test kits which do not confirm to the standards declared by it. In these circumstances, the petitioner wanted the court to direct the authorities to only use kits that are approved by the two institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/plea-in-hc-on-using-only-kits-cleared-by-virology-institute-or-eeu-for-coronavirus-tests-829909.html
25-04-2020||South||Andhra Pradash launches app to keep track of people buying medicines for cough, cold and fever from pharmacies||The Medical and Health Department of Andhra Pradesh on Saturday launched 'Covid Pharma', a mobile application to keep a track of people purchasing medicines over-the-counter (OTC) for cough, cold and fever from medical stores across the state. Using the App, the respective pharmacies will have to take down details of persons, including their mobile number, making OTC purchase of medicines for such common ailments and report to the government. "In the prevailing scenario, this will help us in easily tracing persons with any likely symptoms of coronavirus," Commissioner of Health Katamaneni Baskar said. Even those buying those medicines with a prescription should be reported. The medical shops association has consented to collect details of persons making such purchases and share with the health department for better monitoring, he said. Meanwhile, the state government recruited 1,174 doctors on a temporary basis for a year to meet the emergent requirements in view of the prevailing coronavirus pandemic. Most of these doctors would be posted in the COVID-19 hotbed districts like Kurnool, Guntur, Krishna and Chittoor, Baskar said. "We have received over 1,800 applications for these posts and we have selected 1,174 from them," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradash-launches-app-to-keep-track-of-people-buying-medicines-for-cough-cold-and-fever-from-pharmacies-829914.html
25-04-2020||South||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan urges media houses not to resort to layoffs, pay cuts||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday urged media houses not to resort to layoffs and pay cuts while the whole community is facing the COVID-19 pandemic. The Chief Minister said the state government will also take necessary steps to test the media personnel in the state to ensure they have not contracted the deadly virus. He also pointed out that the pandemic has severely impacted the media sector with many newspapers even reducing the number of pages. "Journalists are among those who have been affected the most. Journalists on the field are also in danger. We have come to know about the reporters affected with coronavirus in other states. The government will take necessary precautions including testing to ensure that journalists don't contract the disease," Vijayan said. He said the newspapers were not receiving advertisements these days because there are no social or public events resulting in less commercial activities in the society. "I would like to urge the media houses not to engage in layoffs or salary cuts during this pandemic. Journalists are working shoulder to shoulder with health workers. During this pandemic, scribes are out in the field collecting news, despite the threat of disease and it was admirable," Vijayan said. The chief minister said the government has asked the PRD to release the dues to various media houses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-chief-minister-pinarayi-vijayan-urges-media-houses-not-to-resort-to-layoffs-pay-cuts-829922.html
25-04-2020||State||15 new COVID-19 cases confirmed in Karnataka; tally goes up to 489||Fifteen new cases of coronavirus have been confirmed in Karnataka, taking the total number of infections in the state to 489, the health department said on Saturday. "15 new positive cases have been reported from last evening till this noon. Till date 489 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed. This includes 18 deaths and 153 discharges," the department said in its mid-day situation update. Out of 15 new cases, six each are from Bengaluru urban and Hirebagewadi in Belagavi district; one each from Mandya, Chikkaballapura and Bantawala in Dakshina Kannada district.  Five out of six confirmed for infection in Bengaluru are contacts of a 54-year-old labourer, who tested positive earlier this week; while the other is said to have history from a visit to BBMP Containment Zones. Nine out of 15 cases are men and six are women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/15-new-covid-19-cases-confirmed-in-karnataka-tally-goes-up-to-489-829725.html
25-04-2020||State||Lab, 8,000 coronavirus rapid testing kits for Tumakuru: Karnataka Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu||Karnataka Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu said that the government would provide the district with 8,000 Covid-19 rapid testing kits and set up 40 laboratories in the state, including one in Tumakuru. He spoke at a review meeting in the city on Saturday.      He said that compared to other states, Karnataka was in the 11th position in controlling the spread of COVID-19. He directed the DC and the SP to provide proper security in the containment areas. District Health Officer Dr B R Chandrika said that 140 people suspected of having contracted the Coronavirus had been quarantined, tested and treated at the district hospital. Two wards had been reserved for quarantining suspected cases she added.  Deputy Commissioner K Rakesh Kumar said that the quarantine period of the people who had returned from abroad was over and they had been shifted to a different ward. He said that a second batch of samples gathered from people who have come from abroad had they have tested negative for the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lab-8000-coronavirus-rapid-testing-kits-for-tumakuru-karnataka-health-and-family-welfare-minister-b-sriramulu-829796.html
25-04-2020||State||No relaxation in containment areas: Minister||Law and District In-Charge Minister J C Madhuswamy said that though the lockdown has been relaxed to some extent in certain parts of the state, there will be no relaxation in the containment (sealed down) areas in the state like those in Sira and Bengaluru. He spoke at a review meeting in the city on Saturday. He categorically stated that there would be no more relaxation till May 3. He added that people who were planning to get married during the lockdown period may apply online to the deputy commissioner and get approval to hold the marriage with just 10 people present at the function.  He said that as the government was providing grocery to the doorsteps of people and no one was going hungry. He also mentioned that many independent individuals and organisations had been distributing free prepared food to people and after a discussion, this would be stopped in order to prevent the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-relaxation-in-containment-areas-minister-829816.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Plasma therapy trials for coronavirus patients begin in Karnataka||The Karnataka government on Saturday commenced convalescent plasma therapy clinical trials for 'severe' coronavirus patients in the state. In a tweet, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said, "Happy to announce the commencement of Clinical Trials for Plasma Therapy that holds great promise to treat severely infected #COVID19 patients. Health Min @sriramulubjp & I initiated this significant step at Victoria Hospital today morning."  The Minister, who is also leading government efforts against COVID-19 in Bengaluru and is in charge of the state war room had said Convalescent Plasma Therapy was only for patients who are critical, in intensive care units or on ventilator. Donors have also come forward for this, he had said. According to officials, patients who have recovered from COVID-19 have been appealed to come forward as donors, as anti-bodies of cured patients will be used to treat critically ill under this therapy. According to last update, five COVID-19 patients are in ICU in the state. Health Minister Sriramulu expressed hope that Convalescent Plasma Therapy will be a torchbearer in our fight against the virus. "Karnataka has taken a lead role as we initiate Phase I clinical trials to use Convalescent Plasma Therapy for severe COVID 19 infected patients. BMC Victoria hospital took the first step today. We are determined to vanquish this enemy of mankind," he said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/plasma-therapy-trials-for-coronavirus-patients-begin-in-karnataka-829772.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||ACT Fibernet donates 1 lakh masks to BBMP||ACT Fibernet on Saturday said it has donated 1 lakh face masks to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to safeguard the health staff and workers fighting against COVID-19. The masks were personally handed over by the company CEO Bala Maddali to Mayor of Bengaluru Gautam Jain, ACT Fibernet said in a statement. The severity of the pandemic has been affecting people across Bengaluru at large, making the efforts of these health workers and staff even more critical at this juncture, it said. "This is the largest contribution of masks by a single organisation. When they could have done it on their own, they found it more responsible to join hands with BBMP," the Mayor said. ACT offers cable, broadband and enterprise services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/act-fibernet-donates-1-lakh-masks-to-bbmp-829868.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||MLC, aides disrupt coronavirus tests, booked||The police booked MLC Srikantegowda, his son Krishik Gowda and three of their supporters for disrupting tests for Covid-19 here on Saturday. Earlier, the police resorted to mild lathi charge to disperse the protesting supporters of the MLC at Ambedkar Bhavan in Subhash Nagar, where journalists were being tested for COVID-19. Fifteen people had undergone tests for the virus on Friday at the same venue and the MLC resides close by. The MLC, his son and their supporters objected to tests being undertaken at the Ambedkar Bhavan on the ground that it would create fear among residents. Despite pleas by Health department officials, the MLC did not relent. As Krishik Gowda reportedly assaulted a video journalist of a private news channel, the mediapersons started raising slogans against the MLC. The police resorted to mild lathi charge to bring the situation under control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mlc-aides-disrupt-coronavirus-tests-booked-829887.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Greens wave red flag to ordinance on stone crushers||An ordinance promulgated by the government pertaining to stone crushers and quarrying amidst the Covid-19 pandemic has come under fire over environmental concerns. The Karnataka Stone Crushers (Amendment) Ordinance extends the licence term of stone crushing units from five to 20 years, while also allowing the sale or transfer of such licences. Critics say the ordinance did little to prevent the exploitation of natural resources and that it did not address concerns regarding its environmental impact. It will only serve vested interests, they allege. The extension of licence term is retrospective in nature, subject to payment of an annual regulation fee. The government tabled the Karnataka Regulation of Stone Crushers (Amendment) Bill, 2020, in the Legislative Assembly during the recent session, amid a walkout by the Opposition. The Bill was passed in the House, but the Covid-19 outbreak forced the session to be curtailed and it could not be sent to the Legislative Council for passage. Therefore, the government promulgated the ordinance on March 31. Environmentalist A N Yellappa Reddy accused the government of enacting such an ordinance in haste only to promote the exploitation of natural resources. “What was the need for such an ordinance when there was a lockdown?” he said, questioning the logic to extend the licence period from five to 20 years. Residents’ concerns “The Ordinance does little to protect nature and does not discuss any provisions to address massive complaints by residents living close to such units,” he said. The impact of nano particulate matter from crushers was immense, Reddy pointed out.  Sources said the ordinance was pushed at the behest of a new minister inducted into Yediyurappa’s Cabinet, who lobbied for its provisions. Mines & Geology Minister C C Patil told DH that the term of the licences was extended to “prevent harassment” of licence-holders as they had to renew them every five years. “Most of the crushers are happy with the ordinance,” he said. On recurring complaints about such units functioning close to buffer zones of reserve forests, Patil said that the government was at liberty to stop quarrying or stone crushing activity, if they violated the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/greens-wave-red-flag-to-ordinance-on-stone-crushers-829890.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: BJP chief Nalin Kumar Kateel wants Congress MLA arrested||BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Saturday squarely blamed Congress’ Chamarajpet MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan for the Padarayanapura vandalism, urging the government to book him under the stringent Goonda Act. Kateel said he met Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in this regard on Friday and demanded Khan’s arrest for “inciting violence” in the times of pandemic. Speaking to mediapersons via a video conference, Kateel said the Padarayanapura ruckus was unpardonable. “I met the CM along with a delegation of party members and requested him take action against the MLA,” he said. Among the other requests made by the delegation was to extend aid to industries that suffered losses in this crisis, ensuring that no unaided educational institution forced parents to pay extra fees and to allot honorarium recognising the work of doctors and Asha workers during thepandemic. The delegation also urged the CM to increase job opportunities under MNREGS, while asking district incharge ministers to proactively respond to people’s needs.  Further, the delegation also asked Yediyurappa to communicate with the heads of different states or countries where Kannadigas were stuck owing to a complete lock down.  Meanwhile, Kateel praised both Yediyurappa and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for all the measures taken to control the contagion. “Countries such as the US and Italy suffered heavy losses because they didn’t take enough prevention. However, Modi acted right at the beginning,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bjp-chief-nalin-kumar-kateel-wants-congress-mla-arrested-829891.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa vows to crackdown on unauthorised seed sales||Taking cognisance of a racket of poor-quality seeds being sold to farmers, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday requested farmers to be wary of such fraudsters. Recently, officials raided several godowns in Dharwad and Haveri districts, seizing hundreds of quintals of seeds that did not meet the required standards for agricultural purposes. During the raids in these two districts, officials seized maize seeds from several godowns, unearthing a racket of substandard seeds. About 7,026 quintals of seeds were seized from the cold storage units in Haveri, while another 270 quintals were seized from Dharwad and 70 quintals from Ballari, amounting to Rs 10 crore. Taking note of the same, the chief minister on Saturday asked Agriculture Minister B C Patil and the agriculture department officials to act against such fraudsters. Asking farmers to beware, Yediyurappa urged them not to buy loose seeds and go for only certified ones. “The government will crackdown on this racket,” he assured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-vows-to-crackdown-on-unauthorised-seed-sales-829895.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Schools warned against denying admissions over fees ||Days after allowing the private schools to collect fee from parents for academic year 2020-21, the Department of Public Instruction has warned the schools denying admission over non-payment of fees of disciplinary action.  The circular issued by the Commissioner for Public Instruction warned schools of disciplinary action, if they deny or cancel admission of a student for non-payment of fees. “The government allows schools to collect fee only from the parents who are financially stable and willing to pay the fee during the lockdown period. If any school rejects admission or cancels admission just because of the fee issue, then disciplinary action will he initiated against such school,” reads the circular. Meanwhile, the department also directed schools to collect fee only through online mode and no parent or student is allowed to come to schools for this purpose. “The schools must utilise the amount collected as fee for payment of salaries of the staff,” states circular. The circular has been issued following the recent note from Primary and Education Minister S Suresh Kumar to the Commissioner of Public Instruction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/schools-warned-against-denying-admissions-over-fees-829897.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Nine new cases take Belagavi tally past 50-mark||Hirebagewadi in the district saw nine people, including an eight-year-old boy and five women, contract novel coronavirus on Saturday. The new cases took the district tally to 54 with Hirebagewadi alone accounting for 25. All nine cases are the secondary contacts of Patient 128, a 20-year-old man who took part in Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin, Delhi. According to district authorities, three men aged 45, 38 and 20, an eight-year-old boy and five women aged between 30 and 80, have contracted virus from P-128, who was discharged from the district hospital, recently. The Covid-19 hotspots in the district, Hirebagewad and Kuduchi in Raibag, have reported 25 and 18 cases respectively. Six from Belagavi Camp have tested positive for Covid-19 while one case each has been reported from Belagundi, Yelluru, Peeranwadi, Azad Galli and Sankeshwar. Throat swab samples of 206 people from Hirebagewadi have been sent to lab for examination. Apart from scores of residents, doctors and paramedics of community healthcare centre, cops of local police station and several Asha and anganwadi workers have been placed under quarantine, a doctor told DH. After a spurt in cases, Hirebagewadi has been completely sealed. The district administration has made arrangements for door-to-door delivery of essentials. CB’ Pur man tests +ve An 18-year-old man, a resident of ward-20, tested positive for novel coronavirus in Chikkaballapur on Saturday. The number of Covid-19 patients has now gone up to 18 in the district. The fresh case has been reported after a gap of six days.  On April 23, some youths of Chandanur village in Gauribidanur taluk caught and thrashed three persons when they were illegally transporting beef from Hindupur in Andhra Pradesh to Chikkaballapur. The trio were later handed over to the police. After registering cases, the police kept them at isolation wards at the government hospital in Gauribidanur. Of the three, one person now tested positive. After the incident, a total of 22 people, seven youths from Chandanur, eight police personnel and 5 Halaganahalli gram panchayat workers, have been quarantined. 2 in Mysuru region Mysuru and Mandya districts have reported one Covid-19 case each on Saturday. Now, Mysuru has 55 active cases, Mandya 16. A 50-year-old woman, believed to be a contact of Patient 382, tested positive in Mysuru.  The patient is isolated at the designated Covid-19 hospital. In Mandya, a 37-year-old man tested positive for virus. He is said to have contracted Covid-19 from P-78.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nine-new-cases-take-belagavi-tally-past-50-mark-829898.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KSRTC’s mobile fever clinic hits the road in Mysuru dist||The district administration, in association with Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), Mysuru Rural, has converted an old bus into a mobile fever clinic to screen the rural people in the district for Covid-19. The initiative is the first of its kind in the state, and the bus will travel in rural areas across the district.  The KSRTC had converted two of its old buses into mobile sanitisers, ‘Sarige Sanjeevini’, to disinfect people. The people enter the buses from the front door and exit from the back door to get disinfected. They were modified at a cost of Rs 20,000 each, with sprinklers installed to spray disinfectants. The Corporation has extended its full support to the district administration and has also assured of further cooperation in the fight against the Covid-19. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar launched the mobile clinic on Saturday. The DC said, health professionals had inspected the bus and certified the mobile clinic for screening patients. The mobile clinic service will concentrate mainly rural areas as Mysuru city already has 10 fever clinics, hospitals and the District Hospital for screening. The mobile clinic has facilities to screen the patients suffering from fever, cold, cough and diabetes. The bus will move in rural Mysuru, particularly the areas that have been declared as Covid-19 hotspots, Sankar said. The mobile clinic service consists of doctor, nurse and other staff. However, it has no facility to collect samples of swab. In case of swab collection, the patient will be taken to the nearest swab collection centre in an ambulance. The district has, so far, reported 89 cases and the Najanagud cluster alone accounted for 71 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ksrtc-s-mobile-fever-clinic-hits-the-road-in-mysuru-dist-829899.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Roam around and be quarantined, warns minister||Revenue Minister R Ashoka has warned that those who roam about on the streets during the lockdown would be sent to 14 days of quarantine. Addressing a press conference, he said that the number of Covid-19 cases in the district was low, thanks to the efforts of the district administration. But some people were indulging in acts like jolly rides and wheeling. “Don’t seize the vehicles of such people. Instead send them to quarantine,” he directed Superintendent of Police Ravi D Channannavar. On Friday, he reviewed the seal down at Bylanarasapura in the taluk and praised the efforts of the police and health departments in keeping the situation under control. He said essential commodities were being supplied to the people at their doorsteps as also banking services. Of the four Covid-19 patients in Bylanarasapura, two had been discharged. The others too would return home soon, the minister said. Ashoka said Bylanarasapura would be in green zone in 10 more days and that the lockdown would be lifted in phases after May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/roam-around-and-be-quarantined-warns-minister-829900.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Scrap 24-hour pass system, Siddaramaiah tells CM||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has asked Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to do away with the “unrealistic” system of issuing 24-hour passes for citizens who want to visit hospitals for medical reasons. “There are complaints that the police and other officials aren’t allowing patients dealing with cancer, heart, kidney and other health problems, as well as their relatives, to visit hospitals and come back,” Siddaramaiah said in his letter to the CM. “People from Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada and other districts want to visit Manipal Hospital, but they are facing many problems in getting passes,” he said. “So, instead of following the unrealistic system of issuing 24-hour passes, people should be allowed to visit hospitals based on medical records,” Siddaramaiah said, urging Yediyurappa to issue necessary directions. H K Patil fumes  Senior Congress leader H K Patil has asked the CM to withdraw the lockdown relaxation. “Relaxing the lockdown isn’t the solution to revive the economy,” he said. “After relaxation was announced on April 22, Covid-19 cases have increased in Bengaluru and other places.”  Patil claimed to have information that 60,000-70,000 vehicles were being used hourly in Bengaluru. “Five lakh bikes have entered the roads. Bengaluru police have conducted a survey over two days and have given a report, I’m told,” Patil said.  “Of the 25,000 Covid-19 positive cases in India, only 5,000 have recovered and 1,000 have died. When such is the situation, your decision to relax the lockdown will invite more trouble,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/scrap-24-hour-pass-system-siddaramaiah-tells-cm-829901.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||171 villages facing acute water scarcity in Kolar district||A total of 171 villages in Kolar district have been identified as "problematic" as regards water scarcity and 51 of such villages are getting water through tankers. Speaking at a meeting to review the water scarcity situation in the district here on Friday, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Darshan said that the rest of the problematic villages were getting water from private borewells obtained on hire.  "Farmers' borewells are being acquired in villages facing severe water crisis. Steps are being taken to sink new borewells only after confirming water availability. The funds available under 14th State Finance Plan are being utilised b Gram Panchayats for tackling the crisis. A Rs 1.75-crore action plan has been drawn for this purpose," the CEO said. District in-charge Minister H Nagesh had called the meeting in which Lok Sabha member S Muniswamy was also present.  Deputy Commissioner C Sathyabhama informed that Rs 46 lakh had been earmarked for scanning and re-drilling of dead borewells in the district. Eleven agencies in the district have been permitted to sink borewells.  Nagesh told the officials to draw an action plan if more funds were required and he would ensure release of funds from the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/171-villages-facing-acute-water-scarcity-in-kolar-district-829902.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Dharwad gets Covid-19 testing laboratory||In a bid to ramp up its testing capacity, the state government, in association with the Centre, has set up a Covid-19 testing laboratory at the Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (Dimhans). District Minister Jagadish Shettar on Saturday inaugurated the lab, the second of its kind in undivided Dharwad district. First being the virology lab at KIMS, Hubballi. "The lab housed at the Multidisciplinary Research Unit at DIMHANS has trained men and equipment to conduct RT-PCR tests, which determine the presence of the Covid-19 causing SARS COV-2 virus. Each day, 100 samples of throat swab can examined at the lab," Dr Mahesh Desai, Director, Dimhans, explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dharwad-gets-covid-19-testing-laboratory-829904.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Panel to study landslides, form guidelines for protection of Western Ghats||With the monsoon at the doorstep, the state government has set up an expert committee to study the landslide-hit places in Western Ghats to begin understanding and mapping of the vulnerable areas. On January 10, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had issued a note to the Department of Forest, Environment and Ecology proposing that a committee led by the chairman of Karnataka Biodiversity Board should be set up to study the landslide disasters across the state. In a decision taken last week, and made available to the media on Saturday, the department has notified a committee comprising experts, scientists and senior officials from several departments. The committee will visit and survey the landslide-hit areas, look into the existing studies, take inputs from different departments and committees set up for studying the landslide-hit areas. Biodiversity Board Chairman Anant Hegde Ashisara, who is appointed the head of the 10-member committee, said they have been given a mandate to submit a scientific study on the guidelines to be adopted and the steps needed to take to prevent such disasters in future. Scientists from Isro, IISc and Geological Survey of India as well as heads from forest and disaster management departments are part of the committee. The committee's report is crucial as it provides guidelines for the protection of the vulnerable areas like Western Ghats, which is crucial at a time the government is favouring projects like Hubballi-Ankola railway line.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/panel-to-study-landslides-form-guidelines-for-protection-of-western-ghats-829923.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Danske IT contribute Rs 55 lakh to CM Relief Fund||The Danske IT, a subsidiary of Denmark-based Danske Bank contributed Rs 55 lakh to Chief Minister’s Relief fund to fight the Covid-19 crisis. The Chief Minister’s Office appreciated their support and said that Danske IT has set the benchmark for all the IT industries to donate for the Covid-19 cause. Deval Shah, Managing Director, Jayaram S Govindaiah, Head (Infra) and Sandeep Mahiskar, CFO of the company were present during the handing over of cheque.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/danske-it-contribute-rs-55-lakh-to-cm-relief-fund-829924.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Thundershowers forecast in parts of state||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast moderate to heavy rainfall and thundershowers in parts of south interior and north interior Karnataka for the next two days. Adding to the thunderstorms, gusty winds are likely to sweep over south interior districts of the state. Weathermen have attributed the rainfall and thunderstorms to prevailing trough over the peninsular region from Vidarbha in Maharashtra to Tamil Nadu. “Due to this discontinuity of wind in the region, we have been seeing thunderstorms,” Dr G S Srinivas Reddy, director, Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), told DH. According to the scientists at KSNDMC, the situation will continue for two to three-days with isolated rainfall from moderate to rather heavy in some parts. “While it will be heavy in south interior Karnataka region, parts of north-interior Karnataka will see light to moderate rainfall,” he explained. As per the KSNDMC data, Kavanadala in Madhugiri, Tumakuru district received the highest rainfall of 53 mm in the state. In Bengaluru, till Saturday evening, Vidyaranyapura received the highest rainfall of 49 mm. Similarly, several areas in north and northeast of Bengaluru including Yelahanka, Jakkur, Hennur received light to moderate rainfall besides light breeze engulfing the whole of Bengaluru. The cloudy weather and subsequent rains and thundershowers in various districts including Bengaluru brought down the mercury level considerably. Meteorologists have also cautioned the public about the severe thunderstorm activity and lightning in parts of North Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/thundershowers-forecast-in-parts-of-state-829925.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||States told to focus on water conservation during monsoon||The Centre has asked states, including Karnataka, to focus on water conservation and irrigation, as the normal monsoon forecast has raised hope that a good harvest would help revive the virus-battered economy.  Four secretaries of the Union Government, jointly wrote to the chief secretaries of the states, stressing on convergence of not only rural job programme, but also the other schemes funded by the Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD) and the Ministry of Jal Shakti (MoJS) to ensure use of all available resources for conservation of water during the monsoon. The Centre has asked the state governments to assign the local authorities to conduct quick and comprehensive survey of all traditional water bodies, including irrigation tanks, old step-wells and ponds. It would be followed by removal of encroachment around such water bodies. Finally, the water bodies should be renovated by engaging the villagers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). “The renovation should include de-silting, construction or strengthening of inlets and outlets and afforestation in the catchment areas of the water bodies,” the secretaries of the MoRD and the MoJS wrote to the chief secretaries of the states.  With India Meteorological Department forecasting a normal monsoon, this year, the Ministry of Agriculture set the food grain production target for the nation for 2020-21 crop year at 298.3 million tonnes – two per cent more than the record yield during current year. The Union Government is hoping that a bumper harvest would help it steer the economy out of the slowdown caused by the Covid-19 crisis. The Centre had to drop its plan to deploy its officials to re-run the Jal Shakti Abhiyan this year in view of the travel and transport restrictions and the nationwide lockdown clamped to contain the pandemic. However, the Union government has asked the states to ensure optimal deployment of all available resources “to catch the rain” during the coming monsoon. Apart from the water conservation and irrigation activities allowed under the MGNREGS, a number of related activities can be taken up under other schemes being implemented by the MoJS and Department of Land Resources of the MoRD, the Centre wrote to the state governments. The communiqué specifically asked the states to focus on augmentation of existing water sources, groundwater recharge, rainwater harvesting and grey water management for reuse and recharge (construction of community soak pits or leach pits or waste stabilization ponds) under the Swachh Bharat Mission (Grameen) as well as repair and restoration works under the Watershed Development Component of the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/states-told-to-focus-on-water-conservation-during-monsoon-829926.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Poachers drown 2 forest men||Poachers reportedly killed two forest personnel by drowning them in Kabini backwaters at Gundre Forest Range under Bandipur Tiger Reserve in the taluk on Saturday. Mahesh (26) of Punajur in Chamarajanagar district and Shivakumar (33) of Bhramagiri village in HD Kote taluk, Mysuru district are the deceased. While the body of Mahesh was recovered, the body of Shivakumar is yet to be retrieved. Mahesh wasworking as a forest guard and Shivakumar was a contract employee. According to Assistant Conservator of Forests K Paramesh, the poachers had indulged in illegal fishing in Kabini backwaters on eight to 10 coracles. On a tip off, nine Forest department personnel, including a driver, reached the spot. Four personnel in one coracle tried to catch the poachers. “On seeing our personnel, the smugglers attacked and sank the coracle into the water. While two of them drowned, two others escaped,” he said. An officer said all the nine personnel were not able to take part in the raid as there was only one coracle. Despite wearing safety equipment, two of them drowned, he said. The Beechanahalli police are investigating the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/poachers-drown-2-forest-men-829928.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||This couple lives a ennobled life, of enabling lives torn asunder||Bengaluru-based Shubhajit Bhattacharya and Juli Aich have dipped into their savings to help migrant workers stranded in the city during the lockdown. Shubhajit, who lost both his arms in an accident more than 20 years ago, was moved by the plight of the migrant workers. “We felt the need to help them out,” he says. The couple started out near their homes, helping workers from Tamil Nadu and Nepal, who were struggling to get by. While they stared the work with their own money, social media has helped amplify their reach, with friends donating towards their cause. So far, the couple has helped over 80 families over the past three weeks. The scope of their work was limited due to the restrictions on travel but there was a case of a worker in Malleswaram that the couple could not ignore. “A vegetable seller met with an accident and could no longer work. He had two young children and a pregnant wife. I took it upon myself to get them rations and milk for the children,” Shubhajit explains. Though he was stopped by the police at multiple points, they let him carry on with his work when he explained the situation. Shubhajit works as a graphic designer and events coordinator with the Association of People with Disabilities (APD) in  Bengaluru, while Juli works as an admin support staff at a healthcare clinic in Lingarajapuram. They have helped 80 families and are distributing supplies to eight families now. “He has been working with us for almost five years now and throughout that time he’s been super enthusiastic, about not just work, but also helping others,” says Seema Joshi, the director of marketing and communication at APD. Joshi says he is deeply empathetic and is always initiating action to help those less fortunate than him. “You can see it in the way he goes out to help those in need without worrying about himself. He’s always first in line when someone needs help,” she says.  Moni Agra is one of the people who he has helped. She lives in a colony near his house with her husband and one-year-old child. “We don’t have a voter ID card or Aadhaar card so we were unable to get help from the government. Shubhajit took note of this and helped us and many other families like ours,” she says. He arranged rations, which included wheat flour, rice, spices, tea powder and more, enough to last for at least two weeks, says Moni. “After seeing my kid, he even arranged milk for us,” she adds. Shubhajit says he has another goal to achieve when helping people during the lockdown. He wants to change the way society thinks about people with disabilities. “The stereotype is that we constantly ask for help. I wanted to show that we are just as capable of helping out as anyone else,” he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/this-couple-lives-a-ennobled-life-of-enabling-lives-torn-asunder-829930.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Ex-Bajrang Dal leader Mahendra Kumar dead||Former Bajrang Dal leader and social activist Mahendra Kumar died on Saturday due to a heart attack at a private hospital. Kumar (47) was shifted to the hospital on Friday night following complaints of chest pain. He is survived by wife and two children. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has condoled the death. After his stint with the Bajrang Dal, of which he was the state convenor, Kumar was involved in social activities. Former chief ministers Siddaramaiah and H D Kumaraswamy also condoled Kumar’s death. After quitting the Bajrang Dal, Kumar was briefly with JD(S).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ex-bajrang-dal-leader-mahendra-kumar-dead-829931.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt to use app-based system to track tanker water supply ||Karnataka will, for the first time, attempt to scientifically understand the water tanker ecosystem during drought through an app-based system and authorities hope this will help curb contractors fleecing public money by falsely claiming bills.  The Tanker Management App will be used for all bill payments, according to an order issued jointly by the Revenue and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) departments.  Tankers play a crucial role in supplying water to the drought-hit areas. Karnataka has already declared 49 taluks across 18 districts as drought-affected, and the government is preparing to deal with drinking water shortage.  Presently, the government has roped in 65 tankers to supply water to 59 villages and 237 private borewells for 215 villages. Last year, over 2,000 tankers and over 1,800 private borewells were hired to supply water to 2,999 villages.  “Currently, everything is manual. We want to get into a regime where things happen electronically so that we get data that we can analyze. It’s a step in the right direction,” Revenue (disaster management, Bhoomi & Urban Property Ownership Record) principal secretary T K Anil Kumar told DH. Rs 70-100 crore spent According to sources, the government might have spent Rs 70-100 crore last year on tanker water supply. Exact figures are not available because there is no system in place to check.  Apparently, some contractors claim bills for lesser quantum of water supplied or distance travelled. The app, developed by the Revenue department’s Bhoomi Monitoring Cell, aims to fill this loophole by requiring drivers to upload geo-tagged photos to corroborate their bill claims.  “The app will get us the data. And then, we will look at expenditure,” Kumar added.  For borewells, too, the government has introduced reforms to streamline their usage. All bills should now have the latitude-longitude details of borewells. “We have also said that that if a borewell is defunct, it shouldn’t be abandoned and its materials should be salvaged and used elsewhere,” RDPR principal secretary L K Atheeq said. “Also, we have asked officials to shift the electricity connection from defunct borewells to the working ones, instead of applying for a new connection each time,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-to-use-app-based-system-to-track-tanker-water-supply-829932.html
25-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Scrap 24-hour pass system, Siddaramaiah tells CM||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has asked Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to do away with the “unrealistic” system of issuing 24-hour passes for citizens who want to visit hospitals for medical reasons. “There are complaints that the police and other officials aren’t allowing patients dealing with cancer, heart, kidney and other health problems, as well as their relatives, to visit hospitals and come back,” Siddaramaiah said in his letter to the CM. “People from Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada and other districts want to visit Manipal Hospital, but they are facing many problems in getting passes,” he said. “So, instead of following the unrealistic system of issuing 24-hour passes, people should be allowed to visit hospitals based on medical records,” Siddaramaiah said, urging Yediyurappa to issue necessary directions. H K Patil fumes  Senior Congress leader H K Patil has asked the CM to withdraw the lockdown relaxation. “Relaxing the lockdown isn’t the solution to revive the economy,” he said. “After relaxation was announced on April 22, Covid-19 cases have increased in Bengaluru and other places.”  Patil claimed to have information that 60,000-70,000 vehicles were being used hourly in Bengaluru. “Five lakh bikes have entered the roads. Bengaluru police have conducted a survey over two days and have given a report, I’m told,” Patil said.  “Of the 25,000 Covid-19 positive cases in India, only 5,000 have recovered and 1,000 have died. When such is the situation, your decision to relax the lockdown will invite more trouble,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/scrap-24-hour-pass-system-siddaramaiah-tells-cm-829936.html
25-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||COVID-19 cases cross half-century mark in Belagavi||Among the six tested positive, four are female and two male are secondary contacts of P128 from Hirebagewadi village in Belagavi taluk. The village has recorded 22 positive cases. P482 (male, 45 years), P483 (male, 38 years), P484 (female, 80 years), P485 (female, 55 years), P486 (female, 42 years) and P487 (female, 39 years) were secondary contacts of P128 who was discharged from the District Hospital recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/covid-19-cases-cross-half-century-mark-in-belagavi-829708.html
25-04-2020||West||Sawant talks to disembarked Goan crew members of cruise ship||Around 145 Indian crew members, including those from Goa, on board the cruise ship- Marella Discovery- disembarked at the international cruise terminal in Mumbai on Thursday. The ship had left Thailand over a month ago, officials had said. In a tweet on Saturday, Sawant said, "Late last evening, I spoke to the Goan Seafarers telephonically who signed off from Marella at Mumbai Port. They will be back home very soon." Meanwhile, State Executive Committee on COVID-19, headed by Chief Secretary, on Friday decided that these crew members would be tested for coronavirus infection in Mumbai. After the crew members test negative, they would come to Goa, where they would be housed in paid quarantine facilities, the committee decided in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sawant-talks-to-disembarked-goan-crew-members-of-cruise-ship-829659.html
25-04-2020||West||Shiv Sena readies plan amidst Governor impasse fears in Maharashtra||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has kept the proverbial Sword of Damocles hanging over Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for a month now but the Shiv Sena has another month to work out a salvage plan. The 59-year-old Thackeray is not a member of the Maharashtra legislature. Thackeray, who is the Shiv Sena President, was sworn in on November 28, 2019,  and, as per the Constitutional requirement, has to be elected as a member of Assembly or Council within six months. This deadline ends on May 28. The crisis started after the election. The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, has recommended the name of Thackeray for the two vacant seats in the Council from the Governor' quota. It is clear that Thackeray cannot become an MLA or MLC by contesting elections at this stage and the only option is to become an MLC from Governor's quota. In fact, when the Cabinet met and proposed his name on April 9, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar of NCP presided over the meeting as Thackeray stayed away on ground of ethics and propriety. So far, the Raj Bhavan has not responded to the proposal and reportedly the Governor has sought legal opinion. The delay in making him an MLC has created anxiety in the Shiv Sena and the MVA camp. Earlier this week, Sena Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut tweeted: "...somehow reminded of the ‘shameless’ Governor, the late (Thakur) Ram Lal, who served in the Raj Bhavan in Andhra Pradesh in the early 1980s.....Remember! History doesn’t spare those who behave unconstitutionally. Samajhne walon ko ishaar kaafi hai!”. MVA leaders have accused the BJP of misusing the Governor's houses for political conspiracies. The Shiv Sena's strategy is to get Thackeray into the Upper House through Governor's quota - and once the lockdown is lifted the Council polls - that were due in April -  will be announced, which he would contest. If the Governor refuses, the Shiv Sena is ready to move court. The other option is that Thackeray resigns by May 28 and get sworn in again as Chief Minister. This has to be a smooth 24-hour operation, as the BJP will leave no stones unturned to topple the government. As per Article 164 (4) of the Constitution, a minister,  who is not a member of either Houses, will cease to be a minister, on expiry of six months. However,  there are various interpretation and judgements on the article.  The MVA does not want to take bay chances of legal wrangles and Constitutional crisis and has decided to get Thackeray elected from governor's quota. Precedents and norms say that the Governor goes with the decision of the Cabinet.  There is still one month to go.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-readies-plan-amidst-governor-impasse-fears-in-maharashtra-829686.html
25-04-2020||West||200 shanties gutted in major fire outbreak in Nashik slum; no casualty||Over 200 shanties were gutted in a major fire that broke out at a slum in Bhadrakali area of Nashik in Maharashtra on Saturday, police said. The fire erupted around 9.30 am in Bheemwadi slum area. There was no report of any loss of life in the incident, police said. However, some fire bridge personnel suffered minor injuries during the firefighting operation, a police official said. "Over 200 shanties were gutted in the blaze. The fire spread quickly after some LPG cylinders exploded. The entire area was enveloped in thick black smoke for some time," the official said. "Around 20 fire tenders were rushed to the spot. As several roads in the city are barricaded due to the coronavirus lockdown, the vehicles took some time to reach the spot. The fire was brought under control within three hours," he said. Local residents helped the police and the fire brigade personnel in the rescue operation. "Although no loss of life was reported in the mishap, some fire brigade personnel suffered minor injuries," the official said. Police said that the affected families from the slum have been shifted to a civic-run school. The reason behind the blaze is being ascertained, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/200-shanties-gutted-in-major-fire-outbreak-in-nashik-slum-no-casualty-829774.html
25-04-2020||West||Goa: Poultry owners concerned about ban on imports from Karnataka||Even as the sale of chicken is getting back to normal amid the COVID-19 lockdown, poultry owners are concerned that the ban on import of birds from neighbouring Karnataka may lead to shortage and hike prices. The Goa government had recently allowed poultry imports from Maharashtra, while the ban still continues for Karnataka, after a few areas in the neighbouring state allegedly reported cases of bird flu.  "The sale is only slowly getting back to normal. But the prices have gone up, pinching the pockets of consumers. The chicken prices will come down only if the ban on imports from Karnataka is lifted," said Jaikrishna Naik, president of All Goa Poultry Owners' Association. On an average, Goa was consuming 1.20 lakh kg of chicken before the lockdown, he said, adding that in the past month, the sale was almost down to 30 per cent of what it was, especially since restaurants and eateries were closed. If now the regular sale gradually resumes, supply should not dry up, which is why it was crucial to allow imports from Karnataka, Naik said.  The Pramod Sawant-led government had banned the import of poultry from Karnataka after cases of bird flu were allegedly reported at some places there. The state government was monitoring the situation in Karnataka and imports will resume as and when it is considered safe, a senior official from the state animal husbandry department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-poultry-owners-concerned-about-ban-on-imports-from-karnataka-829792.html
25-04-2020||West||5,000 cases registered in Mumbai for coronavirus lockdown violation||The number of cases registered by Mumbai Police for violation of lockdown to contain coronavirus reached 5,000 on Saturday. Cases were filed for violation of restrictions on movement during lockdown and other related offences against over 9,800 persons under section 188 of IPC in the last one month, an official said. The section deals with `disobedience to order lawfully passed' by a government official. 6,164 persons were arrested and released on bail, 2,440 persons were allowed to go after notices were issued to them and 1,188 were absconding, he said. Of the total number of offences registered in the city, 3,505 cases are related to unlawful assembly, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/5000-cases-registered-in-mumbai-for-coronavirus-lockdown-violation-829800.html
25-04-2020||West||Gyms, theatres, casinos, pools to remain shut in Goa amid coronavirus lockdown: Official||The Goa government on Saturday issued an order extending the closure of establishments like casinos, gymnasiums, night clubs among others in the coastal state till further orders. The order comes a day after the Centre allowed neighbourhood and standalone shops, including those located in residential complexes, in urban areas to open during the ongoing lockdown. As per the order of the Ministry of Home Affairs, shops in markets will continue to remain shut, while in rural areas, all shops, except those in shopping malls, are allowed to open. Goa Health Director Jose D'Sa ordered that gymnasiums, cinema theatres, public swimming pools including those in hotels, casinos, spa and massage parlours, salons, river cruises, nightclubs and multiplexes will remain closed till further orders. Several shop owners in the coastal state said they were unaware of the MHA order, while some said they would not be able to open their establishments immediately due to lack of supplies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gyms-theatres-casinos-pools-to-remain-shut-in-goa-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-official-829807.html
25-04-2020||West||69 Akola farmer groups sell produce worth Rs 8.5 cr amid coronavirus lockdown||Farmers in Akola in Maharashtra used technology to sell produce worth Rs 8.50 crore during the lockdown in place for the novel coronavirus outbreak, a senior agriculture official said on Saturday. The three-week-long nationwide lockdown started on March 25 and was extended on April 14 till May 3. "Helped by the state agriculture department and the Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA), 69 farmer groups in Akola took orders directly from customers and delivered vegetables, fruits worth Rs 8.50 crore since lockdown began," informed District Agriculture Superintendent Mohan Wagh. "They started sales at 93 places in urban areas and sold 850 tonnes of produce. Their mobile phones played a huge role," Wagh told PTI. ATMA is part of the Centre's National Agricultural Technology Project and provides technical back-up and research to help farmers develop effective supply chains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/69-akola-farmer-groups-sell-produce-worth-rs-85-cr-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-829862.html
25-04-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown rules will not change in Maha till May 3: Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said the lockdown rules will remain unchanged in the state will May 3. Talking to PTI, Tope said there was no clarity in the Centre's latest order regarding reopening of shops. "We will get more clarity after a video conference with the Prime Minister on Monday," he said "We haven't taken any decision on the order of the Ministry of Home Affairs as yet. But there will be no further relaxation in lockdown rules till May 3," the minister added. The issue of sending migrant labourers back to their native places will also be taken up during the meeting with the prime minister, Tope said. Stating that economic activities need to start, he said the Maharashtra government was of the opinion that businesses can resume in green zones with borders of these areas sealed and industrial activity allowed inside. Whether or not to extend lockdown in red zones (which have large number of coronavirus cases) such as Mumbai and Pune regions will be taken later, he said. "It has to be seen if only containment areas in red zones should be sealed or the entire zone should be under lockdown. Decision will be taken after thorough deliberations," the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-rules-will-not-change-in-maha-till-may-3-rajesh-tope-829865.html
25-04-2020||West||Have onions, will travel: Mumbai man turns to vegetable trade to beat COVID-19 lockdown||How do you travel from Mumbai to Allahabad when there is a lockdown? Buy 25 tonnes of onions, load them onto a truck and hit the road.    Desperate to reach his ancestral village on the outskirts of Allahabad, Prem Murti Pandey, who works at Mumbai airport, says he did just that. He spent the first phase of the lockdown in Mumbai, but then it seemed that the restrictions could go on for a while. "Actually Azad Nagar in Andheri East, where I live is a very congested area and there is a bigger risk there of coronavirus spreading,” he told PTI. Buses and trains don't run and flights are grounded during this lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus. “I realised that the government had left one way open,” Pandey said, referring to the relaxation on the movement of essential commodities like fruit and vegetable. His plan also involved watermelons -- 1,300 kilos of them. On April 17, Pandey hired a mini-truck for Pimpalgaon near Nashik, about 200 km way. There, he bought the watermelons for Rs 10,000 and sent the vehicle back to Mumbai with the consignment. He had already struck a deal with a buyer in Mumbai. Next, he studied the Pimpalgaon market for a good deal in onions. Pandey said he bought 25,520 kilos of onions at Rs 9.10 per kg, shelling out Rs 2.32 lakh. He then hired a truck for Rs 77,500 and set off on April 20 with the onions on a 1,200-km journey to Allahabad. He reached there on April 23 and headed straight to the Mundera wholesale market on the outskirts of the city. Unfortunately, he couldn't find anyone who would pay cash for the load. So Pandey took the truck to his village, Kotwa Mubarkpur, a couple of kilometers away. The onions were unloaded there.  TP Nagar police post in-charge Arvind Kumar Singh said Pandey came to Dhoomanganj police station on Friday and a medical team examined him. For now, he has been asked to quarantine himself at home. As for the onions, Pandey still hopes to get a good deal. Right now, the mandi is full of onions from Sagar in Madhya Pradesh. Once the Sagar supply is over, onions from Nashik will find buyers, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/have-onions-will-travel-mumbai-man-turns-to-vegetable-trade-to-beat-covid-19-lockdown-829870.html
25-04-2020||West||Maharashtra records highest jump in coronavirus cases||In an ever-alarming situation, Maharashtra, and Mumbai in specific, recorded the highest jump in COVID-91 positive cases on Saturday. Throughout Maharashtra, as many as 811 cases were recorded. As far as Mumbai is concerned,  it recorded a jump of 602 cases. On Saturday, 22 deaths were reported in the state taking the toll to 323. It is an addition of 811 new patients - the highest since the previous high of 778 fresh cases on Thursday. The total number of COVID-19 patients jumped from Friday’s 6,817 to stand at 7,628 on Saturday. Twice this week, the state notched 24-hour high figures of 552 new cases, zooming to a new record of 778 on Thursday, and now catapulting to 811 on Friday.   Of the total 22 deaths on Saturday, 13 were recorded in Mumbai, taking the total from 178 to 191. The number of COVID-19 positive patients in India's commercial capital shot up from Friday's 4,447 to 5,049 - marking the highest single-day jump of 602 new cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-highest-jump-in-coronavirus-cases-829885.html
25-04-2020||West||Gujarat coronavirus tally crosses 3000 mark; Ahmedabad reports 183 case||The number of COVID-19 cases in Gujarat crossed the 3,000-mark on Saturday with 256 more people testing positive for coronavirus, a Health department official said. The total number of the COVID-19 cases in the state now stood at 3071. With six more persons succumbing to the COVID-19 disease, the death toll has risen to 133, the official said. Of 256 new cases, Ahmedabad alone accounted for 182 cases, followed by Surat 34 and Vadodara 7. The total number of cases in Ahmedabad has crossed the 2,000-mark at 2,003.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-coronavirus-tally-crosses-3000-mark-ahmedabad-reports-183-case-829912.html
