26-04-2020||First Edit||Build strategic oil reserves||While oil-producing countries will be very adversely affected by this, consuming countries like India will stand to gain. Over 80% of the country’s demand is met by imports and the rock bottom prices will lead to large savings. They will lead to a reduction in the current account deficit and more foreign exchange savings when exports have gone down. If the government passes on a part of the benefit to the consumers, they will benefit, along with the larger economy which will see more spending and a push for demand for goods and services. But there are downsides also in the medium-term. Continued disruption of economic activity and demand contraction might lead to a fall in the government’s tax revenues which are already moving down. There is also the danger of a sharp drop in remittances from oil-producing countries, especially those in West Asia, which might seriously impact family and national economies in India. The prospects of reverse migration from these countries, with all its attendant problems, are also real.  India has an opportunity now to build its strategic reserves for future. The underground facilities which are located in Visakhapatnam, Mangaluru and Padur near Udupi can hold about 5.33 million metric tonnes which is enough for about 9-10 days of consumption. Only about 56% of this capacity has been utilised till now. There is also a plan to add another 6.5 million tonnes of capacity. The government has indicated that it is seized of the matter but it should be done when the prices continue to be at these low levels. There are countries which have much larger strategic reserves. It is imperative that we store as much oil as possible when it is available cheap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/build-strategic-oil-reserves-830305.html
26-04-2020||In Perspective||Coronavirus Lockdown: Migrant labourers’ nightmarish spectacle||Droves of the bedraggled humanity has been seen walking along the spick and span highways with children in dishevelled state in tow. With dread in their eyes and balancing disproportionately large headloads over the frail bodies of their women, the hungry and thirsty masses have been heading to an uncertain future foisted on them by the totally thoughtless fathers of the administration.   India has witnessed fast-paced urbanisation since the dawn of economic liberalisation in 1991. As of now, 31.16% of the nation’s population lives in urban areas. Although no accurate data is available, the number of migrant labour is estimated to be around 100 million. The Census 2011 had pegged the total number of internal migrants in the country (accounting for inter- and intra-state movements) at a whopping 139 million.  The Economic Survey of India 2017 had estimated that around nine million people were migrating annually between states during the 2011-2016 period. According to Aajeevika Bureau (Livelihood Bureau), an NGO working for amelioration of migrant labour in Rajasthan and Gujarat, the construction industry is the largest employer of the migrant labourers at 40 million. Next come domestic workers at 20 million, mostly womenfolk of the migrant males. Brick kiln work takes another 10 million while mines, quarries, transportation, hotels etc mainly depend on huge migrant labour. Migrant labour has fostered prosperity for regions in the past. In the 19th century, migrations were eastward, towards Burma, Bengal, Assam and south-eastern nations. The tide turned westwards towards Bombay, Gujarat and Punjab in 20th century and the Gulf nations, if overseas migrations too were to be taken into account. Come 21st century, southern states began to attract them in their thousands.   Catalyst: Migration is just as essential a corollary of industrialisation as is urbanisation. However, one might detest this fact: it is recognised that cheap labour available from rural areas has been the major catalyst for fast-paced growth of economy since 1991.  A look at the ‘source’ and ‘destination’ of the migrant labour provides an insight into the disparity in economic development of the country. Nine metropolitan cities (National Capital Region Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Pune, Chennai, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Kolkata and Kochi) have been the major magnets for the rural-urban migrant labour.  As for the rural-rural migrants, Punjab, Haryana, Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh attract the majority of them. Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh which are yet to have a metropolitan city, are the major sources of supply. They have been lately joined by their splinter-states like Jharkhand, Uttarakhand and Chhattisgarh and Odisha and the entire North East.    Easy game: Migrant workers constitute the largest chunk of the country’s unorganised work sector, vulnerable to all that is wrong with the pattern of national growth. Fleeing the rural poverty, they fall prey to contractors and exploitative rings of mafia in cities. Unskilled, devoid of even the nascent awareness of labour rights, they wield least bargaining power. Lacking even the basic proficiency in the languages spoken in the ‘destination’ states and robbed off their domicile status, they are game for slumlords, water supplying mafia and corporators. Their miseries are directly proportional to the distance between ‘source’ and the ‘destination’ states in terms of food, culture, legal status, identity and wages. Forces advocating parochialism and partisan attitude of administration keep them on tenterhooks. Destination states, the beneficiaries of their sweat and toil, have never been heard of being charitable to them, not even recognising the pleas for basic entitlements of decent shelter, ration, education for their kids or subsidised healthcare.  Portability: Underpaid, a majority of the migrants have no social security system. With clout of the trade unions in decline, they can scarcely demand fair wages. Surveys point out that women and children bear the blues of migration more severely. Most women have been found to be undernourished.  Moreover, with female folk staying back in parent states, they exhibit skewed gender ratio. They mostly live in slums or shanties in areas vulnerable to floods, fire and violence by the land mafia. Several persons share congested spaces thereby burdening an infrastructure not designed for human habitation. They are regulated under an archaic Inter-State Migrant Workers Act 1980. In a more connected world, it is imperative that some thought must be given for provision of ‘portability of social security’ whereby parent and destination states could share the responsibility for their physical security, health, kids’ education and shelter.  If indeed Bharat has to homogenise into India, people who contribute their sweat, blood and toil to the prosperity of their destination states, should not be seen being part of the nightmarish spectacle that we have been witness to during the last few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/coronavirus-lockdown-migrant-labourers-nightmarish-spectacle-830307.html
26-04-2020||Kalaburagi||Two more test COVID-19 positive in Kalaburagi||After a lull of two days, two more people including a seven-year-old boy tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Sunday. With this, tally mounted to 38 in Kalaburagi. The child contracted the virus from a 26-year-old woman. Throat swab test of a 65-year-old woman returned positive. The source of her virus infection is the 57-year-old man who is undergoing treatment at the ESIC hospital.  Out of 38 positive cases, seven got discharged from hospital, four people died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/two-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-kalaburagi-830156.html
26-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka man posts COVID-19 patient's picture in WhatsApp, arrested||A 24-year-old man has been arrested in Vijayapura district in Karnataka for posting the photograph of a COVID-19 girl patient as his WhatsApp status photo with a derogatory message, police said. Anil Rathod on Saturday posted the picture of the girl student as status message with a caption, "Bad News Student got Positive" By putting her photograph as his WhatsApp status message, he tried to create fear among the masses and intentionally defamed her by making her photo go viral, the police said in a statement.  It is an offence to reveal the identity of the COVID-19 patients by taking the photograph and putting it in the public domain, the police said. Rathod has been booked under for spreading rumours and causing panic, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-man-posts-covid-19-patients-picture-in-whatsapp-arrested-830139.html
26-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Spread of coronavirus on decline in Mysuru: Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar||Mysuru district seems to be slowly returning to normalcy, with the number of coronavirus positive cases and its rate of spreading is on decline. However, surfacing of new positive cases cannot be ruled out, said Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar. The rate of spreading of COVID-19 has declined in the last few days. We have completed coronavirus test of all the employees of Nanjangud-based Jubilant Generics Company. As many as 73 cases were linked to the company, the DC said. Abhiram said, the test on the primary and secondary contacts of the cases that were reported till April 11 was completed and the results of a few are yet to be out. As per the guidelines, the contacts must be tested on the 12th day to get the exact report. However, the tests on the contacts are being conducted almost twice, as a point of precaution, he said. Several people have recovered and discharged from the hospital. Of 89 cases tested positive, 38 persons have recovered and discharged. The number of active cases stands at 51. Initially, Mysuru district was at the peak with nearly 20 persons testing positive in a week. Now, we may come out of that situation,” he said, adding that there would be no sudden increase in the cases. Claiming that the positive cases will decline slowly, the DC said, until now, the rate of positive cases was three to four percent. “We are in a better position compared to the recent past,” he said. However, it is not possible to totally rule out emerging of new cases, the DC said. The number of tests will be increased in the days to come. The district administration has submitted a proposal for bio-safety cabinet and it helps to conduct more tests, he added. The Central Food Technological and Research Institute (CFTRI) is ready to lend support to conduct more tests, he said. The district administration is all prepared to handle the cases. There are sufficient equipment, PPE and masks. However, the district is yet to receive rapid testing kits. The Employees State Insurance (ESI) hospital has 100 bed facility and 35 beds have oxygen unit. In addition, B M Hospital has been designated as waiting area and no treatment will be offered at the hospital, said the DC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/spread-of-coronavirus-on-decline-in-mysuru-deputy-commissioner-abhiram-g-sankar-830253.html
26-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mandya dist admin responsible for clash: H D Kumaraswamy||Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy opined that the Mandya district administration is totally responsible for the Saturday’s incident, where an FIR was filed against the MLC Srikantegowda and his son for disrupting the authorities from conducting tests on journalists for coronavirus. Kumaraswamy participated in the distribution of food kits for the residents of Muslim Layout in K R Nagar on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, Kumaraswamy said that the incident could have been averted. “The journalists have been risking their lives at the time when coronavirus is spreading fast and it is our duty to respect anybody who is working for the society. The situation would not have raised, if the district administration had conducted the tests at the district hospital, as mentioned clearly in the government circular,” he said. The journalists should be subject to tests at their respective district hospitals in the presence of the District Health Officer and medical experts. However, the administration decided to conduct the tests at the Ambedkar Bhavan in Mandya city. MLC K T Srikantegowda, upon receiving complaints from the residents, had gone to the spot to question this, which ensued in a commotion. This shows the failure of the district administration. But, care should be taken to ensure that such incidents do not recur, he stressed. Commenting on the lockdown, Kumaraswamy said, as per the Centre’s orders, we have cooperated for the extension of the lockdown, up to May 3.  It has created a lot of trouble for the farmers and the common man. They should take all measures to keep away from the dreaded virus, at the same time manage to run the family. He lauded MLA Sa Ra Mahesh for purchasing vegetables at the market price from the farmers and distributing it among the poor, without seeking any publicity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-dist-admin-responsible-for-clash-h-d-kumaraswamy-830254.html
26-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Spurned by Twitter, MP seeks desi micro-blogging site||Having had his account suspended by Twitter, BJP MP Ananthkumar Hegde has written to the PMO alleging ‘digital colonisation’ and ‘wrongful interference in free speech’ by the micro-blogging site. The former union minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, in a ‘confidential letter’ urged the PM to try and develop an Indian version of the micro-blogging site to ensure ‘data sovereignty’ and to investigate “Anti-India, Anti-BJP, Anti-Modi, (and) Anti-establishment tweets.” His handle @AnanthkumarH was locked by Twitter, according to the screenshot shared by the MP in his letter to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Twitter, in a message, had asked the MP to “remove tweets that violate our rules’ to unlock his account. The Uttara Kannada MP is no stranger to controversy, having tweeted sympathising with Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin Nathuram Godse and for his repeated vitriolic tweets and remarks against minority communities. He had deleted the Godse tweet, claiming that his account was hacked in May last year. His disparaging comment against Gandhi in February last year had forced the BJP high command to issue a show cause notice against him. In the letter, Hegde alleged selective targeting of nationalist and pro-India handles and paid promotion of ‘handles spewing poison and passing objectionable comments’ about the PM, Home Minister and CM’s of India, amongothers. Noting Modi had advocated the concept of self-sufficiency recently, “We as a nation should try and develop (a)-la-twitter Indian version thru NIC, CDAC, CDOT or Indian Start-up sector on a war footing and commercialisation of the same must happen through Government of India or Indian private entity. Digitial colonisation can be only challenged with data sovereignty. Freedom of speech and expression can be only guaranteed by data sovereignty and transparency,” the letter read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/spurned-by-twitter-mp-seeks-desi-micro-blogging-site-830283.html
26-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Don’t provoke me and lose face, DKS warns Gopalaiah||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar lashed out at Food and Civil Supplies Minister K Gopalaiah over alleged hoarding of foodgrains meant for the public distribution system. "I have information on who was selling the rice provided by the Centre and at what price. Don't provoke me and lose face," he said. "There are several guidelines for storing foodgrains and other items provided under the public distribution system. Despite this, why were such large amounts of rice stored at a private facility? Why did the government announce that it will store foodgrains and other essential items in hundreds of godowns and choultries?" he said. On Friday, Shivakumar had made allegations of a scam, saying that 1,879 quintals of rice from Haryana, meant for distribution to the poor, was illegally stored at a warehouse. The stock was subsequently seized, he had said. Gopalaiah had dismissed the charges. He also demanded action against anyone who did not cooperate during the pandemic. "Action should be initiated against those involved in the Mandya and Padarayanapura incidents. In the same way, action should be taken against a Mangaluru MLA (who did not allow burial of a body)," he said. The government must also act against the MLAs from Vijayapura, Chikkamagaluru and Davangere for their provocative statements, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/don-t-provoke-me-and-lose-face-dks-warns-gopalaiah-830284.html
26-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||DPI introduces website to manage mid-day meal scheme||The department of Public Instruction (DPI) had developed a website for the effective implementation of mid-day meal scheme in schools, said the deputy director of the department of public instruction K Rathnaiah. He was speaking to reporters here on Sunday. He said that the proposed move also intended to reduce burden on headmasters in schools. “The website has been introduced on experimental basis in Bengaluru rural, Sandur taluk in Ballari district and Yadgir taluk in Yadgir district. Response has been good,” he said. Rathnaiah said that the commissioner of the department had issued a circular in this regard. “The objectives of the website include supervision of officials at school, cluster, taluk and district-levels. It also helps the evaluation process. The website helps enter demand for food grains based on beneficiaries, uploading of data and to maintain transparency,” he said. He said that all government, government-aided primary and high schools had been directed to upload the details for the year 2020-21 without fail. The commissioner had directed the headmasters to use Rs 250 in the available grants every month as internet charges to ensure installation of the website. “Training is being imparted at the district-level from resources persons for the installation of the website. The commissioner has directed to identify the expert resources persons and deploy them at taluks for the installation works. The state-level training programme will be held at Shikshakara Sadana in Bengaluru on April 30,” he said. Rathnaiah said that the district-level training would be held at the district headquarters on May 2. Akshara Dasoha scheme assistant directors and subject managers had been asked to attend. Training will be imparted to headmasters and cluster resources persons at taluk-level on May 6. “The headmasters will upload the data on experimental basis from May 15,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/dpi-introduces-website-to-manage-mid-day-meal-scheme-830159.html
26-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||KMF approves sales of fruits, vegetables at Nandini parlours||The Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) has accepted the request of the Horticulture Department to permit farmers to sell their produces directly to consumers at Nandi Parlours. The KMF has taken a decision in this regard to help farmers during the lockdown period. The KMF would provide free drinking water, buttermilk, hand sanitiser and masks to farmers bringing vegetables and fruits for sales. There are 98 Nandini Parlours in Chikkaballapur district. The following numbers may be contacted for further details: deputy director of horticulture department (9448999242) and the taluk senior assistant horticulture directors: Chikkaballapur (9342959690),  Chintamani (9902581832), Gauribidanur (9964749681), Shidlaghatta (8073334003), Bagepalli (7899890552) and Gudibande (9964749681)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/kmf-approves-sales-of-fruits-vegetables-at-nandini-parlours-830170.html
26-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Basavanna’s role in social justice, equality is crucial: DC||Deputy Commissioner C Satyabhama on Sunday said that there was reality in Basava philosophy and many personalities followed the path shown by him. She was speaking at the Basava Jayanti programme organised by the district administration here. She said,” Basavanna played a crucial role in ensuring social justice and equality. He taught the world the concept of social equality in the 12th century itself. He wanted to bring the last man of the society to the mainstream.“ She said that Basavanna stressed the work culture and rejected the caste system. He introduced Anubhava Mantapa where people from different communities could debate. Anubhava Mantapa could be considered as the Parliament of the present day. “Basavanna sowed the seed of social revolution when he was a child. He wanted to build the society where all are equal,” the DC said. Mahatma Gandhi and Ambedkar chose the path shown by Basavanna. Gandhi united all communities. There was a need to popularise Basava philosophy, said Zilla Kannada Sahitya Parishat President Naganand Kemparaj. “During the days of Basavanna, there was no place for caste and gender. However, today there is gender discrimination in society which should be addressed,” he said. Kemparaj said,”Basavanna never visited temples. He realised the God in his work. He stood by dalits, exploited sections and women. He was respected by all communities.” Assistant director of the department of Kannada and Culture Ravi Kumar, Zilla Sharana Sahitya Parishat president N R Jnanamurthy, Akhila Bharata Sharana Sahitya Parishat district general secretary B Suresh were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/basavanna-s-role-in-social-justice-equality-is-crucial-dc-830199.html
26-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Coronavirus Lockdown: Muslims offer Ramadan prayers at houses in Chikkaballapur||Due to lockdown and ban on mass prayers, Muslims are offering the Ramdan prayers at their houses in the district. The Ramadan began in the district from Saturday which will continue till May 24. There are hardly any activities toward the evening across the district unlike the previous years. “Many of us completed the prayers of the first day at our houses as we are not permitted to offer prayers at mosques,” Mohammad Zilani, a resident of Municipal layout said. During the previous years, there used to be announcements during wee hours which is absent this year. The iftar meets have also been cancelled. There are no special prayers during the night at mosques. The police have deployed additional force near the mosques to act against violations. “We should follow lockdown guidelines and offer prayers. Due to lockdown, we get sufficient time to read the holy Quran. We should  stay at our houses and wait for good days,” Syed Nasrullah, a resident of Jaibheemnagar said||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/coronavirus-lockdown-muslims-offer-ramadan-prayers-at-houses-in-chikkaballapur-830209.html
26-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Karnataka: K C Valley project water flows to Jannaghatta tank||Tension prevailed for a while in the town when farmers objected the move of the officials to flow the K C Valley project water from S Agrahara tank to Jannaghatta tank on Sunday. There was a heated argument between the officials and the famers for sometime. A tea of officials from the minor irrigation department led by tahsildar Shobhitha reached the tank and began the process to release the water. Hundreds of farmers from S Agrahara, Rajakallahalli, Shettihalli, Naganal, Ankatatti, Hosa Matnalli, Sugatur and surrounding villages demanded the officials not to flow the water from the tank. The additional forces were summoned to control the situation and the water was released in the police presence. The farmers shouted slogans against the officials and police. They alleged that the officials yielded to the pressure of Srinivaspur MLA K R Ramesh Kumar and flowed the water. The S Agrahara tank was yet to be filled completely. The water had just now accumulated. It had revived borewells in the region. However, Kumar in order to fill the Jannaghatta tank, had let down farmers of the district. Suresh Kumar, the executive engineer of the minor irrigation department said that the water needed to be flowed to 126 tanks. About 50% of the water would be stored at the S Agrahara tank. “Water will be flowed from the S Agrahara tank in only one side in order to flow the water to Jannaghatta tank,” Shobitha said. The farmers have decided to protest the decision to reduce heights of check dams in the region as they affect smooth flow of the water to Jannaghatta tank. Due to high altitude, the water fails to flow smoothly through the check dams and hence elected representatives in the region had demanded the government  to reduce the height. “There are no provisions to clear the check dams constructed by the government. Some elected representatives have requested the administration to reduce the height of the check dams. Senior officers will take a suitable decision in this regard,” deputy commissioner C Satyabhama said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/karnataka-k-c-valley-project-water-flows-to-jannaghatta-tank-830241.html
26-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Karnataka: MP S Muniswamy for extension of lockdown beyond May 3||MP S Muniswamy on Sunday demanded extension of lockdown beyond May 3. “Educated people are behaving in an irresponsible manner despite increasing cases of coronavirus. People in rural areas are strictly following lockdown guidelines as against their counterparts in urban areas,” he said. “Villagers wear masks in rural areas and maintain social distancing. People in urban areas don’t know the importance of wearing masks. They venture out of houses unnecessarily and walk on roads,” the MP expressed displeasure. Muniswamy said that the checkpoints in Kolar district had been increased to 20 considering COVID-19 zones around the district. He sought the district administration to take strict action against movement of people on roads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/karnataka-mp-s-muniswamy-for-extension-of-lockdown-beyond-may-3-830244.html
26-04-2020||Main Article||Coronavirus: Deforestation, biodiversity loss||The travellers from China, Italy, Iran, Spain, other European countries and the US exported coronavirus to our country. As the infection started growing in March, several state governments clamped lockdown. It finally led to 21 days of national lockdown on March 24, extended till May 3. By now, more than 25 lakh people are infected worldwide due to this pandemic and 5% of them are dead.  The infection imported from overseas is spreading in cities and heavily populated slums. Nearly 10 crore migrant labourers working in major cities are suddenly out of job and many of them have not been able to reach their native places.  Personal hygiene, face mask and social distancing will be continued to be practiced till a vaccine is found. People are forced to live alone like never before, prompting many to rely on digital communication to connect to their near and dear ones and also to discharge the official functions. Interestingly, self-isolation is observed in some species in animal kingdom, probably except when they eat and breed. Such species as listed by World Wide Fund for Nature are marine turtles, blue whales, snow leopards, polar bears, jaguars, orangutans, giant pandas and platypus.  The United Kingdom government initially encouraged people to mingle so that they develop herd immunity. However, following warnings by experts, several western countries announced measures to contain the virus spread. Polluted air in urban areas causes hypertension, diabetes and respiratory illnesses which could lead to higher overall death toll from the virus currently sweeping the world. European Respiratory Society has observed that emissions from fossil fuel burning could imperil the most vulnerable during this and future pandemics.  We have been leaving carbon footprints in nature at an alarming rate but now there are beneficial effects of the clampdown. The precautions for checking the spread are very helpful in minimising unnecessary travels, less vehicular movements on roads, less crowding in religious places, markets, malls etc.  Fossil fuel With the decrease in fossil fuel burning, carbon pollution remains in check while air quality in cities improves. The spread of the virus is, therefore, helping in capping global rise in temperature. Nasa satellite images show that there is a dramatic decline in pollution level, reduction in nitrogen dioxide level, the noxious gas emission from motor vehicles, power plants and industries in all lockdown-hit areas. Wildlife is a having a free run even on main roads passing through their habitats. Water in streams is cleaner.  Deforestation and loss of biodiversity is also linked to the virus. “Human health is connected to animal health and also to the health of the forests. Diseases passed from animals to humans are on the rise as the world continues to see unprecedented destruction of wild habitats by human activity. Humans and nature are in one connected system and we need to understand that we do not push things too far and face adverse consequences,’ said Doreen Robinson, Chief of Wildlife at United Nations Environment program (UNEP).  Earlier in 2016, the UNEP had concluded in one of the reports that expanding populations and worsening climate change impacts are putting greater pressure on land with deforestation, urbanisation, intensifying agriculture and resource extractions providing more opportunities to pathogens to spill over from animals to people.  Communities residing in and around forests have extracted the resource, expanded agriculture and grazing land. Land use patterns have changed. Cities, roads and buildings have come where once there were forests. This has caused ecological and socio-economic impacts on human and regional fauna. Urbanisations have led to higher population densities in cities and increased chances of infectious disease outbreaks. And if crowded cities are poorly planned like the Dharavi slum in Mumbai, the populations are more vulnerable for the disease outbreaks.  Monitoring service of global forest watch has found that tropical countries have lost 12 million hectare of forest cover in 2018 on account of forest fire, clearing of tree growth for extending cultivation, mining, extracting forest resources etc. Among the countries, Brazil, Indonesia and Malaysia are the biggest losers. Deforestation leads to loss of habitat, more human-animal interaction and transmission of the virus.  While we need to distribute grains and cash to the poor and migrant workers till the lockdown is lifted, one of the long-term solutions would be to secure wild habitats and put a moratorium on deforestation and destruction of biodiversity. (The writer is retired Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/coronavirus-deforestation-biodiversity-loss-830308.html
26-04-2020||National||AIIMS Nurses Union seeks exemption from Centre's decision to put on hold DA, DR hike||The AIIMS Nurses Union termed the Centre's decision of putting on hold increment in dearness allowance (DA) for employees and dearness relief (DR) for pensioners due to the coronavirus crisis "insensitive", and sought exemption of nursing staff and retirees from it. The finance ministry on Thursday froze inflation-linked allowance for 50 lakh central government employees and 61 lakh pensioners till June 2021 due to the COVID-19 crisis. However, DA and DR at current rates will continue to be paid, it said. In a letter to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, the union said during this COVID-19 pandemic nurses at AIIMS and various other hospitals across the country are facing unprecedented challenges. "Almost all nurses are getting exposed to this deadly virus on a daily basis due to myriad reasons. They are being deprived of their fullest family life, periodic leave etc because of this crisis situation," AIIMS Nurses Union president Harish Kumar Kajla said in the letter. Terming the Centre's decision "insensitive", the union said healthcare workers are relentlessly working to save human lives and nurses constitute a major chunk of that workforce. These frontline warriors also have contributed their one day salary to PM-CARES fund when the government urged them to do so, Kajla said, adding "This decision of freezing DA during this hard time is really unfortunate and condemnable. It would surely hurt the morale and self-esteem of all nurses across India." Healthcare workers will incur a huge loss since freezing of DA will also affect their house rent allowance (HRA) benefits as well, he said. In the letter, the AIIMS Nurses Union also highlighted that Haryana and Odisha governments have offered salary improvement for healthcare workers during this crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-nurses-union-seeks-exemption-from-centres-decision-to-put-on-hold-da-dr-hike-829963.html
26-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Delhi Police helps bridegroom reach wedding venue||In an unusual entry for a bridegroom, a 27-year-old man reached the venue of his wedding in south Delhi's Greater Kailash I in a police gypsy on Saturday. A resident of southeast Delhi's Govindpuri area, Naresh Ahluwalia, approached police and requested them to help him and his family reach Arya Samaj Mandir, GK I for the wedding of his son Kaushal, a senior police officer said. Following permission from the station house officer of Kalkaji police station, Kaushal and his parents were taken to the temple in a police vehicle while maintaining social distancing, the officer said. The bride, Pooja, her father and the temple priest, Virender, were present at the venue. The marriage was solemnised as per vedic rites. After the ceremony, the bridegroom and the bride were dropped off at Kaushal's house in a police gypsy, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-delhi-police-helps-bridegroom-reach-wedding-venue-829972.html
26-04-2020||National||S Jaishankar speaks to his counterparts from African countries on coronavirus||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday spoke to his counterparts from African countries Burkina Faso, Comoros, Uganda and Mali and discussed health cooperation and development partnership with them. "An Africa-focus working day. Useful conversations with Foreign Ministers of Burkina Faso, Comoros, Uganda and Mali. Historical solidarity on display in the midst of contemporary challenges," he said in a tweet. An Africa-focus working day. Useful conversations with Foreign Ministers of Burkina Faso, Comoros, Uganda and Mali.Historical solidarity on display in the midst of contemporary challenges. In conversation with Mali's Foreign Minister Tiébilé Dramé, Jaishankar discussed health security and solar energy. "Health security and solar energy discussed with FM @T_Drame of #Mali. Our medical supplies will be reaching there shortly," he said in a tweet. Jaishankar spoke to Uganda Foreign Minister Sam Kutesa and confirmed the impending shipment of medicine supplies and health equipment to combat coronavirus. "Followed up on PM @narendramodi's talk with President Museveni by talking with FM Sam Kutesa of #Uganda. Confirmed the impending shipment of medicine supplies and health equipment to combat #coronavirus. India and Uganda will address this global challenge cooperatively," he said in a tweet. He also spoke to Comoros Foreign Minister Mohamed El Amine Souef. "A SAGAR friendship reaffirmed. Wonderful talking to FM Mohamed El Amine Souef of #Comoros. Our will surely grow further," he said in a tweet. Jaishankar also wished good health to Burkina Faso Foreign Minister Alpha Barry who recovered from coronavirus infection. "So glad to learn that Minister Alpha Barry of #BurkinaFaso has recovered from #Coronavirus. Wished him and his other colleagues good health when I spoke to him today. Indian medical supplies will be reaching Burkina Faso very soon. Friends stand by each other in times of crises," he said in tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-speaks-to-his-counterparts-from-african-countries-on-coronavirus-829976.html
26-04-2020||National||Action to be taken against coronavirus patient in Chandigarh for hosting party: V P Singh Badnore tells police||A 30-year-old man tested positive for coronavirus in Chandigarh on Saturday, days after hosting a party at his home here, forcing UT Administrator V P Singh Badnore to direct police to initiate criminal proceedings against him. The patient is an employee of the government medical college and hospital here, a medical bulletin said, adding that the total number of cases in the Union territory now stands at 28. The UT administrator expressed deep concerns over the new case reported from the Bapu Dham colony, an official statement said. He directed the principal secretary (Health) to ensure that all contacts of the patients are traced and quarantined. Badnore also directed Director General of Police Sanjay Beniwal to initiate criminal proceedings against the patient for hosting a party at his house a few days back in violation of both curfew orders and social distancing norms, the statement said. Earlier, Chandigarh Adviser Manoj Parida tweeted, "Criminal proceedings will be initiated against Bapudham patient who had a celebratory party in his colony a few days back, violating social distance and curfew orders. God knows how many he infected." Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Health), informed that 130 contacts of the patient had been identified and necessary steps were being taken to quarantine them. Meanwhile, Parida said non-essential shops and commercial establishments would not be allowed to open in Chandigarh as the city had been declared a containment zone. Since entire Chandigarh has been declared as a containment zone, the exemptions available in other states could not be given to local residents, he said in a statement. "Please note that Chandigarh being a containment zone, neighbourhood non-essential shops opening will not happen till 3rd May," Parida earlier tweeted. The adviser said factories and plants could not be permitted in containment zones as per the central government guidelines. He added that the Centre would review the situation on May 3 and convey appropriate directions to the UT regarding relaxations, if any.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/action-to-be-taken-against-coronavirus-patient-in-chandigarh-for-hosting-party-v-p-singh-badnore-tells-police-829983.html
26-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 26, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Download the e-paper to read today’s edition and beat the lockdown blues.  Stay healthy, stay safe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-26-2020-edition-829987.html
26-04-2020||National||Coronavirus state-wise India update: Total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 26||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 27,562 as of April 26. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 873 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19.     No. of people discharged: 5914 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-state-wise-india-update-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-26-829988.html
26-04-2020||National||Indians stranded abroad due to coronavirus lockdown to be brought back only if states agree to take them||The Centre will bring back the Indian citizens stranded abroad due to the ban on arrival of international passenger aircraft, only if the respective states they belong to agree to allow them to come back home and make necessary arrangements to quarantine them after their return. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has started consultations with the State Governments on bringing back the Indians, who got stranded in the United States, United Kingdom, France, Italy, Canada and many other foreign countries due to the ban on arrival of international passenger aircraft to any airport in the country. The decision on facilitating their return to the country would be taken after getting feedback on preparedness of the States and the Union Territory to receive them following all required health precautions, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba said. Though the Government earlier either evacuated or facilitated the return of nearly 28000 Indians from a number of foreign countries affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, it almost stopped doing so after the ban on arrival of international passenger aircraft was enforced on March 23 in the wake of the spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases in India. Thousands of Indian students, tourists, professionals and others are stranded around the world, including in the countries, where respective governments had imposed lockdowns to contain the pandemic. They have been desperately requesting the government on social media to evacuate them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-stranded-abroad-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown-to-be-brought-back-only-if-states-agree-to-take-them-829989.html
26-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Judges travel 2,000 km by road to assume charge as HC chief justices||With air and rail passenger services suspended due to a COVID-19-induced lockdown, two judges have embarked on a road journey, each of them covering over 2,000 km, as they gear up to take charge as chief justices of high courts in separate corners of the country. The judges -- who were elevated to the position of high court chief justices only recently -- hit the road amid the nationwide shutdown to ensure trials and justice delivery system do not go off the track. Justice Dipankar Datta, a judge at the Calcutta High Court, is taking turns with son to sit behind the steering wheel, as the family moved to Mumbai, where he would be taking over as the new Chief Justice of Bombay High Court, sources privy to the development said. Allahabad High Court judge Justice Biswanath Somadder, who has been elevated as the Chief Justice of Meghalaya High Court, is driving to Shillong via Kolkata. Justice Somadder, who had served at the Calcutta High Court before being transferred Allahabad, set out on the journey from the north Indian city along with wife on Friday evening in an official car, the sources said. He had a chauffeur by his side, who took charge of the wheels from time to time. The judge reached Kolkata on Saturday afternoon, and left for Shillong in the evening, after a few hours of rest at his Salt Lake residence here.  He is scheduled to reach the Meghalaya capital on Sunday afternoon. Justice Datta left for Mumbai from Kolkata on Saturday morning and plans to reach the country's financial capital by Monday afternoon with overnight breaks on the way. President Ram Nath Kovind had on Thursday elevated Justice Dipankar Datta, senior judge of Calcutta High Court, as the Chief Justice of Bombay High Court, and appointed Justice Biswanath Somadder of Allahabad High Court as Chief Justice of Meghalaya High Court. Both Justice Datta and Justice Somadder were elevated as permanent judges of the Calcutta High Court on June 22, 2006.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-judges-travel-2000-km-by-road-to-assume-charge-as-hc-chief-justices-830008.html
26-04-2020||National||3 more test positive for COVID-19 in Odisha, total infection count rises to 103||Three more persons, including a woman, tested positive for COVID-19 in Odisha, taking the total number of such cases in the state to 103 on Sunday, officials said. All three cases -- a 57-year-old woman and two men aged 23 and 60 years -- were reported from Rourkela in Sundargarh district, the Information and Public Relations department said, adding that contact-tracing and other follow-up action were underway. According to officials, two of them had come in close contact with another COVID-19 patient, officials said. Altogether 2,217 samples were tested for COVID-19 on April 25, the officials said. Of the state's 103 COVID-19 patients, 68 are active cases and 34 have recovered. A 72-year-old man from Bhubaneswar died due to the disease on April 6. Khurda district, of which Bhubaneswar is a part, has reported the maximum number of cases at 46, followed by Jajpur at 18, Bhadrak at 16, Balasore at 10 and six in Sundargarh. A total of 22,815 samples have been examined till the midnight of April 25 in eight laboratories, an official said. The state government had imposed a 60-hour complete shutdown since 10 pm on Thursday in Bhadrak, Jajpur and Balasore, in the wake of the sudden spike in coronavirus cases in the three districts. Together, the three districts accounted for 34 COVID- 19 cases earlier in the week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-odisha-total-infection-count-rises-to-103-830016.html
26-04-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll rises to 824, cases climb to 26,496: Health Ministry||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 824 and the number of cases climbed to 26,496 in India on Sunday, according to the Union health ministry. The death toll increased by 45 and the number of cases has gone up by 1,554 since the ministry last updated its data on Saturday evening. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 19,868 while 5,803 people were cured and discharged, and one patient has migrated, the ministry said. The total number of cases include 111 foreign nationals. Of the 45 deaths reported since Saturday evening, 22 are from Maharashtra, six in Gujarat, seven from Madhya Pradesh, one from among others.  Of the total 824 COVID-19 deaths, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of 323 fatalities, followed by Gujarat (133), Madhya Pradesh (99), Delhi (54), Andhra Pradesh (31) and Rajasthan (27).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-824-cases-climb-to-26496-health-ministry-830018.html
26-04-2020||National||58 new cases of coronavirus in Rajasthan||Rajasthan recorded 58 fresh cases of coronavirus on Sunday, taking the state's virus tally to 2,141, an official said. The state has so far seen 35 deaths due to the virus, with Jaipur accounting for 19 deaths. "As many as 58 fresh cases have been reported in seven districts of the state, including 20 in Nagaur district," Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said. Besides Nagaur, 15 cases were reported from Jodhpur, 11 from Kota, seven from Jaipur, three from Kota and one each in Hanumangarh and Jhalawar.   A total of 2,141 cases of the virus have been reported in the state so far. He said so far 513 patients have tested negative for the infection after treatment, of which 213 have been discharged from hospitals.  The total number of COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran to Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/58-new-cases-of-coronavirus-in-rajasthan-830021.html
26-04-2020||National||91 new COVID-19 cases in Indore; district tally 1,176||MP: 91 new COVID-19 cases in Indore; district tally 1,176   , Apr 26 (PTI) The number of coronavirus cases in Indore rose to 1,176 after 91 more people tested positive for the disease in the Madhya Pradesh district during the last 24 hours, an official said on Sunday. So far, 57 coronavirus patients have died in Indore, which has emerged as one of the COVID-19 hotspots in the country, district chief medical and health officer Praveen Jadia said. Till now, 107 people have been discharged after recovering from the viral infection, he said. According to data analysis, the COVID-19 death rate in the district stood at 4.85 per cent till Sunday morning, which is higher than the national average. Curfew is in force in urban limits of Indore since March 25, after the first coronavirus case was found in the district. PTI HWP ADU GK GK||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/91-new-covid-19-cases-in-indore-district-tally-1176-830023.html
26-04-2020||National||COVID-19: 'Infodemic' can impact economy, warn experts||As the deadly coronavirus infection spreads fast in India and elsewhere, even faster is the spread of fake news regarding the pandemic and experts warn this 'infodemic' can have huge economic costs for companies across the world in addition to health concerns for the public at large. While authorities have announced severe penal actions for those spreading fake news regarding this pandemic, which has already caused nearly 2 lakh deaths globally with more than 28 lakh infections since its outbreak in China last December, widespread misinformation surrounding the disease has seen people drinking disinfectants and industrial alcohol while trying various rumoured treatments. False claims and fake news, mostly forwarded through social media platforms, have also led to several cases of religion-based attacks, hate speeches and other discriminatory activities, while cyber frauds are also on the rise with scamsters seeking to take advantage of the crisis situation. In addition to the damages caused to public health and societal behaviour, experts warn the undeterred wave of fake news poses a huge risk to corporates, for whom it becomes difficult at times to filter out the right information that is crucial for them to ensure the success of their business continuity, especially when almost the entire world is locked down. Farah Lalani, who is a community creator for media, entertainment and information industries at the Geneva-based World Economic Forum (WEF), said businesses need to be proactive about calling out misinformation that is spreading about their brand, directing customers to official channels and making sure there is always clear and up to date information on all their social accounts. "While bad actors, fraudsters, and uninformed users can spread fabricated or misleading information, if businesses collaborate closely with the entire media ecosystem and regulatory bodies, they can start to work together to solve this very challenging problem," she told PTI.  In India, some organisations including industry bodies and advocacy groups have begun compiling official and credible information about the COVID-19 fight and the ongoing lockdown to help companies in their preparedness for tackling the crisis. Leading advocacy group Chase India, which was among the first to start this practice right from the initial days of the COVID-19 crisis emerging as a major threat in the country, has been sending across multiple daily updates to its clients, including on the latest actions taken by the central and state governments and also on initiatives being taken by various corporates. Experts said the correct information is necessary for companies to help them understand, analyse and then implement various new guidelines being issued by the central and state governments. "In today's circumstances, besides the current public health crisis of COVID-19 and socio-economic impact related to climate change, one of the biggest concerns is legitimate and timely sourcing of information," Chase India's co-founder and Executive Vice President Manash K Neog said. "As a public policy consultancy, our key challenge during the pre-lockdown phase was to mitigate frenzy around rumours of lockdown for our clients as it was creating panic for the operational teams of clients. "Further to that, we have institutionalised mechanisms such as our hourly and daily COVID-19 advisory trackers for the central and state governments to support clients with timely and authentic information basis which they are able to better plan their business continuity strategies," he added.  According to experts, companies are working hard to ensure timely access to right information as costs could be too high for them if they fall for some misinformation and in such a situation the role of media is also very important. Releasing a new survey recently, which found that just about one-fourth of the consumers in India currently pay for news but nearly two-thirds are willing to pay, the WEF said the current coronavirus challenge further emphasises the indispensable role that the media plays in society today. With social media becoming the main platform for spread of false claims, giants like Facebook and Twitter have also begun deleting such posts and taking other actions. Some of the posts deleted on such grounds include those of public figures as well, the most famous being posts shared by Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro in which he had claimed anti-malaria prescription drug hydroxychloroquine was an effective treatment for COVID-19. Twitter had also deleted a post by Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro in which he had apparently endorsed a "brew" for eliminating infectious genes. Various social media platforms have also imposed several restrictions on advertisements claiming various cures for COVID-19, while hate content regarding the pandemic is also being dealt with sternly. However, all these steps have not been able to totally eradicate the fake news flow, which the World Health Organization (WHO) Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus described as 'infodemic' in the context of the novel coronavirus. "We are not just fighting an epidemic, we are fighting an infodemic," he said, referring to fake news as something that "spreads faster and more easily than this virus". United Nations' chief Antonio Guterres too said last month that an "infodemic of misinformation" was also an enemy that we all need to fight while battling COVID-19. "To overcome the coronavirus, we need to urgently promote 'facts and science' and 'hope and solidarity' over despair and division," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-infodemic-can-impact-economy-warn-experts-830024.html
26-04-2020||National||Governments betrayed migrants to control coronavirus||By Mihir Sharma It’s remarkable how many countries take these migrants for granted, given that their development model rests on such workers’ shoulders. From the work of Nobel Prize-winning economist Arthur Lewis, we know that an apparently inexhaustible pool of cheap rural labor has been the main source of growth in the cities of the developing world. The potential of economies in South Asia and Africa, their outperformance in terms of GDP growth, is born of their demographic advantages — a euphemism for, yes, migrant workers.  Internal migration is crucial not only for growth, but for economic and social stability. Migrants are the bridge between the two halves of most developing countries — between underdeveloped hinterlands and globalized cities, between 19th-century agriculture and 21st-century techno-utopianism. In most cases, however, these systems were not designed with the migrant worker in mind. States like India’s can sometimes see internal migration as a failure of policy rather than an engine of growth: If people are moving to the city, that means that the government should work harder to make villages attractive. And so their welfare systems protect the unionized worker in his factory and the farmer in his fields, but not the migrant selling knick-knacks by the highway. Countries with vast informal sectors could at least hope that, as they grew richer, they would generate factory jobs with union protections and formal regulatory cover. But things haven’t worked out that way. Over the past two decades, China has soaked up most of the world’s factories, at the expense of the rest of the developing world.  Every developing-world government is learning one big thing from the Covid-19 crisis: Their welfare systems, such as they are, are particularly unable to deal with workers in informal enterprises who move from place to place, on the fringes of the gig economy. These are the citizens whose livelihoods have been most damaged by the pandemic, and who are the hardest to reach with existing relief programs. Informality is not going away with development. It is baked into how the Uberized economy operates. That means countries ranging in income from India to Indonesia and all the way up to South Africa will have to figure out ways to fix those welfare systems. How hard could it be? Pretty hard, actually, particularly in democracies. More than a simple policy or technocratic tweak is required. For one thing, politicians need to think differently about who their voters are and where their votes come from. If all the workers lining up at bus stops in urban India voted in those cities, instead of in villages hundreds or thousands of miles away, then local leaders would be far more responsive to their troubles. Even the structure of political patronage will have to change. State leaders long accustomed to placating rural satraps will have to ignore the claims of big farmers in favour of the demands of this precarious emerging urban class. Migrants who want to retain ties with their home villages, as well as their new homes, will need a stake in the politics of both areas.     National leaders will also need to reexamine their social-protection and employment policies and redesign them with internal migration in mind. For one thing, welfare rights must be made completely transferable — which, in this tech-heavy age, is not as hard as it once was. Harder but equally necessary will be building affordable housing, which will require imagination as much as money: Many migrants aren’t moving with their families and so won’t want to pay for standard apartments. On the other hand, if governments can figure out how to make this transition work, they won't just survive crises like the pandemic, they will also get a leg up in the development battles of the future. The countries that best incubate entrepreneurship and innovation are those that protect risk-takers. And who takes greater risks than a migrant heading off to a distant city? If governments can create a solid and secure ladder to prosperity for migrants — a way for them to transfer their rights, their IDs, and their votes to the city; a place for them to live; and some basic social protection if things go wrong — then they should be able to trust those strivers to do the rest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/governments-betrayed-migrants-to-control-coronavirus-830025.html
26-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: 226 Swiss nationals evacuated from Kochi||As many as 226 Swiss nationals stranded in India following the nationwide lockdown have left for Zurich by a Swiss International Airlines, an airport spokesperson said here on Sunday. The flight departed for Zurich at 11.20 PM on Saturday from Cochin airport, he said. The aircraft had arrived here after picking up 62 Swiss nationals stranded in Kolkotta and 164 of them boarded the flight from here Earlier, the UK and Oman had evacuated their citizens stranded in Kerala due to lockdown by operating special flights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-226-swiss-nationals-evacuated-from-kochi-830026.html
26-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Lockdown may be extended in COVID-19-hit urban areas of Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government may extend the lockdown in the coronavirus-hit urban areas of the state after May 3, an official said on Sunday. The state government is closely monitoring the situation in areas outside the cities of Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Amravati, a senior state official said. "It is the cities where most of the COVID-19 cases are concentrated. If the state has to relax its current stringent lockdown measures, it would be in rural and least affected areas of the state. However, we are looking at the scenario as rural and urban areas are connected," he said. Despite minimum COVID-19 cases in rural areas of Pune district, the industries there have not resumed because most of their workforce live in cities, he said. We need to work out some plans for every city or district-wise to get things moving. The administration needs more time to come up with solutions, hence it is highly unlikely to lift the lockdown restrictions May 3 onwards in all parts of the state, the official said. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope had on Saturday said the number of COVID-19 cases in the state is not coming down.  "The state is yet to reach a stage where the number of coronavirus cases would stabilise. Till then, we cannot take the risk of allowing people to gather at public places in large numbers, Tope said. The minister, however, said the state government would take a collective decision on what to do once the nationwide lockdown ends on May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-may-be-extended-in-covid-19-hit-urban-areas-of-maharashtra-830027.html
26-04-2020||National||India's coronavirus battle is people-driven, says PM Narendra Modi: Key Highlights from Mann Ki Baat||As the country remians in lockdown for over a month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation during the 64th edition of his monthly programme Mann ki Baat. Here are some highlights from PM Modi's radio address:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-coronavirus-battle-is-people-driven-says-pm-narendra-modi-key-highlights-from-mann-ki-baat-830029.html
26-04-2020||National||Pregnant woman dies in Anantnag hospital, inquiry ordered||The woman, who hailed from Kharpora village -- which has been declared a coronavirus red zone by the administration -- in the south Kashmir district, was admitted to maternity and child care hospital Anantnag on Saturday morning, the officials said. Red zones comprise places which report major outbreak of the virus. The woman, who was pregnant with twins, died at the hospital along with the unborn babies, and after her death, her family members alleged the doctors delayed her treatment as she hailed from a red zone area. Following the incident, the authorities ordered an inquiry to ascertain facts. “An inquiry has been ordered into the incident and I have asked the inquiry committee to submit its report within two working days,” Principal, Government Medical College, Anantnag, Dr Showkat Jeelani told PTI. He said the inquiry would establish facts in the case. “I do not know it (about allegations of the family) and I do not think the treatment would have been delayed, but it is a matter of inquiry. If the family has a grievance, they can go to the inquiry committee. The truth will definitely come out,” he added. The principal said samples have been taken from the woman as a precautionary measure to check whether she was infected with coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pregnant-woman-dies-in-anantnag-hospital-inquiry-ordered-830031.html
26-04-2020||National||CBI to question former top brass of HPCL in Rs 144 crore bamboo procurement scam||The CBI will soon call former top brass of the Hindustan Paper Corporation Limited (HPCL) for questioning in connection with a bamboo procurement scam of Rs 144 crore after a fresh FIR was registered against its ex-chairman and senior officers, officials said.  In its third FIR, the agency has booked MV Narsimha Rao, the then chairman cum managing director of the public sector undertaking, company secretary LR Eknath and senior officers SN Bhattacharya, Amitabh Banerjee, Biplab Chowdhary, PK Bhuvan, HN Baruah and Mohan Jha. The Hill Trade Agency and its owner RS Gandhi have also been named in the FIR, officials said. It is alleged that HPCL had an agreement with Dima Hasao Autonomous Council which used Gandhi as a subcontractor for procurement of bamboos to be used in making paper. The HPCL officers allegedly renewed contracts with the council even before existing contracts expired at a steep increase in the procurement prices over the years, they said. The agency has alleged that repeated increase in procurement prices caused a loss of Rs 46.47 crore to the PSU, they said. They have been booked for allegedly causing the loss by purchasing bamboo and pulp at exorbitant prices when the same was locally available at much cheaper rates in the North East where its mills are located, they said.  Earlier, Shillong unit of the agency had booked the then senior officers of the HPCL in two separate FIRs for causing Rs 64 crore and Rs 32 crore loss to the PSU. The agency sources said the CBI will soon start issuing notices to the accused persons to appear for questioning, the officials said. Recently, the agency had pushed forward questioning because of lack of public transport and safety guidelines issued by the Union Home Ministry in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, they said. Once public transport starts, the agency is likely to resume full fledged operations including the questioning of suspects, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-to-question-former-top-brass-of-hpcl-in-rs-144-crore-bamboo-procurement-scam-830034.html
26-04-2020||National||Focus should be on correct information, right treatment to stop COVID-19 spread: Priyanka||Her remarks came over Agra Mayor Naveen Jain's letter to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, requesting him to "save Agra". "The situation in Agra city is bad and the number of coronavirus patients is going up everyday. The mayor of Agra says that if the right arrangements are not made, the matter can go out of hand," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "Yesterday, I had raised the same issue. Transparency is very important. It is important to pay attention to testing. If coronavirus is to be stopped, then the focus should be on correct information and right treatment," she said. It is important for the UP government to take the words of the Agra mayor positively and immediately try to save the people from the pandemic, the Congress general secretary said. The death toll due to COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh rose to 27 with two more fatalities, while 177 fresh cases were reported on Saturday taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,793, the health department said. The two fatalities reported on Saturday were from Moradabad and Agra, he said. A bulk of the fresh cases were from Saharanpur (37), Agra (25), Kanpur (24), Lucknow (19), Santkabirnagar (19) and Bareilly (11).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/focus-should-be-on-correct-information-right-treatment-to-stop-covid-19-spread-priyanka-830035.html
26-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: 38 fishermen undertake 5-day voyage to reach Odisha from Chennai||Five days on the sea with little food and water, a group of 38 fishermen covered around 600 nautical miles on their boat to reach their hometown in Odisha from Chennai, officials here said. "We purchased a wooden boat with a dual engine and left Chennai on April 20. After undertaking a five-day long journey, we reached Ganjam on Saturday evening," one of the fishermen said. Asked what prompted them to leave Chennai amid the shutdown, another fisherman said, "You know that the number of coronavirus cases has been on the rise in Tamil Nadu. That apart, we would go hungry on some days. Under those circumstances, we were compelled to take the risk." Cooped up in the boat, the 38 fishermen reached Patisonapur coast near Chikiti in Ganjam. All of them were given food at the local marine police station and then placed under institutional quarantine for 14 days, Chikiti Tehsildar Haraprasad Bhoi said.  District Collector Vijay Amrut Kulange said the swab samples of all the 38 have been collected and sent for COVID-19 test. Last week, another batch of 27 fishermen had set sail for Odisha from Chennai, but they were detained by security personnel near Ichhapuram in Andhra Pradesh. Officials in the neighbouring state have quarantined all 27 of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-38-fishermen-undertake-5-day-voyage-to-reach-odisha-from-chennai-830038.html
26-04-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Lockdown casts darker shadow on women||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. As we enter the 33rd day of lockdown, this episode of the podcast explores domestic violence faced by women during the lockdown, with women's rights activists Brinda Adige and Mamata Yajaman giving some insights. Further, Deccan Herald's in-house team share their opinions on work-from-home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-lockdown-casts-darker-shadow-on-women-830040.html
26-04-2020||National||Don't extend lockdown, says Right to Food Campaign||The RTFC said it hoped that the government has used the current lockdown to prepare the health system to deal with the spread of COVID-19 in times to come. It said the government must now focus on putting in place systems for vigorous identify, trace, test, isolate, treat strategies to be followed.  "However, it appears that many state governments are looking at the occurrence of even a single case to declare ‘hotspots’ and extend ‘sealing’ whereas the increase in cases is only to be expected with easing movement restrictions. Even people who were able to manage during the initial phase of the lockdown are now falling into distress," it said in a statement. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be holding a video conference with chief ministers on Monday to review the progress achieved in the fight against COVID-19 and to elicit their views on lockdown. Some chief ministers are of the view that the lockdown must be extended beyond May 3. Arguing for not extending the lockdown, the statement said the lockdown has strengthened the policing of regular lives of the people and the government should turn its face against “immense humanitarian crisis” affecting the vulnerable sections. It said people in search of food have had to face “extreme police brutalities” during lockdown, while migrant workers wanting to secure their right to food and return to their native places have been treated with “acute inhumanity”. "Even people who were able to manage during the initial phase of the lockdown are now falling into distress. We insist that the social and economic consequences of continuing such blanket measures are too high and cannot be justified. The right to a dignified life of the people cannot be threatened at any point of time, more so during this global pandemic," the RTFC said. It said the lockdown has caused tremendous economic distress, especially for the poor. With more than 90 per cent of the workforce being in the informal sector, people are getting into a situation where they do not have enough resources to even be able to afford basic food items, it added. "The relief measures announced by the state and central governments have come late and many, including the most vulnerable, are excluded from them. These relief measures are still largely inadequate to duly address the food crisis in the country," the statement said. Quoting reports that at least 270 people have died due to hunger, exhaustion, state violence, suicides and the inability to access healthcare during lockdown, it said healthcare infrastructure is out of bounds for several sick people due to their inability to reach these facilities as well as many of them remaining non-functional. They also demanded that the government must arrange safe and sanitised modes of public transport for the migrant workers to return to their native places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-extend-lockdown-says-right-to-food-campaign-830049.html
26-04-2020||National||81 new coronavirus cases reported in Andhra Pradesh in last 24 hours||The spurt in coronavirus cases in Andhra Pradesh continued unabated as 81 more were added in the last 24 hours, taking the overall tally to 1,097 on Sunday.  This is the largest spike in a number of cases in a single day in the state so far. While no new deaths due to COVID-19 were reported, 60 patients got discharged from hospitals in different districts of the state, a government bulletin said. Fifty-two fresh cases were registered in Krishna district alone, the bulk of them in Vijayawada city. Krishna, though number three in the state behind Kurnool and Guntur districts, now has a total of 177 cases. As many as 93 COVID-19 cases were added in Krishna district in the last three days. West Godavari district too witnessed a rise in cases by 12, increasing its overall count to 51. Kurnool's tally rose to 279 with the addition of four while Guntur had 214, including three fresh cases. Kurnool also saw the recovery of 24 patients in the last 24 hours ending 9 AM on Sunday.  In SPS Nellore district, 15 patients were discharged and 11 in neighbouring Prakasam. In all 231 coronavirus patients have recovered and been discharged from hospitals in different districts. As the toll remained unchanged at 31, the number of active cases stood at 835, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/81-new-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-andhra-pradesh-in-last-24-hours-830050.html
26-04-2020||National||Slum dwellings pose challenge as Mumbai fights coronavirus outbreak||As coronavirus situation spirals, slum dwellings in Mumbai, where more than half of the city's 12 million population live in crammed space and unhygienic conditions, seem to be posing a daunting challenge in efforts to curb infections. Known as the 'City of Dreams', Mumbai is home to the largest number of billionaires as well as Asia's largest slum Dharavi -- one of the coronavirus hotspots. While area-wise it measures just about 2.4 square kilometres (sq kms), Dharavi alone has more than one million people. Tata Group Chairman Emeritus Ratan Tata's remarks, earlier this week, that developers and architects are treating slums as “residue" of the city and that was one of the reasons for the rapid spread of the pandemic highlighted the current situation. These so-called planners and builders should be ashamed of themselves for forcing a large majority of the people to live in sub-human conditions, he had said. The megacity has reported 4,870 coronavirus cases and 191 deaths. The octogenarian industrialist, also a long time resident of Mumbai, had lambasted realtors for neglecting the poor and creating vertical slums for big gains from high value housing that come up in the areas where slums stood once. Lack of proper planning, flouting of norms, land cartelisation and rising property prices, are among the factors, that have contributed to the present situation of large number of people living in slums, experts opined. The Maharashtra government and local authorities are taking measures to contain the spread of coronavirus infections and are appealing the citizens to stay home.  However, with rooms measuring barely 100-200 sq ft housing 8-10 people in slums, and scores of families sharing common toilets and water taps, the possibility of coronavirus cases going up is always high, they added. "Blame it on policy paralysis and unending aspirations of both politicians as well as developers' community for the city not becoming slum-free. And today, these slums have turned into a haven for coronavirus," MMRDA (Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority) former chief town planner V K Pathak told PTI. Further, he said housing policies that were developed by the competent authorities did not solve the issues of 'public housing' but were construed as policies for real estate development. "Nearly 65-70 per cent of Mumbai's population stays in slums. Policies like the Urban Land Ceiling Act, free housing for slum dwellers and extension of cut off dates for regularising slums led to land cartelisation and increasing property rates," Pathak said. Over the years, Mumbai has witnessed a large influx of migrants in search of jobs. They settled in clusters by building small hutments as they could not afford to buy homes and those areas later became illegal slums. "Affordable housing and slum elimination are two surprisingly conflicting issues. We're trying to remove slums from seemingly unsuitable living conditions by relocating them to other locations which are 20-30 miles away and where there are no jobs for these uprooted people," Ratan Tata said earlier this week. In 1995, as part of his pre-election promises, late Shiv Sena chief Bal Thackeray floated the idea of 'free housing' for slum dwellers. When the Shiv Sena-BJP alliance came to power the same year, their government launched the slum rehabilitation scheme. Under the scheme, slums were proposed to be replaced with 'pukka' houses on the same plot of land, construction of which was to be cross-funded by a 'free sale component'. The latter was aimed at attracting investments from home buyers from a slightly affluent financial background. However, the scheme could not address the problems in its entirety and slums kept proliferating across the city.  Real estate developers' body Naredco's National President Niranjan Hiranandani also acknowledged that proper urban planning has "not" been done. "One acknowledges that the situation has been one where proper urban planning has not been done. The need to ensure the fiscal viability of real estate projects creates a situation where over the years, we have seen real estate development happen in ways that weren't examples of 'sustainable living' or in sync with the environment. According to him, a mix of acute scarcity of open spaces, restrictions on vertical growth and difficulties relating to slum rehabilitation policy confounds Mumbai's planned development. An expert in real estate regulations, who did not wish to be identified, said faulty Floor Space Index (FSI) norms have also led to haphazard development in the city and skewed property prices. FSI is a development tool that defines the extent to which construction is permitted on a plot. For long, the permissible FSI for residential development in the island city has been 1.33 and it is 1 in the suburbs. In 2019, then state government led by BJP's Devendra Fadnavis increased the FSI for slum rehabilitation projects across the city to 4 from the earlier 3. The index is based on a ratio between the area of a covered floor or the built-up area to the area of that plot on which a building stands. The new development plan 2034 for Mumbai has proposed to increase the FSI to 2.7. "While the developers used this as a tool to build costly aspirational homes, local authorities used it as a means to generate revenues. In between, the interest of the public was ignored," the expert quoted above said. Over the past several years, the Maharashtra government has been planning to redevelop the most congested areas in the city like Dharavi and Kamathipura. The ambitious Dharavi redevelopment plan, which was conceptualised more than a decade ago in 2004, has not found takers yet as developers have found the proposal "financially unviable". "Haphazard and in some instances, unplanned development just enhances the difficulty quotient. The slum proliferation challenge begins with open spaces reserved by authorities for future development or kept vacant as no-development zones. "Given the constant pressure from new migrants looking for homes, it opens up the pathway to the proliferation of slums. This is a problem not unique only to Mumbai, but certainly more acute as compared to other cities," Hiranandani said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/slum-dwellings-pose-challenge-as-mumbai-fights-coronavirus-outbreak-830054.html
26-04-2020||National||After yoga, world will accept benefits of Ayurveda: PM Narendra Modi||After yoga, the world will accept India's age-old ayurveda principles, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday and added that the youth will have to take the lead in explaining it to countries scientifically. In his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' radio address, the prime minister said it is a "misfortune" that people of the country always refuse to acknowledge own strengths and glorious traditions. "But when another country says the very same thing on the basis of evidence-based research, when they teach us our own formula, we instantly accept it," he lamented. Possibly, this is largely due to hundreds of years of "bondage" (foreign rule). "Due to this, often we fail to realise our own strengths," he said. He said just as the world has happily accepted yoga, it will surely accept India's age-old ayurvedic principles. "Of course, the youth will have to resolve to do this and explain these principles to the world in a scientific language so that they understand it," he said.  People across the world are paying special attention to the importance of ayurveda and yoga amid the COVID-19 pandemic, he said, pointing out that the social media is full of write-ups related to its benefits in boosting immunity. He reminded people to follow the coronavirus-related protocol issued by the Ayush Ministry to increase immunity. "Warm water, decoction and other guidelines issued by the Ayush Ministry would be very helpful for you if you include it in your daily routine," he suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-yoga-world-will-accept-benefits-of-ayurveda-pm-narendra-modi-830056.html
26-04-2020||National||Important to treat coronavirus completely and remain cautious: PM Modi||Ahead of his crucial interaction with chief ministers on Monday to decide on the next course of the 40-day lockdown that ends next week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said India’s fight against coronavirus is people-driven and this is the only medium it possesses to fight the virus and triumph over. Quoting a Sanskrit shloka, the Prime Minister also stressed that debt and illness, if taken lightly, grow again at the first opportunity, assuming dangerous proportions. “So it is important to treat them completely! Therefore, in over-enthusiasm, there should be no negligence at the local level or elsewhere. We will always have to remain cautious,” Modi said emphasising the importance of maintaining proper social distance and reiterated, “Maintain a distance of two yards and keep yourself healthy!” or "Do Gaz Doori, Bahut Hai Zaroori!". His remarks came on a today the total number of COVID-19 cases in India climbed over 26,000. As the second phase of nationwide lockdown for 19 days (after the end of 21-day lockdown on April 15) has just one more week left, voices have grown in the Opposition to revisit the lockdown decision and not go for a third blanket lockdown in the country like the earlier two. From April 20, the government has already announced a number of relaxations in lockdown conditions in sync with the government's priority on life as well as livelihood (Jaan bhi Jahan bhi) as enunciated by the Prime Minister, who had first focussed on saving lives (Jaan Hai to Jahan Hai). While former Union Minister Kapil Sibal on Saturday called for a re-think on lockdown measures warning against “lockdown of people and lockout of economy”, an organisation Right to Food Campaign (RTFC) went further clearly asking the government not to extend the lockdown beyond May 3, when the 40-day period is completed. While some chief ministers favour a further extension, the main Opposition party Congress has slammed the government for announcing on lockdowns while having no containment strategy. Amid mounting criticism over its handling of problems of migrants, many of whom chose to walk thousands of miles on foot to reach their homes during lockdown, the government has indicated a tweaking in strategy, allowing states to move migrants to homes, starting from within state movement first. Modi in his monthly radio address ‘Mann Ki Baat’, however, stressed that in in the truest sense of the term, in India, it is the people who are fighting the coronavirus. “Cast a glance anywhere, you’ll notice that India’s fight is people driven…at a time when the whole world is trying to extricate itself from the clutches of this pandemic. In future, when it will be dwelt upon in hindsight, when ways and means will be reflected upon, I do believe that India’s people driven fight will also be touched upon,” he said calling it  a ’Mahayagya’.   The Prime Minister also hailed his government’s recent decision to bring an ordinance to ensure strict punishment to those harassing or injuring or indulging in violence against 'corona warriors'. In the backdrop of a huge row over India’s decision to send hydroxychloroquine to US even after threatening language used by US President Donald Trump, Modi said in the past few days, India has taken some decisions while keeping true to its culture and ethos – and upholding our cultural heritage.   “During this crisis, the world - including rich and prosperous nations - is facing a shortage of medicines. In these times, even if India does not provide medicines to the world, no one would have faulted us. Every country would understand that obviously India would prioritise the lives of its own citizens. But, India went beyond nature and degeneration and took a decision,” Modi said. Modi said today when he speaks to heads of state of various countries on phone, they make sure to express gratitude to the people of India. Modi said a sea change in attitude towards wearing masks will be seen soon and it will now become a symbol of cultured society while another awareness is that people now understand the damage that can be caused by spitting in public places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/important-to-treat-coronavirus-completely-and-remain-cautious-pm-modi-830057.html
26-04-2020||National||COVID-19 test kits should be made available at lowest cost: HC||COVID-19 test kits should be made available urgently at the lowest possible price so that the virus can be controlled and people's health can be safeguarded at a time when the country was facing an "unprecedented medical crisis", the Delhi High Court has said. Justice Najmi Waziri issued the direction to three private companies which had entered into an agreement to import 10 lakh test kits from China and distribute them here at a cost of Rs 600 each, the rate approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The court said that in the "present extraordinary circumstances" when the country was going through an "unprecedented medical crisis", with disquiet over one's safety and the economy at a standstill, the public interest must outweigh the private. "The lis (litigation) between the parties (the three companies) should give way to the larger public good. In view of the above, the kits/tests should be sold at a price not beyond Rs 400 each," it said. However, the order would not affect the price of the kits to be sold to ICMR and the Tamil Nadu government. The order came on the plea of Rare Metabolics Life Sciences Pvt Ltd and Aark Pharmaceuticals which had entered into an agreement with Matrix Labs, the importer of the kits, to distribute the kits in India. Rare Metabolics and Aark, the petitioner companies, moved the court seeking release of 7.24 lakh COVID-19 test kits from Matrix which was seeking full payment upfront before delivering them. Out of the 7.24 lakh kits, five lakh were to be supplied to ICMR by Aark at a total cost of Rs 30 crore, the court was told. According to the petition, the initial order was for 10 lakh kits of which five lakh were meant for ICMR.  Out of the five lakh meant for ICMR, 2.76 lakh had already been delivered, the plea said. However, Matrix was saying it will not hand over the remaining 2.24 lakh kits, when they arrive in India, till it received full payment, the petition claimed. The petitioner companies, represented by advocates Jayant Mehta and Anshumaan Sahni, said as per the agreement with Matrix, initial payment of Rs 12.75 crore was made for import of the five lakh test kits at Rs 600 each and remainder Rs 8.25 crore was to be paid after it received money from ICMR. After hearing both sides, the court said in its order on Friday that the tests "are required in the country on urgent basis in view of the worldwide pandemic" and directed that the remaining 2.24 lakh kits would be delivered to ICMR the moment they arrive in India.  The court further directed that the remaining amount of Rs 8.25 crore (at Rs 600 per kit) to be paid to Matrix would be done within 24 hours of receiving payment from ICMR. Of the remaining five lakh units, out of the initial order of 10 lakh, 50,000 has to be kept aside for Tamil Nadu government, the court said and added that remainder 4.5 lakh kits be sold at the price of Rs 400 to any government, governmental agency or private entity. With the directions and observations, the bench disposed of the plea.  The study noted that four patients in the cohort died from multiple organ failure, without evidence of arrhythmia, and without severe QTc prolongation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-test-kits-should-be-made-available-at-lowest-cost-hc-830064.html
26-04-2020||National||Focus should be on correct information, right treatment to stop COVID-19 spread: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday said cases of coronavirus are increasing everyday in Agra and cited a letter written by the mayor who has sought bold decisions to save the city. Agra Mayor Naveen Jain had written a letter to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on April 21, requesting him to "save Agra". The Congress general secretary emphasised that transparency and testing were important to contain coronavirus. in a tweet in Hindi, Priyanka Gandhi said, "The situation in Agra city is bad and the number of coronavirus patients is going up everyday. The mayor of Agra says that if the right arrangements are not made, the matter can go out of hand". "Yesterday, I had raised the same issue. Transparency is very important. It is important to pay attention to testing. If coronavirus is to be stopped, then the focus should be on correct information and right treatment," she said. It is important for the UP government to take the words of the Agra mayor positively and immediately try to save the people from the pandemic, the Congress general secretary said. The death toll due to COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh rose to 27 with two more fatalities, while 177 fresh cases were reported on Saturday taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,793, the health department said. The two fatalities reported on Saturday were from Moradabad and Agra, he said.  A bulk of the fresh cases were from Saharanpur (37), Agra (25), Kanpur (24), Lucknow (19), Santkabirnagar (19) and Bareilly (11). There are 345 active cases in Agra district. In his letter, Jain said, "I am writing this letter with a very sad mind that my Agra is going through a phase of excessive problems. The need is to take bold decision to save Agra, where the situation has become very serious. Hence, with folded hands, I am praying you to please save my Agra, please save it." The letter written by the Agra Mayor has also been tweeted by the Congress general secretary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/focus-should-be-on-correct-information-right-treatment-to-stop-covid-19-spread-priyanka-gandhi-830075.html
26-04-2020||National||Senior govt doctor, another man die of COVID-19 in Bengal||A senior government doctor involved in the fight against COVID-19 and a 34-year-old man, both diagnosed with the disease, died at a hospital here on Sunday, sources at the facility said. Sixty-year-old Dr Biplab Kanti Dasgupta, posted as assistant director health services (equipment and stores), was initially admitted to Beliaghata Infectious Diseases hospital and later shifted to a private hospital in Salt Lake on April 18, where he succumbed to the disease. "After he tested positive for COVID-19, he was first taken to Beliaghata ID hospital and then to the Salt Lake private hospital. The doctor was suffering from respiratory distress and other co-morbidities and had been on ventilator since he was admitted to the hospital. He died at 1.20 am on Sunday," sources told PTI. Expressing "pain" at his death and extending condolence to the family of the doctor, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said his contribution to fighting the COVID-19 outbreak would encourage others. "We have lost Dr Biplab Kanti Dasgupta, Assistant Director, Health Services, West Bengal in the early hours of today. He was Assistant Director of Health Services, Central Medical Stores. We are deeply pained with his untimely demise," Banerjee tweeted. "His sacrifice for the cause of ailing humanity will ever be in our hearts and will make our COVID warriors fight the deadly virus with even greater determination. My heartfelt condolence to Dr Dasguptas bereaved family members and colleagues," she added.  Another patient from the city's Garden Reach area, who had tested positive for the disease earlier in the week, also died around 7 am at the same facility. "The 34-year-old man was admitted to the hospital on April 23. He, too, had breathing problems and was put on ventilator. He died today morning," they added. After several calls made to senior government officials for more information on the two fatalities went unanswered, an official insisting that he not be named, said, "The reason behind the death of the ADHS is still under investigation". West Bengal has reported a total of 541 COVID-19 cases so far. Of them, 18 have succumbed to the disease, according to the state health department. The state government has constituted an audit committee of doctors which ascertains whether a patient of COVID-19 has died because of the disease or a pre-existing ailment. According to Union health ministry, the number of COVID-19-stricken patients in the state stands at 571. Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said on Friday that the audit panel has certified that only 18 of 57 fatalities were caused "directly due to the disease". The rest 39 deaths were caused by other severe health conditions called co-morbidities in medical parlance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-govt-doctor-another-man-die-of-covid-19-in-bengal-830080.html
26-04-2020||National||COVID-19 lockdown: Magician forced to sell vegetables in dingy lanes of Rajasthan||A magician who once captivated the audience and received thunderous applause for his mesmerizing tricks is now forced to sell vegetables in the congested lanes of Rajasthan's Dholpur district. Hailing from Rajakhera town of Dholpur, which shares border with Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, Mahor’s story resembles that of many others whose lives have taken a hit due to the deadly pandemic and the subsequent lockdown across the country. “The coronavirus crisis has shut my entire business. Over a dozen staff members who worked with me are now sitting at home due to the lockdown. When I thought about paying house rent and run my family, I did not see any other option but to sell vegetables,” Mahor told PTI. He said he has never seen such times in his entire life and urged the government to take measures to provide work to people who are facing difficult times.  The magician said he has done hundreds of shows in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and various other places across the country in the past 15 years. “I used to do 8-10 shows in a day in fairs organised throughout the year across India. My last show was in Bhind and Morena. My props are now lying with one of the staff members in Bhind due to the lockdown,” he said. Nevertheless, Mahor expressed hope that life will be normal again after the country defeats coronavirus. He said he wants to get back to entertaining people with his shows, adding it is the only skill he possesses.  “It's not only about me, but other people too. God knows when the situation will become normal and people will step out to watch shows. I can only hope for good times to come back soon,” he added. Rajasthan is under lockdown since March 22 to arrest the spread of COVID-19. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 824 and the number of cases climbed to 26,496 in India on Sunday, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-magician-forced-to-sell-vegetables-in-dingy-lanes-of-rajasthan-830081.html
26-04-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh Happiness Dept to help COVID-19 patients, health workers||The BJP-led Madhya Pradesh government has decided to have a separate 'Happiness Department' and use its services to reduce the stress of coronavirus patients and boost the morale of those at the forefront of the battle against the disease. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, during his previous tenure, set up the 'Anand Vibhag' (happiness department) in 2016. But, after the Congress came to power in the state in 2018, it merged the happiness department with the 'Adhyatmik Vibhag' (spiritual department). Now, Chouhan has directed the state officials to demerge it, and engage the Happiness Department in the fight against COVID-19. The chief minister has said those infected by coronavirus should be treated in a joyous environment, and emphasised the need to boost their morale and entertain them to reduce their stress, a state public relations department official said. During a review meeting on the coronavirus situation on Saturday, Chouhan said music, films, inspirational messages and entertaining programmes should be allowed through audio- visual means at COVID-19 hospitals and quarantine centres, the official said quoting the chief minister. Also, efforts should be made to boost the morale of the staff engaged in the fight against coronavirus, so that they can work without any stress, the chief minister said. For this, the Happiness Department needs to be demerged and its services be taken, he said. However, the opposition Congress said the BJP-led state government has "failed" in the battle against COVID-19 and it should rather focus on handling the situation better.  "This is a publicity stunt. The death rate of COVID-19 patients in Madhya Pradesh is among the highest in the country. The BJP government should rather focus on increasing the testing facilities and provide necessary equipment to the medical centres," former state minister P C Sharma, who had earlier held charge of the spiritual department, told PTI. Happiness will be there when people survive, he said. "This department was there but it was merged with the spiritual department. But, this is not an issue. The BJP regime has miserably failed in the fight against COVID-19," the Congress leader said. On the other hand, BJP state vice president Rameshwar Sharma said his party is focussing on bringing happiness in the lives of people. "The entire world is praising India for its efforts to contain COVID-19. The Congress is full of hopeless leaders, while the BJP is hopeful and focussing on happiness of people," he said.    The Congress did nothing till March 20 (the day when Kamal Nath resigned as chief minister) to contain the spread of coronavirus in the state, he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-happiness-dept-to-help-covid-19-patients-health-workers-830084.html
26-04-2020||National||Hope PM Modi puts out comprehensive plan to deal with post-lockdown situation at meeting with CMs: Congress||The Congress on Sunday said it hopes that Prime Minister Narendra Modi puts out a comprehensive and holistic plan as regards the exit strategy for the ongoing lockdown and thereafter at his meeting with chief ministers on Monday. Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari also questioned the government's testing strategy for COVID-19 and wondered why the country was conducting only 39,000 tests a day, against its capacity of one lakh tests. "Is there an attempt to either play down the magnitude of the problem or is the government unsure that if we go in for enhancing the testing capacity, then it does not have the capacity to deal with its implications?" he asked at a press briefing through video-conferencing. "We hope that the prime minister puts out a comprehensive, holistic strategy in dealing with the lockout-exit and the situation for the next three months, during his meeting with chief ministers on Monday," Tewari said. He said till the time there is no national plan to deal with disasters or pandemics, states cannot formulate plans to deal with issues post-lockdown. The Congress leader said there has to be a national plan as well as plans for every state and district to deal with the situation in the next three months as, according to experts, COVID-19 is here to stay at least for a while and one has to deal with it.  He also questioned the government on whether the rate of random-testing was deliberately kept low at 39,000, despite having the capacity of one lakh tests per day.   He asked the government whether it has a strategy to deal with the migrant workers, who are struck in quarantine centres at state borders. The Congress leader said there has to be a modus operandi to allow these workers to reach their homes during the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hope-pm-modi-puts-out-comprehensive-plan-to-deal-with-post-lockdown-situation-at-meeting-with-cms-congress-830088.html
26-04-2020||National||More rakes needed for moving essentials, Railways to fine freight clients for delay in freeing trains||The Railways has decided to fine its freight clients for “undue delay” in loading and unloading their goods as it wants more rakes to be available for moving essential items across the country during the lockdown period. The Railways had earlier waived off the two types of charges for such delays -- Demurrage and Wharfage -- for the duration of the lockdown. Demurrage is levied on freight clients for detention of any rolling stock after the expiry of free time, while Wharfage is for not removing goods from railway premises after the expiry of the free time.  “The problem was that with the absence of these charges, clients are in no hurry to unload because they don't lose money, unlike in normal times. So we have no choice but to levy these charges on them if they do not clear our rakes,” said an official. "These are needed for transportation of essential items during this crisis," he said. Sources said cement and steel customers are major offenders, with delays in both loading and unloading remaining an issue during the lockdown period either owing to the non-availability of labour or the dip in demand for these items due to the pandemic. "As the Railways needs to continue efficient transportation of essential services, it is critical to load and unload in due time, and make the stock available for next loading, the guidelines regarding free time and penalty charges have been reviewed," an order from Railway Board issued on Saturday said. It has been decided that in cases where "undue delay" in loading or unloading at particular goods sheds is causing interruption in further loading and movement, the relevant authority are permitted to lift the force majeure condition, and instead give the client 18 hours to load or unload their goods, after which they will be charged as earlier. However, the order says that the defaulters would be given a 24-hour notice before they are charged. The order has also stated that the charges should be applied "sparingly", as required.  Sources said that because of the slow unloading, goods trains carrying foodgrains and other such essentials are taking about six days to return to their bases, to be reloaded again, which is affecting the smooth movement of products across the country. Nowadays, the Railways on an average uses 50-60 rakes daily to carry foodgrains alone. Over the last 30 days, more than 10.9 lakhs wagons were loaded with essential and other important goods and transported across the country. Of these, about 7 lakhs carried essential commodities such as food grains, salt, sugar, milk, edible oil, onions, fruits and vegetables, petroleum products, coal and fertilizers among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-rakes-needed-for-moving-essentials-railways-to-fine-freight-clients-for-delay-in-freeing-trains-830093.html
26-04-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to interact with Chief Ministers of all state on April 27 to discuss way out of lockdown, coronavirus fight||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers via video conference on Monday morning on the way ahead in the fight against the novel coronavirus, amid indications that the discussions could also focus on a graded exit from the ongoing lockdown. This will be the third video conference of the prime minister with the chief ministers after the spread of the COVID-19 in the country. Sources in the government indicated that besides discussing the way forward in dealing with the pandemic, the discussion could also focus on a "graded" exit from the lockdown which is in place till May 3. The Centre and the state governments have been giving gradual relaxation in various fields and sectors to boost economic activities as also to provide relief to people. But some states are willing to extend the lockdown beyond May 3 to ensure that coronavirus cases remain under control. In his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' radio address on Sunday, the prime minister said the country is in the middle of a 'yudh' (war) and asserted that people have to continue being careful and take precautions. His note of caution comes against the backdrop of the Union government and states relaxing lockdown norms to revive economic activities. "I urge you not to get overconfident. You should in your over-enthusiasm not think that if the coronavirus has not yet reached your city, village, street or office, it is not going to reach now. Never make such a mistake. The experience of the world tells us a lot in this regard," he said. Modi referred to a popular Hindi idiom 'Sawdhani hati, durghatna ghati' (accident happens when caution is lowered) to make his point. The Centre has now allowed neighbourhood and standalone shops, including those located in residential complexes, in urban areas to open during the lockdown. But those in the markets continue to remain shut till May 3. In rural areas, all shops, except those in shopping malls, are allowed to open. In a late-night order on Friday, the Home Ministry also said malls continue to remain shut but markets in rural areas can open. However, the opening of shops located in COVID-19 hotspot and containment zones, sale of non-essential items by e-commerce platforms and sale of liquor continue to be prohibited. In the last interaction on April 11, several chief ministers had recommended extension of the 21-day lockdown by two weeks, which was slated to end on April 14 earlier.  On April 14, the prime minister had announced that the lockdown is being extended till May 3. Before the lockdown was announced on March 24, the prime minister had interacted with the chief ministers on March 20 to discuss ways and means to check the spread of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-interact-with-chief-ministers-of-all-state-on-april-27-to-discuss-way-out-of-lockdown-coronavirus-fight-830096.html
26-04-2020||National||Prolonged lockdown may push millions into margins of subsistence: RBI Governor Duvvuri Subba Rao||A prolonged lockdown may possibly push millions of Indians into the "margins of subsistence", former RBI Governor Duvvuri Subba Rao said on Sunday while expecting a V curved recovery once the COVID-19 crisis ends and the turnaround in India to be faster than some economies. He was participating in a webinar on History repeats - but differently- Lessons for the post-Corona World," organised by the Manthan Foundation here, in which former Deputy Governor of RBI Usha Thorat took part "Because most analysts believe that this year India will actually have negative growth or growth will contract. We must remember that even ahead of the crisis two months ago our growth slowed. Now it has completely stopped. Last year growth was five per cent. Just imagine, five per cent growth last year and we are going to negative or zero growth this year, a decline of five per cent growth," he said. "It is true that India is going to perform in this crisis better than most other countries. But that is no consolation... Because we are a very poor country and if the crisis persists and if the lockdown is not lifted soon enough, it is quite possible that millions of people will be pushed into the margins of subsistence, he said when asked about his views on the present situation. Subbarao said that as predicted by analysts, India will have a V-shaped recovery which is far better than most of the other countries. "And why do we expect a "V" shaped recovery? Because unlike in a cyclone or in an earthquake, this is not a natural disaster constraint. No capital has been destroyed. Factories are standing. Our shops are still standing. Our people are ready to work as soon as the lockdown is lifted. So it is quite possible the recovery will be V-shaped and while we have a V-shaped recovery, I think India has a better chance than most of the countries," he opined. According to him, India's recovery was faster than many other countries after the 2008 global financial crisis. On IMFs prediction that India may grow at 1.9 per cent during the current year against about five per cent in the last fiscal, Subbarao said many analysts feel that the prediction is outdated and the growth in GDP may slip into negative. He said the "life versus livelihood" dilemma for the country is arguably very "short while" for India. Usha Thorat said pumping more liquidity into the system alone cannot work and banks and Non-Banking Finance Companies (NBFC) will need credit guarantee or enhancement to start lending. She also said that states need more support during the crisis and streamlining of non-merit subsidies was required.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prolonged-lockdown-may-push-millions-into-margins-of-subsistence-rbi-governor-duvvuri-subba-rao-830102.html
26-04-2020||National||Affordable test methods to drones: Institutions take the innovation route to aid COVID-19 fight||From affordable COVID-19 testing methods to robots delivering food and medicines in isolation wards, drones for sanitising large areas to UV-fitted containers for sanitising grocery items, various institutions in the country are following the innovation mantra to aid the fight against coronavirus. While over 20 technical and scientific institutions are working on developing a vaccine for coronavirus, IITs have already set up "COVID-19 specific research centres", encouraging developments in the innovation ecosystem. Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi has become the first institute in the country to develop an alternative clinical testing method for the virus, which has been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).  The current testing methods available are "probe-based", while the one developed by the IIT team is a "probe-free" method, which reduces the testing cost without compromising on accuracy. "The method can be easily scaled up as it does not require fluorescent probes. The team is targeting large-scale deployment of the kits at affordable prices with suitable industrial partners as soon as possible," IIT, Delhi Director V Ramgopal Rao said. Researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore are working on a tool for diagnosis of COVID-19, based on respiratory, cough and speech sounds. The tool, once validated, will offer a test that will pose minimum risk of exposure to healthcare professionals and give results faster than the current testing method. Meanwhile, a university in Rome is conducting a pilot run for a patented artificial intelligence-based tool, developed by three biotechnology students and a professor from Mumbai, which they claim can test COVID-19 through voice-based diagnosis using a smartphone. The tool is being tested by the University of Tor Vergata in Rome. It has already been tested on 300 individuals and has yielded 98 per cent accurate results. A special infection-proof fabric for usage in hospitals, low-cost coronavirus testing kits, isolation pods for coronavirus-infected patients, bubble helmets that can be an alternative for the traditional oxygen masks and pendants to raise an alarm on a breach of social distancing are also among the innovative ideas that have been given shape since the coronavirus outbreak in the country. IIT, Ropar has developed a trunk-shaped device fitted with ultraviolet germicidal irradiation technology, which it recommends be placed at doorsteps, and all items brought from outside, including grocery and currency notes, put in it for sanitisation. An IIT, Bombay startup has developed a "digital stethoscope" that can listen to heart beats from a distance and record them, minimising the risk of healthcare professionals contracting the novel coronavirus from patients. The data or the auscultated sound from a patient's chest is wirelessly sent to the doctor using Bluetooth, doing away with the need to go near to take readings, according to members of the team. IIT, Madras has come up with "negative pressure medical cabins" under the rapid shelter system, where one can quickly deploy a reusable medical cabin speciality for contagious diseases. Another product at an advanced stage is a surveillance wide-angle camera that can be installed at strategic public spaces to detect and alert people with high temperatures, then zoom in to detect for other symptoms. An IIT-Roorkee professor claims to have developed a software that can detect COVID-19 within five seconds, using X-ray scan of the suspected patient. The professor, who took over 40 days to develop the software, has filed a patent for the same and approached the ICMR for a review.  A group of researchers at IIT, Guwahati has developed a drone for disinfection of larger areas, while another group has come up with a drone equipped with infrared camera, which can help in thermal screening of groups without human intervention and identify suspected COVID-19 cases at an early stage once the lockdown is lifted. "The drone also has a loudspeaker, which can be used by personnel to monitor places, especially with a high disease prevalence, and give appropriate instructions," IIT, Guwahati Director T G Sitharam said. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 824 and the number of cases climbed to 26,496 in India on Sunday, according to the Union health ministry. The death toll increased by 45 and the number of cases by 1,554 since the ministry had last updated its data on Saturday evening. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the country stood at 19,868, while 5,803 people have been cured and discharged, and one patient has migrated, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/affordable-test-methods-to-drones-institutions-take-the-innovation-route-to-aid-covid-19-fight-830107.html
26-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Disruptions in supply chain hit appliance repairs||With the onset of summer, people are struggling to get their air conditioners, refrigerators and fans repaired as service technicians are not able to fix them due non availability of spare parts, says a latest survey. Spare parts are not easily available due to disruption in the supply chain.  Though the Ministry of Home Affairs has permitted service technicians (AC and refrigerator, other white goods, appliance, gadget repairs etc.) to provide their services from April 20, they struggling to get parts as shops are closed or there is lack of supply, according to a survey conducted by LocalCircles, a community social media platform. "Around 40 per cent of households need gadget repairs, while 50 per cent of households need AC or refrigerator repairs. While service technicians are permitted, they may not be able to fix ACs, given the shutdown of supplies," says the survey which received more than 17,000 responses from across the country. On being asked about the kind of services they need urgently, 18 per cent of consumers said they needed AC or refrigerator repairs, 11 per cent said other white goods, appliance repairs, 11 per cent said gadget repairs like mobiles and laptops, 8 per cent said both AC/ refrigerator and other white goods/ appliance repairs and 5 per cent said other white goods/ appliance repairs and gadget repairs including mobile and laptop. Despite the Government permission, in most large cities, such service technicians are still not permitted because of the red zone or containment zone restrictions being applicable. Even if the service technicians are permitted in green zone areas, consumer and business feedback indicate that they will be able to do little without supplies. For instance, to repair most of the air conditioners and refrigerators, refrigerant gas is required. The gas is imported from Thailand and China with the Daryaganj Market in Delhi being one of the primary distribution points for India. Daryaganj has been identified as one of the COVID-19 hotspots and completely shut. This has led to zero supply at majority of the dealers. Hence, technicians can do little in fixing an AC or fridge. It is therefore critical that along with the respective technicians, associated supplies are also added in the essential services list, said the survey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-disruptions-in-supply-chain-hit-appliance-repairs-830110.html
26-04-2020||National||Happy to have raised more than 2,500 PPE kits: Vidya Balan||Actor Vidya Balan on Sunday said she was elated that her efforts to raise 1,000 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits exceeded expectations, as over 2,500 kits were arranged to help healthcare workers in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic. The actor on Saturday pledged to donate 1,000 PPE kits and announced that she is also collaborating with celebrity shout-out platform Tring to raise money for additional 1,000 units.  In a video uploaded on Instagram, Vidya said, "I've woken up to good news this morning. We reached 2,500+ PPE kits and raised over 16 lakh in just a few hours. "A big thank you to each of you who has donated and made this possible. A load of gratitude and bless you. This is truly the unity and spirit of India." The "Tumhari Sulu" actor captioned the video, writing that the campaign will run for some more time so that people can still donate.  "Every single kit is helping protect a life. The #WarAgainstCovid19 continues. Let's #UniteForHumanity #StayHome #StaySafe." For donations made through Tring, Vidya will be recognising the support of every donor by sending a personal thank you video message and a chance for a two-minute video call with her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/happy-to-have-raised-more-than-2500-ppe-kits-vidya-balan-830113.html
26-04-2020||National||Health Secretary's tenure extended due to coronavirus; govt makes key changes in bureaucracy||Government on Sunday extended the services of Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan by three months to ensure continuity in leading the COVID-19 fight back, while two top officials in the Prime Minister's Office were promoted as Secretaries and shifted to two crucial ministries Twenty-three IAS officers were given new assignments in the reshuffle, with some of them being promoted. The reshuffle came as a number of Secretaries are retiring on April 30. Sudan, a 1983-batch officer of Andhra Pradesh was to retire this month-end but the Appointments Committee of Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi decided to extend her services, as a change could have an impact at the country's fight against the pandemic. Rural Development Secretary Rajesh Bhushan is also moving into Ministry of Health and Family Welfare as Officer on Special Duty and is likely to succeed when Sudan retires. Tarun Bajaj, an Additional Secretary in the PMO, has been shifted to the crucial Department of Economic Affairs as its Secretary as the incumbent Atanu Chakraborty is retiring this month-end. Another Additional Secretary in PMO AK Sharma will be the new Secretary in the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and his job will be to ensure that the sector remains robust at a time the economy of the country has taken a hit due to the pandemic. Aramane Giridhar, an Additional Secretary in Cabinet Secretariat, has been shifted to Ministry of Road Transport and Highways as Secretary in place of Sanjeev Ranjan, who will now look after Shipping. Delhi Development Authority Vice Chairperson Tarun Kapoor will be the new Petroleum Secretary as the incument M M Kutty is superannuating. Ministry of Steel will also get a new Secretary in Pradip Kumar Tripathi, who is presently Special Secretary in Department of Personnel and Training, while NITI Ayog Special Secretary Rameshwar Prasad Gupta will be the new Environment Secretary. Information and Broadcasting Secretary Ravi Mittal has been shifted to Department of Sports while Department of Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare will has been given the additional charge of the ministry handled by the former. Kerala cadre IAS officer Anand Kumar, who is presently the Secretary of New and Renewable Energy, will be the new Culture Secretary while P K Aggarwal will move from Department of Consumer Affairs to Special Secretary (Logistics) in Department of Commerce. Border Management Secretary Nagendra Nath Singh has been shifted to Rural Development in the same rank in place of Bhushan, who is moving into Ministry of Health and Family Welfare as Officer on Special Duty. Bhushan is likely to succeed Sudan when she retires.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-secretarys-tenure-extended-due-to-coronavirus-govt-makes-key-changes-in-bureaucracy-830118.html
26-04-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll rises to 826, cases climb to 26,917: Health Ministry||The countrywide death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 826 and the number of cases climbed to 26,917 on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry. The country has reported 47 deaths since Saturday night, the ministry said. The total number of cases has gone up by 1,975 since the ministry last updated its data on Saturday evening.  The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 20,177 while 5,913 people (21.96 percent) were cured and discharged, and one patient has migrated, the ministry said. The total number of cases include 111 foreign nationals. Of the 47 deaths reported since Saturday evening, 22 are from Maharashtra, eight in Rajasthan, seven from Madhya Pradesh, six Gujarat and one each from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Tamil Nadu. Of the total 824 COVID-19 deaths, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of 323 fatalities, followed by Gujarat (133), Madhya Pradesh (99), Delhi (54), Andhra Pradesh (31) and Rajasthan (33). The death toll reached 27 in Uttar Pradesh, 26 in Telangana, 23 in Tamil Nadu, while Karnataka and West Bengal have reported 18 deaths each, the ministry said. Punjab has registered 17 fatalities so far, Jammu and Kashmir six, Kerala four, while Jharkhand and Haryana have recorded three COVID-19 deaths each. Bihar has reported two coronavirus deaths, while Meghalaya, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Assam have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry data. According to the Health Ministry data, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country is from Maharashtra at 7,628, followed by Gujarat (3,071), Delhi (2,625), Rajasthan (2,083), Madhya Pradesh (2,096) and Uttar Pradesh (1,843). The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 1,821 in Tamil Nadu, 1,097 in Andhra Pradesh and 991 in Telangana. The number of cases has risen to 611 in West Bengal, 501 in Karnataka, 494 in Jammu and Kashmir, 458 in Kerala, 298 in Punjab and 289 in Haryana. Bihar has reported 251 coronavirus cases, while Odisha has 103. Sixty-seven people have been infected with the virus in Jharkhand and 50 in Uttarakhand. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, while Chhattisgarh has registered 37 cases and Assam 36.  Chandigarh has 30 cases, while there are 33 COVID-19 patients in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Twenty coronavirus cases have been reported from Ladakh, 12 from Meghalaya, while Goa and Puducherry have registered seven COVID-19 cases each. Manipur and Tripura have two coronavirus patients each, while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported one case each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-826-cases-climb-to-26917-health-ministry-830148.html
26-04-2020||National||Remove bottlenecks on testing: Congress tells Modi||Congress on Sunday renewed the demand to scale up testing for COVID-19, with Rahul Gandhi asking Prime Minister Narendra Modi to clear the bottlenecks in this regard. “Experts agree that mass random testing is the key to beating coronavirus. In India, a bottleneck is stopping us from scaling testing from the current 40,000 per day to 1 lakh tests a day, for which test kits are already in stock. PM needs to act fast & clear the bottleneck,” Gandhi said on Twitter on Sunday. Congress has been insisting on ramping up testing for COVID-19, claiming that the lower number of cases was mainly a result of inadequate testing. However, scientists at the Indian Council of Medical Research have been maintaining that it was testing every person who needs to be tested for infection and the lower numbers were a good augury.   Addressing a press conference through video link, senior Congress leader Manish Tewari wondered whether the limited number of RNA extraction kits was the reason for low testing in the country. “We have been told that there are only three lakh RNA extraction kits left and soon we will exhaust them,” Tewari said and sought to know from the government how many kits have been imported over the past six days. Congress also stepped up pressure on the government to spell out its national plan for dealing with the COVID-19 outbreak as an absence of a plan would prove to be a handicap for the state governments to formulate their response in tackling the situation. India has a death rate of 3.06 per cent due to coronavirus. On the brighter side, 5,914 persons have recovered from the disease and discharged from hospitals, pegging the recovery rate at 21.97 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/remove-bottlenecks-on-testing-congress-tells-modi-830154.html
26-04-2020||National||Production capacity of PPE coveralls ramped up to over 1 lakh per day: Govt||The government on Sunday said the production capacity of PPE coveralls required by medical personnel treating COVID-19 cases in the country has been ramped up to more than 1 lakh per day, with Bengaluru emerging as a major hub for its production. "The PPE kits are being sent to states by the Ministry of Health as per requirement.  "Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Department of Pharmaceuticals, and Ministry of Textiles are continuously working with various industry bodies, stakeholders and manufacturers on 24x7 basis, to streamline the supply chain, remove bottlenecks and maintain a steady supply of all materials required for the healthcare professionals," an official statement said.  Production capacity of coveralls required by medical personnel treating COVID-19 cases in the country has been ramped up to more than 1 lakh per day, it added. Almost 50 per cent of PPE production happens in Bengaluru. Other than Bengaluru, PPE coveralls are also being manufactured by approved production units in Tirupur, Chennai and Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu, Ahmedabad and Vadodara in Gujarat, Phagwara and Ludhiana in Punjab, Kusumnagar and Bhiwandi in Maharashtra, Dungarpur in Rajasthan, Kolkata, Delhi, Noida, Gurugram and few other places. "The cumulative production till date is approximately one million coverall units," the statement issued by the Textile Ministry said. Body coveralls (PPE) have a stringent technical requirements as prescribed by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare since it is a specialized protective suit meant for high level of protection to health professionals. HLL Lifecare Limited is the designated single-window procurement agency for the hospitals and healthcare organisations under the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare. In the last week of January 2020, the technical standard for the coveralls was prescribed as per WHO class-3 exposure pressure in accordance with ISO 16003 or its equivalent.   "Such materials were being manufactured by a few international companies, who expressed their inability to supply on account of a complete glut in stocks and ban of exports by the source countries. Only a limited quantity was offered and procured by the procurement organization of the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare," the statement said. The health ministry finalised the technical requirement on March 2, based on the indigenous availability of materials and the technical requirement for a high level of protection of the healthcare professionals who would deal with the COVID-19 cases, in consultation with medical experts in the field. The specification was published on the official website of HLL Lifecare Ltd on 5 March 2020, inviting manufacturers having adequate capability to participate in the procurement process. As of now, there are four laboratories in the country which have the Synthetic Blood Penetration Resistance Test facilities as well as necessary approvals for conducting tests and certification for Body Coveralls (PPE) required for COVID-19. These are – South India Textiles Research Association (SITRA), Coimbatore, Defence Research and Development Establishment (DRDE), Gwalior, and two laboratories under Ordnance Factory Board – Heavy Vehicles Factory, Avadi and Small Arms Factory, Kanpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/production-capacity-of-ppe-coveralls-ramped-up-to-over-1-lakh-per-day-govt-830167.html
26-04-2020||National||Help all without discrimination, work towards becoming self-reliant country: Mohan Bhagwat||As the country faces the coronavirus pandemic, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday cautioned against forces inimical to India's interests taking advantage of the situation, exhorted all to help those affected without any discrimination and stressed on developing a self-reliant economy. "We have to be patient and calm. There should be no fear or anger as people with anti-India mindset can use it against the country," he said in an online address to workers of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).  Even if someone did something wrong, do not consider everyone guilty. Some people want to misuse it, the RSS chief said in an apparent reference to incidents involving Tablighi Jamaat members after it centre in Delhi emerged as a major coronavirus hotspot. Asking the Sangh workers to serve people without any discrimination , he said those in need of help "are our own". "It is our duty to help in this time of crisis. All 130 crore Indians are our own," he said. Underlining that RSS is active during lockdown in the shape of relief activities, Sangh chief said, "We should continue the relief work till the threat of this pandemic completely ends".  Bhagwat said India handled this pandemic effectively as government and people responded proactively to the crisis. He said a new model of development which makes the country self-reliant has to be evolved. People should use 'swadeshi' (indigenous) goods as far as possible, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/help-all-without-discrimination-work-towards-becoming-self-reliant-country-mohan-bhagwat-830172.html
26-04-2020||National||Promote e-commerce and home-delivery: Sharad Pawar to PM Modi||A day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hold meeting with chief minister,  NCP supremo Sharad Pawar on Sunday stressed on the need to encourage business via e-commerce and home-delivery. "Conventional shops and stores will be at a disadvantage in view of various restrictions and social distancing norms which may acquire permanence," Pawar said in a letter to Modi on Sunday. According to Pawar, a four-time Maharashtra chief minister and ex-Union minister, e-commerce and home-delivery would create jobs.   The veteran politician said that COVID-19 pandemic has hit urban areas and urban economy hardest - with aviation, transport, tourism, brick and mortar retail, entertainment, media and wellness industry unlikely to ever regain their financial health. “All businesses unable to handle ‘social distancing’ will suffer heavily. Sizeable numbers of businesses are not likely to survive and many will lose jobs. They will need to be reskilled for alternate employment and alternative businesses will have to be actively promoted,” Pawar said. Pawar pointed out that there are opportunities that lie in the field of tele-medicine, which is still in its infancy, but out of necessity remote visits will become more popular. While theaters and malls will continue to suffer, online entertainment platforms will expand and become more profitable, and similarly gyms will suffer but online workout sessions will be in great demand, though it will be difficult for beauty parlours and spas to survive. “Consequently, the household demand for health, wellness and beauty products will see a major spike. Parallelly, the commercial demand for such products may nosedive,” said Pawar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/promote-e-commerce-and-home-delivery-sharad-pawar-to-pm-modi-830175.html
26-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: APDI urges govt to place private detectives under essential services||Professional body APDI has urged the government to put private detectives and investigators under the category of essential services to check flooding of counterfeit products in the market amid the lockdown to contain COVID-19. During the current lockdown, the counterfeiting is one big issue which is keeping the Indian industry and corporate world worried. Amid reports of flooding of counterfeit goods – medical supplies, food and grocery items, liquor, electronics etc – in the market, the Indian businesses are seeking help of private detective agencies to ensure that counterfeit items are seized before they reach the market. "The lockdown period now has highlighted the loopholes in the supply chain and how dubious people are manipulating the system by supplying counterfeit goods and products. The government machinery has also been exposed as neither they have adequate manpower not wherewithal to deal which such a situation," Association of Professional Detectives and Investigators (APDI) Chairman K Vikram Singh told PTI. APDI is the apex body of major detective and private investigating agencies in India. Singh, who recently wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi offering help of APDI in assisting government agencies in dealing with the issue of counterfeit products, said every year counterfeiting causes a loss of over Rs one lakh crore annually to the Indian economy. "The lockdown period so far has seen a steep jump in seizure of counterfeit products which pose health, safety and security risk to Indians," he added. Referring to the current scenario, Singh said as the lockdown and partial lockdown will continue for some time, the government needs to think proactively and engage services of private detective and investigation agencies to check sale of counterfeit products. "The government should put us under essential services so that we can help the government as well as private players in dealing with cases of counterfeits and frauds," he said. According to Shivindra Pratap Singh, Managing Director, Lancers Network Limited, a leading risk consulting and brand protection service provider, "Every disaster, natural calamity or conflict is seen as an opportunity by fraudsters and counterfeiters to make quick money. Today these fraudsters have stepped up and filled the last-mile supply chain vacuum by providing substandard, mostly locally assembled/produced spurious products".  Over 10,000 enforcement actions are annually under taken by various law enforcement agencies across the country. Over 100 enforcement actions have taken place across India since the lockdown started, he added.   "As we plan our next few months, it is important for the law enforcement authorities to focus on curtailing the counterfeiting activities by proactively engaging with the brand protection and security functions. The nation cannot afford a public health scare and loss to the exchequer emerging from mass distribution of counterfeit products. Relentless pursuit of these perpetrators by law enforcement agencies is need of the hour," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-apdi-urges-govt-to-place-private-detectives-under-essential-services-830178.html
26-04-2020||National||IITs, IIITs not to hike tuition fee for any course in academic year 2020-21: HRD minister||The Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs) will not increase the tuition fee for any course for academic year 2020-21, HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal "Nishank" said here on Sunday. "After consultation with the chairman of the Standing Committee of the IIT Council and directors of IITs, it has been decided that these institutes will not increase the tuition fee for academic year 2020-21 for any course," the minister said. "In case of the IIITs, it has been decided that for those which are centraly-funded, the standard 10-per cent hike in the tuition fee for undergraduate programmes will not be implemented this year. I have also requested them not to increase the fee for other courses. "On similar lines, I have requested the IIITs run in the public-private partnership mode not to increase the tuition fee for the coming academic year for any of their courses," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iits-iiits-not-to-hike-tuition-fee-for-any-course-in-academic-year-2020-21-hrd-minister-830200.html
26-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Kerala govt launches online registration facility for NRIs||The Kerala government has started an online registration facility for NRI's from Kerala who wants to come down. Registration could be done on www.norkaroots.org. A registration facility for Malayali's in other states in India who wish to return would be also opened soon. The registration is aimed at making arrangement like quarantine facilities.  Meanwhile, eleven more people in Kerala were tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday, while four recovered. Those tested positive on Sunday also included one person who came down from Spain, while two others came from Tamil Nadu. One of them is a doctor, said a statement from Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja. No fresh cases were reported from Kannur and Kasargod. One person from each of the two districts recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-kerala-govt-launches-online-registration-facility-for-nris-830203.html
26-04-2020||National||Stress on tele check-in, self-service as Delhi Airport plans work post lockdown||With plans to encourage tele check-in and aggressive promotion of self-service at airport counters, Delhi Airport is gearing up for life after the end of the nationwide lockdown against COVID-19. The Delhi Airport also plans to deploy additional queue managers to avoid crowding and maintaining social distancing as passengers make their way to the aircraft. The government is yet to take a decision on re-starting air travel, which was suspended late last month as India stepped up measures to arrest the spread of COVID-19. International commercial flights were halted from March 22 and domestic operations were suspended from March 24 till May 3 when the lockdown is expected to end. “Passengers will be encouraged to check-in at home or use self-service facilities such as self check-in facility, self bag tag facility, scan & fly,” a Delhi airport official said.    Airport authorities will encourage passengers to wear face masks and maintain social distancing at all times. They also plan to put up visually impactful designs at various places for staggered seating arrangements at the airport. “The Delhi Airport is also conducting training and assessments of key service personnel, run checks on major facilities, and performing risk evaluations to prepare for resuming operations,” Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO of the Delhi International Airport Limited said. Though commercial passenger operations have been suspended, Delhi Airport has been operational 24x7 for cargo flights for transporting medical equipment to every nook and corner of the country. Delhi airport has been conducting regular sanitisation of high contact surfaces such as desks, chairs, elevators, railings, common use self-service areas, trolleys, handles, trays and baggage belts inside the terminals. “DIAL is conducting deep cleaning every day at its vast premise of 6,08,000 square meters of the airport terminals. A team of 500 professionals have been deployed to carry out frequent disinfection drive after every hour,” a DIAL official said. The airport also has plans to install UV machines to sanitise check-in baggage and disinfect trolleys after each use.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stress-on-tele-check-in-self-service-as-delhi-airport-plans-work-post-lockdown-830206.html
26-04-2020||National||Situation in India improving, hotspot districts moving towards being non-hotspot: Health minister||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said the coronavirus situation in the country is improving as many hotspot districts (HSD) are moving towards being non-hotspot districts (NHSD). The minister visited All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Trauma Centre to take stock of the preparedness to overcome COVID-19, a statement from the ministry said. On April 15, the health ministry declared 170 districts as COVID-19 hotspots and 207 districts as non-hotspots.  Hotspots are those districts which are reporting more number of cases or where the rate of growth of COVID-19 cases is high, the ministry said, adding that a detailed direction has been issued to states stating consolidated efforts are required to utilise this period of lockdown to curb the spread of the deadly virus. The districts that have not reported any cases yet have also been directed to work on cluster containment plans, the ministry said. Since then there have been no updates on the number of hotspots from the health ministry. On Sunday, during his visit, the health minister spoke to some COVID-19 positive patients through video calling and enquired about their health. Robots handled the technology at the patients' end, it said. Vardhan also sought their feedback about the facilities available at AIIMS so that necessary improvements can be made, the statement said. Through a graded, preemptive and proactive approach, the government of India is taking several steps along with the states/union territories for prevention, containment and management of COVID-19. These are being regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry said. After a detailed review, Vardhan appreciated AIIMS for ensuring 24X7 monitoring of COVID-19 confirmed and suspected patients using digital platforms, video and voice call technologies. He also urged people to observe the lockdown in letter and spirit and to treat it as an effective intervention to cut down the spread of COVID-19.  "The situation is improving in India as hotspot districts (HSD) are moving towards being non-hotspot districts (NHSD)," the minister said. Meanwhile, the cabinet secretary had a detailed video conferencing with chief secretaries and director generals of police (DGP) of states and union territories to review the preparedness for COVID-19 response. Vardhan asserted that states with high viral load should focus on effective implementation of the lockdown measures and containment strategy. They also need to focus on medical infrastructure like adequate availability of isolation beds, ICU beds and ventilators, he said. As of now, 5,913 people have been cured of coronavirus with a recovery rate of 21.90 per cent in the country, the ministry said. A total of 26,917 people have been confirmed positive for COVID-19, it said, adding that 826 deaths have been reported in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/situation-in-india-improving-hotspot-districts-moving-towards-being-non-hotspot-health-minister-830207.html
26-04-2020||National||Community radio stations aid fight against coronavirus with local touch||Our reach may be local but not the effort in aiding the fight against COVID-19, say several community radio station managers who are operating with limited resources and broadcasting shows with a local touch like "Break the fake news chain" and "Panchtantra ka Corona mantra". Local initiatives matter the most to check the deadly virus spread, according to station managers of few Community Radios (CR), either located in university campuses or in far-flung districts and remote corners of country. According to Vinod Pavarala, UNESCO chair on community media, the role of CR stations is important as the vulnerable sections of the population need credible information in their local language on how they can protect themselves against coronavirus. "At a time when there is a mass spread of wrong information, it is even more challenging to break the chain not only of the virus but of the fake news as well. We have a show called 'Break the fake news chain' and we receive calls from housewives to rickshaw pullers about whether so and so Whatsapp message's claim is correct or not," said Surinder Singh Banolta, manager at a university community radio in Shimla.  Pinki Chandran, Station Director of Bangalore's Radio Active CR 90.4 MHz, told PTI, "We have been working on a series of programmes since March including official updates from different government departments, programmes on health- with special focus on mental health, dealing alcohol withdrawal, spotlight on the various different initiatives by individuals and NGOs, appeals on understanding facts and importance of fighting misinformation besides community testimonies" "This is happening because community reporters, producers and volunteers are on the frontline, acting as responders in bringing out information. It is a mix of problem-focused reporting and solutions showing possibilities. The everyday reporting is allowing communities to highlight their neighbourhoods and issues," she said. Amity University's Community Radio station is running a programme called "Panchtantra ka corona matra" where different stories from Panchtantra tales are being used to convey messages related to coronavirus. "The stories from the Panchtantra have been converted into messages for how to fight against coronavirus.We have produced different programmes for farmers, on social distancing, avoiding rumour mongering and measures that need to be taken at home beyond handwashing and sanitising," Gauri Chakraborty, station head, told PTI. Jadavpur University's 'JU Radio' has shifted its programming to digital mode where different volunteers are being connected through phone while the station is being operated with minimum staff.  "We encouraged listeners to do a 5-minute audio recording which is uploaded on our YouTube, Facebook page so that it can be seen by authorities concerned for taking follow up measures. We also provide inputs about drug stores and delivery of essential services which help a lot of people in a particular locality," a varsity official said. "Alfaz-e-Mewat FM 107.8" operational in Haryana's Nuh district, caters to 225 villages and is focusing on broadcasting information received from the district collector, chief medical officer, and other govt. authorities, including entitlements of extended schemes. "We do different programmes on information received from the district collector, chief medical officer and other government authorities, including entitlements of extended schemes. We also did a series called '21 din 21 baatein' with a message by an expert along with a thematic poem on frequent handwashing, access to healthcare services, physical distancing, importance of yoga, and time for self-learning on a daily basis to spread positivity in people," said Fakat Hussain, a Radio Jockey at the CR. "Discussions on contemporary issues, including the coronavirus outbreak, and local folk songs on social isolation are presented to listeners. Some are live and interactive sessions, with listeners asking questions. Officials cannot possibly go to every village, but through this medium they can communicate to the maximum number of people," he added. Pradeepta Dutta, chairman of Radio Kisan which operates from Orissa's Balipatna said, "Our programmes are completely about the lockdown situation. Details like timings and location of weekly markets, adhering to rules on safe distance, and the status of local ATMs are some critical messages that community radio can disseminate effectively. When misinformation is flooded on social media, people get confused, so we also have to act as a fact checker". There are over 270 Community Radio stations operational in the country. "While community radios are playing an important role in educating people in remote areas of the country, they are struggling with funds as the outbreak of COVID-19 has further strained their limited resources," N A Shah Ansari, President of Community Radio Association told PTI. "In a letter to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting we have appealed for advertisements and a one-time grant to procure additional equipment to be able to run their services for communities," he added. The country is under a lockdown since March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus. The lockdown has now been extended till May 3. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 824 and the number of cases climbed to 26,496 in India on Sunday, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/community-radio-stations-aid-fight-against-coronavirus-with-local-touch-830214.html
26-04-2020||National||CBI arrests DHFL promoters Kapil, Dheeraj Wadhawan in Yes Bank scam||The CBI on Sunday arrested DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan and RKW Developers promoter Dheeraj Wadhawan from a Mahabaleshwar-based quarantine facility, nearly 50 days after booking them in a case of bribery against former Yes Bank CEO Rana Kapoor, officials said. They were arrested with the “cooperation of district authorities of Satara on the strength of Non-bailable Warrant of Arrest issued by the Court of Special Judge, CBI Cases, City Sessions Court, Mumbai,” CBI spokesperson R K Gaur said here. The two will be produced before the Special CBI Court at Mumbai, he said. Wadhawan brothers are named as accused in the CBI FIR pertaining to swindling of money by Kapoor and others, the officials said. "Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan were absconding since the beginning of the investigation and evaded joining the investigation," Gaur said. The agency had procured non-bailable warrants against them from the court on March 17 yet they did not appear before the CBI or the court, he said. They were held by the Satara police earlier this month while allegedly violating prohibitory orders related to lockdown when a carcade carrying Wadhawan family members was stopped at Panchgani in Maharashtra. They were kept at a quarantine facility in Mahabaleshwar by the district administration, they said. The CBI had written to the Satara district administration to not release the duo without a No Objection Certificate from it, they said. "On the prayer of accused persons, the Court vide order dated April 18, 2020, had stayed the execution of NBW till May 05, 2020, which has been vacated by the Court on April 25, 2020, on the prayer of CBI," Gaur said. Once the stay was cleared, the CBI team reached the Mahabaleshwar quarantine facility where the two were taken into custody. The agency has alleged that Kapoor, 62, entered into a criminal conspiracy with Wadhawan for extending financial assistance to DHFL through Yes Bank in return for substantial undue benefits to himself and his family members through companies held by them, they said. According to the CBI FIR, the scam started taking shape between April to June 2018 when Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of the scam-hit Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL). In return, Wadhawan allegedly "paid a kickback of Rs 600 crore" to Kapoor and family members in the form of loans to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd held by the wife and daughters of Kapoor, they said. DHFL is already facing a separate probe for allegedly siphoning off Rs 31,000 crore out of the total bank loans of Rs 97,000 crore using shell companies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-arrests-dhfl-promoters-kapil-dheeraj-wadhawan-in-yes-bank-scam-830219.html
26-04-2020||National||Animal rights activist moves Supreme Court against hunting of wild animals for illegal trade of their body parts||An animal rights activist has approached the Supreme Court against unauthorised use of weapons and drugs for hunting down wild animals( alleged man-eaters) for illegal and lucrative trade of their body parts. Through her NGO, 'Red Lynx Confederation', petitioner Sangeeta Dogra sought a direction from the court to centralise data for all weapon licence holders and keep a tab on their activities with the use of intelligent software. The petitioner cited several instances showing how sports category shooters, namely Shafath Ali Khan ran a private NGO for tranquilising animals, which, it claimed, was unconstitutional. Such killings were also a violation of the right to equality, and life and duty to protect and improve the natural environment as well as wildlife and have compassion for living creatures. Raising questions of law, she asked whether those having sports category weapon with or without consent from the concerned Ministry should be permitted for hunting wild animals in the name of conservation and to control human-animal conflict. Her plea also asked if the term man-eater is constitutionally appropriate for carnivorous wild animals and if pug mark identification was sufficient to issue shoot orders. She also submitted the licenced trophies, which were a result of hunting and poaching of wild animals, should be prohibited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/animal-rights-activist-moves-supreme-court-against-hunting-of-wild-animals-for-illegal-trade-of-their-body-parts-830223.html
26-04-2020||National||India records highest one-day rise in coronavirus cases||As India recorded the highest one-day rise of 1,975 coronavirus cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the country’s fight against COVID-19 is "people-driven" and this was the only way to overcome the pandemic with the road ahead expected to figure in his discussions with chief ministers. The countrywide death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 826 with 47 more fatalities being reported and the number of cases climbed to 26,917 on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry. A total of 5,914 people(21.96 per cent) have recovered from the infection, it said.  The total number of cases on Sunday went up by 1,975 since the ministry last updated its data on Saturday evening. The previous highest single-day jump of 1,752 was recorded on April 24. According to the ministry, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country is from Maharashtra at 7,628. Other states where the cases have crossed one thousand are are Gujarat (3,071), Delhi (2,625), Rajasthan (2,083), Madhya Pradesh (2,096), Uttar Pradesh (1,843), Tamil Nadu(1,821) and Andhra Pradesh(1,097).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-highest-one-day-rise-in-coronavirus-cases-830224.html
26-04-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi greets people on Parshuram Jayanti||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday extended greetings to the people on Parshuram Jayanti, saying his ideals will encourage people for ages. "The symbols of tenacity, strength and courage, Lord Parshuram's ideals will continue to inspire people for ages," Modi tweeted in Hindi. Lord Parshuram is considered an incarnation of Lord Vishnu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-people-on-parshuram-jayanti-830235.html
26-04-2020||National||Nation will remain indebted to health professionals: J P Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda said on Sunday that the nation will remain "indebted" to its health professionals for their service during the continuing coronavirus crisis, and said the challenge facing the country is "unprecedented and historic". Nadda expressed these views in a video interaction with doctors, including AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria and Medanta Chairman Naresh Trehan. A BJP statement said the doctors stated that the Modi government has taken measures in the fight against coronavirus. Nadda lauded the way health professionals have served humanity and said the nation will always be indebted to them, according to the statement. The challenge in front of the country is unprecedented and historic, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nation-will-remain-indebted-to-health-professionals-j-p-nadda-830242.html
26-04-2020||National||Delhi HC seeks Centre's response on plea to provide protective gear to sanitation workers  ||The Delhi High Court has sought a response from the Centre on a plea seeking direction to the authorities to provide personal protective gear to sanitation workers carrying out their work amid the coronavirus pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice C Hari Shankar asked the central government to file a report indicating steps taken by it to ensure that sanitation workers were protected from COVID-19 and listed the matter for further hearing on May 8.  In the proceedings held via video-conferencing, the Centre said it has already provided a total number of 3,46,929 N95 masks and 60,890 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits to the Delhi government. The petition, by Harnam Singh, has also sought direction to the authorities to carry out testing of all the sanitation workers and their immediate families for COVID-19. Singh, a social activist, approached the high court after his plea was disposed of by the Supreme Court taking into account the arguments of the Centre that sanitation workers in the country have been provided with requisite protective kits and the authorities are following the guidelines of the World Health Organization (WHO) on the coronavirus pandemic. The apex court had told the petitioner that he could approach the high court concerned if he had any specific case.  The plea, filed through advocate Mehmood Pracha, has said that in light of the apex court's order, Singh wrote to the administration of all states and Union territories in the country and sought a response on the status of procurement and disbursement of personal protective equipment (PPE) and other safety equipment to sanitation workers. The petitioner has claimed that as the situation is worsening and sanitation workers are left exposed to COVID-19 without adequate equipment, some of them have contracted the virus, exposing their families and communities to the infection. It said that unlike doctors, who work in more controlled and sanitised environments, sanitation workers function in unhygienic conditions and run a higher risk of getting infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-seeks-centres-response-on-plea-to-provide-protective-gear-to-sanitation-workers-830250.html
26-04-2020||National||IRS officers' report to fund COVID-19 relief measures by raising taxes, ill-conceived: Finance Ministry||A report of 50 IRS officers of the I-T department on revenue mobilisation and economic impetus to fight COVID-19 pandemic is ill-conceived, and an act of indiscipline as well as violation of service conduct rules, Finance Ministry sources said. These officers from the Indian Revenue Service (IRS) Association in a report titled 'FORCE (Fiscal Options & Response to the COVID-19 Epidemic') suggested raising tax rate to 40 per cent for those with income above Rs 1 crore, from 30 per cent at present, and levy of wealth tax for those with over Rs 5 crore annual income.  They also suggested levy of a COVID Relief Cess of 4 per cent on those with taxable income of more than Rs 10 lakh to help mobilise revenue for funding the relief work. The Finance Ministry, sources said, has directed Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) Chairman P C Mody to seek explanation from these officers for writing such 'ill-conceived views' in public without having any authority to do so. The ministry said that neither IRS Association nor any group of officers mentioned in the said report were ever asked by the government to give any report on the subject. "It was not even part of their duty to prepare such a report. Therefore, it is prima-facie an act of indiscipline and violation of conduct rules which specifically prohibits officers to go to media with their personal views on official matters without taking prior sanction or the permission of the government. The concerned officers will have to explain their misconduct," one of the sources said.   They further said that the suggestions given in the report do not reflect views of the CBDT or the Finance Ministry. The report, dated April 23, was submitted to the CBDT Chairman. The ministry sources further said that releasing the report in the media through IRS Association's twitter and website is 'an irresponsible act' of few officers. In a tweet, IRS Association said: "The paper FORCE by 50 young IRS officers suggesting policy measures had been forwarded by IRSA to CBDT for consideration. It does not purport to represent the official views of the entire IRS, or the IT Dept".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irs-officers-report-to-fund-covid-19-relief-measures-by-raising-taxes-ill-conceived-finance-ministry-830258.html
26-04-2020||National||Amidst rising death toll, Gujarat CM says no religious discrimination in fight against coronavirus||The coronavirus death toll in Gujarat surpassed 150 on Sunday after 18 more patients, all in Ahmedabad, passed away in the last 24 hours, the state health department data said, taking the death toll to 151. A steep surge in total number of cases was also recorded with detection of 230 fresh cases in 30 districts that spiked the total cases to 3,301. Gujarat is worst hit from the virus after Maharashtra in terms of number of cases as well as deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amidst-rising-death-toll-gujarat-cm-says-no-religious-discrimination-in-fight-against-coronavirus-830261.html
26-04-2020||National||Pvt hospital says it successfully cured COVID-19 patient using plasma therapy||A private hospital here claimed that a coronavirus patient, who was administered plasma therapy for the first time in the facility, was discharged on Sunday after being completely cured. The 49-year-old man had tested positive for COVID-19 on April 4 and was admitted to Max Hospital, Saket, it said in a statement. As his condition deteriorated, he was put on ventilator support on April 8, the hospital added.  When the patient showed no signs of improvement, his family requested for administration of plasma therapy on compassionate grounds, it said, adding that the family arranged a donor for extracting plasma. The patient was administered fresh plasma as a treatment modality as a side-line to standard treatment protocols on the night of April 14, the statement said. Subsequently, the patient showed improvement and by the fourth day, was weaned off ventilator support and continued on supplementary oxygen. He was shifted to a room with round-the-clock monitoring on Monday after testing negative twice within 24 hours, it said.  He has now fully recovered and was discharged, the hospital said, adding that he will stay at home for another two weeks. Group medical director of Max Healthcare and senior director of the Institute of Internal Medicine Dr Sandeep Budhiraja said, "We can say that plasma therapy could have worked as a catalyst in speeding up his recovery. We cannot attribute 100 per cent recovery to plasma therapy only, as there are multiple factors which carved his path to recovery."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pvt-hospital-says-it-successfully-cured-covid-19-patient-using-plasma-therapy-830281.html
26-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: India sees highest one-day rise with 1,975 COVID-19 cases||Centre on Sunday asked states with a high load of COVID-19 cases to focus on effective implementation of lockdown measures even as India reported the highest single-day rise in infections of 1,975 to take the confirmed case over 27,000. Maharashtra has the highest number of COVID-19 patients as the state has 8,068 confirmed cases. The infection has claimed 342 lives. Gujarat has 3,301 confirmed cases. As many as 151 people have lost their lives in Gujarat to the infection. In a video-conferencing with chief secretaries of states, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba also asked them to review the preparedness for the COVID-19 response and stressed on the need to focus on medical infrastructure, including adequate availability of isolation beds, ICU beds and ventilators. However, Health Minister Harshvardhan exuded confidence over the Centre’s strategies to deal with the COVID-19 outbreak. He said of the total active patients, only 2.17 per cent have been admitted to the ICU, 1.29 per cent have required oxygen support and a mere 0.36 per cent were on ventilators.      “We are winning the battle and eventually we will win this war against COVID-19 as we know our enemy, its numbers and its proper whereabouts and we are prepared to deal with any situation” he said. The Minister noted that though the number of coronavirus cases were rising in the country, the mortality rate was at 3.1 per cent as against the global level of 7 per cent. Harshvardhan said the COVID-19 situation is improving in the country as hotspot districts are now becoming non-hotspot districts. “283 districts have not reported any COVID-19 cases till date, 64 districts have not reported a fresh case since the last 7 days, 48 districts have not reported a fresh case since the last 14 days, 33 districts have not reported a fresh case since the last 21 days and 18 districts have not reported a fresh case since the last 28 days,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-sees-highest-one-day-rise-with-1975-covid-19-cases-830292.html
26-04-2020||National Politics||BJP president J P Nadda discusses govt COVID-19 response, party's efforts with eminent personalities||BJP president JP Nadda Saturday interacted with intellectuals and eminent personalities from different walks of life and shared with them the steps taken by the Centre and his party to combat COVID-19 and uplift the economy. “Today, had a video conference with august people on political and economic scenarios around Covid-19 issue. Shared the work being done by the Union government and BJP to combat the pandemic along with taking effective measures to uplift the economy,” Nadda said in a series of tweets. He also held deliberations with intellectuals through videoconferencing and shared various strategies of the government to tackle the situation arising due to the pandemic. “An insightful conversation with acclaimed intellectuals through video conferencing. Shared various strategies and efforts of the Union government and BJP in combating COVID-19 and helping needy sections and asked for suggestions,” he said. Nadda said the participants praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi's able leadership in handling the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-president-j-p-nadda-discusses-govt-covid-19-response-partys-efforts-with-eminent-personalities-829964.html
26-04-2020||National Politics||Political executive proving its incompetence by knee-jerk reactions on COVID-19: Yechury to Modi||He accused the Modi government of squeezing the states financially even as the Centre is going ahead with the "unnecessary wasteful expenditure" like the Central Vista project with a new residence for the Prime Minister and "other public relations exercises" at the time of economic distress to meet this grave medical emergency. Yechury shot off a letter to Modi highlighting that his previous communications demanding help for migrant workers to reach their homes and Rs 7,500 per month for the poor among others have gone "unanswered" and "not even been acknowledged".  Referring to the number of explanations given to its on order, he said, it has now become the habit of the central government to issue "orders that cannot be understood" followed by multiple clarifications and even rescinding those orders. "We saw the track record of such a dismal governance model when demonetisation was undertaken. Clearly, the political executive in the country is proving its incompetence by knee-jerk reactions.," he said. He also questioned Modi's "singular disdain to face the media and reply to the concerns" of the people. "Leaders of the government in most countries address regular press conferences and answer questions. This is the only way to remain accountable and to give confidence to the people that the government is both competent and in command of the situation..The Chief Minister of the LDF government in Kerala holds a daily press briefing and outlines the measures that the government has taken to generate the confidence required for the people to face this challenge. Democratic accountability is grossly missing in your style of governance," Yechury said. Demanding that funds must be liberally transferred to the states, he said the outstanding dues of the state governments over GST collections have not been paid to them yet. He said deductions from salaries of government employees and others are being forcibly transferred to PM-CARES and these funds must be immediately deployed to meet the requirements to strengthen the fight against the pandemic. On "wasteful expenditure", Yechury said it was " amazing, bordering on criminality, that the Modi government is going ahead with the Central Vista project. "The legacy of this government during the last five years of spending money on statues, bullet trains, propaganda campaigns etc. instead of public health care, education etc. must be stopped forthwith. The requirements of battling the pandemic must be prioritized," he said. Yechury repeated his request to provide Personal Protection Equipment and testing kits on a war footing. He said even now after a month of lockdown our testing rates remain one of the lowest in the world, "shamefully even lower" than Pakistan. He also reminded the government that India cannot afford to see a larger number of non-COVID deaths because of lack of medical attention to those suffering from non-communicable diseases while the central focus is on COVID-19. "Reports estimate that more than 3 lakh children and lakhs of pregnant mothers have been deprived of crucial life saving vaccines during the lockdown. More than a lakh cancer patients and 3.5 lakh diabetics have not got the required treatment. Even programmes like Malaria eradication and TB have shown huge decline in the last five weeks. There are reports of huge shortfall in blood supply in blood banks, so crucial for people with blood disorders like thalassaemia, haemophilia and sickle cell disease. Surely, such a situation cannot be acceptable and must be corrected forthwith," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-executive-proving-its-incompetence-by-knee-jerk-reactions-on-covid-19-yechury-to-modi-830060.html
26-04-2020||National Politics||PM must act fast and clear bottlenecks to scale up COVID-19 testing: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to clear "bottlenecks" and ramp up coronavirus testing in the country. Quoting experts, Gandhi said, "random testing is the key to beating the virus". India has to scale up COVID-19 testing from the current 40,000 to one lakh tests per day, he said. "Experts agree that mass random testing is the key to beating Corona. In India, a bottleneck is stopping us from scaling testing from the current 40,000 per day to 1 lakh tests a day, for which test kits are already in stock.   "PM needs to act fast and clear the bottleneck," Gandhi said on Twitter. Congress has been urging the government to increase random testing in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-must-act-fast-and-clear-bottlenecks-to-scale-up-covid-19-testing-rahul-830074.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||'9 more, including 3 doctors, test COVID-19 positive at Delhi's Jagjivan Ram Hospital'||At least nine more staffers, including three doctors, of Babu Jagjivan Ram Hospital tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of infected people at the facility to above 40, officials said. Thirty-one staffers of this Delhi government hospital, including 11 doctors, had tested positive for coronavirus till Friday, officials had said. "The number of people from the hospital infected with COVID-19 has gone up to over 40. Three doctors also tested positive today," a senior official of the facility said. Some of the doctors and other staffers have been admitted to the LNJP Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital and some private hospitals, while the rest have been sent to quarantine facilities, including one in Narela, a senior official said on Friday. He said, the reason for such high number of infection is possible because there seems to be a "community transmission" of the disease in Jahangirpuri area of North West Delhi, where there are various containment zones. "Many people have been coming to our hospital without any symptoms and that could have spread the disease," he added. On Friday, besides doctors, nurses and paramedics, security guards, and desk persons were also reported positive, the official said. The first positive case at the hospital was reported on April 22 after tests were conducted on various staff, he said. About five-six bodies have been brought from Jahangirpuri area to our hospital's morgue in last few days, and it is suspected they may have had COVID-19, so we have taken swabs from them for testing, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/9-more-including-3-doctors-test-covid-19-positive-at-delhis-jagjivan-ram-hospital-829969.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan HC court master tests coronavirus positive, court closed down till May 3||The Rajasthan High Court was on Saturday declared closed till May 3 after one of its key officials, sitting close to judges during the judicial proceedings, was tested positive for COVID-19. In a statement, the high court said it shall remain closed till May 3 and no matters, except only immensely urgent matter, will heard. The concerned judge, to whose court the official was attached, however, tested negative for the infection. The notification to this effect has been issued today on April 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-hc-court-master-tests-coronavirus-positive-court-closed-down-till-may-3-829979.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Indore coronavirus strain may be deadlier, will send samples to NIV: Doctors||They say samples from Indore, where COVID-19 has killed 57 people, will be sent to the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) to confirm their apprehensions of the strain being deadlier than in other parts of the country. "We have a feeling the strain is definitely more virulent in Indore belt. We have discussed this with the NIV and will be sending samples for them to compare by extraction of virus genome, Dean of Government Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Medical College Jyoti Bindal told PTI. "There are also other factors also for the high fatality rate, like patients turning up at the hospitals late," she said. "In Indore belt, the testing is confined to coronavirus detection only, and not its type, another doctor said. Jitendra Bhargava, director of the state government- run School of Excellence in Pulmonary Medicine, also shared Bindals concern, saying the high mortality rate in Indore needs to be investigated through viral culture and RNA extraction. It is also true that the mortality rate is high in patients who had comorbidities (presence of additional conditions along with the primary condition) like cardiac and renal problems or diabetes and hypertension besides other immunity-compromisingconditions, he said. "The novel coronavirus is posing a big challenge due to multiple strains. This will make the development of a universal vaccine much more difficult," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indore-coronavirus-strain-may-be-deadlier-will-send-samples-to-niv-doctors-830015.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Recovered from COVID-19, Lucknow doctor donates plasma for treatment of patients||Tauseef Khan, a resident doctor at the KGMU here who recently defeated COVID-19, began the holy month of Ramzan, which is considered a time for giving, by donating his plasma for treatment of others suffering from the deadly disease. He was discharged from the hospital on April 7 and is now back at work after a 14-day home quarantine. "Dr D Himanshu of Medicine Department, who is looking after the treatment of COVID-19 patients, asked me if I wanted to become the first plasma donor (of KGMU). I immediately said yes as nothing could be greater than being able to save the life of a patient in the holy month of Ramzan," Khan said. He said he observed his first 'roza' on Saturday and gave his blood after consulting clerics whether it is permissible to do so while fasting. Head of Transfusion Medicine, KGMU, Tulika Chandra told PTI, "The work on administering medical treatment to COVID-19 patients through plasma therapy began on Saturday." "In this context, the blood sample of Dr Tauseef Khan, a resident doctor who had recovered from COVID-19, was taken for testing. In the test, the condition of the antibodies was found quite good," she said.  Chandra said, "In the evening, the process of extracting plasma from his body started, and almost 500 millilitres of plasma was extracted. The process took almost one-and-half hour." She said Khan's plasma will be administered on Monday or Tuesday to a patient who is in a serious condition and in whose case medicines aren't working. "The patient will be given 200 millilitres of plasma. In other words, plasma donated by one patient (who has recovered from COVID-19) can be used for the treatment of two patients. If there is no positive result after the first 200 millilitres of plasma has been infused, then another 200 millilitres is infused," she elaborated. Asked about the chances of success of plasma therapy, Chandra said, "It seems that the chances of (success of) plasma therapy are good, and it is for this reason that this therapy is gradually being adopted across the country for treatment of COVID-19 patients. We are hopeful that KGMU will emerge successful in plasma therapy." On April 21, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had asked the state's medical authorities to promote plasma therapy for the treatment of COVID-19 patients after examining its efficacy. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has recently allowed states to start clinical trials of plasma therapy. Several states like Kerala, Gujarat and Punjab have already started using it for treatment of coronvirus patients. Convalescent Plasma Therapy is an experimental procedure for COVID-19 patients.    In this treatment, plasma from a cured COVID-19 patient is transfused to a critically ill coronavirus patient. The idea behind this therapy is that immunity can be transferred from a healthy person to a sick patient using convalescent plasma. This therapy uses antibodies from the blood of a cured coronavirus patient to treat another critical patient. The recovered COVID-19 patient's blood develops antibodies to battle against COVID-19. Once the blood of the recovered patient is infused to the second patient, those antibodies will start fighting against coronavirus in the second person's body. The process of donating plasma is similar to donating blood and takes about an hour. Several countries around the world, including the United Kingdom and the United States have also started plasma therapy trials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/recovered-from-covid-19-lucknow-doctor-donates-plasma-for-treatment-of-patients-830033.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Plea in Delhi HC for feeding stray dogs and other animals during lockdown||The petition has contended that stray dogs and other animals are largely dependent on garbage and leftover food from restaurants, canteens and marketplaces, all of which have been shut in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Even individuals who used to feed them are not venturing out of their homes due to the lockdown, and therefore, the strays are suffering from starvation, the plea has claimed. It has further contended that while the governments were taking adequate measures to ensure the poor and the needy get food, no such steps are being taken for stray animals. It has claimed that failure to take any action could result in deaths of countless stray animals due to starvation and it could lead to another epidemic as the limited municipal staff engaged in sanitisation of colonies and garbage collection would be unable to dispose of animal carcasses. "Apart from loss of animal life, a situation will also arise where the stray dogs in particular enter into other territories searching for food and display aggressive behaviour towards humans in search of food," the petition has said.  It has also said that presently only a handful of NGOs and volunteers are ensuring that stray animals are fed in very limited areas of Delhi. However, due to lack of adequate fund and support, as also penal consequences that may entail for violation of the lockdown order, the volunteers are unable to take care of the several starving stray animals in the national capital, the petition has said. The plea has also sought directions to the Animal Welfare Board of India to establish a committee to ensure adequate food and water are provided to stray animals. The nationwide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 in a bid to combat the Coronavirus endemic. It has been further extended till May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-in-delhi-hc-for-feeding-stray-dogs-and-other-animals-during-lockdown-830037.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown relaxation in Delhi not more than those permitted by Centre: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||There will be no concessions like opening up of sectors like construction in the last week of the extended COVID-19 lockdown in the National capital though authorities will allow opening of standalone shops selling both essential and non-essential items. This was announced on Sunday by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who also said that the next course of action his government takes will depend on what the Centre decides on the lockdown that ends on May 3. The Delhi government had earlier decided not to go ahead with the relaxations permitted by the Centre from April 20 for opening up economic activities in several sectors during the lockdown. However, the Kejriwal government has decided to allow all shops, barring those in markets, shopping complexes and malls, to function as allowed by the Centre through its April 24 order. "I had said that we will decide on April 27 whether any concession can be given or not. We are making only one concession. We are implementing the Centre's decision on allowing certain type of standalone shops to function. No market complexes, or shopping malls will function," he said in a digital address. He said the infection rate of COVID-19 appears to be slowing down in the National capital. Citing statistics, he said that 850 cases were reported in the seventh week of the pandemic arriving in Delhi and it has reduced to 622 new cases last week.  Twenty-one people had died in the seventh week as against nine deaths that were reported last week, he said and added that 260 patients had recovered in the seventh week as against 580 last week. He also said the results of plasma therapy has been encouraging and said that a patient in Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) hospital, who was "sinking", showed improvement after he was given plasma therapy on Saturday. Kejriwal appealed to recovered patients to donate blood and said that he himself was taking to those who have recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-relaxation-in-delhi-not-more-than-those-permitted-by-centre-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-830046.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||NTPC to procure fuel cell buses, cars for Delhi, Leh||State run power giant NTPC on Sunday said it has invited expression of interest for procuring 10 hydrogen fuel cell based electric buses and an equal number of such cars. These environment friendly vehicles would be used in Delhi and Leh. "NTPC Ltd, has invited Global Expression of Interest (EoI) to provide 10 Hydrogen Fuel Cell (FC) based electric buses and an equal number of Hydrogen Fuel Cell based electric cars in Leh and Delhi," a company statement said.  According to the statement, the EoI has been issued by NTPC's wholly-owned subsidiary NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam (NVVN) Ltd. The move to procure hydrogen fuel cell based vehicles is first of its kind project in the country, wherein a complete solution from green energy to fuel cell vehicle would be developed, it said. The initiative, which has been undertaken with the support of Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, will also harness renewable energy for generation of hydrogen and develop its storage and dispensation facilities as part of pilot projects at Leh and Delhi.  The move to launch hydrogen powered vehicles aims at decarbonising mobility segment. NTPC has been taking various technology initiatives to provide complete e-mobility solution for public transport, including creation of public charging infrastructure and providing electric buses to state/city transport undertakings. In this regard, 90 public charging stations in various cities and battery charging and swapping station at Faridabad for electric 3-wheelers have already been commissioned. Similarly, e-bus solution for Andaman & Nicobar Administration is under implementation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ntpc-to-procure-fuel-cell-buses-cars-for-delhi-leh-830089.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 pool testing should be encouraged in UP: CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said pool testing should be encouraged in the state to ensure that coronavirus is contained in the hotspots and containment zones. At present, pool testing of coronavirus samples is being conducted in Lucknow, Meerut and Etawah. Pooling of samples involves testing them in batches and when pooled sample tests positive, then individual samples are assessed. Pool testing reduces the number of test kits used, therefore, increases testing capacity. "For prevention of COVID-19, pool testing should be encouraged, as through pool testing more people can be tested, and thereby COVID-19 could be effectively controlled," Adityanath said while chairing a meeting of senior UP government officials at his residence here. He said it is very important for medical personnel to take all precautions while treating patients infected with coronavirus. "Hence, the COVID-19 hospitals should have an adequate number of PPE kits and N-95 masks. The dedicated COVID-19 teams should be constantly monitored. The doctors, nurses, para-medical and other staff must be saved from infection at every cost," the chief minister said. Adityanath said the state government has earmarked hospitals for dedicated treatment of COVID-19 patients. He also said that planning should be done to expand plasma therapy for treatment of COVID-19 patients in the state, as it has given good results. The chief minister said the people of Uttar Pradesh who are stranded in other states and have completed their quarantine period will be brought back in a phased manner. Adityanath directed the chief secretary, the principal secretary (medical and health) and the director general of police to seek feedback from nodal officers posted in 19 sensitive districts to effectively implement containment measures in view of the rising number of cases. "Social distancing must be maintained in the industrial units, which have been allowed to operate. Steps should be taken to ensure that guidelines of the health department should be strictly adhered to in these industrial units. The supply chain is working properly, and it should be ensured that it works like this," Adityanath said, adding that health check-up of people engaged in home delivery should be done continuously. Instructions were also issued to regularly sanitise the shelter homes in the state, a statement issued by UP government said. The chief minister asked the additional chief secretary (revenue) to do geo-tagging of shelter homes and details of the people kept there in quarantine should be compiled, and they should be linked to the Aarogya Setu app.  "Patrolling should be increased and no permission should be granted till June 30 for holding any public programme. Social media should be monitored," he said. Adityanath also laid stress on using RuPay cards for doing transactions. According to the Union Health Ministry, there are 1,793 COVID-19 cases in the state and 27 people have lost their lives due to the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-pool-testing-should-be-encouraged-in-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-830092.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi man kills wife; Police wait outside red zone to arrest him||Bizarre are the times! A 39-year-old woman is murdered in a COVID-19 containment zone, the accused husband calls police to confess and the investigators wait for him to walk out of the red zone to arrest him. The incident took place in West Delhi's Madipur area on Saturday early morning and police had to put their heads together on how to deal with the situation in a containment zone, which none of the investigators had anticipated. It all started with police receiving a call at 3:56 am from Rahisul Alam, a street vendor selling footwears, telling them that he has murdered his 39-year-old wife Gulshan, whom he married just three months ago, over an argument. It was their second marriage and the bone of contention was the future of their children from their first marriages.  Police immediately rushed to the spot but found that the crime scene was in a containment zone. According to investigators, the accused was asked to come out of the containment area and was arrested only after he did so. Alam was later sent to isolation in custody. "He had a fight with his wife during which he hit her with a stick on head after which due to head injury she died on the spot. Fight broke on the question of future of their children, who reside at their native village in Bihar's Motihari, from their respective earlier marriages," a senior police official said. The locality was declared a containment area after a couple of COVID-19 cases were detected and soon after realising that the crime scene was in a red zone, police immediately informed Sub Divisional Magistrate and disaster management authorities. The investigating teams entered the zone only after wearing Personal Protection Equipment to examine the crime scene and collect evidence. Before the teams entered the zone, the house and nearby area, which is densely populated with average size of houses being 12.50 yards in multi-storeyed buildings, were sanitised by Delhi Jal Board. Investigators said it was a unique experience for them as they have not worked in such circumstances. "We had to scramble through the SOP after we received the call from Alam. We had to wait outside for him to walk in. Though this was not COVID-19 related death, her body was wrapped in several layers and the house was also sanitised," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-man-kills-wife-police-wait-outside-red-zone-to-arrest-him-830100.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh reports 2 more COVID-19 deaths, 50 new cases||Uttar Pradesh reported two more coronavirus-related deaths on Sunday, taking their number to 29 as 50 new COVID-19 cases surfaced in the state, a senior government official said. With this, the total number of cases jumps to 1,843, Principal Secretary, Medical and Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said.  "As many as 1,843 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the state so far. Till now, 289 patients have been discharged, while 29 COVID-19 patients have died," he told reporters here. Fifty-eight out of the state's 75 districts have reported coronavirus cases so far, Prasad said, adding that the number of active cases stands at 1,525. "Most of the COVID-19 deaths are attributed to co-morbidity or old age," the principal secretary said.  Meanwhile, 25 people from Firozabad, including mayor Nutan Rathore, have tested negative for the virus, Dr Alok Sharma, chief medical superintendent of Firozabad district hospital, said. All of them have been placed under home-quarantine and are being monitored, Sharma added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-reports-2-more-covid-19-deaths-50-new-cases-830116.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Agra mayor embarrasses BJP, says Taj city could be India's 'Wuhan'||The Uttar Pradesh government's much touted claim about effective measures to fight COVID-19 lay in tatters after senior BJP leader and Agra Mayor Naveen Jain lambasted the administration for its 'failure' to check the rapid increase in cases of coronavirus infection and warned that the ‘Taj city’ could be India's 'Wuhan' if remedial measures were not initiated. In a hard-hitting letter to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the Mayor said that the residents of the city were now 'cursing' the BJP leaders and the image of the UP government had taken a severe beating. ''Testing of people at quarantine centres does not take place for days together. Patients suffering from renal problems and other diseases have been dying as there is no arrangement for their treatment. The situation is very serious,'' Jain said. He said that senior district officials did not venture out of their homes. ''They only come out for a few minutes to get themselves photographed,'' he added. Of the total 1850 COVID-19 patients in UP, Agra alone accounts for around 20 per cent of cases. The letter from Jain has come at a time when the UP government had touted the Agra model to counter Rajasthan's ‘Bhilwara Model’ and Kerala's ‘Kasargod Model’. An embarrassed senior UP minister said that the government had taken note of the letter and would take appropriate measures. Barely a couple of days back, a BJP lawmaker had made fun of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to the people to ''clap and bang utensils'' to show their support for the health workers fighting the COVID-19. ''They (govt) want you to clap, bang utensils, blow conch shells and you (public) keep on doing that. You will not think about anything else. Your employment has been snatched,'' saffron party MLA Rakesh Rathore said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/agra-mayor-embarrasses-bjp-says-taj-city-could-be-indias-wuhan-830121.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt compiling data of students stranded abroad due to coronavirus outbreak: Sources||The Delhi government has launched an exercise to prepare a detailed plan for students of the city who are stranded abroad due to the coronavirus outbreak, sources said here on Sunday. Union Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba has asked all states and Union territories to furnish data on such students, they said, adding that the Centre would take the final call on a possible evacuation. Accordingly, Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev has asked officials to prepare a list of students stranded abroad and suggest measures for screening and quarantine among others upon their return to the city, the sources told PTI. "Delhi is also compiling its data of its students stranded abroad in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak in several counties," a source said. Earlier this week, senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan had asked Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to make arrangements to bring back students stranded overseas. In a letter to the Maharashtra chief minister, Chavan said out of around 50,000 Indian students stranded abroad, 5,000-7,000 are from the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-compiling-data-of-students-stranded-abroad-due-to-coronavirus-outbreak-sources-830123.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Maritime bodies seek PMO intervention to bring back stuck seafarers amid coronavirus lockdown||Thousands of Indian seafarers are currently stuck aboard cruise and cargo vessels in far off waters, and the country may face disruption in supply chain if they are not brought back, maritime bodies said on Sunday. With the Indian airspace remaining closed for domestic and international passenger flights, the bodies have sought intervention of the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) for devising a strategy to bring back such "essential supply workers". India is the second largest supplier of seafarers, after the Philippines. As per industry estimates, about one lakh seafarers are engaged in Indian and foreign flag cargo vessels across the globe. Presently, Indian seafarers aboard only those vessels which call at Indian ports are allowed to disembark, after following the standard operating procedures as specified by the Directorate General of Shipping. Leading ship management companies operating in India said they are facing huge challenges as crew change aboard cargo vessels worldwide is not happening as none of the leading airports in the country have become fully or partially operational so far. Capt Nalin Pandey, CMD of Mumbai-based Pentagon Shipping, told PTI: "Currently, about 4,000 Indian seafarers are sailing aboard various cargo vessels worldwide on extended contracts. By May end, this figure is expected to cross 15,000. This means, at least 400 Indian ship management companies across the country will have to arrange for domestic plus overseas transportation of at least 30,000 Indian seafarers to facilitate the crew change aboard around 10,000 cargo ships across the globe." Pandey said if some strategy is not evolved for seafarers, India's participation in terms of global seafarers will take a hit as sources say there are instances where China has offered all support to its seafarers. Leading ship management firm Suntech Crew Management said it has suspended the crew change temporarily. "Replacement of staff on-board all our vessels across the globe stand suspended at least till third week of May. Our foremost responsibility remains to keep Indian seafarers protected from any form of health risk arising due to travel as they remain vulnerable to being stranded at airports or ports, where they may be unable to leave or get sufficient assistance," said Capt Sanjay Srivastava, CEO, Suntech Crew Management. Capt Agyapal Khuman, chairman of top marine travel company ATPI India, said, "To address this problem, it is essential that Indian government soon allows international travel of Indian seafarers through chartered flights as Indian airspace currently remains open for transport of essential goods and essential workers." Khuman said as a global travel company, ATPI and other bodies are committed to lend required assistance in this endeavour. Various maritime bodies have sought PMO intervention in this, he added. Khuman further said the government can allow special charter flights to important crew change airports such as Singapore, Manila, Hong Kong, Dubai, Rotterdam and others. Directorate General of Shipping recently started issuing 'e-passes' to Indian seafarers enabling them to travel by road on a permitted route to reach home after disembarking at a port, or reach the port to board a vessel. However, the country head of a global ship management company operating in Mumbai, who did not wished to be named, said, "Most merchant navy officers residing in Maharashtra currently fear travelling by road to board cargo vessels calling on ports of Kandla, Kochi, Paradip, Vizag, etc after the violent incident of Palghar lynching in presence of policemen." "On an average, at least 150 senior merchant navy seafarers refuse me in a week to join the vessels calling at ports located outside Maharashtra due to this fear psychosis," the executive said. Director General of Shipping Amitabh Kumar could not be contacted for comments. Earlier, the government had come out with a standard operating procedure (SOP) for Indian seafarers at domestic ports. Shipping Minister Mansukh L Mandaviya had termed it a welcome step. "Change of crew of ship (seafarers) is an important measure for operation of merchant-ships. The Ministry of Home Affairs has issued SOP... This SOP has been formulated to streamline the sign-on/sign-off of Indian seafarers at Indian ports for merchant shipping," the government had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/maritime-bodies-seek-pmo-intervention-to-bring-back-stuck-seafarers-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-830126.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||15 CRPF personnel based in Delhi test coronavirus positive||Fifteen Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel posted in a Delhi-based battalion have tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Sunday. The troops belong to CRPF's 31st battalion in which nine men had tested positive on Thursday, a senior official said. With the fresh cases, the number of infected personnel in this unit stands at 24. The patients have been isolated and admitted to a hospital in Mandawali area here, the official said. Samples of about a dozen more personnel of the unit have been sent for testing and their reports are awaited, he said. The personnel of this unit underwent tests after a head constable who visited the battalion last week tested positive for the virus, the official said. The head constable, who was working as a nursing assistant, is part of the 162nd battalion deployed in Kupwara of Jammu and Kashmir and was in Noida on leave. The jawan was asked to report to the 31st battalion for testing and he tested COVID-19 positive on April 21. Earlier this month, a doctor of the paramilitary contracted the infection, while a head constable of the Rapid Action Force (RAF) tested positive in Ahmedabad. With about 3.25 lakh personnel, the CRPF is country's largest paramilitary or Central Armed Police Force and is designated as the lead internal security force of the country for conduct of anti-Naxal and counter-terrorist operations apart from rendering regular law and order duties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/15-crpf-personnel-based-in-delhi-test-coronavirus-positive-830132.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||'Gurgaon MNCs may have to work from home till July end, some real estate projects can resume work amid coronavirus lockdown'||MNCs, BPOs and IT enabled services (ITES) in Gurgaon may have to allow their employees to work from home till the end of July, says Gurgaon Metropolitan Development Authority CEO V S Kundu. Kundu, who is also additional chief secretary of Haryana, added that several real estate projects, including those of DLF, have got the green signal to resume construction but within the norms of social distancing. Gurgaon, which is part of the National Capital Region, is known as the millennium city and is home to many BPOs, MNCs and technology giants, including Infosys, Genpact, Google and Microsoft. The Gurgaon district administration had issued an advisory in mid March asking MNCs, BPOs, IT companies, corporates and industries to allow work from home. “As of now it appears this advisory for work from home will continue till end of July. All those who have offices in Gurgaon should continue to work from home to the extent possible,” Kundu told PTI. Kundu, who is in charge of handling the COVID-19 crisis for Gurgaon district, said it is advisable that companies should ensure that as many employees as possible work from home. This might not be possible in the case of industries and the manufacturing sector but should be followed wherever possible, he added. Kundu said few construction sites at GMDA and NHAI projects have been allowed to resume work within the norms of social distancing. “Construction sites where labourers are already staying on the site or those where labourers stay within walking distance are allowed to resume work while adhering to social distancing norms,” he said. Such is the nature of the coronavirus pandemic that no one knows “when we will go back to previous normal”, the GMDA CEO said. “You may have to go to a new normal,” he added. Besides being a corporate hub, Gurgaon is also a hub for the automobile industry. It has reported 51 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 35 have recovered. It is in the red zone and is the worst affected district along with Nuh, Palwal and Faridabad in Haryana. The state has reported 289 cases (including 176 who have been cured, discharged or migrated) and three fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry on Sunday. Kundu described the situation in Gurgaon as “fairly under control” and said there is no evidence of community transmission. Gurgaon has effectively been under lockdown since March 22 – two days before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of a pan-India shutdown to stem the spread of the disease. This gave the administration a head start and enabled it to handle the situation effectively, the official said.  The administration is working on the twin objectives of saving lives and ensuring livelihoods, he said. The district administration is conducting surveys and will start providing food coupons to poor families who don’t have ration cards. This will give them rations for three months. The district administration has been ensuring smooth supply of rations to them through its various channels, Kundu added. He said the manufacturing of personal protective equipment (PPEs) has also started. Two apparel firms have been given permission to manufacture PPEs in their plants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gurgaon-mncs-may-have-to-work-from-home-till-july-end-some-real-estate-projects-can-resume-work-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-830135.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||800 phone calls on lockdown-related queries in 24 hrs, says Delhi Police||The Delhi Police has received 800 phone calls on its 24-hour helpline number regarding lockdown-related queries since Saturday, officials said. Till date, a total of 30,149 calls were received on its helpline number 23469526 on lockdown-related queries, they said.  From Saturday 2 pm to Sunday 2 pm, 800 such calls were received, of which 56 were in connection to matters outside Delhi and referred to the respective state helpline numbers, the police said. Ten calls were about people having no food or no money, which were forwarded to NGOs, while 600 were related to movement passes, they added. The food-delivery network established in all 15 districts of the national capital with the involvement of nearly 400 NGOs, RWAs, good samaritans, which was facilitated by the Delhi Police, has led to provisions of meals and food packets at more than 250 locations, which has enabled the feeding of 2,90,077 people and distribution of dry ration kits among 2,737 people, according to the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/800-phone-calls-on-lockdown-related-queries-in-24-hrs-says-delhi-police-830136.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||53 UP labourers returning from Haryana quarantined, over 9,800 workers on their way: Official||As many as 53 residents of Uttar Pradesh, who were working as labourers in Haryana arrived in Etah district on Sunday, where they were screened for coronavirus and quarantined, a senior state government official said. Briefing reporters in the state capital here, Awasthi said, "On Sunday, over 9,800 workers hailing from different districts of Uttar Pradesh and working in Haryana will be coming back." According to Etah District Magistrate Sukhlal Bharti, as many as 214 workers working in the neighbouring state and hailing from Etah district are to come back to the district in nine buses. Lunch packs were served to those who had returned following which they were quarantined at JDH Degree College located on Agra Road. The Etah DM also said instructions have been issued to all the officials and workers at the quarantine centre to ensure that the labourers, who have come from Haryana, do not "run away" from the centre and that the labourers do not face any problems there, Additional Chief Secretary (Home and Information) Awanish Awasthi said. On April 25, the UP government began bringing back the state's native workers stranded elsewhere in the country amid the COVID-19 lockdown and has ensured the return of 2,224 of them in the first phase, a senior official had said. While briefing reporters on Saturday, the additional chief secretary had said the first batch of workers was brought back in 82 buses from Haryana on Saturday, and 11,000 workers were to return by Sunday.  All the returning workers are to be lodged for a 14-day quarantine period.   "Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had issued directions to bring back labourers belonging to UP from other states in a phased manner. In this regard, on Saturday as many as 2,224 labourers were brought back in 82 buses from Haryana. These labourers hail from 16 districts of western UP," Awasthi said. Orders have been issued to prepare shelter homes in the state on a massive scale so that the returnees can be quarantined there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/53-up-labourers-returning-from-haryana-quarantined-over-9800-workers-on-their-way-official-830137.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Mixed response in Delhi to relaxation on opening standalone shops||For the first time in over a month, Akash opened his tea stall in Laxmi Nagar on Sunday with a soft smile and a hope of getting business back on track, as the Delhi government ordered implementation of the Union Home Ministry's guidelines on reopening of standalone shops in COVID-19 non-containment zones. With the nation going into a lockdown on March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus, Akash took to selling vegetables. He reopened the tea stall after a 33-day hiatus, but business is lean. "There is not much sale as people are not venturing out due to the lockdown. I hope the situation improves after May 3," he said. The government order allowing certain relaxations amid the lockdown has evoked a mixed response in Delhi. Some tea sellers, tailors and electricians have reopened their shops. However, in many areas, including Harinagar in West Delhi and Lajpat Nagar in South Delhi, all shops barring grocery stores and pharmacies remained kept their shutters down. Arvind Aggarwal, who deals in items of domestic use in Laxmi Nagar said he did not expect many customers. "I came to take stock of the situation and do some cleaning work. I hope business will be back on track with opening of more shops and lifting of restrictions," he said. The second phase of the nationwide lockdown will continue till May 3. The ruling AAP's trade and industry wing convener Brijesh Goyal said many people in Laxmi Nagar had opened their shops in markets on Saturday due to some confusion, but there are no such report on Sunday. "We expect shops in residential areas to open following the government order. Shops in coronavirus containment zones, however, will remain shut and no business activity is allowed in such areas," he said. He, however, clarified that no markets and malls will be allowed to open in the national capital and all shops in COVID-19 containment zones will remain shut. "The Delhi government will maintain status quo and will not relax lockdown restrictions till May 3, except those permitted by the Union home ministry," he said.  Praveen Khandelwal, Secretary General of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), said traders in many states, including Delhi, have been finding it difficult to open their shops because of confusion on what constitutes 'neighbourhood and standalone shops' as there is no specified definition in this regard.   In Delhi alone, there are around 75,000 shops which can be opened following the order, but the response so far has been lukewarm owing to the confusion, he said. The CAIT on Sunday wrote to Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla seeking further clarification on 'neighbourhood/standalone shops'. There is a lack of consensus between the administration and law enforcement agencies, which has kept traders from opening their shops, it said. In a late night order on Friday, the MHA said, "all shops, including neighbourhood shops and standalone shops, shops in residential complexes, within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, registered under the the Shops and Establishment Act of the respective State and UT" will be allowed to open during the lockdown. The shops will be functioning with 50 per cent workforce and will have to adhere to precautions like physical distancing and wearing of masks. However, the order signed by the Union home secretary made it clear that shops in market places, multi-brand and single brand malls located in municipality areas shall continue to remain closed till May 3. In southeast Delhi's Jangpura, Pankaj Kumar opened his tailoring shop for the first time since March 22, when the country observed a 14-hour Janata Curfew to pay tributes to frontline workers battling the deadly virus. "I will do some cleaning and complete pending work. The COVID-19 outbreak has changed the way we work. Even after the lockdown ends, it will take a lot of time for normalcy to return," he said. Mukesh Sharma runs a small shop in Burari. He said since it is Sunday, many shops anyway remain closed, but the situation might improve on Monday. Madhu Maini has a watches and mobile showroom in south Delhi's Yusuf Sarai market. She said with the clamping of the lockdown, she was paying her employees from her own pocket. "It is been more than a month that the lockdown is in place. We have been bearing a huge loss. Though, I am paying my employees from my own bank account, but up till when? We don't have unlimited resources," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-mixed-response-in-delhi-to-relaxation-on-opening-standalone-shops-830145.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Woman gang-raped after quarantined alone in Rajasthan school||A woman was allegedly gang-raped in a school in the desert state of Rajasthan where she had been quarantined for a night by the police amid the nationwide coronavirus lockdown, a police official said on Sunday. The incident occurred last week when the victim, a daily wage earner, sought shelter at a police station after walking alone for miles and losing the way to her native village. In the absence of a quarantine centre, local police housed her for the night in a school building, where she was allegedly raped by three men. "Three local men who raped the woman inside the school on Apr. 23 have been arrested and sent to jail," Parth Sharma, a deputy superintendent of police in Sawai Madhopur district in Rajasthan and the investigating officer in the case, told Reuters by telephone. The victim, aged between 40-45 years, said in a statement to the police that she had been walking for several days from Sawai Madhopur before she reached a village where she was raped. Sharma said the woman had been sent to a local quarantine facility to get tested for COVID-19, the respiratory disease caused by the coronavirus. "We don't know how long she was on her own for, and who she came into contact with, and her test results are not yet known," he said, adding that a junior police official had been suspended for negligence. The nationwide lockdown imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month to contain the spread of the virus prompted tens of thousands of workers who lost their jobs in cities to walk for days in desperation to reach their homes in rural India.  Many of them are now in overcrowded quarantine centres and authorities are struggling to cope. Experts fear that the world's biggest lockdown has not been able to reduce the spread of COVID-19, and country has begun to see a surge in cases with testing being ramped up. India has reported 26,496 cases of COVID-19, and 824 deaths. Despite stringent laws, rape occurs every 20 minutes, on average, according to federal crime data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-gang-raped-after-quarantined-alone-in-rajasthan-school-830149.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||376 students set to return to Jammu and Kashmir from Rajasthan's Kota on April 27: Admin||As many as 376 students from Jammu and Kashmir, who were stranded in Rajasthan's Kota, would return to the Union Territory on Monday as all arrangements have been finalised, officials said. "376 J&K students in Kota set to return tomorrow. All arrangements finalised. This follows a recent return of students and others who were in Jaisalmer and other places. Appeal: Please be patient. Govt is working hard to facilitate all," government spokesperson Rohit Kansal said in a tweet. While he gave no further details, officials said the students, who were stranded in Kota due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus, left the Rajasthan town on Sunday in Jammu and Kashmir State Road Transport Corporation buses and were expected to reach home on Monday. Earlier, students from Jammu and Kashmir, who were kept in a quarantine facility at Rajasthan's Jaisalmer after their return from Iran, were brought back by the administration after they completed their quarantine period. Several political parties in the valley had expressed concern over the students from the Union Territory stranded in various parts of the country and appealed to the administration to make arrangements for their return.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/376-students-set-to-return-to-jammu-and-kashmir-from-rajasthans-kota-on-april-27-admin-830153.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||'COVID warriors' shows nation will follow Narendra Modi's path to overcome COVID-19 pancdemic: BJP's J P Nadda||The BJP on Sunday said the "COVID warriors" of India have shown exemplary dedication in the fight against coronavirus and expressed confidence that the country will follow the path shown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his "Mann ki Baat" radio address. "In this pandemic, our COVID warriors have shown exemplary dedication for their country. Our Hon PM has urged everyone to support & encourage them. GoI has launched covidwarriors.gov.in. It'll give opportunities to individuals to develop their capabilities to combat COVID-19," BJP president J P Nadda said in a tweet.  Senior leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Union minister Prakash Javadekar said the prime minister has asked people to remain steadfast in following the coronavirus guidelines and expressed confidence that the nation will follow the path shown by him. If people follow discipline, then the pandemic will be deflated and this is what the prime minister has told people, he said, noting that Modi has described the battle against the virus as "people-driven". Modi on Sunday said India's "people-driven" battle against COVID-19 is the only way for the country to overcome the pandemic and asked people to shun any complacency that they will not be infected by the coronavirus, because it has so far not affected the places where they live or work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-warriors-shows-nation-will-follow-narendra-modis-path-to-overcome-covid-19-pancdemic-bjps-j-p-nadda-830160.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Migrants give school a makeover during quarantine||A group of migrant workers have painted the chipped walls of a school-turned-quarantine centre in Rajasthan to express their gratitude for the arrangement made for them at the facility. Seventy-four workers, who harvest crops in Behror area of Alwar district, had decided to walk down to their homes in Madhya Pradesh after the lockdown was extended till May 3. The workers were stopped at Kotputli in Jaipur district and were taken to a quarantine centre set up at a government school in Paniyala. In response to the good care taken during quarantine, workers expressed the desire to give a makeover to the school. Former village head Ravindra Meena and former Mandi chairperson Mahesh Meena made available paint and other necessary items worth Rs 20,000 to the workers, who have started painting last Thursday without charging a single penny. Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioned about the work in his 'Mann ki Baat' on Sunday. He said some people were making masks, whereas migrants staying at quarantine centres set-up in schools were giving makeover by painting walls. "The work of migrants is appreciable as they themselves painted the school premises," Paniyala government school principal Kishorlal Verma said. "The school looks new now."  Recently, about 54 workers from Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh had added colour to their temporary abode in Palsana town of Sikar district. Wall paint and other necessary items were made available to them by the villagers. The schools were not painted from last nine years. Teacher had agreed to offer funds from their salaries and workers happily took the task without taking any money.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrants-give-school-a-makeover-during-quarantine-830163.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Pregnant woman among 27 new coronavirus cases as Jammu & Kashmir crosses 500 mark||Jammu and Kashmir continued to see a spike in COVID-19 cases with 27 people testing positive on Sunday taking the total of confirmed patients to 523. Among the new 27 cases is a pregnant mother, a health worker and a minor girl. “Update- Total cases now 523. But dont let this number daunt you. This includes 137 recoveries too. Total Active positive cases are 380. We will keep doing aggressive testing and strict containment. And you have to support by #Stayingathome (sic),” J&K government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal, tweeted. All the 27 cases reported today are from Kashmir, while no fresh COVID-19 case was reported in Jammu region. Among 27 cases reported on Sunday, nine are from south Kashmir’s Anantnag district followed by Bandipora with eight, Baramulla seven, Srinagar two and Kupwara one. Earlier this week, between April 16 and 21, the number of COVID-19 cases reported daily stayed uniform in J&K. With 12 to 14 cases reported for six consecutive days, the “somewhat flattening curve” has taken an upward direction in the past five days. In the past five days, 143 samples have tested positive in J&K.   On April 25, all 42 cases were from Kashmir division which was the highest single day rise to COVID-19 toll in J&K till date. Kashmir has reached 466 cases, while Jammu division had 57 cases. While 137 patients have recovered, six have died due to the disease.Till date, 66,343 travellers and persons in contact with suspected cases have been enlisted for surveillance which include 6,324 people in home-quarantine, including facilities operated by the government, 263 in hospital quarantine, 376 in hospital isolation and 10,974 under home surveillance. Besides, 48,400 people have completed their surveillance period, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pregnant-woman-among-27-new-coronavirus-cases-as-jammu-kashmir-crosses-500-mark-830166.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||29 test positive for coronavirus in Jammu and Kashmir; total now 523||Twenty-nine more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, taking the total in the Union territory to 523, officials said here. All the new cases are from the Kashmir Valley, they added. "Twenty-nine new cases reported from Jammu and Kashmir in the last 24 hours," an official said. Of the total number of cases reported in the Union territory, 466 are from Kashmir and 57 from Jammu. While 137 patients have recovered, six have died due to the disease, the officials said.  More than 66,000 people are under surveillance, including those who are either in government-established quarantine facilities or in home-isolation. Till date, 66,343 travellers and persons in contact with suspected cases have been enlisted for surveillance which includes 6,324 people in home-quarantine, including facilities operated by the government, 263 in hospital quarantine, 376 in hospital isolation and 10,974 under home surveillance. Besides, 48,400 people have completed their surveillance period, the officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/29-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-jammu-and-kashmir-total-now-523-830168.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Truck driver land in trouble for trying to transport migrant workers from Delhi to MP||A truck driver and his helper thought of earning some quick money during this COVID-19 season by transporting desperate migrant labourers from the national capital to their homes in Madhya Pradesh but drove straight into a police net. Driver Om Prakash (47) and helper Manoj (27) were arrested in south Delhi on Saturday late night after they tried to leave Delhi for Chhattarpur in Madhya Pradesh with 25 migrant labourers, including eight women and seven children, in their truck. Om Prakash drove a truck loaded with goods to Delhi from Madhya Chhattarpur on Saturday morning and was to return late in the day. The COVID-19 lockdown norms allow plying of trucks for goods movement but no persons other than driver and a helper are allowed in the vehicle On Saturday, the group of labourers came to know that a truck would be coming from their home town and would leave later. They were daily wagers and were staying at construction sites in Narela, Bawana, Rithala and Indira Gandhi Camp, Lodhi Road.   They managed to contact Om Prakash who promised them to take them to Chhattarpur but demanded Rs 1,000 per person whom he will be transporting. A large number of migrant workers are stranded across the capital and most of them want to return to their villages as their income has dried up. Later in the night, Om Prakash started his return journey with the labourers joining him -- first a group of nine from Narela, followed by six from Karnal bypass and ten others joined them from near AIIMS hospital. However, the truck was intercepted soon after at South Extension in south Delhi at around 10:30 pm. The labourers were found sitting inside the truck along with their luggage. Suspicion of the police personnel at the picket arose as Om Prakash attempted to mislead them. However, sustained questioning made Om Prakash to spill the beans. The driver and the helper were arrested from the spot and slapped with a case under sections of Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Act. The labourers and children sent to a shelter home in Fatehpur Bheri, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/truck-driver-land-in-trouble-for-trying-to-transport-migrant-workers-from-delhi-to-mp-830193.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||No fresh COVID-19 case reported in Himachal Pradesh for three days||No fresh novel coronavirus case has been reported in Himachal Pradesh for the last three days, a senior health official said on Sunday. Of the 176 samples sent for testing on Sunday, 38 tested negative while reports of the rest are awaited, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) R D Dhiman said. These tests are being conducted at Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC) in Tanda, Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in Shimla and Central Research Institute (CRI) in Kasauli in Solan district.  Himachal Pradesh has so far reported 41 coronavirus cases. While 22 patients have recovered, 13 are undergoing treatment. Dhiman said residents of the state can take any medical help by sending messages on WhatsApp helpline number -- 01792227328. He also said the thermal screening of all stranded people from Himachal Pradesh who are now returning to the state will be done at interstate borders and they will be kept under mandatory surveillance for at least 14 days. On Saturday, two more COVID-19 patients had recovered from the disease, taking the total number of those cured in the state to 22. Eleven patients from Una district, four from Chamba, three each from Solan and Kangra and one from Sirmaur district have recovered so far, Dhiman added.  So far, 41 coronavirus cases have been reported in the state. The number of active cases is 13. Five active cases from Una, two each from Solan, Chamba and Hamirpur, one each from Kangra and Sirmaur are being treated at RPGMC in Tanda in Kangra, Charitable Hospital in Bhota in Hamirpur district and ESIC in Katha in Baddi. Four patients were shifted to a private hospital outside Himachal Pradesh. Two people have died of COVID-19 in the state. The fatalities include a 70-year-old Delhi resident who had stayed at a guest house of a factory in Baddi in Solan district and died at PGIMER, Chandigarh, on April 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-fresh-covid-19-case-reported-in-himachal-pradesh-for-three-days-830194.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Over 80 cases registered, 2422 people booked for defying coronavirus lockdown norms in Delhi||Over 80 cases were registered and 2,422 people detained in Delhi on Sunday for violating government orders during the coronavirus lockdown, police said. According to a police data, 83 cases were registered under IPC section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) till 5 pm. A total of 2,422 people have been detained under section 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers) and 156 vehicles impounded under section 66 of the Delhi Police Act, the police said. Thirty-five cases were registered against people for stepping out of their homes without wearing masks. A total of 1,20,006 people have been detained since March 25, when the lockdown came into effect, for defying orders under section 65 of the Delhi Police Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-80-cases-registered-2422-people-booked-for-defying-coronavirus-lockdown-norms-in-delhi-830196.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police seizes truck headed to MP with 25 migrant labourers amid coronavirus lockdown||A truck carrying 25 migrant labourers, including seven minors, going to Madhya Pradesh’s Chhatarpur in violation of lockdown was seized in South Delhi's Kotla Mubarakpur, police said on Sunday. They said they apprehended the driver, Om Prakash (48), and his helper, Manoj (27), while sent the labourers to shelter homes. "A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and section 3 of the Epidemic Act has been registered against the driver and the helper. The truck has been seized,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South). The truck was stopped for picket checking in South Extension area around 10.30 pm on Saturday, and on checking 25 people were found either sleeping or sitting inside it along with their luggage, he said. "During interrogation, it was revealed that all the 27 persons including the driver and the helper hailed from Chattarpur District, Madhya Pradesh,” Thakur said. “These labourers were residing in Narela, Bawana, Rithala and Indira Gandhi Camp, Lodhi Road. They worked at private construction sites in these respective areas in Delhi on daily wages," he said. The labourers said they decided to travel to their hometown after coming to know through their contacts that a truck would come from Chattarpur (MP) to Delhi with some good and would return after unloading, the DCP said. “They contacted the driver who unloaded the goods in Narela on Saturday morning. The driver asked them to pay Rs 1,000 per person in lieu of dropping them at Chattarpur, MP,” he said. Nine people boarded the truck from Narela and six from Karnal bypass, the officer said. Thereafter, the driver took the Ring Road route and picked up 10 people from near Safdarjung and AIIMS hospitals, he added. All the labourers including their children have been sent to a shelter home in Fatehpur Beri, the DCP said. Meanwhile, in south Delhi's Sangam Vihar, police received information that 20 families of migrant labourers were running out of ration and were planning to leave Delhi. Their contact person, Vijender Chaudhary, was contacted and all the 20 families of labours were heard in person for any other issue like rent or medicines, police said. They said the families were provided with dry ration and were convinced to stay in their rented accommodation and contact police in case of any emergency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-seizes-truck-headed-to-mp-with-25-migrant-labourers-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-830202.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Kashmiri students stuck in Agra amid coronavirus lockdown seek Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath's help||Amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, a dozen Kashmiri students are stuck in Agra and have sought the help of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath so that they can return to their homes safely. The students, including four women, are aged between 19 and 25 years. They are students of the Agra University and staying in rented accommodations in Naseerabad colony of Khandari area in the city. The students, enrolled in different programmes, had stayed back due to their examinations in March and thought they would return to their homes in Kashmir once the lockdown was over, one of them said. "We had no clue that the lockdown would last so long and the situation would worsen here in Agra also in terms of the coronavirus outbreak. We have run out of money and food supplies, the banks are not working, going out is a risk because the city is a COVID-19 hotspot and back home our families are also worried for us,” Manzoor Wani, 24, told PTI. Wani, pursuing MSc in Forestry, said the Agra administration has been helpful in providing them food packets but also claimed that three of the students had fallen ill with diarrhoea after consuming "poori-sabzi" around a week ago. "After that we requested for dry ration and got some rice. For five days, we had just rice and salt," Wani claimed, adding that taking food packets was risky and if by chance any of the students gets infected with the virus, the trouble will only increase for them. The 12 students, who belong to Ganderbal, Handwara, Kulgam, Kishtwar, Poonch, Rajaouri, and Budgam, are now hoping for help from the Adityanath government, which recently sent hundreds of buses to Rajasthan's Kota city, an education hub, to bring back thousands of students belonging to UP. "We have reached out to our public representatives in Kashmir but they are unable to help us. We urge UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to help us and send us back to our homes," Wani said. PTI's calls to the Agra district magistrate fetched no response, while a senior UP government official said there was no arrangement for the students to go back to Kashmir amid the lockdown. "We will arrange food for the students,” the officer told PTI. Meanwhile, Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Sunday assured help to the Kashmiri students stranded in Agra. "A reassuring piece of information for anxious parents in Jammu and Kashmir. 376 J&K students in Kota set to return tomorrow. All arrangements finalised. The Narendra Modi government stands committed to the well-being of these youngsters," the minister of state in the Prime Minister's Office posted on Facebook. Wani commented on the post, "Hundreds of J&K students who had been stranded in Kota Rajasthan have started their journey towards Home state today. Sir What about Us those Stuck in Agra UP, Sir cases are increasing here day by day. Plz evacuate us as soon as possible. (sic)." In response to this comment, Singh, the Lok Sabha MP from J-K's Udhampur constituency, said, "Sure Manzoor Wani. One by one. As soon as possible." As of Saturday evening, there were 371 positive cases of coronavirus, including eight deaths in Agra, the maximum in UP, according to an official state government figure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiri-students-stuck-in-agra-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-seek-uttar-pradesh-cm-yogi-adityanaths-help-830215.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi minorities panel demands release of Jamaat members who have spent 28 days in quarantine camps||The Delhi Minorities Commission has demanded that Tablighi Jamaat members who are kept at quarantine camps in the city and have not tested positive for coronavirus be released, as they have completed twice the stipulated quarantine period of 14 days as COVID-19 suspects. In a letter to Delhi Health minister Satyendar Jain, commission chairman Zafarul Islam Khan and member Kartar Singh Kochhar also claimed that facilities for food and medicines at these camps were poor. The letter said people brought to quarantine camps from the Tablighi Markaz in Nizamuddin would complete 28 days in isolation on Monday. This is twice the mandatory period of quarantine for COVID-19 suspects, as per guidelines issued by the US and the WHO, it added. "It will be in the fitness of things that all such people who have spent 28 days in these camps and did not test positive should be allowed to go home or at least allowed to live somewhere else in Delhi while the lockdown continues," the letter read. The commission claimed in its letter that thousands of such inmates were kept at quarantine camps across Delhi, including in Sultanpuri, Wazirabad, Narela and Dwarka. Scores of persons were found infected with coronavirus who were among the participants of a religious gathering at the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz in March. Hundreds of others rescued from there were sent to different quarantine centres.  The letter pointed that Ramzan has begun and most of the Muslim inmates in these camps were fasting and finding it "harsh" to cope with the prevailing conditions there. Further, the commission has issued two notices to the district magistrate of North Delhi over the condition of a quarantine camp at the Police Training School in Wazirabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-minorities-panel-demands-release-of-jamaat-members-who-have-spent-28-days-in-quarantine-camps-830231.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Govt dispels retirement rumours, says no plans to reduce age limit||There is no move to reduce the retirement age of government employees and no such proposal was discussed at any level in the government, Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said on Sunday. Singh's clarification came following reports in a section of media that the government has moved a proposal to reduce the age of retirement of government employees to 50 years. "There are certain motivated elements which have been over the last few days, time and again planting such disinformation in a section of media and attributing it to the government sources. It is unfortunate that at a time when the country is going through COVID-19 crisis, there are certain elements and vested interests which try to underplay all the good work done by planting such media stories," he said. Right from the beginning of the emergence of the coronavirus challenge, he said, the government has taken prompt decisions to safeguard the interests of the employees. Earlier, Singh had dispelled rumours about 30% reduction in the pension and another one that said that pension would be discontinued for those above the age of 80. Besides, 48,400 people have completed their surveillance period, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-dispels-retirement-rumours-says-no-plans-to-reduce-age-limit-830233.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||MP's COVID-19 cases cross 2,000-mark; death toll reaches 103||With as many as 145 people testing coronavirus positive in Madhya Pradesh in the last 24 hours, 91 of them in Indore, the number of such patients in the state climbed to 2,090, health officials said on Sunday. Four more fatalities were also reported since Saturday evening, taking the death toll in the state to 103, they said. While two persons succumbed to the infection in Ujjain, one each died in Khandwa and Hoshangabad, the officials said. Indore, the worst-affected district, alone accounts for 57 deaths. Since Saturday night, Indore recorded 91 new infection cases, followed by Bhopal at 27, Jabalpur at 16, Ujjain at three, Raisen and Dewas two each and Dewas, Khagone, Ratlam and Mandsaur one each, the officials said. Indore has the highest tally of COVID-19 cases at 1,176, followed by Bhopal (415) and Ujjain (106). The number of coronavirus cases in Jabalpur has now climbed to 59. Khargone has 61 cases, Hoshangabad 32, Raisen 28, Dewas 23, Ratlam 13 and Mandsaur has nine cases. The number of patients in other districts is: Dhar 36, Khandwa 36, Barwani 24, Morena and Vidisha 13 each, Agar Malwa 11, Shajapur six, five each in Sagar and Chhindwara, four each in Gwalior and Sheopur, three in Alirajpur, two each in Shivpuri and Tikamgarh and one each in Betul and Dindori.  No fresh cases were found in these districts on Sunday. Two patients being treated in Madhya Pradesh hail from other states. Apart from Indore, where 57 people have died due to the infection so far, 17 patients died in Ujjain, nine in Bhopal, six each in Dewas and Khargone, two in Hoshangabad and one each in Jabalpur, Khandwa, Chhindwara, Mandsaur, Agar Malwa and Dhar. So far, 302 patients have recovered and returned home. As many as 617 containment zones have been set up in the affected cities. Coronavirus figures in Madhya Pradesh, thus, are as follows: Positive cases 2,090, deaths 103, discharged 302, active patients 1,685, number of people tested so far 38,708.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mps-covid-19-cases-cross-2000-mark-death-toll-reaches-103-830234.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||HC asks Delhi govt to simplify process of accessing ration by needy||The Delhi High Court has asked the AAP government to simplify the procedure of getting ration by poor and needy people who have Aadhaar cards and voter IDs but do not possess ration cards. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice C Hari Shankar said if there is any need for a change in the policy decision, it shall also be simplified by authorities looking at the need of the people at large. The court directed authorities that if any change in the policy decision is carried out for simplification in the procedure to get the ration, it will be notified and informed to all the fair price shop owners.  The court was hearing a plea by NGO Nayee Soch Society seeking direction to the Delhi government to provide ration to the needy on production of their Aadhaar cards or voter IDs at fair price shops functioning in their area. The plea also sought direction to authorities to provide the details of citizens who have taken the benefit of ration by way of Aadhaar cards during the period of lockdown since March 25 till date by way of applying on the Food department's website. The petition claimed non-availability of ration to people who have Aadhaar cards or voter IDs but they do not possess ration cards at present. It said these people ought to be provided ration as per the government norms from the nearest available fair price shop. The counsel for the Delhi government submitted that they are making available ration to those who are otherwise eligible and have their Aadhaar cards and voter IDs despite the fact that they are not in a position to present their ration cards. The counsel further said people who are non-residents of Delhi or migrant workers or stranded in the city during the lockdown period are being provided ration, and added that authorities will look into the list of people provided by the petitioner and ration will be provided to them from the nearest fair price shop.  The court was also informed by the government's counsel that the NGO can approach authorities with a list of more people who are eligible for getting ration on the basis of Aadhaar cards or voter IDs or can approach MLAs of their particular area who are having emergency relief food coupons. After noting the submissions of the government's counsel, the bench said, "We expect from respondents that they shall also keep in mind to simplify the procedure for getting ration instead of going on the website by poor and needy people. These aspects of the matter will also be appreciated by respondents and if there is any need for change in the policy decision, the same shall be simplified by respondents looking to the need of the people at large." The court also said the statements made by the counsel may also be incorporated in the government's advisory or notes or communication to all the fair price shop owners in Delhi so that it can be effectively implemented by the shop owners and the benefit of simplified procedure can reach to the public at large who are in need of ration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-asks-delhi-govt-to-simplify-process-of-accessing-ration-by-needy-830246.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Hizbul Mujahideen activist held in Amritsar: Punjab DGP||Punjab police on Sunday claimed to have arrested an activist of the Kashmiri militant outfit Hizbul Mujahideen with Rs 29 lakh cash worth Indian currency in his possession. Hilal Ahmed Wagay, a resident of Nowgam coming under Avantipura police station area of Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir, was nabbed by the Amritsar police team on April 25 near Metro Mart, Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said in a statement here. Preliminary investigations revealed that Wagay was sent by Kashmir valley chief of Hizbul Mujahideen, Riyaz Ahmed Naiku, for collecting money from an unidentified person near Metro Mart in Amritsar in a truck, the DGP said. Money was delivered to him by an unknown person, who came on a two-wheeler, Gupta said. The person accompanying Wagay in the truck was identified as Rayees Ahmed, a resident of Bijbehara in Anantnag district, the DGP added. A case was registered under relevant sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (Amendment 2012) in Sadar police station in Amritsar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hizbul-mujahideen-activist-held-in-amritsar-punjab-dgp-830249.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Migrant worker dies of coronavirus in Punjab; four fresh cases take virus tally to 313||A 48-year-old migrant worker died of coronavirus in Punjab’s Jalandhar on Sunday, pushing the death toll to 18 in the state. Meanwhile, the number of infected patients soared to 313 with four more people testing positive for the infection. The victim, who worked at a leather factory, had tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, an official said, adding that he also suffered from pneumonia. According to a medical bulletin, three of the fresh cases were reported from Jalandhar while one was detected in Ludhiana. Jalandhar district topped the COVID-19 tally in the state with 69 cases, followed by 63 in Mohali, the bulletin said. Of the remaining cases, 61 have been reported from Patiala, 25 in Pathankot, 20 in SBS Nagar, 18 in Ludhiana, 14 in Amritsar, 13 in Mansa, seven in Hoshiarpur, four in Moga, three each in Rupnagar, Sangrur, Kapurthala and Faridkot, two each in Fatehgarh Sahib and Barnala, and one each in Muktsar, Gurdsapur and Ferozepur. One patient is critical and still on ventilator support, the medical bulletin said, adding that so far 18 people have succumbed to the infection in the state. It said 12 patients-–eight from Mohali and four from Pathankot--were discharged from hospitals, taking the total number of cured cases to 84 in the state. There are 211 active cases in the state, it said.   A total of 14,317 samples have been taken so far in the state, of which 10,497 tested negative for the infection. Reports of 3,507 samples are still awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-worker-dies-of-coronavirus-in-punjab-four-fresh-cases-take-virus-tally-to-313-830251.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||J&K coronavirus toll 7 as deceased pregnant woman's sample returns positive, cases cross 500||The death toll due to COVID-19 in Jammu and Kashmir reached seven on Sunday after a pregnant woman, who died at a hospital in Anantnag Saturday, tested positive for the novel coronavirus, officials said, as total positive cases in the Union Territory crossed the 500-mark. "The pregnant woman, who died at a hospital in Anantnag district (in south Kashmir) on Saturday, has tested positive. Her reports came on Sunday," an official said. The officials said her sample was tested at the Chest Diseases hospital – a designated COVID-19 centre -- here. However, Syed Yasir, Additional District Magistrate Anantnag, tweeted, "The unfortunate death of a pregnant woman yesterday at MCH Ang can’t be attributed to COVID, though samples taken post her death have reported positive. The alleged negligence on part of maternity hospital is being enquired into!" The woman, who hailed from Kharpora village -- which has been declared a coronavirus red zone by the administration in south Kashmir – was pregnant with twins and was admitted to the maternity and child care hospital Anantnag on Saturday morning, the officials said. They said after she died with unborn babies, the doctors at the hospital took her sample for testing. “The doctors and nurses, who might have come in contact with the woman at the hospital, have been moved to quarantine, while a team has been constituted and her family members will be taken to quarantine as well,” the officials said. With her death, the death toll due to COVID-19 in Jammu and Kashmir has reached seven. Meanwhile, 29 more people tested positive for COVID-19 in the Union Territory on Sunday, taking the total in the Union territory to 523, the officials said.  "Twenty-nine new cases reported from Jammu and Kashmir in the last 24 hours," they said.   All the new cases are from the Kashmir Valley, they added. Of the total number of cases reported in the Union territory, 466 are from Kashmir and 57 from Jammu. A total of 137 patients have recovered. Nearly 67,000 people have been put under surveillance, including those who are either in government-established quarantine facilities or in home-isolation. "Till date 66,977 travellers and persons in contact with suspected cases have been enlisted for surveillance which include 6,232 in home quarantine including facilities operated by government, 258 in hospital quarantine, 380 in hospital isolation and 10,763 under home surveillance. 49,338 persons have completed their surveillance period,” one of the officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-coronavirus-toll-7-as-deceased-pregnant-womans-sample-returns-positive-cases-cross-500-830270.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Four unidentified militants killed in Kashmir’s Kulgam||Four unidentified militants were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Sunday evening. Sources said the gun battle erupted after the Army's 9-Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Guddar area of Kulgam, 70 kms from here, on Sunday evening Inspector General Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said four militants were killed in the gunfight, while one Army officer also got injured. The identity of the slain militants is yet to be ascertained. This is the third encounter since April 24 in south Kashmir. On Saturday two unidentified militants and their ‘associate’ were killed in an encounter with the security forces in Awantipora area of Pulwama district. A day before that, two more militants were killed and a cop was injured in a brief shootout in Anantnag district. Nearly 60 militants, including several top commanders of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) and Lashker-e-Toiba (LeT) have been killed in counter-insurgency operations by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir this year so far. April witnessed the highest number of militant casualties with 27 ultras killed so-far. In January, 17 militants were killed while eight were neutralised in February and seven in March. A police officer said on an average a militant was killed every day in Valley this month. “Besides, a large number of militant sympathisers have been apprehended,” he said. Earlier in the day, field intelligence units of the Army coupled with inputs comprising HUMINT (human intelligence) and TECHINT (technical intelligence) indicated that around 300 militants are reported to be waiting across the Line of Control (LoC) in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) to sneak into Kashmir Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-unidentified-militants-killed-in-kashmir-s-kulgam-830273.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||FIR registered against Facebook page for circulating fake news in J&K's Udhampur||An FIR was registered against a Facebook page for allegedly circulating a fake news about an encounter between police and terrorists in Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, a senior police officer said. Police assisted by security forces conducted a search operation in Udhampur town on Saturday following information about the presence of suspected persons there. However, the operation ended peacefully. Senior Superintendent of Police, Udhampur, Rajiv Pandey said an FIR was registered against 'Udhampur Dogri Link News' for uploading fake news on its Facebook page with regard to the operation, making unconfirmed claims about an encounter between security forces and four terrorists in the area. He said a case under various sections of the IPC and the Information Technology Act has been registered at police station Udhampur against the accused. "The Udhampur Police is on the job to trace out the user of  'Udhampur Dogri Link News' who uploaded this fake news and will bring him to book," the officer said. The SSP appealed to the general public to cooperate and inform the Udhampur Police if someone is spreading the fake information on social platforms. Meanwhile, police assisted by security forces on Sunday conducted a search operation in Chinore farm-Gajansoo near Kanachak near the International Border in Jammu. The searches were carried out following reports about some suspected movement, officials said, adding the operation was called off after nothing suspicious was found in the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-registered-against-facebook-page-for-circulating-fake-news-in-jks-udhampur-830291.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Jamaat members demand non-veg food at Kanpur hospital||Miffed at not being served “non-vegetarian food”, some coronavirus patients linked to the Tablighi Jamaat allegedly created a ruckus at Kanpur's Lala Lajpat Rai hospital, chasing and manhandling a ward boy. According to officials, 70 Tablighi Jamaat members and their contacts are undergoing treatment for coronavirus at hospital attached to the GSVM Medical College. On Saturday, 15 of them refused to eat food, demanding that they be served non-vegetarian food, said college Principal Dr Arati Dave Lalchandani.  Their daily diet includes a bun and butter in breakfast; fruits, rice, dal, roti and vegetables in the dinner. "On Saturday, a ward boy had gone to the COVID-19 isolation ward situated on the third floor of the hospital to serve food to the Jamaatis and their contacts who refused to eat and asked for non-vegetarian food,” Dr Lalchandani told reporters on Sunday. “They asked that the menu should be changed everyday as they are bored of eating vegetarian food," she added. When they did not get non-vegetarian food, they threw the 'pure protein-rich' food on the floor, she said.  "They even manhandled the ward boy who somehow managed to escape. They came down while chasing him," the principal said, adding that the ward boy narrated his ordeal to the authorities, who brought up the matter before police officials. "It has been decided that food will be served to the Jamaatis in police presence to avoid such problems in future," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-jamaat-members-demand-non-veg-food-at-kanpur-hospital-830297.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi cops promise toys to kids as they go out to fight 'corona keeda'||From telling their kids that they are going out to fight "corona keeda" to promising to bring them toys as soon as the lockdown ends, Delhi Police officers are striving to be the best at the other titles attached to their names in these extraordinary times. While healthcare workers are fighting the battle against coronavirus inside hospitals, police personnel are manning the roads to enforce the lockdown. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Parminder Singh said he stays away from the things that belong to his son over fears that if he is infected, he'll be putting his kid at risk. "How can life be when you are surrounded by coronavirus? You can't access some places at home and you cannot touch certain things despite washing your hands many times. Every day when you wear the uniform, you have a fear that you might get infected today," he told PTI over phone. Singh also has elderly parents at home and has to follow strict social distancing norms. His wife is also a police officer but she is currently on maternity leave. "She is taking care of the baby. Sometimes she wishes she could be there on the field during this time," the additional DCP said. DCP(North) Monika Bhardwaj who is in the same boat as Singh said her twins get upset every day when she dresses up to leave for work. "Every day, I tell them that ‘mom corona naam ke keede ko maarne ja rahi hai' (mom is going out to fight coronavirus). They plead with me not to leave the house," she said. "Before entering home, I ensure that they do not see me. I either enter from the backside or ask my husband to keep them engaged in TV or make them watch cartoons on mobile. I go meet them only after sanitizing myself," she said. DCP (Northwest) Vijayanta Arya's said her two sons keep coming to her with demands to buy new toys every second day. "When they ask me why all shops are closed, I tell them there is this coronavirus which has come in our country so shops are closed and then promise to get them toys post lockdown," she said.  "Then they come up with questions like if everything is closed and everyone is at home, why do you and papa still go out?” I tell them that the police have to be out there to make sure others stay indoors," she said.   "Kids don't understand much except for the fact that they are supposed to maintain a distance from us whenever we get back from work," Vijayanta Arya added. Her husband and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Devender Arya was on home quarantine for 14 days after one of his colleagues tested positive for coronavirus. “Now, he too has resumed work,” she said. She said even when Devender was home for 14 days, he was living in a separate room. "Kids were happy and sad at the same time as even though their father was at home, they could not meet him or sleep with him. So, I used this countdown trick with them. Every day before going to sleep, they would say nine more days to go and after that we would get to sleep with papa," she added. For Varsha Sharma, who is DCP(EOW), things are a little easier as her children are grown up. Her daughter is 20 years old while the son is 17. "I am part of a committee which is checking containment zones in northern range. I prefer to stay in my balcony for one hour before meeting them," she said. Sharma said she washes her clothes and takes a bath after coming home from work. DCP(Central) Sanjay Bhatia said his children, who are aged 18 and 19, long for burgers and pizzas. "My son was studying in the US and we called him back after the coronavirus outbreak. My daughter is finished with her board exams," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cops-promise-toys-to-kids-as-they-go-out-to-fight-corona-keeda-830299.html
26-04-2020||North and Central||293 new coronavirus cases in Delhi, tally jumps to 2,918||Delhi, on Sunday, reported 293 people testing positive, resulting in a massive jump in the city's tally, inching closer to 3,000, hours after Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal provided a glimmer of hope in the fight against the pandemic. With fresh cases, Delhi has now recorded 2,918 coronavirus cases and 54 deaths. No death was reported during the day. Eight persons were discharged from hospital during the day, taking the total to 877, according to the official medical bulletin issued late Sunday night. The surge in the number of cases was reported hours after Kejriwal said that the infection rate appears to be slowing down in the capital. Citing statistics, he said that 850 cases were reported in the seventh week of the pandemic arriving in Delhi and it has reduced to 622 new cases last week. Twenty-one people had died in the seventh week as against nine deaths were reported last week, he said 260 patients had recovered in the seventh week as against 580 last week. He said the infection rate of COVID-19 appears to be slowing down in the capital. Citing statistics, he said that 850 cases were reported in the seventh week of the pandemic arriving in Delhi and it has reduced to 622 new cases last week. Twenty-one people had died in the seventh week as against nine deaths were reported last week, he said 260 patients had recovered in the seventh week as against 580 last week.  Between April 19 and 25, an analysis of the figures provided in medical bulletins showed that there were 752 deaths during the week. On April 19, there were 110 cases, which dipped to 78 on April 20 and to 75 the next day.  However, on April 22, it further rose to 92. The increasing trend continued for the next two days with 138 and 128 on April 23 and 24 respectively while on April 25, it again dipped to 111. Delhi also added two more containment zones to the list, taking the total to 97.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/293-new-coronavirus-cases-in-delhi-tally-jumps-to-2918-830310.html
26-04-2020||Opinion||A Chinese bid raises the trust deficit||As the Indian side stood up to it, China began a backdoor entry into the Indian market through what seemed like the first salvo of potential ‘hostile take-overs’. This boomeranged on Beijing. China’s latest, ill-advised move to gradually increase its stakes in one of the largest financial institutions of India, the Housing Development Finance Corporation, was met with stiff Indian opposition last week. The nearly two decades of China’s pressure to bend India have failed. Invoking the 1988 “pathbreaking” visit by the then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi to Beijing that led to putting the territorial dispute on the backburner and expanding bilateral relations in other fields, including in the economic, China intended to influence India. To an extent, it was successful in the trade surpluses. Bilateral trade increased from $200 million in the early 1990s to last year’s $92 billion. The devil, however, is in the detail. In the last decade, while trade increased, bilateral accumulated trade deficit increased to an unsustainable $650 billion in favour of China. The trade deficit in favour of Beijing in 2019 alone was $56 billion. New Delhi’s suggestions for course correction fell on deaf ears in Beijing. To overcome the trade deficits, since 2010, India has suggested that China should import more from the Indian market; it should open up its market for Indian goods and services following World Trade Organisation regulations; cut down non-tariff barriers on Indian products; invest in the Indian market and make efforts jointly to re-export to third markets. China ignored all these warnings and continued to build trade surpluses, not just with India but with other countries as well. China’s intransigence in addressing this led to the 17-month debilitating trade war with the United States. Not only did China not open up its market to Indian pharmaceutical and software companies, it began putting up restrictions. While the Indian government laid out a roadmap for infrastructure development worth over a trillion dollars and expanding the manufacturing sector’s share of GDP from 14% to 29%, China’s response was lukewarm. During President Xi Jinping’s visit to India in September 2014, it was stated that China would be involved in two manufacturing zones in Ahmedabad and Pune, besides investing about $20 billion in India in the next five years. Prime Minister Modi’s visit next year to Beijing and Shanghai yielded commitments from China of over $32 billion in investment. None of this came about, even as the trade deficit mounted. China’s total investments in India so far is stated to be $8.2 billion, for a country that is rising with growth rates between 6-8% a year. On the other hand, China made $62 billion in commitments in the turbulent and economically weak Pakistan as a part of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor passing through Indian-claimed Kashmir. Clearly, things are boiling between India and China and even the two “informal summit meetings” could not change China’s obstinate position. On the other hand, China began exerting pressure on India to open up the market through a decade-long proposal for a free trade agreement, regional trade agreement and the recent Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership agreement. India refused as it received no reciprocal gestures from Beijing. The recent Ministry of Commerce and Industry’s decision to block any “opportunistic takeover” of Indian firms was triggered in the general backdrop of the above assessments but also to the recent perceptible increases in “hot money” pouring in from Beijing in India’s start-ups and fin-tech companies. Fresh from the Doklam crisis in 2017, India clearly is taking defensive measures to protect itself from China’s onslaught globally and regionally. The recent German decision to curb China’s hostile takeover of its companies citing the worldwide economic uncertainty is a pointer to the future global responses to an assertive China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-chinese-bid-raises-the-trust-deficit-829943.html
26-04-2020||Opinion||After a late-night flight, my heart went to war with my mind||The flight from Kochi to Thiruvananthapuram was delayed three hours. I got to the airport at 7.30 pm, giving myself plenty of time for departure at 9.50 pm. Three announcements, no explanation from the airlines, plenty of shrugged shoulders and rolled eyes later, we finally took off at 1 am. It was frustrating, not least because the journey itself is less than 45 minutes. You might ask, why didn’t I just take the train. Well, it was an emergency -- more about that another time.  The flight was full. We all sat in our seats, dozing off. But I’ve now come to realise that life is always eventful and full of drama. Fact.   A very well-known South Indian actress was on the flight. Just as we were nodding off, she decided to walk all the way from her front row seat to use the toilet right at the back. Let’s just say that was enough to keep people wide awake for the rest of the flight. They nudged each other, whispered, looked around excitedly, while the actress walked all the way back from the toilet to her front row seat.  We landed. It was 1.45 am. I’m normally the last person to get off the flight. You know, one of the chilled passengers. But that night, I was one of those who take their seat belt off even before the plane comes to a halt. I was talking loudly to an Uber driver even before the air hostess said “You can now use your mobile phones”. I pushed and shoved right to the front. I wanted to be the first out. I didn’t care about the VIP actress on the flight. Or that the air steward thought I was nuts.  But one man beat me to it. He must have been in his 70s. He wore a white shirt, grey trousers and clutched on to a briefcase in his arms, as if it was a baby. I was right behind him. Suddenly, he seemed to lose his balance. He stopped for a second. I stopped, too. But then he was okay and walked on.  At some point, I overtook him. It was nearly 2 am. My phone rang. It was the people I was staying with. Had I got the taxi yet, the lady asked. No, I said, I’m making my way out. Alright, I’m waiting up for you, she said. That made me walk even faster. Thud. I heard a sound. I turned to look. It was the elderly gentleman. He had fallen. I stopped. People rushed to help. I didn’t. After turning to look, to be a spectator, I walked on. In the arrivals hall, people were taking selfies with the actress. There was a buzz.  I thought of the man, the one I hadn’t helped. If I had asked if he was okay right at the first instance when I had seen him lose balance, maybe he wouldn’t have fallen. Yet again, I pushed the thought out of my mind. I got my bag from the carousel and walked out. A Range Rover with blacked-out windows was waiting for the actress. Policemen and photographers were crowding around it. The circus has to go on.  I got into the Uber. Why hadn’t I helped the man? It was very late at night, I consoled myself gently. There’s a lady waiting for me, my mind reasoned. She’ll offer me something to eat, we’ll chat for a while -- it will be 3.30 am before she goes to bed. Shouldn’t I be considerate towards her? I don’t know the roads in Thiruvananthapuram, so my safety comes first, I told myself again. Sometimes, you just have to put yourself first, my brain told me sternly, laying the argument to rest, as I settled into the cab.  Just then, the paramedics rushed to the airport exit. I saw the man being carried on the stretcher and into an ambulance. Yet again, a battle began between my heart and my head.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/after-a-late-night-flight-my-heart-went-to-war-with-my-mind-829944.html
26-04-2020||Opinion||Pregnant with a pandemic||First, let us just say that this coronavirus pandemic has no parallels, except in other pandemics like the Spanish Flu of 1918 when all of us alive today were dead.  But to hold ourselves back from madness, we must find plausible parallels. How else does anyone make sense of this highly mobile microbial massacre that has already taken 191,167 lives, and infected 2,732,948 people, of which, lest we forget, there are some ‘Special Operations’ cases, whatever those are in any civil society fighting a community crisis. The hasty homeward journeys of the foot soldiers of our economy, some bare feet, has even been portrayed as reminiscent of the exodus of the Partition. The ongoing country-wide home detention has not only unearthed the everyday heroisms of homemakers and the lack thereof of their partners but also triggered submariners to fondly recall their sardine tin-like solitariness, ‘shippys’ to tell of their watery-eyed scans for land across their liquid landscape, and mountaineers to recount their asphyxiating, arid, icy isolations. Of course, the Kashmiris, always a class apart, no pun intended, could hardly contain themselves from thumbing their ‘been-there-done-that’ noses at the rest of us.  In the first trimester of this pandemic, some of us have become pregnant with more risk. Some of our neighbourhoods have been more vulnerable, and we have needed to be further ‘contained’, placed on ‘bed rest’ as it were. We are the ‘hot-spots’ of the disease. I live in one such, and the shrill, unrelenting vigilantism of the Resident Welfare Association uncles rings the same bells as the unsolicited advice of that whispering ‘well-wisher’ aunty who only ever spoke ill. In this time, we have all been strung into a balcony bunting of hate, towards a dog-walking neighbour or a child on a bicycle within our condominium gate to those who congregate. Each evening of our collective confinement, I feel the same relief as I did that January night years ago, after days of labour, to have survived. The punishing pace of the pandemic is like the sweep of post-partum depression, only I didn’t recognise it then. Like then, I am now exhausted beyond belief but unable to rest, deeply sad, but having to display delight at being privileged, well and alive. My life, your life, as we knew it, is in smithereens, but I have to sustain not one, not two, but three human beings. I was in pain then, but everything paled in comparison to the Event, like now. I knew for sure then what I know now -- that there is now no going back. This pandemic is a pregnancy, one I didn’t know I was expecting. Worse, there’s no home strip-test for this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/pregnant-with-a-pandemic-829945.html
26-04-2020||Opinion||When Modiji, Trumpji join hands against Xi's virus||As the coronavirus death toll in America rose above 52,000 and the Indian economy tanked below half the “Hindu rate of growth”, the leaders of the world’s largest democracy and the world’s greatest democracy got together on phone, wanting to end the pandemic menace with one big move together before Xi Jinping took away the mantle of world leadership. Thus went the conversation: Modiji: Hey, Donald buddy, they are saying you’ve destroyed America’s world leadership with your coronavirus response. How did you let so many people die of a bloody virus in the world’s greatest superpower? Trumpji: Hey, Modi buddy, all this American leadership thing is nonsense. The whole world is just taking advantage of our generosity. You all are -- you, Xi, Putin, the damned Europeans, the cursed East Asians, everybody. And I’m changing all that. When I’m gone from the White House, they must remember only my leadership, not America’s. That’s my mission. But how are you doing? They’re saying you’ve destroyed the Indian economy and have sent millions of migrant workers into cramped camps. How did you manage to do that, all in the name of protecting them from the virus! Modiji: Well, I too have been at it, at least since November 8, 2016. Thankfully nobody seems to remember. In fact, they keep coming back to me for more. Poor fellows have nowhere else to go. I’m the Supreme Leader. And when you are that, Donaldji, as you once said, “They let you do it. You can get away with anything.” Trumpji: Hmmm…some months ago, you and Amit Bhai were looking for termites from Bangladesh to put in such camps, weren’t you? You seem to have succeeded in putting millions of them in. Great going. Modiji: Donald buddy, this is just a sample of what we wanted to do when we were looking for termites. Unfortunately, we caught a virus, instead. Trumpji: But no matter what we do out of our great love for our people, they don’t seem to be grateful at all. We must teach the fools a lesson. Modiji: Donaldji, look, the way I teach them a lesson is different. You see, in India, there is a belief that people must always face severe calamity so that they remember God. Otherwise, they will forget him. Now, we are also like God, you and me. All powerful. So, we have to ensure that people do not forget us. Every once in a while, they must be reminded that there is someone above them. You must try demonetisation of the dollar once, you must impose a nation-wide lockdown and bring the economy to its knees. Once salary cuts, job cuts, industrial shut-downs, bankruptcies follow, they’ll know how powerful you are, they’ll come to you. They will beg you to do something, save them. And then, you must speak wise words to them. Tell the business leaders on LinkedIn what they don’t know – that the coronavirus does not differentiate between people on the basis of religion, caste, etc; tell the village sarpanches that the lesson they must learn from coronavirus is that India should become self-reliant… Trumpji: I know, I know, but Modi buddy, I don’t have much time. We’ve got to do something so that I don’t lose the election. Modiji: Don’t worry, I have a super plan. Look, you forgot to impose a lockdown but remembered to give the economic stimulus package. And I imposed the lockdown but forgot to announce the stimulus package (actually, I didn’t forget, but that’s another matter). So, why not combine our strengths to beat the coronavirus together? You will then surely win the election. Trumpji: Sounds like a great idea. Two democracies coming together against the ‘Chinese virus’! How do you propose to do that? Modiji: Haven’t you heard? Modi hain tho mumkin hain! Let’s hug each other and roll over the red carpet together and let my lockdown mix with your trillions of dollars. It will become a potent combination. Then we shall go before the world and issue a joint statement: “India and the US are together in this fight against the coronavirus.” And for once, we won’t even be lying! Trumpji: That’s a huge idea, the greatest game-changer in history. Two world leaders hugging each other and rolling down the red carpet has never been done before. I need something to work myself up to do this. Any ideas? Modiji: Donaldji, don’t act modest. You know what you need to do that. In fact, you gave the world this brilliant idea. Just inject a disinfectant into yourself and you will be in the right mood to do our little thing. Trumpji: And you? How are you going to do it? Modiji: I’ve been practising these postures for a long time. I’m ready. Come on, together, let’s beat the hell out of Xi!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/when-modiji-trumpji-join-hands-against-xis-virus-829946.html
26-04-2020||Opinion||How did we become so comfortable with inequality?||Our migrant walkers are the mirror to the country’s conscience. One wonders, how can such a large country, that has been free since 1947, still struggle to resolve the fundamentals of dignified living? How can it perpetuate privilege (the obvious and subtle kinds) so easily? The truth is, better-off Indians -- and those of the subcontinent -- are comfortable with apathy and inequality. Large parts of them have been fashioned into a fake fatalism (‘How can one person or a few people change anything?’ is a common refrain. But history has so many inspiring answers to that query). With odd exceptions, no amount of legislating seems to have changed entrenched social attitudes. During the Constituent Assembly debates, B R Ambedkar once said, “Constitutional morality is not a natural sentiment. It has to be cultivated. We must realise that our people have yet to learn it. Democracy in India is only a top-dressing on an Indian soil which is essentially undemocratic”. What about democratic cultivation? We have one of the finest, granular, sensitive constitutions in the world – whose form and spirit are still wrangled over – but our everyday realities show how far we are from its intent. Undoing our quintessentially undemocratic temperament -- that like a drug has been administered in the minds of people for millennia through some of our reactionary traditions -- will need imaginative overhauling. Even today, there are plenty of anti-affirmative action believers. And of course, as we have seen in this era, never have religious prejudice and exclusivism had it so good. There are so many matters over gender equity that make one feel India has not progressed a whit. In such a situation, instead of probing their governments and community overlords for social solutions, common Indians as a collective, look for scapegoats. They have found one in a religion. We are a country now that likes its differences and separations from others more than our human commonalities. Its confidence is so low, it will invent facts to present signs of scientific progress and foresight in its ancient traditions. It all seems to me a way of diverting from the real questions over the basics of human dignity in a democracy. One of the most hurtful, but well-known, facts of our country is the human-made nature of its hunger problem. We have overflowing food-stock and yet we have hungry people. Human rights activist Harsh Mander has worked with and written on Delhi’s poor. In a talk, he once spoke of how a mother ‘teaches’ her child to go hungry at night. Hunger is not natural; it is a construct and has an idiom that is transmitted to the child. When the Indian mind battles such gruesome contradictions, what can it do but move the mind away to other matters? Are our struggles an issue of ‘systems’ alone or of a common will to get better? The ‘system’ is often a reflection of a mindscape. If Indians truly believe, and are willing to show it in action, through personal, familial and communitarian commitment, it’s not impossible to make our society more humane in the years to come. Contemporary Kerala’s plaudits are due to many social progresses there. But one cannot take away the collective will of the people of the state, notwithstanding their internal differences, to create a robust public health and education system. To a certain degree, they have stymied apathy. It shows in the policies and their implementation in the state. In this era, it’s evident that many privileges middle- and upper-class people considered their way of life, will go out. From travel to personal possessions to accumulating assets in a bid to secure their and their children’s future. These attitudes came to them from their forbears. Abstemiousness, charity, social commitment, sacrifice, perhaps, took a backseat. We’re in the flux of a moral change. Cultivated indifference, smugness about ‘look-at-these-poor-people’, won’t be their attitude anymore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-did-we-become-so-comfortable-with-inequality-829947.html
26-04-2020||Opinion||Coronavirus: Comprehensive fiscal relief package can’t wait anymore||As India enters the fifth week of an unprecedented lockdown, factories remain largely shut, movement of people continues to be restricted and most economic activity is at standstill.  Various international agencies have predicted vastly lower GDP growth rate for the just-concluded fiscal year (2019-20) and there seems to be little hope of any significant economic growth in the current fiscal, with large scale unemployment, a crash in consumption demand and idling factories becoming the new realities. Tiding over the current crisis Our vast population of migrant labour and numerous small businesses are in urgent need of a massive fiscal relief from the government to keep afloat. This expectation, of a big bang fiscal package from the government, is neither delusional nor selfish – governments around the world have either promised or already injected trillions of dollars into their respective economies to tide over the current crisis. India’s Central Bank (RBI) has already stepped in with two sets of monetary relief measures so that the system has enough liquidity and banks are encouraged to lend to businesses, big and small. On its part, the government too came up with a Rs 1.7 lakh crore package through the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) on March 26. Under this scheme, foodgrain and pulses are being distributed by various states to ration card holders as per April entitlement. Besides, nearly 20 crore women Jan Dhan account holders have been given Rs 9,930 crore; another Rs 1,405 crore has been offered to aged widows, divyang and senior citizens; PM-KISAN payments have been front loaded and over Rs two crore building and construction workers have been helped. Support for those who have lost incomes But this is nowhere near enough. India’s migrants and businesses are still without succor as we continue to seemingly worry more about worsening fiscal deficit than reviving the economy. On the issue of income loss alone, the numbers are staggering. An analysis by the State Bank of India (SBI) estimated that there are 37.3 crore workers in India, engaged as self-employed, regular and casual workers. It said income loss for these workers due to the ongoing lockdown was Rs 4.05 lakh crore for the entire lockdown period and any fiscal package should at least strive to more than make up for this income loss. So in effect, any fiscal package being worked out by the government should exceed Rs 4 lakh crore in value. Economists have suggested that not only should the government transfer a hefty amount to all the Jan Dhan accounts to help the needy, it should also do away with the need for ration cards and feed the hungry for free. These twin suggestions require sizable money from the government. The government repeatedly claims it is offering free food and rations to the poor and migrants who have been forced to reside in state facilities and will announce relief in tranches. Protecting & reviving livelihoods So even if one were to believe that the state is leaving no one hungry, there still remains the issue of protecting and reviving livelihoods. Unless the government devises a comprehensive program to do this, and soon, the already record high unemployment will surely rise further in the coming months. According to the Centre for Monitoring the Indian Economy (CMIE), India’s employment rate fell from 40 per cent in February to 26 per cent in the week ending April 19, implying that 14 per cent or nearly 14 crore Indians comprising the working age population lost employment during the lockdown. This is unprecedented, to say the least. This is the size of the population which will need government hand holding to become self reliant again and job creation obviously requires the government to loosen its purse strings. Incentives for the MSME sector  Then, small businesses which form the backbone of the economy are in a shambles. Over six crore MSMEs operate across the country (more than half of these are in the rural areas), employing more than 11 crore people. As the country went into a lockdown from March 24, MSMEs had to down their shutters. This meant crores of daily wagers and other informal sector workers were out of work and production of small equipment, spare parts for automobiles, small electrical fittings, packaging material has ceased. Any fiscal package the government may be devising should prioritise incentives for the MSME sector, since an overwhelming majority of India’s workforce works in the informal sector and in such small units. Helping India Inc. India Inc. too continues to expect significant relief measures from the government to go about its business in such challenging times. Industry captains have already sought a package worth at least Rs 10 lakh crore, involving significant tax breaks, tweaks in the GST regime, access to cheaper funds etc. The government would do well to heed to requests from a cross section of people and businesses and hurry up with relief measures. It is time to quit worrying over fiscal deficit and buckle up to save the economy from a prolonged downturn. (Sindhu Bhattacharya is a senior journalist, writing on business and economy) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/coronavirus-comprehensive-fiscal-relief-package-can-t-wait-anymore-830010.html
26-04-2020||Panorama||Coronavirus: Globalisation is easy to target but difficult to displace||The world is in the midst of an unprecedented crisis. The outbreak of a new pathogen COVID-19 has brought humanity to its feet, irrespective of the country, religion, race, language, ethnicity or region. It has had a ripple effect on the global economy and plunged the whole world into recession, erasing trillions of dollars from global stock markets. One wonders whether pandemics like coronavirus reflect the spillover of globalisation – a phenomenon that represents the good, the bad and the ugly. The beneficial part of globalisation has to do with the sharing of ideas, finance, technology, resources, goods and services. Globalisation has made the world strong as well as weak and vulnerable. Besides getting millions of people out of poverty, it has also resulted in dangers like financial recession, cyber viruses, terrorism and spread of pandemics. We have also witnessed the unintended consequences of globalisation like climate change. On the flip side, the scale of travel across the global landscape especially for business, trade and tourism has made it even more difficult to contain a pandemic. The free flow of ideas, money, resources, people and jobs has also resulted in political pressures. Hence, in recent times, especially after the rise of President Trump, the world has seen new immigration restrictions, technological decoupling, new barriers to trade and investment, rediscovering of supply chains and the trend towards ‘country first’ policies and strategies. Even before COVID-19 has had a crippling effect on globalisation, Trump had imposed tariffs on allies and adversaries, initiated a trade war with China and withdrew from trade pacts like the Trans-Pacific Partnership. In fact, the total value of trade between the US and China declined from $630 billion in 2017 to $560 billion in 2019. The neo-liberal orthodoxy gave way to slogans like America first and developments like Brexit. coronavirus rubbed salt into the wounds by virtually bringing the global movement of people and goods to a standstill. The coronavirus has infected the vitals of the global economy resulting in huge disruptions, especially on the supply-side and demand-side. The virus has capitalised on the reality of human hyper-connectivity. This brings into focus some of the disruptions following the 2008 global financial crisis, though they were not for the same reasons and scale on which it is now happening. In that sense, the present scenario is quite unprecedented. Whether coronavirus would turn out to be a major setback to China’s global stranglehold as the world’s largest manufacturer, only time will tell. Countries and companies are now beginning to realise the risks of this over-dependence. When Sars broke out in 2003, China accounted for only 4% of the global output which today stands at 16%. One wonders whether time has come for companies to take re-shoring on a selective basis seriously from now on. However, this is easier said than done since China is presently critical to the global supply chains. In that sense, China’s wealth and health matters. Hence, globalisation can create systemic risks for the whole world when there is so much dependence on any one country like China. Perhaps, countries will now need to figure out ways and means to lessen this dependence. Deglobalisation is not the answer. Neither can this be done only by building high walls, ostracising China, rejecting tourism and business travellers. Perhaps, the virus will result in a more visible digital and online form of globalisation rather than the one we have been familiar with all these years. Remote working is now catching on, and perhaps it could even become the norm. The larger issue to be addressed is how globalisation needs to be perceived. The transition is not one from globalisation to de-globalisation. Rather, what we require is the need to recognise the need for globalisation with a human face. It will be globalisation perhaps with less carbon emissions, more equitability and with greater investment in surveillance and healthcare. Adequate safeguards are also required to handle the risks of globalisation as we are experiencing at this point of time. One wonders whether borders and the nation-state will stage a comeback as the populist and nationalist forces have been making a case for. This may be the trend though without reverting to the days of isolationism. Humanity is caught between the devil and the deep sea. On the one hand, intense movement of people across borders can create pandemic like scenarios. Yet, to overcome it, we cannot do without transnational cooperation especially among the scientific and medical fraternity. The coronavirus is a wake-up call not just for the US and China but the whole world. The pandemic exposes the extent of human vulnerability, mutual economic dependence and inter-dependence. The total dependence on the global supply chain can be too risky, which needs to be fragmented. Domestic suppliers Hence, in a pandemic scenario, the importance of the domestic supply chain becomes critical too. Countries need to also look out for alternative domestic suppliers even if it turns out to be a little more expensive. Hence, a certain degree of re-shoring can provide greater legitimacy and certainty. Borders may become less porous for industry and the movement of people. Perhaps we will see the re-nationalisation of industries in some countries. It is not just the supply chain but also sectors like education and tourism which now remains totally disrupted. The coronavirus has resulted in supply-chain havoc. Globalisation in its present manifestation carries with it the risk of a contagion which can be both financial and medical. Though it will not be the death knell of globalisation, yet we are bound to see a new chapter unfold. Under the circumstances, globalisation is easy to target but difficult to displace. Globalisation will not be totally reversed. Unfortunately, what we have largely experienced is a China-driven globalisation, a trend that cannot be immediately reversed either. The dilemma is that as the pandemic spreads, the Chinese tend to get more engaged. Perhaps, the post-Covid scenario will result in a certain amount of re-shoring as well as rediscovery of the terms and conditions of globalisation. (The writer is Professor and former Dean, Department of Political Science, Bangalore University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/coronavirus-globalisation-is-easy-to-target-but-difficult-to-displace-830304.html
26-04-2020||Panorama||Off the Record: April 26, 2020||Dress-code With video-conferencing emerging as a favourite during the lockdown, the focus has now shifted on dressing for such virtual meetings. While memes and videos about Zoom suits did the rounds on social media, a lawyer in Rajasthan appeared oblivious to the ‘new normal’. The Rajasthan High Court last week adjourned a hearing on a bail application on the ground that the lawyer was inappropriately dressed. The lawyer seeking bail for his client appeared for the hearing, through video conferencing, wearing a vest which was strongly disapproved of by the judge. The matter has now been posted for hearing on May 5, two days after the lockdown is expected to be lifted. Essential commodity? The Shiv Sena and rival Maharashtra Navnirman Sena seems to be at war over the issue of opening or not opening wine and liquor shops. MNS president Raj Thackeray wrote an open letter to his cousin, the Shiv Sena president and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, suggesting that liquor shops should be opened. “Prior to lockdown, the wine shops were open. The state government should get caught in some moral issues at such a crucial time and take the necessary action,” Raj wrote. However, in an editorial in Saamana, the Shiv Sena reacted sharply. “Through his demand, he has pointed it out to the government that like food, alcohol is an essential commodity. He has given invaluable information that people are also dependent on ‘quarter’ and ‘peg’,” the Sena said. Special protocol Amid COVID-19 lockdown, last week a top Kashmiri businessman became a topic of discussion on social media after running away from a Red Zone area in Jammu to travel back home. While the administration claimed that he was quarantined, after his return, common people questioned how he managed to travel 300-kms without getting noticed. While thousands of common Kashmiris stranded across the country are begging for a return with some even offering to remain in mandatory 14-day quarantine, the businessman again managed to leave the administrative quarantine just after a few days. He had been put in a posh hotel while commoners remained in filthy quarantines. The businessman, who is known for hosting ‘who-is-who’ of Kashmir at his posh hotels, managed to breach the protocols with the help of these very people. Thank you note That’s an awesome ‘thank you note’ during this COVID-19 season. Young Anupama decided to name her new-born after a constable who helped transport her to a hospital for her delivery. A few days ago, her family was frantically searching for an ambulance to take her to a hospital. The wait continued but an ambulance was nowhere in sight. It was then the family dialled the Delhi Police. Within ten minutes of the call, a police van was at their doorstep and constable Dayaveer was ready to help them. Anupama was rushed to Hindu Rao Hospital where she gave birth to a boy. Her thank you note came in an unexpected way, she named her son Dayaveer, wanting him to be like the constable, whose name roughly translates as a man of compassion.  Red dilemma Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was reportedly hesitant in acknowledging the success of the Kerala model when his officers apprised him of its efficacy in combating COVID-19. But the unabated rise in cases prompted him to ask the officers dealing with the menace to speak to their counterparts in the capital of Kerala. The left ideology is anathema to the saffron party. For a BJP ruled government to admit the strategic superiority of a left-ruled state is quite an embarrassment. Moreover, neither the BJP nor the CPM cadres have forgotten how the Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had to call off his scheduled function in a Bhopal college due to protest from the cadres of ABVP. Shivraj Singh had defended ABVP, instead of apologising to Vijayan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-april-26-2020-830309.html
26-04-2020||Second Edit||Coronavirus: Hunger, worst crisis since World War II||In order to contain the spread of the coronavirus, governments have imposed lockdowns to enforce social distancing. Lockdowns have shut down economic activity. This means that millions of people are without the means of earning a livelihood and are not in a position to purchase food. Agricultural activity has slowed. The production and availability of grains, fruits and vegetables is already falling and could worsen in the coming months. Disrupted supply lines are preventing food from reaching consumers. Thus, lockdowns are imperiling our food security. Food shortages, hunger and starvation have the potential to trigger violent food riots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/coronavirus-hunger-worst-crisis-since-world-war-ii-830306.html
26-04-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh: 'Bored' truck driver plays cards with friends, leads to 24 getting coronavirus||A bored truck drivers effort to kill time by indulging in a game of cards with friends and neighbours led to the infection of coronavirus in 24 people in one locality of Vijayawada city in Andhra Pradesh, Krishna district Collector A Md Imtiaz said here on Saturday. A social grouping for whiling away time by another truck driver resulted in the virus affliction to about 15 people in another locality in Vijayawada. These two instances accounted for about 40 cases in the city in the last couple of days, he said. The truck driver in Krishna Lanka locality was bored and played cards with his friends and neighbours while the women grouped up and played tambola. All this resulted in the spread of the dreaded virus in 24 people, he said. "The same thing happened in Karmika Nagar. The truck driver moved around socialising and in the process about 15 people got afflicted," Imtiaz added. Failure to maintain physical distance was the sole cause for the transmission of the coronavirus in these cases, he said in a recorded video message. Vijayawada is one of the major hotspots of coronavirus in the state where over 100 cases have been registered so far. In the last 24 hours alone 25 fresh cases were reported in the city, which is part of the state capital Amaravati. The Collector appealed to people to strictly maintain physical distance to avoid the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-bored-truck-driver-plays-cards-with-friends-leads-to-24-getting-coronavirus-829973.html
26-04-2020||South||Free rice distribution to 60% beneficiaries completed: Kiran Bedi||The Puducherry administration has distributed free rice to over 60 per cent of beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana to mitigate their sufferings and hardships due to the nationwide lockdown to combat the novel coronavirus, Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi has said. Talking to PTI over the phone, she said, "I sincerely thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the central government for helping the UT (Union Territory) administration to provide free rice for three months to 6.5 lakh poor and downtrodden beneficiaries to mitigate their hardship due to COVID-19 lockdown." "Rice has already been distributed to over 60 per cent of the beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana. The UT government lifted 9,425 tonnes of additional rice from FCI (Food Corporation of India) and has already distributed over 6,000 tonnes," she said. Similarly, the Centre has increased daily wage to labourers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) to Rs 259 from Rs 229 with effect from this month. Puducherry is the first government in the country to start MGNREGA work after the Union Home Ministry relaxed lockdown guidelines from April 20, she said. Likewise, the Centre has credited Rs 500 each in bank accounts of 83,000 women beneficiaries in the first week of this month under the Pradhan Mantri Jhan Dhan Yojana, the former IPS officer said, adding that a whopping Rs 4.15 crore has reached the women beneficiaries in Puducherry.  The Ramon Magsaysay awardee of 1994 said 9,299 farmers of the UT have already received the first instalment of Rs 2,000 each (out of Rs 6,000 per year) under the PM Kisan Sanman Nidhi Yojana. Under the scheme, aimed at helping small and medium farmers, Rs 1,85,98,000 has been released for 2020-21. "Remaining 913 farmers will receive the benefit by direct bank transfer shortly as the process is already on,” she said. Thanks to the pro-active Centre, the poor, marginalised, farmers, women and senior citizens are getting their benefits fast in the UT, Bedi said. The lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 in a bid to combat the Coronavirus endemic. It was further extended till May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/free-rice-distribution-to-60-beneficiaries-completed-kiran-bedi-830005.html
26-04-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown delays rare wedding of four sisters among quintuplets in Kerala||Uthraja, Uthara, Uthama and Uthra and their lone brother Uthrajan were born on November 18, 1995 to Premakumar and Remadevi in Thiruvananthapuram in 1995. Every achievement in their life have been receiving much attention. As wished by the family, especially Remadevi, arrangements were being made to conduct the marriage of the sisters together at the famous Gurvayur Sri Krishna Swami temple in Thrissur district on Sunday. But the lockdown played the spoilsport. However, the family is hopeful of realising their dream once the lockdown is over. Remadevi told DH that almost all arrangements were done and many people were invited to marriage also. A single invitation card was prepared for all the weddings. But since three of the bride grooms are working aboard and could not reach home so far and two of the brides are working in medical filed, the families of the bridegrooms also agreed to postpone all the four marriages to another date. Uthraja and Uthama are anesthesia technicians, Uthra a fashion designer and Uthara is an online journalist. Their lone brother Uthrajan is an IT professional. Following their birth their father, who was a small scale trader, named their house as 'Pancha Ratnam', meaning five diamonds. With the untimely death of Premakumar in 2004, Remadevi had to run the show single-handedly. Despite being a heart patient living with pacemaker support, she eked out a living for the family with her lower grade job with a cooperative bank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-delays-rare-wedding-of-four-sisters-among-quintuplets-in-kerala-830036.html
26-04-2020||South||Spurned by Twitter, BJP MP Anantkumar Hegde seeks desi micro-blogging site||Having his account suspended by Twitter, BJP MP Anantkumar Hegde has written to the PMO alleging 'digital colonisation' and 'wrongful interference in free speech' by the micro-blogging site. The former Union Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, in a 'confidential letter', urged the Prime Minister Narendra Modi to try and develop an Indian version of the micro-blogging site to ensure 'data sovereignty' and to investigate ‘Anti-India, Anti-BJP, Anti-Modi, (and) Anti-establishment tweets’. His handle @AnantkumarH was locked by Twitter, according to the screenshot shared by the MP in his letter to the Modi. Twitter, in a message, had asked the MP to ‘remove tweets that violate our rules’ to unlock his account. The Uttara Kannada MP is no stranger to controversy, having tweeted sympathising with Mahatma Gandhi's assassin Nathuram Godse and for his repeated vitriolic tweets and remarks against minority communities. He had deleted the Godse tweet, claiming that his account was hacked in May last year. His disparaging comment against Gandhi in February last year had forced the BJP high command to issue a show cause notice against him. In the letter, Hegde alleged selective targeting of nationalist and pro-India handles and paid promotion of 'handles spewing poison and passing objectionable comments' about the PM, Home Minister and CMs of India, among others. Noting that Modi had advocated the concept of self-sufficiency recently, "We as a nation should try and develop (a)-la-twitter Indian version thru NIC, CDAC, CDOT or Indian start-up sector on a war footing and commercialisation of the same must happen through Government of India or Indian private entity. Digital colonisation can be only challenged with data sovereignty. Freedom of speech and expression can be only guaranteed by Data sovereignty and transparency," the letter read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/spurned-by-twitter-bjp-mp-anantkumar-hegde-seeks-desi-micro-blogging-site-830061.html
26-04-2020||South||Wayanad grieves over death of NRI known for charity as well as palatial house||While scores of people of Wayanad are deeply saddened over the untimely death of a NRI industrialist Joy Arakkal, his palatial house is once again doing the rounds on the social media. Managing director of UAE-based Innova group of companies, Joy has been extending a helping hand to many in Wayanad. He died in Dubai on Thursday reportedly after suffering a heart attack. He was 54 and leaves behind wife and two children. A decision on bringing his body to his home is still pending. Arakkal Palace, Joy's palatial house at Mananthavady, with around 45,000 square feet area is much talked about in Kerala as it is considered to be the biggest house in Kerala. Architecture resembling a place with antique designs and furniture, double and triple height foyer, retaining the natural terrain of the hilly land of around four acres surrounded by lush green environment and state of the art amenities ranging from swimming pool, gymnasium and remote operated facilities are the highlights of the house which was designed by noted architect Jabar Bin Ahamed. Joy used to say that even as he traveled to many parts of the world, he often felt that Wayanad was the most beautiful part of the world and hence, he decided to construct the palatial house at his native place Wayanad. Son of a farmer in Wayanad, Joy started his career as an accountant in the Gulf, built up his business, mainly in petroleum and trading field over last two decades. Now Innova group has presence in many countries. Joy, known for is charity initiatives, recently joined hands with Aster DM Foundation by contributing 2.5 acres land in Wayanad where Aster would construct homes for the flood affected in Wayanad. Mohammed Shafi, a former police official of Wayanad, recollected how Joy chipped in to provide uniforms for school students for Student Cadet Police project's launch in the district. Wayanad district collector Adeela Abdullah said that there was a strong demand from many sections in the district to make arrangements for bringing Joy's body to his native place. The matter was pending with the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/wayanad-grieves-over-death-of-nri-known-for-charity-as-well-as-palatial-house-830091.html
26-04-2020||South||Block cremation of coronavirus victims in Tamil Nadu and face jail term||With incidents of disruptions reported at last rites of COVID-19 patients, Tamil Nadu Government on Sunday promulgated an ordinance making blocking or attempting to block cremation of patients dying from “notified disease” a punishable offence with a jail term of up to 3 years. Tamil Nadu, which had announced COVID-19 as a “notified disease” last month, said attempts to block or blocking last rites in a “dignified manner” would attract jail term under Section 74 of the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, that deals with disposal of bodies of persons dying while suffering from a notified disease. The state government said the ordinance was brought to prevent such incidents and make it a punishable offence to take stringent action against those who block or attempt to block last rites of patients. “Under the ordinance, those attempting or blocking to attempt the last rites of persons dying from notified disease will face a minimum of one year to a maximum of three years in jail,” a statement from the government said.   The government’s move comes exactly a week after a group of protesters blocked the burial of Dr. Simon Hercules, a neurosurgeon who died of COVID-19, here due to misconception that burial of such patients would spread the virus. A similar protest took place in Chennai on April 13 when hospital authorities went to a crematorium for the last rites of a deceased doctor from Andhra Pradesh, who died at a private hospital here. The violence at the burial of Dr. Simon – his body was buried by his colleague Dr. Pradeep Kumar in the dead of the night – has prompted the government to bring an ordinance to put an end to such incidents. Dr. Simon, Managing Director of New Hope Medical Centre here, passed away on April 19 and could not be given a proper burial due to protests from locals. After locals attacked the tiny gathering at the crematorium in Vellangadu near upscale Anna Nagar to bid goodbye to the doctor, a surgeon who had worked with the doctor took up the job on himself and buried his colleague with his bare hands in the dead of the night. “We (doctors) are humans too. This should not happen to anybody. The doctor was buried with nobody around him. Just me and two ward boys from our hospital were there. It is said that a man who served the society and lived for it went down with just three people around him,” Kumar, Orthopaedic, and Arthroscopy Surgeon, had told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/block-cremation-of-coronavirus-victims-in-tamil-nadu-and-face-jail-term-830109.html
26-04-2020||South||Blocking burial or cremation of victims of coronavirus to attract 3 years jail term in Tamil Nadu||Blocking the 'dignified' burial or cremation of people, who had died of a notified disease in Tamil Nadu will now attract a three-year prison term, an ordinance promulgated by the state government said. The move comes in the wake of public protests against the burial of two doctors who died of COVID-19 in the city recently, with one of them turning violent where agitators even attacked health workers and civic body staff. According to the ordinance, blocking or attempting to block the "dignified burial or cremation of those who had died of a notified disease" has been made a criminal offence, an official release here said. Under section 74 of The Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939, those indulging in such acts will have to face a minimum jail term of one year while the maximum award will be three years, the release added. The offence will also carry a fine, it said but did not specify.   In two separate incidents recently, two doctors died of coronavirus in the city but locals protested their burial on grounds of fears of the spread of the pandemic. On both occasions, the mortal remains were buried elsewhere after officials could not perform the formalities in the originally selected localities. Last week, an orthopaedic surgeon had to bury his associate, a neurosurgeon who died of COVID-19, in the middle of the night using bare hands and a shovel at a crematorium with the help of two hospital ward boys after the undertakers fled when a mob protesting the internment, attacked and chased them away. Over two dozen people have been arrested in connection with the incident, even as the City Police had warned of invoking the stringent Goondas Act against those preventing burial or victims of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/blocking-burial-or-cremation-of-victims-of-coronavirus-to-attract-3-years-jail-term-in-tamil-nadu-830114.html
26-04-2020||South||Wedding in Tamil Nadu conducted with only 8 guests due to coronavirus lockdown||Amid the lockdown, a marriage was solemnised at the Ayyappan Temple here on Sunday in a simple way, with just eight guests. The date for the marriage was fixed four months ago, even before the coronavirus attack and the elders decided to go ahead though in a simple manner. The lockdown and the spread of COVID-19 took the joy out of the ceremony. However, both the bride's and the bridegroom's parents decided to hold the wedding on the fixed date and solemnised the wedding on at the temple. While bridegroom P Ramesh hails from Tirupur, the bride K V Gayatri is from the city. The district administration had granted permission for four people from each side to participate in the wedding, a close relative from the bride's side said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/wedding-in-tamil-nadu-conducted-with-only-8-guests-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown-830119.html
26-04-2020||South||Chennai techie brings smiles on people’s faces with his noble work||31-year-old Dinesh Saravanan’s day begins early in the morning at 6 am. After criss-crossing his native town of Vellore for a few hours looking for the needy and helping them with food provisions in times of COVID-19 lockdown, he sits before a laptop to report to his office for the day. After logging out of work at around 9 pm, Saravanan takes up his notebook to draw a plan for his activities the next morning. With COVID-19 wrecking the lives of many, especially those from underprivileged sections, Saravanan has been on his toes since March 21 using his free time to help them by spending from his pocket. Active on Twitter, Saravanan’s posts helping the poor led to many people donate whatever they can to this software engineer to bring smiles on the faces of many more from the underprivileged sections. Saravanan, an analyst with a US-based communication technology company in Chennai, is now a popular man in Vellore, a town in North Tamil Nadu 140 km from Chennai, thanks to his services to the needy for the past few years.   With support from others and spending his own money, this young software analyst has so far distributed provisions and vegetables to 450 families in Vellore and is providing breakfast and lunch to around 80 people every day. He has identified the worst sufferers of the lockdown like migrants, washermen, road-side fruit sellers, and others by landing up at their doorsteps and pleasantly surprising them with provisions for about a month. On Saturday, he bought fruits from roadside vendors and distributed them to 100 families of sanitary workers. “Since March 21, I have spent Rs 1.5 lakh which includes my savings and the amount received from others. I never ask for donations from anyone, but people contact me after looking at my posts and contribute voluntarily. The smile on the faces of people when they receive help from me especially during these difficult times will motivate me to continue doing this,” Saravanan told DH. The software analyst also received recognition of sorts for his work on Saturday when Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami took to Twitter to congratulate Saravanan for using his “free time” qualitatively to help the people during their tough times and by distributing saplings. Hailing from a poor family, Saravanan began his social service in 2014 after his brother passed away following a road accident. He has so far distributed 18,000 saplings to households in and around Vellore and had helped build a toilet for a family that did not have one – Saravanan’s household did not have a latrine till he was 16. “My brother had been using his free time to help the poor and I took the responsibility from him after his death. Helping others is very satisfying and what I have understood over the years is that the intention to help others is what matters. Once you have the intention, you will find the ways and means,” Saravanan said. Tracing his journey since 2014, Saravanan said he kept aside Rs 5,000 from his salary every month for “others” in the beginning but that was not enough for his hunger to help the needy. That is when, Saravanan said, people slowly started reading about his work and began voluntary donations helping the software analyst widen his ambit. “The money that I could set aside after taking care of my expenses in Chennai wasn’t just enough. When people began contributing, I felt happy. And when someone donates money, I put the expenses on the public domain besides giving the actual break-up of the money spent to those who donate,” he said. Saravanan also takes help from his friends to find out the needy. A few days back, he had distributed relief materials to families of snake charmers who have lost their livelihood due to COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-techie-brings-smiles-on-people-s-faces-with-his-noble-work-830146.html
26-04-2020||South||Thai nationals in Tamil Nadu govt hospital allowed to observe Ramzan fasting amid coronavirus outbreak; traditional food arranged||Six Thailand nationals, arrested for violating the visa norms and undergoing treatment for COVID-19, have been permitted to observe Ramzan fasting within their ward at a government hospital near here, officials said on Sunday. Special arrangements were made for the Thai nationals after they informed the officials that they would observe fasting during the Islamic holy month, which started on April 25. They were provided the traditional food items such as dates and 'Nonbu' Kanji (gruel) inside their ward in the evening for breaking the fast and food till early morning for 'seheri' (feast taken before fasting). The foreign nationals, who tested positive for coronavirus, were undergoing treatment at Perundurai IRT Government Medical College hospital in the district when they were arrested for allegedly indulging in religious preaching in violation of visa norms this month. The arrest was effected days after cases were registered against them under relevant sections of IPC. Police personnel were posted outside the isolation ward of the hospital. The action was taken based on a complaint by local Tahsildar lodged with the police. The Thai Nationals, who possessed tourist visas engaged themselves in Islamic preaching despite suffering from COVID- 19, police said. In all, a group of seven Thailand nationals came here some three weeks ago, stayed at Kollampalayam Housing Unit complex and engaged themselves in preaching. One among them died due to kidney ailment at a government hospital in Coimbatore. The remaining six tested positive for coronavirus, prompting authorities to launch a massive contact tracing of those who had attended the preaching sessions and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/thai-nationals-in-tamil-nadu-govt-hospital-allowed-to-observe-ramzan-fasting-amid-coronavirus-outbreak-traditional-food-arranged-830177.html
26-04-2020||South||T S Tirumurtii to be appointed as India's new envoy to United Nations||T S Tirumurti, currently Secretary (Economic Relations) at the Ministry of External Affairs, will succeed Syed Akbaruddin as India’s envoy to the United Nations. Tirumurti, an Indian Foreign Service officer of 1985 batch, will take over from Akbaruddin, who is set to retire soon, sources in New Delhi said. He earlier served as India’s deputy envoy to Indonesia and High Commissioner to Malaysia before being appointed as Secretary (Economic Relations) at the MEA headquarters in February 2018. Akbaruddin took over as India’s permanent representative to the United Nations in New York in January 2016. His stellar stint as New Delhi’s envoy to the UN saw New Delhi succeeding to get the Security Council imposing sanctions on terrorist outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed’s leader Masood Azhar despite roadblocks created by China. He also took a lead role in foiling Pakistan’s bid to embarrass India by bringing the issue of Jammu and Kashmir back on the table of the security council – particularly after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government on August 5 last year stripped the state of its special status and reorganised it into two Union Territories. Tirumurti earlier headed the MEA division that manages India’s relations with Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Maldives and Myanmar as well as the division that oversees India’s engagements with the United Nations on economic and social issues. His stint as New Delhi’s envoy to the UN is going to be important as India is likely to be elected to a non-permanent seat at the security council for a two-year term from January 2021 to December 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/t-s-tirumurtii-to-be-appointed-as-indias-new-envoy-to-united-nations-830192.html
26-04-2020||South||Overnight heavy rains lash many parts of Chennai||Residents of this metropolis woke up to pleasant weather on Sunday with overnight rains lashing several parts of the city bringing much-needed respite from the sweltering heat. Incidents of trees and electric poles getting uprooted due to strong winds were also reported from some parts of the city. The city, which has been experiencing a hot climate for the past few days, remained chill throughout Sunday. The rains continued for over an hour in the morning preceded by strong winds. As a precautionary measure, the TNEB suspended power supply in many areas but restored it late in the morning. MeT department and independent weather bloggers said most parts of the state would experience rains for the next few days before the heatwave begins. “Rain chances exist for Chennai almost on all days till April 30th. After a break, high-intensity thunderstorms are popping up across Kerala and South TN areas,” independent weather blogger Pradeep John said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/overnight-heavy-rains-lash-many-parts-of-chennai-830208.html
26-04-2020||South||11 new coronavirus cases in Kerala, hotspots go up to 87||A doctor and two health workers were among the 11 people detected with COVID-19 in Kerala on Sunday, with the total positive cases so far touching 468. Of the six new cases from the high-range Idukki district, one person had returned from Spain and two from neighbouring Tamil Nadu and three, including a doctor, had been infected through contacts,Health Minister K K Shailaja said. Five cases were reported from Kottayam district-- one person had come from outside the state and the remaining, including two health workers, had been infected through contact, the minister said in a press release. With samples of four people-- one each from the districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Malappuram, Kannur and Kasaragod--, returning negative on Sunday, 342 have so far been cured of the infection. At least 20,127 people are under observation in various parts of the state, of whom 462 are in various hospitals, including 99 admitted on Sunday. The samples of 22,954 with symptoms have been sent for testing and 21,997 samples are negative. Kannur has the maximum number of positive cases-- 51, followed by Kasaragod 14. The state has 87 hotspots now with the addition of Chattannurand Shasthamcottafrom Kollam and Manarkkadin Kottayam finding a place in the list.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/11-new-coronavirus-cases-in-kerala-hotspots-go-up-to-87-830211.html
26-04-2020||South||Number of recovered COVID-19 patients crosses 1,000 mark in Tamil Nadu||A 42-year old man died of COVID-19 here, the 24th victim to the infection in Tamil Nadu as 64 more people tested positive for coronavirus in the State on Sunday taking the tally to 1,885, authorities said. As many as 60 people were discharged from various hospitals in the State today and the number of recovered patients has now crossed the 1,000 marks with a total of 1,020 people getting cured of the infection. The State capital, which has all along been leading the red zone, added 28 cases today including a nine-year-old boy and the aggregate number here stood at 523 crossing the 500 marks. On Saturday, the Chennai district had 495 virus cases. A 42-year old man admitted at a private hospital here died due to COVID-19 last evening, a government bulletin said and with the man's death the toll due to the infection in Tamil Nadu has gone up to 24. The bulletin said of the 64 who have tested positive, 39 were men and 25 women and as on date, the active cases were 838. The total number of people who have so far tested positive in the State stood at 1,885, it said. On Saturday, 94 people were discharged following recovery while 66 tested positive, which was the third day of more people getting cured than those who had newly contracted the contagion. On April 23, a total of 54 new cases were reported and 90 people were discharged that day and the following day, 72 tested positive and 114 got cured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/number-of-recovered-covid-19-patients-crosses-1000-mark-in-tamil-nadu-830228.html
26-04-2020||South||From truck drivers to street performers, Amma Canteens, a boon during lockdown in urban Tamil Nadu||Started as a pioneering scheme to offer meals at highly subsidised prices, the Amma Canteens in Tamil Nadu have turned out to be the saviour during the COVID-19 national lockdown, helping all sections, including guest workers, truck drivers and even the middle class. Though largely the working classes, including migrant workers, and the indigent people, depend on Amma Canteens, a pet scheme of late chief minister Jayalalithaa, now these have come as a boon to several others who are feeling the pinch of the lockdown with pay cuts and loss of jobs. What's more, the ruling AIADMK has started bearing the cost of the food served by the canteens in several cities and towns, making it free for the customers.  Of the 650 plus Amma Canteens, run by local bodies, scattered across the state, Chennai alone has 407, over two thirds, and dish out idlies for breakfast, variety rice for lunch and chapathis for dinner and have come in for appreciation for the quality. "I had a wrong impression previously that the food quality here is not good. But actually it is good and on par with other eateries. During these times of financial distress, Amma Canteens are a boon," a young man, who lost his information technology job a few months ago, said. The man turned up with tiffin boxes to take home food at the city's Madipakkam locality where a large number of people thronged the canteen on Sunday, which also happened to be the first day of the four-day complete shutdown announced by the government in major cities, including Chennai, to check spread of the coronavirus. With the government announcing that all shops would remain closed during the four days, only the Amma Canteens, named so after Jayalalithaa, fondly called by her supporters as "Amma" (mother), were abuzz with activity. A variety of people such as truck drivers, guest workers, and also men and women from middle and upper middle classes could be seen arriving to eat or take food home as staffers were busy cooking and cleaning up. As a mini-truck arrived at one such eatery in the sprawling but empty Madipakkam bus terminus on Sunday afternoon, the driver and another man got down from the vehicle hurriedly and walked up to the outlet and asked if "anything" was available to eat. When pat came the reply, "only sambar and curd rice right now" the duo was apparently relieved as it was not available anywhere else.  Usually, the Amma canteens do not offer take away but it is now allowed. A V Ganesan, a priest in a small local temple, said he was happy that Amma canteens were open. "The LPG cylinder in my home has gone dry and this canteen is close to my home, and I can eat or take home food," he said. Free food was now a boon since many like him, who work in temples. have virtually no income, he added. In another locality, a couple of women and children, part of a group of street performers from Chattisgarh, are visually relieved that the canteens are serving food free during the lockdown. "These are very tough times for us as there is no income and the canteens are no doubt a boon, it is a boon," a young mother of two children said in a mixture of broken Tamil and Hindi. In fact, it is a repeat of such scenes in several areas of the city and especially in north Chennai which has a sizable chunk of labour class population. At one such canteen in Vyasarpadi, people could be seen standing in serpentine queues on Sunday, but maintaining social distancing. An Inter-Ministerial Central Team to assess the COVID-19 situation in Tamil Nadu also visited a canteen on Kamarajar Salai here. An official told PTI that a special fund allocation of Rs 19.54 crore has been made for Chennai Corporation Amma Canteens and as a whole Rs 31.39 crore has been earmarked for all the eateries in the state. In Chennai alone 4.5 lakh people eat food at the canteens every day while the rest of the state sees about 6.25 lakh footfall. Since the start of the lockdown period, over 140.38 lakh idlis, 53.24 lakh rice items, and 37.85 lakh pieces of chappathis have been distributed, benefiting about 85 lakh people, the official said. Launched by Jayalalithaa years ago, the canteens offer idlis at a cost of Rs one each, two pieces of roti at Rs 3, Pongal Rs 5 and rice varieties including sambar, lemon and curd at Rs 5 a plate. Now the food is being offered free of cost with the AIADMK's local units footing the bill in major cities of Chennai, Salem and Coimbatore besides some other places in view of the lockdown. In Salem, the home district of Chief Minister K Palaniswami in western Tamil Nadu, eggs are being served free in addition to the regular menu, officials said. The state governments of Karnataka and Rajasthan had launched Indira Canteens and Annapurna Rasoi respectively inspired by the Amma Canteens. Across Tamil Nadu, there are 658 Amma Canteens, including around 250 outside Chennai under 14 corporations and 121 municipalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/from-truck-drivers-to-street-performers-amma-canteens-a-boon-during-lockdown-in-urban-tamil-nadu-830236.html
26-04-2020||South||Telangana becomes ninth state to cross 1000 coronavirus cases||Telangana has reported 11 COVID-19 cases on Sunday, making it the ninth state in the country to have crossed the 1000 mark. On Saturday, neighboring Andhra Pradesh became the eighth state to have crossed 1000 cases. AP now has 1097 cases, with 231 recoveries and 31 deaths.   Telangana, which reported its first COVID-19 patient on March 2 – a Bangalore working techie who returned from a Dubai assignment - has a total 1001 recorded cases, with 316 recoveries and 25 deaths. 660 patients are under treatment at present. While most of Telangana’s cases are those connected to the Tablighi Jamaat’s Nizamuddin Markaz, more than half i.e. 540 are those reported from the capital area – the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation jurisdiction.     However, Suryapet district in South-East Telangana bordering Andhra Pradesh and Gadwal in South Telangana adjacent to Karnataka turned hot spots of serious concern in the last week, with alarming number of cases reported from the small districts with relatively lesser urbanisation. On Tuesday alone Suryapet, thorough which the Hyderabad-Vijayawada highway runs, has reported 26 cases. The district’s total cases are now at 83, making it second after Hyderabad with most COVID-19 cases.     The sudden spike in numbers from rural districts had prompted Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to send a high-level committee comprising the state chief secretary, DGP and health secretary to Suryapet and Gadwal to assess the ground situation. Strict implementation of the lockdown, and contact tracing of the patients etc. have been intensified, following the committee’s report to the CM.   Several areas of Suryapet town are declared as containment zones and essential commodities including Ramzan supplies are being delivered to the households.   Another concerning aspect of Telangana’s COVID-19 cases is several people from within a family getting infected with the virus. According to health minister Etela Rajender, the 83 positive cases in Suryapet district are from 25 families and Gadwal’s 45 cases are from 30 families. Vikarabad district’s 37 cases are from 14 families. 265 COVID-19 positive people are from 44 families in GHMC, which in total has reported 540 COVID-19 cases. “The number of families affected is less but on average each of these families reported 6-7 cases, with infections in some of families being as high as 21 cases,” Etela said. The shocking concentration of cases, the officials stated, has in a way helped contain the areas immediately and thus, lessen the spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-becomes-ninth-state-to-cross-1000-coronavirus-cases-830238.html
26-04-2020||South||Andhra Raj Bhavan staff nurse tests COVID-19 positive||A staff nurse at Raj Bhavan in Andhra Pradesh tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday, official sources said. The woman was part of a medical team stationed at the Governor's official residence in Vijayawada. She has been admitted to the designated COVID-19 hospital there for treatment, they said. A couple of more police stations in Vijayawada city also were affected as some officers and men got afflicted with the virus, the sources said. Krishna District Collector A Md Imtiaz and Vijayawada Police Commissioner Ch Dwaraka Tirumala Rao toured Krishna Lanka in the city, where some 24 people tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. They appealed to people to strictly adhere to the lockdown norms and not to venture out of their homes to prevent further spread of the pandemic. Of the 177 COVID-19 cases registered in Krishna district, 150 were in Vijayawada city alone, they said. Meanwhile, information received at the state headquarters said a woman police official, posted in a mandal bordering Tamil Nadu, in Chittoor district contracted the disease on Sunday. In Anantapuramu district, the two doctors and two paramedics who tested positive for coronavirus early this month had recovered and been discharged from hospital. State Deputy Chief Minister (Health) A K K Srinivas visited Srikakulam on Sunday to take stock of the situation as three COVID-19 cases were suddenly reported in the district. Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy spoke to Union Home Minister Amit Shah over phone and explained the steps being taken by the state government to increase the number of tests. "With 1274 tests per million population, AP is top in the country. We are also effectively implementing the lockdown," a CMO release said quoting Jagan as telling Shah. The Chief Minister also announced payment of Rs 2000 each to the COVID-19 patients discharged from hospitals after recovering. So far 231 patients were discharged in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-raj-bhavan-staff-nurse-tests-covid-19-positive-830259.html
26-04-2020||South||Frontline coronavirus warriors to get multi-vitamin pills in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu government employees, including healthcare and police personnel, involved in the fight against COVID-19 will be provided multi-vitamin tablets to boost their immunity, Chief Minister K Palaniswami announced on Sunday. For all employees working in the field from departments, including public health, revenue, local administration and police, will be provided zinc and multi-vitamin tablets for10 days from tomorrow, he said in an official release here. The employees have already been provided with personal protective equipment including face masks, he added. Coronavirus has claimed 24 lives and affected over 1,800 in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/frontline-coronavirus-warriors-to-get-multi-vitamin-pills-in-tamil-nadu-830282.html
26-04-2020||State||Third Covid-19 case stayed at 3 masjids before testing positive||It is now learnt that P-447, Tumakuru's third Covid-19 positive case, stayed at three different masjids before he was diagnosed with having the pandemic. He tested positive on April 24. Health Department sources said that the Covid-19 patient left via Gandhidam Express from Surat in Gujarat on March 10. He was on the train till 1 am on March 12. On reaching Tumakuru at night, he stayed at the Jamia Masjid in Mandipet. He traveled by autorickshaw. He stayed at the masjid till March 15. On March 15, he went to Khuba Masjid in Rahmatnagar by auto and stayed there till March 21. From there he came back to Jamia Masjid on March 22 and stayed there for a day. Then he went to Nimra Masjid in Poorhouse Colony on March 23. He stayed there from March 23 to April 18 and was taken to the district hospital on April 19. His throat swab and blood samples were taken and he was quarantined in the masjid. On March 24, it was discovered that he had Covid-19.  Containment zone In view of the above developments, Deputy Commissioner K Rakesh Kumar has declared Maralur Dinne and Mandipet as buffer zones and ordered Health Department and Asha workers to carry out door-to-door survey of the areas for people with symptoms.  PH Colony, where P-447 lived, has been declared a containment zone. There are 452 houses and over 1,900 people here. Using 15 volunteers, essentials are being delivered to doorsteps. A one-kilometer radius around the containment zone has been declared an 'intensive buffer zone'. There are 860 houses here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/third-covid-19-case-stayed-at-3-masjids-before-testing-positive-830144.html
26-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Woman dies of coronavirus in Karnatka; Only 3 new cases reported||Marking a dip, Karnataka on Sunday reported just three new COVID-19 cases while a woman died of the disease and 24 people were discharged, the Health department said. The toll due to COVID-19 in the state rose to 19 while the total cases to 503, including 182 discharges. The state saw a drop in new cases after 26 people tested positive on Saturday, 29 on Friday and 18 on Thursday. A 45-year old woman, a resident of Bengaluru Urban district, admitted to the designated hospital on Friday with the complaint of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI), died on Sunday, a bulletin said. The woman, who had tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday itself, also had pneumonia besides being a known case of diabetic with past history of tuberculosis, it said. Among the three new cases on Sunday, a 47-year-old woman was from Panemangalore in Dakshina Kannada and a 65-year-old woman and a seven-year-old boy were from Kalaburagi. Meanwhile, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa appealed to the ministers, MPs and MLAs and the officials to strictly adhere to social distancing and set an example for others. "Social distancing is the only way to safeguard against COVID-19 and prevent it from spreading further. Hence, the ministers, MPs, MLAs and officials should abide by it to set an example for others. Let us mandatorily follow the social distancing," Yediyurappa tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/woman-dies-of-coronavirus-in-karnatka-only-3-new-cases-reported-830195.html
26-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Powerlifter Akshata does ‘well during lockdown break’||International powerlifter Akshata Poojary and family members dug a well on their own during the lockdown period, at Bola in Karkala taluk. The Ekalavya awardee, joined by her brothers Ashok, Arun and nephews and nieces dug a 25-feet deep well. “We did not have any experience in digging well. The existing well in the house was old and was not used in recent years. Instead of sitting idle at home, we decided to dig a well.  And in our maiden attempt itself, we did well,” a beaming Akshata said. Poojary, who has won a handful of medals in the national bench press powerlifting competitions, decided to go on her own after she failed to get labourers for the task. Family members joined in her endeavour.  “We did not have any experience. Using spade and other required equipment available in the house, we begun digging. With seven family members joining hands, we dug a 25-feet-deep well in a week. The lockdown holiday has taught us an important lesson in life,” says Arun, her brother.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/powerlifter-akshata-does-well-during-lockdown-break-830271.html
26-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KSRTC to convert buses, lorries into mobile vegetable markets||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC)will soon convert its old buses to run them as mobile vegetable shops in Covid-19 containment areas. The government the government has taken the responsibility of supplying materials to the doorstep in areas declared as contaiment zones. "We are now working on converting the 50 lorries. In addition, the roof of the old buses are being removed to transform the vehicles. These will be deployed in Mysuru, Bengaluru and other Covid-19 hotspots," KSRTC managing director Shivayogi C Kalasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ksrtc-to-convert-buses-lorries-into-mobile-vegetable-markets-830272.html
26-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Five child marriages prevented in Bagalkot, Ballari||Five child marriages, four in Ballari district and one in Bagalkot district, were prevented by officials on Sunday. Teams of officials raided separately at Yalpi village in Ballari taluk, Ballari town, Gudekote village in Kudligi taluk and Metriki village in Sandur taluk in Ballari district. They obtained affidavits from parents against conducting the child marriage. At Malali village in Mudhol taluk in Bagalkot district, preparations were being made for the wedding of a 16-year-old girl preparing for SSLC examinations. A 36-year-old man was about to marry her. Based on complaints received at the child helpline number-1098, a total of eight child marriages have been prevented during the lockdown period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/five-child-marriages-prevented-in-bagalkot-ballari-830276.html
26-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||100-metre area around Ramanagara prison sealed down||The district administration sealed down the 100 metre area around the district prison on Sunday after five inmates tested positive for novel coronavirus. The entire area housing block-6, the prison, offices of deputy commissioner, sericulture department and pollution control board has been declared as containment area. “About 22 residents of block-6 have been directed to be inside houses for 28 days. The deputy commissioner’s office will remain open for the  smooth business of the administration. A decision to ban visits of public to the DC office will be taken soon,” City Municipal Council commissioner Shubha, the special officer to monitor situation in the containment, told DH. Barricades were placed on Sunday to seal down the entire area. There is now only one point for the entry and the exit. Additional forces have been deployed near the entry point. A WhatsApp group of the residents has been created for the supply of materials. An official has been appointed to supply the materials. Residents have been requested to demand materials of their choices in the group itself, she said The seal down would be withdrawn if no cases of Covid-19 were reported in 28 days, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/100-metre-area-around-ramanagara-prison-sealed-down-830277.html
26-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Recovered patients outnumber new coronavirus cases in Karnataka||In some good news amid the virus gloom, for the first time since the first reported case (on March 8), the state, on Sunday, witnessed the number of patients discharged outnumber the new cases. While 24 patients walked out of the hospitals after recovery, only three new cases were reported in the state on Sunday. So far, the state has reported 503 Covid-19 cases . Of which, 302 are active cases while 182 patients have recovered from the illness. The death toll has gone up to 19. The day saw two patients each from Belagavi and Ballari and one from Vijayapura walk out of the hospital. A 48-year-old woman from S R Nagar in Hosapete and a man from Guggarahalli in Ballari were accorded a warm farewell, at the time of their discharge, by the the staff of the designated Covid-19 hospital in Ballari. The two were sent to their respective houses by theambulance. Since April 23, three people have been discharged after they recovered from Covid-19. So far, the number of people discharged from the hospital has gone up to five.  At present, eight patients are being treated at isolation wards and all of them are recovering, according to sources. The first cases of Covid-19 were reported in the district on March 30 when three members of a family tested positive for novel coronavirus. Hosapete alone in the district reported 11 positive cases. Four of them have recovered and seven others are being treated the hospital. Belagavi couple recovers  A couple from Hirebagewadi in Belagavi district were discharged from the BIMS Hospital, a designated Covid-19 hospital in the district, on Sunday, said Dr Vinay Dastikoppa, Director, BIMS. The couple - a 50-year-old man (P-182) and his 40-year-old wife (P-192) - were admitted to the hospital on April 3. So far, six patients from the district have been discharged, he said. The district has 47 active cases, as on Sunday (April 26). First Vijayapura patient discharged The first Covid-19 patient from Vijayapura district (Patient 221) on Sunday returned home after recovery. The hospital staff and a host of police and the district officials clapped and greeted as the 62-year-old woman from Chapparband Galli walked out of the hospital hale and hearty. The woman will be placed in a 14-day quarantine and the follow-up treatment will continue, said District Surgeon Dr Sharanappa Katti. He added, four other patients have recovered and will be discharged on Monday, subject to lab reports. A total of 36 patients, including two pregnant women and eight children, are doing well. Head constable, acancer patient, isbeing treated at ICU.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/recovered-patients-outnumber-new-coronavirus-cases-in-karnataka-830278.html
26-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Edu dept launches website to monitor midday meal scheme||The department of Public Instruction (DPI) had developed a website for the effective implementation of mid-day meal scheme in schools, said the deputy director of the department of public instruction K Rathnaiah. He was speaking to reporters here on Sunday. He said that the proposed move also intended to reduce burden on headmasters in schools. “The website has been introduced on experimental basis in Bengaluru rural, Sandur taluk in Ballari district and Yadgir taluk in Yadgir district. Response has been good,” he said. Rathnaiah said that the commissioner of the department had issued a circular in this regard. “The objectives of the website include supervision of officials at school, cluster, taluk and district-levels. It also helps the evaluation process. The website helps enter demand for food grains based on beneficiaries, uploading of data and to maintain transparency,” he said. He said that all government, government aided primary and high schools had been directed to upload the details for the year 2020-21 without fail. The commissioner had directed the head masters to use Rs 250 in the available grants every month as internet charges to ensure installation of the website. “Training is being imparted at the district-level from resources persons for the installation of the website. The commissioner has directed to identify the expert resources persons and deploy them at taluks for the installation works. The state-level training programme will be held at Shikshakara Sadana in Bengaluru on April 30,” he said. Rathnaiah said that the district-level training would be held at the district headquarters on May 2. Akshara Dasoha scheme assistant directors and subject managers had been asked to attend. Training will be imparted to head masters and cluster resources persons at taluk-level on May 6. “The head masters will upload the data on experimental basis from May 15,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/edu-dept-launches-website-to-monitor-midday-meal-scheme-830280.html
26-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CM B S Yediyurappa assures loan repayment to Karnataka students in UK||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday assured students from Karnataka in the United Kingdom, that he would write to the banks for an extension to pay EMI's on their loans. During a video conference held with Kannadigas in London, representatives of Kannada Balaga raised concerns about the problems faced by the students. Saravana Gurumurthy of the Balaga said that students who had taken education loans to study in the UK were now struggling. In the meeting, Robert Buckland, secretary of state for Justice, explained Yediyurappa the measures taken by UK to contain the pandemic, according to a release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-assures-loan-repayment-to-karnataka-students-in-uk-830285.html
26-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Ministers test negative for coronavirus||Both Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar have tested negative for coronavirus. The duo was tested as a precaution on Saturday, following their visits to hospitals and other facilities for Covid-19 patients. The results of their tests were declared on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-ministers-test-negative-for-coronavirus-830286.html
26-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KMF okays sales of fruits, veggies at Nandini milk parlours||The Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) has agreed to allow sale of farm produces at Nandini milk parlours. The Horticulture department had made a request to the Federation in this regard. The KMF has taken the decision to help farmers during the lockdown period. The KMF would provide free drinking water, butter milk, hand sanitiser and masks to farmers bringing vegetables and fruits for sales. There are 98 Nandini parlours in Chikkaballapur district. The following numbers may be contacted for further details: deputy director of horticulture department (9448999242) and the taluk senior assistant horticulture directors: Chikkaballapur (9342959690),  Chintamani (9902581832), Gauribidanur (9964749681), Shidlaghatta (8073334003), Bagepalli (7899890552) and Gudibande (9964749681)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kmf-okays-sales-of-fruits-veggies-at-nandini-milk-parlours-830288.html
26-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Stranded migrant workers from Bagalkot return home||Migrant workers from the district, who were stranded at Puttur, returned to their natives in a KSRTC bus arranged by the Dakshina Kannada district administration onSaturday. A total of 39 migrant workers from Bagalkot, Badami and Hungund taluks were provided with shelter and food at Puttur Mahalingeshwara Temple after the nationwide lockdown was clamped to mitigate the virus spread. The district administration ferried the migrant workers, who’d completed a 28-day quarantine and tested negative for COVID-19, to their native in KSRTC bus The bus left Puttur on Friday midnight and reached Bagalkot on Saturday afternoon. Workers were dropped at their native villages. The Dakshina Kannada district administration had arranged for enough food, water and masks for the workers. In the last two days, more than 50 buses from KSRTC Mangaluru and Puttur divisions were roped in to ferry migrant workers to their native towns and villages. The district administration has made necessary arrangements to send labourers, stranded in various parts of the district, to their natives following the order by the state government to send workers to their native villages for agricultural work or to cities for construction activities within the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-stranded-migrant-workers-from-bagalkot-return-home-830289.html
26-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||297 Bengaluru journos test negative for COVID-19||Nearly 300 journalists who underwent a medical examination in the city for coronavirus have tested negative for the disease, Department of information and public relation said on Sunday. The results of as many as 297 scribes, who had undergone tests on Friday, came out negative, the Joint Director (News) D P Muralidhar said in a statement. "I am glad to announce that the results of the medical check-up for media persons working in Bengaluru pertaining to COVID-19 organised by the Department of Health and Family Welfare at the Sir C V Raman General Hospital at Indira Nagar in Bengaluru on April 24 on Friday, says 'Negative'," the statement read. The tests have been planned in four slots. The first three happened on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The fourth slot is likely to happen on Monday. The tests conducted on Thursday on 120 journalists confirmed the presence of COVID-19 in only one person, who is a cameraman working in a private news channel. Accordingly, he has been admitted to the designated hospital whereas 36 others have been quarantined and were his primary and secondary contacts. The results of the tests conducted on 345 journalists on Saturday is likely to be out on Monday or Tuesday, Muralidhar told PTI. In all, 762 journalists have undergone tests, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/297-bengaluru-journos-test-negative-for-covid-19-830295.html
26-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka records just 3 new cases, lowest since March 18||In an incredible downturn, the state reported only three new Covid-19 cases on Sunday. These figures constitute the lowest COVID-19 increase in the state, since March 18, also when only three cases were reported. However, the state witnessed its 19th fatality on Sunday with a 45-year-old woman (Patient 465), a Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) case died at Victoria Hospital.  The woman was admitted to RGICD on April 24 but was subsequently moved to ventilator support at Victoria Hospital until Sunday morning, when she succumbed to complications arising from SARI. Three of relatives have also tested positive for coronavirus and are undergoing treatment at the hospital. According to Health department officials, the woman had visited a maternity hospital run by BBMP at Moodalapalya (Ward 127), for bleeding, last week. Among the three new cases reported on Sunday, two from Kalaburagi, including a seven-year-old boy, tested positive while one from Dakshina Kannada contracted the coronavirus. The most illustrative is the case of Patient 503, a seven-year-old boy from Kalaburagi who is a secondary contact of Patient 425, a 26-year-old woman. However, Patient 425 is herself a contact of Patient 395, a 19-year-old man who was diagnosed as positive on April 20. Patient 395 is a contact of Patient 205, a 55-year-old man who died on April 14 due to complications from the virus. Curiously, Patient 205 only had contact with a person who had returned from Delhi but had tested negative for the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-records-just-3-new-cases-lowest-since-march-18-830296.html
26-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, coronavirus screening in ambulances in Karnataka||The state government has decided to test those coming in contact with coronavirus patients at containment areas itself.   “Suggestions were made throat swabs and blood samples should be tested at 108 ambulances at the containment zones. In the first phase, those coming in contact with COVID-19 patients will be tested at containment zones,” Health Minister B Sriramulu told reporters here on Sunday. He said that the number of patients recovering from COVID-19 was on the rise. The plasma therapy would be conducted from Monday which would further improve the recovery rate in the state. “Based on the letter written to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa by the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah, I have directed deputy commissioners of all districts to issue passes to those suffering from dengue fever and cardiovascular diseases,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-coronavirus-screening-in-ambulances-in-karnataka-830298.html
26-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown relaxation by Centre won’t help, say builders||The lockdown relaxation provisions provided by the Union government to the construction industry, to infuse new blood into the dwindling economy, has turned out to be a hot potato as the majority of the builders say ‘all the advices’ cannot be followed. The builders say that they would prefer to wait till the complete lifting of lockdown than commencing work right now as complying with the government suggestions would only add to their already stressed balance-sheets. Moreover, they say, with a majority of the migrant labourers heading back to their natives, finding even minimum number of labourers would be cumbersome for them. For over a month now, the industries supplying raw material such as cement, steel and sand, have shut their machines, so the builders fear that getting raw material transported during these strict restriction times is also a challenge. Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) State President Austin Roach said there is little clarity from State and Central governments related to the relaxation provided to the construction industries. “We are keen to commence the work. However, till governments give a clear picture on the relaxation provided to the builders, not many would be keen to start the construction,” he said. Majority of the real estate development work is taking place in urban and metropolitan cities. However, with most of the bigger cities coming under ‘Red zone’ of lockdown and Union government giving provisions for construction work only in ‘Green zone’, CREDAI Bengaluru unit president Kishore Jain feels the relaxation would not help majority of the builders in state. While CREDAI, Karnataka, does not have the exact figures of migrant labourers working in construction industries, both Austin and Kishore said the majority of them, especially the unskilled labourers, are from either North Karnataka or North India and have returned home. For a small-scale builder like Amit Rao in Hubballi, restarting his budget apartment project by housing all the labourers at the construction site by providing them food and other basic amenities along with their daily wages, only means stretching the budget. “At a time when people are not coming forward to buy property, providing food and shelter to labourers would mean an additional burden on the builders,” he said and added that they can neither postpone the work, as RBI has just postponed the EMIs and not them waivedof them.   Kishore says like Union government, builders too have limited resources and with the burden of EMIs, utility charges to Escoms, property taxes and others, the builders cannot stretch beyond a point. “Without government’s support the industry will die soon,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-relaxation-by-centre-won-t-help-say-builders-830300.html
26-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru emerges hub for coverall production||Bengaluru has emerged as the manufacturing hub for coveralls, a key component of the personal protective equipment mandatory for health workers leading the fight against Covid-19. Industrial units in and around the Karnataka capital have been producing 50% of the one lakh coveralls being manufactured every day after the government moved in to promote domestic production to overcome the shortage of the protective gear. Since the Centre eased norms for coverall production, Indian manufacturers have stepped in to set up production capacity of one lakh coveralls per day. “Bengaluru has become a major hub for PPE coverall production in the country to combat Covid-19 cases. Nearly 50% of the coverall production in the country is from Bengaluru,” a Textile Ministry statement said. Besides Bengaluru, PPE Coveralls were also being manufactured by approved production units in Tirupur, Chennai and Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu, Ahmedabad and Vadodara in Gujarat, Phagwara and Ludhiana in Punjab, Kusumnagar and Bhiwandi in Maharashtra, Dungarpur in Rajasthan, Noida in Uttar Pradesh, Gurugram in Haryana, Kolkata and Delhi. As Covid-19 pandemic spread across the world, international suppliers of coveralls had expressed their inability to keep up with the supplies, owing to global demand. The Health Ministry finalised the technical requirements on March 2 based on the indigenous availability of materials, clearing the way for domestic production of coveralls. Utilising the opportunity, Indian manufacturers have come up with quality raw materials that were approved by South Indian Textile Research Association (SITRA) that deals in textiles used in medical equipment. HLL Lifecare Limited, the designated single-window procurement agency for hospitals and healthcare organisations under the Health Ministry, published the specifications on March 5, inviting manufacturers to participate in the procurement process. Tests & certification Besides SITRA, three more laboratories have the Synthetic Blood Penetration Resistance Test facilities as well as necessary approvals for conducting tests and certification for Body Coveralls. These are – Defence Research and Development Establishment (DRDE), Gwalior, and two laboratories under Ordnance Factory Board – Heavy Vehicles Factory, Avadi and Small Arms Factory, Kanpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-emerges-hub-for-coverall-production-830302.html
26-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||A red-letter day: volunteers give blood, motivate others to do so||A group of voluntary blood donors in Davangere town have come together to contribute their bit in the fight against Covid-19. They have not just donated blood themselves, they have also encouraged several others to do so. As many as 220 donors have so far donated blood, responding to the call given by Life Line Blood Bank, of Karnataka Haemophilia Society (KHS), Davangere. Soon after the lockdown, the blood bank took to social media platforms, requesting people to donate blood to save lives. KHS launched the campaign ‘Life Line’ to encourage voluntary blood donation about 20 years ago. The campaign ended in commissioning of the blood bank. According to Dr M M Daddikoppad, the blood bank officer, they anticipated shortage of blood as India began reporting Covid-19 cases. Availability of blood has come down by 40% after the lockdown was enforced.  “We wanted to handle any situation arising out of blood donation camps not being organised. We contacted our donors and made a request on social media platforms,” Daddikoppad told DH. The blood bank has been able to collect over 210 units of blood in the last one month. “We knew availability of blood would be a problem. I wanted to do something in the wake of Covid-19 and voluntarily donated blood,” Lohit S Hatti, a donor, told DH. About 50 people donated blood for the first time in their lives. Based on the need and request, the blood bank provided blood to nursing homes, hospitals and the district hospital. “The blood was given free to patients suffering from haemophilia and thalassaemia. It was also used to treat other bleeding disorders,” Dr Suresh Hanagawadi, president, KHS, said. According to some donors, they did face hurdles on the way to the blood bank. However, the health officials and the police, on learning about the noble cause, granted permission to go to the blood bank. “We take utmost precaution as per the guidelines before collecting blood. We complete the required procedures before the blood collection,” Daddikoppad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/a-red-letter-day-volunteers-give-blood-motivate-others-to-do-so-830303.html
26-04-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: MHA relaxation orders not applicable for Pune, say police||The orders issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for relaxation of lockdown will not be applicable for Pune city, Joint Commissioner of Police Ravindra Shisve said on Saturday. The MHA had clarified that relaxation orders were not applicable for the areas affected by the coronavirus pandemic, he said. Therefore, the orders issued by the local police officials to prevent the spread of coronavirus will remain in force, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-mha-relaxation-orders-not-applicable-for-pune-say-police-829965.html
26-04-2020||West||Maharashtra Govt issues preventive guidelines for essential service staff||With some of its employees testing positive for coronavirus, the Maharashtra government on Saturday came out with a circular stressing the importance of social distancing, hygiene and wearing of protection gear. Some government staff involved in maintenance of essential services in the state have tested positive for the disease, the circular issued by the public health department said. Employees should wear masks, hand gloves and if necessary, aprons, and ensure that soap, water and hand sanitisers (with at least 60 per cent alcohol) are available at workplaces, it added. "Wash your hands applying soap and with water for at least 20 seconds before beginning your daily work. Use hand gloves then. Do not touch (your) face, eyes, nose and mouth. Avoid putting hand gloves in pockets," the circular said. The objects which are touched often, such as door handles and taps, should be disinfected every two-three hours with a liquid containing one percent sodium hypochlorite, it said. There should be a distance of at least one metre between two employees at the workplace, the circular said. "Use speaker mode while using mobile phone. Avoid contact of mobile phone with face whenever possible," it added. "Take bath using soap and water immediately after reaching home if there is no facility to take bath at office or place of duty," the circular said. Sanitation, health and police department officials and staff should use personal protection equipment, it said. "All officials and staff should not use or handle each other's mobile phones, handkerchiefs, water bottles, glasses, etc," the circular said. "All department heads should ensure supply of the personal protection kit, hand gloves, apron, jacket, masks, soap and sanitisers as per requirement, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-issues-preventive-guidelines-for-essential-service-staff-829970.html
26-04-2020||West||AIAI fears extension of lockdown could lead to job, business loss||Extension ot lockdown in the Mumbai-Pune that accounts for a large percentage of trade, business and employment would have negative impact on economic growth, says the All India Association of Industries (AIAI). More than 25 lakh people mostly in retail, small and micro units, maay of whom are daily wage earners will be left with no means of employment if lockdown continues, says AIAI president Vijay Kalantri. "What the workers need is cash to buy their daily bread and they have no cash now," he said. "Moreover, how are businesses going to pay salaries because of heavy cumulative losses," he said, adding that the MSME sector in Mumbai and Pune are worst affected. The AIAI has called for phased withdrawal of lockdown and ensure survival of jobs and business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aiai-fears-extension-of-lockdown-could-lead-to-job-business-loss-829991.html
26-04-2020||West||COVID-19: Multi-pronged strategy for Dharavi||With no let-up in the spike in cases in Dharavi, the Maharashtra government and the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai have come up with a multi-pronged strategy to arrest the spread of COVID-19 in Asia's biggest slum cluster. Dharavi, spread across 2.1 sq km, is home to seven to 10 lakh people and sandwiched between the Central and Western suburban railway lines of Mumbai. The COVID-19 hotspot of Dharavi falls between the Sion, Matunga, Mahim and Bandra areas. Approximately 250 cases and 14 deaths have been reported from Dharavi and a large part has been turned into a containment zone. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has been taking regular reviews on Dharavi and neighbourhood areas. Dharavi also is home to migrants and daily wage earners, and they are now stranded. The Inter-Ministerial Central Team (ICMT) had visited Dharavi along with Maharashtra’s Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope. MCGM has plans to distribute hydroxychloroquine tablets to people who are in the containment zone. Besides, pool testing and plasma therapy would also commence. In Dharavi and its neighbourhood areas, several schools, colleges, community halls and institutes have been acquired as quarantine facilities. "As of now, family members and close contacts of positive patients have been in home quarantine. We will send them to institutional quarantine," said Tope. According to MCGM, over 1.5 lakh are in the containment zone in Dharavi and essentials are being delivered to their doorsteps. In the fever camps, several persons have been screened. In a related development, the Mahim-Dharavi Medical Practitioners Association met MCGM officials and gave assurance that clinics would open. The worst-affected areas of Dharavi are Dr Baliga Nagar, Muslim Colony, Social Nagar and Kalyanwadi. "Door-to-door screening is also being done," officials said. In Dharavi, a 300-bed quarantine centre at the Rajiv Gandhi Sports Complex is operational and a 600-bed facility is being created in Dharavi Municipal School.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-multi-pronged-strategy-for-dharavi-830042.html
26-04-2020||West||COVID-19 claims lives of two Mumbai cops||While head constable Chandrakant  Pendhurkar (57) died on Saturday, head constable Sandeep Surve (52) passed away on Sunday. Both were fighting COVID-19 for the past few days. "The Mumbai police lost two brave souls in two days...may  the departed souls rest in peace. Our thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved families," Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh tweeted. In Mumbai, more than 50 police personnel including officers have tested COVID-19 positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-claims-lives-of-two-mumbai-cops-830043.html
26-04-2020||West||Gujarat coronavirus situation better than Italy, Spain, France: Official||Gujarat, which has nearly the same population as Italy, France and Spain, reported less number of COVID-19 cases in 35 days after detection of the first case in the state as compared to the three European countries, a state health department official said on Sunday. This is mainly due to measures like lockdown and containment strategy for people returning from abroad, state principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi told reporters. The coronavirus cases in Gujarat rose to 3,071 in 35 days since the first patient was found, compared to 80,536 in Italy, 56,972 in France, and 94,410 cases in Spain, she said.  The population of Italy is 6.04 crore, France-6.5 crore, Spain-4.7 crore, while the population of Gujarat is 6.25 crore, the official informed. "It shows that several factors, like lockdown and containment of people returning from abroad by getting them immediately quarantined and isolated, have helped contain spread of the disease," the official said. Factors like the use of BCG vaccine and warmer climate in Gujarat compared to these three European countries may have also played a role in curbing the virus spread, she said, adding that "this comparison is just for our information". Gujarat has so far reported the second highest number of COVID-19 cases in the country after Maharashtra. Till Saturday, there were 3,071 coronavirus cases in Gujarat, compared to 7,628 cases in Maharashtra. Besides, Gujarat has so far reported 133 COVID-19 deaths, the second highest after Maharashtra where 323 people have died. Gujarat reported its first double-digit single day jump in coronavirus cases on April 4, when 17 new cases were reported. On April 10, it reported its first three-digit single day jump of 124 cases, and on April 18 recorded its highest single-day jump of 332 cases. Ravi said the state government is prepared to deal with higher number of coronavirus cases, and has created infrastructure for the same. As many as 10,500 beds have been set up across 61 hospitals in the state to deal with such patients, along with 22,385 beds in 150 COVID care centres for asymptomatic patients, she said. The coronavirus testing capacity has also been increased to 3,770 samples per day, compared to 150 samples per day during the first week of the outbreak, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-coronavirus-situation-better-than-italy-spain-france-official-830095.html
26-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Goa taxi trade demands Rs 12,000 per month compensation||Taxi associations in Goa have demanded compensation for loss of income due to the lockdown in place for the novel coronavirus outbreak, an official said on Sunday. He said a representative of North and South Goa Tourist Taxi Owners' Association met Chief Minister Pramod Sawant this week. "As it is, the tourist season was poor. Even before we could recover, the coronavirus outbreak hit our industry very hard. The government should give us compensation as the traditional taxi sector is the backbone of the state's tourism industry," said Laxman Korgaonkar, who represented both the associations before the chief minister. As per the memorandum submitted to the CM, the associations have demanded Rs 12,000 per month for each taxi operator, and temporary waiver of bank EMIs on vehicle loans as well as insurance premium payment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-goa-taxi-trade-demands-rs-12000-per-month-compensation-830105.html
26-04-2020||West||West Bengal: Central teams tour parts of Kolkata, Howrah, Siliguri to inspect lockdown situation||The inter-ministerial central teams visiting West Bengal to take stock of situation relating to COVID-19, toured several areas of Kolkata and Siliguri on Sunday to inspect if lockdown restriction were being followed. The team stationed in Kolkata, which is led by a senior bureaucrat in the Ministry of Defence Apurba Chandra, visited Garden Reach, Ekbalpur, Khidderpore, Mominpur, Chetla and Kalighat areas in the south and southwestern parts the city. They were escorted by sleuths of the Kolkata Police. They went around in a convoy and did not interact with anyone, including the press. The team also inspected certain pockets of Howrah, such as Salkia and Golabari to see for themselves enforcement of the lockdown. In Siliguri, the central team led by senior official Vineet Joshi visited Bidhan Market and some other adjoining areas and interacted with shopkeepers and locals. The team enquired if the people were wearing masks and using sanitisers. "It seems some people are not taking the lockdown seriously. They should," Joshi later told reporters. Joshi's team members said they did not see any representative from the state government during the visit, but refused to make any comments on it. There has been a war of words between the West Bengal government and the Centre over the arrival of the two central teams in the state to assess the coronavirus situation. The teams are in West Bengal for the past couple of days to look into the state's preparedness for tackling the COVID-19 outbreak. The team, stationed in north Bengal, visited the quarantine centre in Siliguri, the designated COVID-19 hospital and parts of Darjeeling and Kalimpong in the past few days. The team in Kolkata over the past few days visited a quarantine centre in Rajarhat, the M R Bangur Hospital which is treating COVID-19 patients and some other places in the city and neighbouring Howrah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/west-bengal-central-teams-tour-parts-of-kolkata-howrah-siliguri-to-inspect-lockdown-situation-830108.html
26-04-2020||West||Coronavirus claims lives of two Mumbai cops||The COVID-19 pandemic outbreak has claimed the lives of two policemen in Mumbai. While head constable Chandrakant  Pendhurkar (57) died on Saturday, head constable Sandeep Surve (52) passed away on Sunday. Both were fighting COVID-19 for the past few days. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed sorrow over the death of the two policemen.  "I pay rich tributes to the two policemen...the government will do whatever is possible for the two families besides the compensation that they would get," Thackeray said and lauded the role of the police force which is working 24x7 to combat the spread of COVID-19. Home minister Anil Deshmukh too condoled the death of the two cops. "The Mumbai police lost two brave souls in two days...may the departed souls rest in peace. Our thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved families," Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh tweeted.   In Mumbai, more than 50 police personnel including officers have tested COVID-19 positive.  Pendhurkar, a resident of Worli was posted in the Vakola police station, and was admitted to the BYL Nair Hospital. Surve was a resident of Kamothe in Navi Mumbai and was admitted to the MGM Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-claims-lives-of-two-mumbai-cops-830115.html
26-04-2020||West||No trains for migrants in Maharashtra yet: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday ruled out running of trains but assured the stranded migrants to facilitate their return to home states.  "No trains are going to start (at this stage)....that would lead to crowding,  we do not want crowding at this stage," Thackeray said in a webcast.  However,  he said that he is in touch with the Centre to address the issue.    He also said when Prime Minister Narendra Modi holds a meeting over video-conferencing with chief ministers, various issues vis-a-vis lockdown and movement would be discussed.  Thackeray also pointed out that he is discussing modalities to bring back students from the state stuck in Kota, an education and coaching hub with his Rajasthan counterpart Ashok Gehlot and with the central government.  "I am also in touch with other chief ministers," Thackeray said referring to migrants, mainly from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. On the extension of lockdown after May 4,  he said that the Maharashtra government would take a call after April 30. "We are restarting a few things. I am going to study (the plan) this evening. We have to see how we return to normalcy slowly. Doctors should start their clinics. Dialysis centers should be started". Meanwhile, he asked the people to have patience, saying without lockdown, there is "no other choice" at the moment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-trains-for-migrants-in-maharashtra-yet-uddhav-thackeray-830120.html
26-04-2020||West||Guv's image maligned due to frequent visits by BJP netas: Sanjay Raut||In a veiled attack on the BJP in view of the pending approval of Maharashtra governor to nominate Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray as an MLC, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday said the "frustrated" opposition party should realise that the Sena-led dispensation would remain in power even after May 27 under Thackeray. In his weekly column "Rokhtok" published in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana', Raut also stated that political parties in the Centre adopted the policy of weakening the states where their party is not in power in the last 60 years, and that late prime minister Indira Gandhi had dismissed non-Congress governments in nine states.  The NCP and the Congress are the constituents in the Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Thackeray is not a member of either of the two Houses of the state legislature. He was sworn in as chief minister on November 28 last year, and completes six months in office on May 28. As per the Constitution, a minister or a chief minister who is not a member of either of the houses has to be elected to either of the Houses within six months of being sworn into the post, failing which the person must resign. Raut had earlier hinted the Cabinet's recommendation to governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to nominate Thackeray as an MLC earlier this month was not being acted upon at the behest of the BJP. However, compared to his aggressive stand on the issue, Raut appeared softer on the governor in the Sunday column. "For the last 60 years, political parties in the Centre have adopted the policy of weakening the states where their party is not in power. Late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had dissolved governments in nine states where non-Congress parties were in power," Raut stated. Raut said the Constitutional post of governor has been misused for such work. "The Centre's act of not allowing governments of other political parties to remain in power in other states is a mob-rule mentality working within the framework of Constitution. The BJP has been fighting against such mob-rule mentality for years," Raut said.  The Rajya Sabha MP said he didn't foresee such a scenario in Maharashtra that could potentially usher in anarchy. "When I had recalled the shameless act of then governor of Andhra Pradesh Ram Lal (in early 1980s), BJP leaders Narayan Rane and Ashish Shelar linked it with governor Koshyari and in a way insulted their own leader," Raut said. "They should know that during those days, the oath was administered to one Bhaskar Rao as chief minister of then Andhra Pradesh when incumbent CM N T Rama Rao was undergoing medical treatment in the US. The governor (Ram Lal) acted at the behest of then Central government," he said. Raut recalled that the entire episode had been termed as shameless by then BJP leaders in the country as well as constitution luminaries like Nani Palkhiwala. Attacking the BJP over gubernatorial appointments, Raut said, "....The list is quite long, from (appointment as governor) of Romesh Bhandari in Uttar Pradesh to recent case ofVajubhai Vala in Karnataka where the governors have murdered the Constitution using their powers". Raut said the Opposition party in Maharashtra had lost its "sense of differentiating between right and wrong". "Even amidst COVID crisis, the party thinks of stoking the fire of anarchy in the state," the Sena leader said. He said the governor's image was getting maligned because BJP leaders are frequently meeting him at Raj Bhavan, as if he is still a BJP leader. "A senior minister in the state Cabinet informed me that going by the frequency of opposition leaders meeting the governor, a cottage in the Raj Bhavan should be declared as official residence of LoP (Leader of Opposition)," Raut said in an apparent reference to Devendra Fadnavis, the current LoP in the Legislative Assembly and former CM. The governor's action of administering oath at the dawn had evoked a controversy last year, but the real threat is getting support for such acts from senior leaders, Raut added. He was referring to Koshyari administering oath to Fadnavis as the CM for a second term and NCP's Ajit Pawar as the deputy CM in November last year. However, the Ajit Pawar- supported BJP government collapsed within 80 hours after the NCP leader resigned, forcing Fadnavis to follow the suit. Raut said one should understand that Thackeray enjoys the support of 175 MLAs which will continue in future as well. "The governor knows that the BJP cannot install its CM in Maharashtra. He is wise. The Thackeray-led government will remain in power notwithstanding efforts to visit Raj Bhavan continuously," Raut stated. He said the governor should clear the perception about any link between the opposition party and Raj Bhavan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/guvs-image-maligned-due-to-frequent-visits-by-bjp-netas-sanjay-raut-830124.html
26-04-2020||West||Avail free coronavirus treatment, don't fear costs, says Maharashtra Minister Amit Deshmukh||The Maharashtra government has decided to make coronavirus tests and treatment in medical and dental colleges under the state's Medical Education Department free and people should not avoid treatment thinking about high costs, Minister Amit Deshmukh said on Sunday. Deshmukh, guardian minister of Latur district, said the decision was taken as Maharashtra has the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the country. "The state government has taken a very significant decision and the people should come forward. They should not hide symptoms or avoid getting tested thinking about the high costs of treatment. This decision will help contain the spread of the virus," the Medical Education minister said. Late last month, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope had said COVID-19 patients would be treated free of cost under the state government's Mahatma Jyotiba Phule scheme. Tope had said 1,000 hospitals would be empaneled under the scheme for this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/avail-free-coronavirus-treatment-dont-fear-costs-says-maharashtra-minister-amit-deshmukh-830130.html
26-04-2020||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray to take decision on easing curb after May 3||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that the decision on the relaxation of restrictions in the state will be taken after a review of the situation once the national lockdown ends on May 3. He said this during his televised address over the coronavirus situation in the state. "The national lockdown, which has been extended till May 3, will be reviewed once we get stock of the situation next week. We will decide our next steps on the relaxation of the lockdown after that," Thackeray said. He also thanked Union minister Nitin Gadkari for his recent remarks that this is not the right time to indulge in any kind of politics. "Millions of thanks to Gadkari for indirectly suggesting that some people indulged in dirty politics. I am thankful to him for asking everyone to support me...You have even asked people to support me and stay with me during the ongoing fight (against coronavirus)," he said. The chief minister's remarks were apparently aimed at BJP leader and his predecessor Devendra Fadnavis, who has been criticising the MVA government over the handling of the coronavirus situation in the state. "I want to thank Gadkari, especially for his appeal to not play politics and to cooperate with the Maharashtra government in tackling the pandemic," Thackeray said. While most of his address was in Marathi, the chief minister thanked Gadkari in Hindi and said, "I spoke in Hindi so that other seniors in Delhi will know that I have praised you." Thackeray said that his government was also trying to find a solution so that the migrant labourers stuck in the state can return to their native places if they want. "I have asked the Centre to send a team to review our efforts against coronavirus objectively. We are also taking some new steps," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-take-decision-on-easing-curb-after-may-3-830143.html
26-04-2020||West||Rajasthan reports 69 new COVID-19 cases, one death||A 60-year-old coronavirus-infected woman, with underlying medical conditions such as diabetes, died and 69 more people tested positive in Rajasthan on Sunday, bringing the number of confirmed virus cases to 2,152 in the state, an official said. Thirty-six COVID-19 patients have died in the state, with Jaipur accounting for 19 deaths.  "A woman died in Jodhpur today. She was also suffering from diabetes, hypertension and kidney disease. As many as 69 fresh cases have been reported in 11 districts of the state, including 23 in Jodhpur," Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said. Besides Jodhpur, 20 new cases were reported from Nagaur, 11 from Ajmer, six from Jaipur, three from Kota, two from Dholpur and one each in Sikar, Bharatpur, Hanumangarh and Jhalawar. A total of 2,152 cases of the virus have been reported in the state so far. He said so far 518 patients have tested negative for the infection after treatment, of which 213 have been discharged from hospitals.  Jaipur has maximum number of 798 coronavirus positive cases in the state followed by 349 in Jodhpur. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran to Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-reports-69-new-covid-19-cases-one-death-830155.html
26-04-2020||West||Anti-India forces may want to take advantage: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||Calling for working in unison to combat COVID-19 pandemic, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday warned people that anti-India forces might want to take advantage of the situation. "There is no dearth of people who instigate others. It gives birth to anger, and anger gives birth to imprudence.... It gives rise to extremist acts. We know that there are forces which reap benefit out of it and they are making attempts....we must be careful," Bhagwat said in a webcast form the RSS headquarters in Nagpur. The RSS chief also referred to the Palghar mob lynching case,  in which two sadhus of Varanasi-based Juna Akhada and a driver were killed.   "There are people making statements on the issue.....leave that aside...do you think that such an incident should take place at all....what do you think the police should ought to have been doing?" he asked. "Community leaders should tell people not to be angry and get misled.....for vested interests people who say 'Bharat tere tukde honge' are trying to incite people," he said. "The entire 130 crore population of India are all the children of Bharat Mata and our brothers. This should be kept in mind," he said. "RSS is active during lockdown, its work has taken shape of relief activities. Serve people without discrimination as all who need help are our own. It is our duty to help in this time of crisis," said Bhagwat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anti-india-forces-may-want-to-take-advantage-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-830158.html
26-04-2020||West||Gujarat govt rolls back decision of reopening small shops in four worst-hit cities||A day after Gujarat announced reopening of standalone non-essential shops across the state from April 26, four worst-affected cities in the state including Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot, on Sunday rolled back the decision and said that these shops will not be reopened before May 3, the last day of the second phase of coronavirus lockdown. "Government has taken an important decision jointly with municipal corporations and district collectors of Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot to not permit reopening of non-essential shops till May 3 as was announced on Saturday. The decision has been taken after consulting with the local businessmen," said Ashwani Kumar, secretary to the chief minister in his daily briefing on Sunday afternoon. He added that in these cities and districts, only essential stores such as milk parlours, grocery and medicine stores will remain open, as was the condition earlier. However, he added, other districts and towns can reopen their non-essential shops barring malls, shops located in the mall or complexes, hair-cutting salons, beauty parlours, paan shops, hotels, restaurants among others.  Officials said that the decision has been taken in view of rising cases of coronavirus in these cities. Till Sunday afternoon, Ahmedabad alone had 2,003 positive cases out of 3071 reported in the state, followed by Surat, 496, Vadodara, 230, and Rajkot 41.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-rolls-back-decision-of-reopening-small-shops-in-four-worst-hit-cities-830197.html
26-04-2020||West||Mumbai's coronavirus death toll crosses 200||The COVID-19 death toll in India's financial and business capital of Mumbai crossed 200 on Sunday.  According to latest updates from Public Health department, 12 deaths were reported on Sunday, while the total number of positive cases rose to 5,407. The total death toll in Mumbai stands at 204 now.   Across Maharashtra, the total number of deaths and positive cases stands at 342 and 8,068, respectively.  So far, 1188 patients have been treated and discharged.  Those discharged include 31 journalists from Mumbai. Last week 53 journalists tested positive and sent to institutional quarantine. Of them, 31 tested negative and discharged. All have been advised for 14 days home quarantine, Mumbai civic body officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-coronavirus-death-toll-crosses-200-830216.html
26-04-2020||West||RSS chief on Palghar lynching: What were cops doing?||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Sunday slammed the Palghar lynching in which two sadhus were killed, saying there is no place for violence in society. It was the responsibility of the administration to keep law and order in check, Bhagwat said in an online address to workers of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. "Sanyasis (saints) who pray for the well-being of humanity were brutally killed in Palghar. What was the police doing? Such an incident should not have happened," he said. The sadhus were messengers of humanity and were following the religion they believed in, he said. Hindu Dharma Acharya Sabha has appealed for offering tributes to the two saints on April 28, Bhagwat said. "The Vishwa Hindu Parishad has also laid out a programme for the same. We will all join in offering our tribute to them," he added. Community leaders should tell people not to be angry and get misled, he said. There are anti-India forces who are waiting to use this to break the country, he added. The two sadhus and their driver were lynched on April 16 in Palghar district while they were on their way to a funeral in neighbouring Silvassa. Amid politics over the lynching, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh later said there was no Muslim among the 101 persons arrested in connection with the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rss-chief-on-palghar-lynching-what-were-cops-doing-830225.html
26-04-2020||West||Gujarat COVID-19 cases up 230 to 3,301; death toll 151||The tally of COVID-19 patients in Gujarat grew to 3,301 after 230 new cases were reported on Sunday, while the count of dead due to the infection reached 151 with the addition of 18 victims, a health official said. Ahmedabad reported 178 out of the 230 fresh cases, taking the number of cases in the district to 2,181. All the 18 deaths reported on Sunday were from Ahmedabad, due to which the toll in the district grew to 104, the official said. Ten out of the 18 the deceased suffered from co-morbid conditions. "Apart from Ahmedabad, Surat reported 30 new cases, Anand eight, Gandhinagar two, Rajkot and Vadodara four each, and Banaskantha, Kheda, Navsari and Patan one each," Principal Secretary (Health), Jayanti Ravi said. Total 31 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the number of recovered cases to 313. There are 2,831 active cases in the state. Of these patients, 27 are on ventilator, she said. The COVID-19 figures in Gujarat as follows: Positive cases: 3,301,new cases: 230, deaths: 151, discharge: 313, active cases: 2,831; people tested so far: 51,091.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-cases-up-230-to-3301-death-toll-151-830240.html
26-04-2020||West||Coronavirus:10-day leave for 226 elderly Aurangabad civic staff||Over 200 staff above the age of 55 of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation in Maharashtra have been sent on leave for 10 days to protect them from getting infected with the novel coronavirus, an official said on Sunday. The decision was taken as a precautionary measure amid opinions by medical experts that elderly people are more at risk from COVID-19. "We have sent 226 staff above the age of 55 on leave for 10 days," an AMC official said. As on Sunday, Aurangabad has 24 active COVID-19 cases, while 22 have been discharged after recovery and five have lost their lives due to the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus10-day-leave-for-226-elderly-aurangabad-civic-staff-830245.html
26-04-2020||West||COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra cross 8,000-mark; Overall death toll 342||The number of COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the 8,000-mark on Sunday after 440 more people, 358 of them from Mumbai alone, were found infected, a health official said. On Saturday, the state had reported 811 coronavirus positive cases, the highest single-day rise. With 440 new cases, the number of COVID-19 patients in the state mounted to 8,068, the official said.  Meanwhile, the COVID-19 death toll in the state climbed to 342 after 19 more people, including 15 from hotspots Mumbai (12) and Pune (3), succumbing to the viral infection in the day, he said. While Jalgaon in north Maharashtra reported two deaths, Solapur and Latur each reported one fatality. So far, 1,188 patients across the state have been discharged after recovery, the official said. "With 358 new cases, the number of coronavirus positive cases in Mumbai now stands at 5,407 and the overall death toll at 204 with 12 more fatalities," the official said. The Thane division which consists of Mumbai city, Thane, Palghar and Raigad has reported 19 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 6,343 with 223 deaths, he said. The number of cases in Pune division has gone up to 1,128 with 83 deaths and that in Kolhapur division which covers Konkan to 46 cases and 2 deaths. In central Maharashtra, the Aurangabad division has reported 61 cases with five fatalities while Latur division has reported 14 cases and one death, he said.  Akola division in east Maharashtra has reported 119 cases and 3 deaths so far while the Nagpur division 110 cases and one death, as per the official. A total of 25 COVID-19 patients from other states are undergoing treatment while two have died, the official added. "The state has so far tested 1,16,345 samples of which 1,07,519 tested negative while 8,068 turned positive," the official said. While 1,36,926 people are currently placed under home quarantine, 9,160 others are in institutional quarantine, the official said. He said a total of 604 containment zones are active in Maharashtra where 8,603 squads have completed surveillance of 33.72 lakh people. Maharashtra COVID-19 figures are as follows: Total positive cases 8,068, new cases 440, deaths 342, number of discharged people 1,188, active cases 6,538 and the people tested so far 1,16,345.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-cross-8000-mark-overall-death-toll-342-830266.html
