27-04-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Coronavirus lockdown: Hubballi civic body launches 'Meat on wheels'||To reduce the number of visitors to meat shops during the lockdown, the Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP), in association with Karnataka Sheep and Wool Development Corporation, has introduced mobile meat shop, which would move across the city to sell chicken, mutton and egg.  "This is an initiative to help citizens to get meat without venturing out of their houses, and there is more demand for this arrangement as holy Ramzan month has also begun. Citizens can also place orders in advance through phone, and routes of the vehicle would be fixed based on demand," said HDMP Commissioner Suresh Itnal.  Shridhar Sambrani, who operates 'Meat on wheels' is trained by the meat research institute in Hyderabad. He noted that the price of chicken is Rs 220 per kg and for mutton it is Rs 700 per kg.  Itnal stated that the vendor would be linked with wholesale meat suppliers so that the meat price for customers could come down. A similar vehicle would be launched for Dharwad city also, he added.  Karnataka Sheep and Wool Development Corporation's Assistant Director Sunilkumar said, the vehicle was originally meant for selling prepared food and it is now being used to sell meat during the lockdown. The vehicle has both deep freezer and refrigerator, and it can carry 45 kg of fresh meat at a time, he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/coronavirus-lockdown-hubballi-civic-body-launches-meat-on-wheels-830410.html
27-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||CRPF demands inquiry into arrest of COBRA commando for not wearing mask||Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has demanded inquiry into the skirmish that had taken place between a COBRA commando and a beat police personnel over wearing of mask, following which he was manhandled before his family members and paraded to the police station barefoot, wherein he was kept in chains and handcuff. CRPF Inspector General of Police Sanjay Arora in a letter written to Director General of Police Praveen Sood on Monday said that in an unfortunate incident, Cadet Sachin Savant of 207 COBRA was arrested by police personnel of Sadalga police station in Chikkodi taluk in Belagavi district on April 23, on the alleged charges of violating lockdown norms and assaulting/deterring public servant from discharging his duty at Examba village in Chikkodi. The individual was on extended leave and was cleaning his motor cycle in front of his house at Examba when the incident took place. "Unpleasant situation could have been avoided if Karnataka police had taken CRPF hierarchy into confidence before making the arrest. CRPF is very reputed force with high standards of discipline, and we have the institutionalised mechanism for taking care of such situations. Keeping in view gravity of the incident and its impact on relationship between two police forces, we request you to kindly get the matter inquired and provide justice," the letter said. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi said, two constables were on patrolling in Examba to implement orders of deputy commissioner regarding wearing of masks and penalise those spitting in public. "The CRPF jawan was talking with 5 to 6 of his friends when they went to Maddumgalli cross. On seeing policemen, friends ran away but the CRPF jawan remained there without wearing mask. Upon asking reason for not wearing a mask, he started arguing on who were they to ask and he was from CRPF, thereby, violating orders promulgated by deputy commissioner," the SP said. "When policemen informed that rules were same for everyone and he was no special, an argument between CRPF jawan and policemen started. Meanwhile, the CRPF jawan lost his cool and kicked one of the constables and further held collar of police constable and started pushing him aggressively. Another veteran head constable came to the rescue of his colleague. Later, the jawan was taken to police station and a case CR N0 44/2020 was registered under the section 353,323,504 IPC and sec 3 of Epidemic disease act. After interrogation, he was arrested and produced before the magistrate on the same day," he said. He further said that in the presence of women staff in police station, the CRPF jawan was shouting and since he was capable of overpowering 2-3 constables easily, he was tied up in police station. Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi condemned the arrest of CRPF commando by police and demanded that incident be inquired and action be taken against guilty police personnel. "Such treatment cannot be meted to a solider and he should be released immediately. Chief minister and home minister will be asked to inquire and take action against police personnel responsible for the incident," he said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/crpf-demands-inquiry-into-arrest-of-cobra-commando-for-not-wearing-mask-830567.html
27-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus Lockdown: Madhya Pradesh labourer walks from Mangaluru to Kalasa||A labourer from Madhya Pradesh (MP), who had walked all the way up to Kalasa from Mangaluru,  was caught by police in Kalasa. Hakam Tomar, 20, from Bhopal was working in Mangaluru. After the announcement of lockdown, he was in distress and was eager to reach  his native place. Tomar walked for three days from Mangaluru via Karkala to reach Kalasa on Monday. He was caught by the police at Kaimara check post. After his health check, he was sent to quarantine centre in Mudigere.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-madhya-pradesh-labourer-walks-from-mangaluru-to-kalasa-830641.html
27-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||All safety measures in place: DHO||The district administration and the Health department have taken utmost care and all precautionary measures to ensure the safety of Covid-19 patients, during their stay at the hospital. In a wake of the suicide of a Covid-19 victim at Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru, the authorities are more alert at the hospital, where the victims are undergoing treatment. Covid-19 patients are housed at the new district hospital building on KRS Road and all security measures are in place to ensure safety of the patients, said District Health Officer (DHO) Dr R Venkatesh. The new building is totally secure and safe for patients. As the building is recently constructed, it is well-planned and there are no threats. In addition, every patient is given special attention and is monitored individually, round the clock, he said. The patients are housed in wards and a distance of five feet between the patients is maintained. Adequate staff members are deputed to monitor them round the clock, he said. The staff members are giving their utmost care to each patient. Moreover, the patients are regularly counselled by a psychiatrist. “We have deputed psychiatrists to counsel and to instil confidence among them,” he said. According to the DHO, “All patients in the hospital are cooperative and are confident of recovering. We are taking utmost care and all are doing well.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/all-safety-measures-in-place-dho-830649.html
27-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 app of Mysurean wins laurels in US||Apollo, an iPhone app for Covid-19 testing and research, has been developed by a company headed by a native of Mysuru. CEO of Gauss Surgical, Siddarth Satish, is the grandson of Mysuru-based industrialist and art patron K V Murthy and late M S Nagaraja Rao, who served as Director General of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). Siddarth is the son of Padma (second daughter of Murthy) and M N Satish, who have settled in the USA. Siddarth resides in California. Dr Prathibha Pereira, his aunt said, Siddarth studied up to 2nd standard at St Joseph’s School in Jayalakshmipuram. He is an alumnus of University of California, Berkeley (BS in Chemical Engineering); University of California, San Francisco (MS in Bioengineering); and Stanford University (SIMDesign Fellow). Siddarth founded Gauss Surgical in 2011 and served as CTO and chairman initially. He served as an Entrepreneur In Residence at StartX, Stanford’s Startup Accelerator, and as a SIMdesign Fellow at the Stanford University School of Medicine. He has over 50 issued or pending patents on medical technologies and has raised $50 million in venture capital funding. As leaders in the healthcare artificial intelligence (AI) space, Siddarth and his team wanted to help during the Covid-19 crisis and quickly began collaborating with researchers at Stanford and observing Covid-19 testing facilities in the Bay Area. After spending time embedded at a testing facility, Siddarth said, he found the current testing process to be heavily paper-based and observed that it exposed testers to potential risks, as they interacted closely with patients. “An iPhone-based testing solution could reduce the exposure to risk at testing centers and make the overall process much faster. The app optimises the existing testing procedures, by eliminating paperwork, reducing the need for direct contact between patients and staff. This also helps to reduce the use of precious PPE resources,” he said. Gauss Surgical’s life-saving Triton App, which monitors surgical bleeding using iPhones, had earlier won the Apple Design Award, which reflects the best in design, innovation, and technology on Apple platforms. “We embarked on Apollo, as we felt that our expertise in clinical-grade digital decision-support tools enables us to build a tool for screening and triage of Covid-19. We teamed up with Evive.Care, a national database of Covid-19 test centers to develop the app, which includes Stanford Medicine’s Apollo Covid-19 Screening Survey (Apollo Study),” said Siddarth. Gauss is among a large group of Stanford alumni, scientists, and physicians participating in the StartX Med Covid-19 Task Force. Apollo integrates tools that work across the current testing process. It is designed so that a person can analyse one’s symptoms and if necessary, drive to the closest testing centre. A tool locates one’s closest available testing centre on a map. It has tools for communication between tester and tested. The self-diagnostic checks, the potential patient has already transacted, are made available via the app to the testing agent, reducing duplication of the same process. The data is available in the form of a QR code (the ‘Apollo Pass’) on the screen of the patient’s iPhone, which is read by the equivalent app on the tester’s smartphone. The patients can share their information while the car windows remain shut, minimising contact time with the tester. Once the patient sample is collected, the tester adds the kit to Apollo and sends the sample to test. Results can be quickly shared, once the procedure is completed. Apollo Covid-19 is available in 10 languages, most commonly spoken in the United States. The app can be downloaded for free on the Apple App Store or at https://covid19.gauss.com.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-app-of-mysurean-wins-laurels-in-us-830651.html
27-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ban on Kerala fish trucks' entry into Dakshina Kannada||Trucks carrying fish loads from Kerala will not be allowed to enter Dakshina Kannada district as the authorities are not being able to control the rush in markets, state Fisheries Minister and district-in-charge Kota Srinivas Poojary said Monday. The deputy commissioner has been instructed to restrict the entry of fish transport vehicles from outside the district forthwith, in view of the difficulty in maintaining social distancing at the markets identified in the district, the minister told reporters here. The coastal district has to take more precautionary measures to fight COVID-19 as the number of positive cases have risen in the last couple of days, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ban-on-kerala-fish-trucks-entry-into-dakshina-kannada-830717.html
27-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||K S Eshwarappa challenges D K Shivakumar for debate on MGNREGA irregularities||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa on Monday challenged Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar for a debate on the alleged irregularities in the execution of works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). Addressing a press conference here, he came down heavily on Shivakumar and alleged that the latter was expert in looting money. "I request Shivakumar to inform the government about irregularities during his tenure. The government will tighten the administrative machinery. He should stop indulging in petty politics. I am new to the portfolio. He should show irregularities and come for a debate,” he said. Eshwarappa said that the government was trying to generate employment opportunities for poor people.  "There was confusion about the execution of works in the wake of Covid-19. People could carry out the works by maintaining social distancing. Works under the MGNREGA have started in over 5,400 gram panchayats” he said. He said that the government had entered into an agreement with Art of Living to revive water bodies. A total of nine districts, including Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru and Chitradurga have been selected for the works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/k-s-eshwarappa-challenges-d-k-shivakumar-for-debate-on-mgnrega-irregularities-830663.html
27-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Cong scouts for 'information representatives'||Notwithstanding the political lull created by the Covid-19 crisis, the D K Shivakumar-led Congress is quietly scouting for ‘information representatives’ in each of the 56,000 booths as part of an ambitious effort to make the party a cadre-based unit.  In an internal video message to party workers, Shivakumar, the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president, has asked for “information groups” and “social media groups” to be formed at the booth-level so as to strengthen the party at the grassroots.  “In every booth, we need a person who can gather information, an information representative,” Shivakuamr said. “Elect someone from amongst yourselves,” he said. “Information groups and social media groups are needed in every booth,” he added.  These ‘information representatives’ who will be mostly youngsters will feed the party with information that can be used for its voter outreach initiatives at the grassroots level.  “It’s our responsibility to convert the party from mass-based to cadre-based. This is the opinion of all our leaders with whom I’ve spoken,” Shivakumar said and added, “This will require the involvement of everyone. We need to strengthen, and represent, our booths. This includes me and other senior leaders.”  This will be the second formal attempt of the state Congress to become a cadre-based party, much like the ruling BJP. In the run-up to the 2018 Assembly polls, AICC general secretary K C Venugopal directly monitored the formation of booth-level committees. Of the 56,696 booths, the party was able to cover at least four-fifths of them. However, it did not yield expected results in the elections.  “We tried something similar during the 2018 elections and it was called ‘Digital Youth for Every Booth’,” KPCC social media coordinator A N Nataraj Gowdasaid. “But that was outsourced and we weren’t left with any data. This time, it will be done through those within the party fold or those who strongly identify with us ideologically,” he said.  Gowda said the ‘information representatives’ will have to gather information on voting patterns, local issues, caste combinations among other things on a daily basis. “This will be given to the Assembly constituency coordinators. The process will start soon after the Covid-19 lockdown ends,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cong-scouts-for-information-representatives-830665.html
27-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Eshwarappa challenges DKS for debate on irregularities||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa on Monday challenged Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President D K Shivakumar for a debate on the alleged irregularities in the execution of works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). Addressing a press conference here, he came down heavily on Shivakumar and alleged that Shivakumar was expert in looting money. “I request Shivakumar to inform the government about irregularities during his tenure. The government will tighten the administrative machinery. He should stop indulge in petty politics. I am knew to the portfolio. He should show irregularities and come for a debate,” he said. He should not indulge in false accusations. He was doing to project himself for being appointed as the KPCC president, Eshwarappa charged. Eshwarappa said that the government was trying to generate employment opportunities for poor people. Shivakumar was satisfied merely by making statements. “There was confusion about the execution of works in the wake of Covid-19. People could carry out the works by maintaining social distancing. Works under the MGNREGA have started in over 5,400 gram panchayat limits out of 6021 gram panchayats,” he said. He said that the government had entered into an agreement with Art of Living to revive water bodies. A total of nine districts, including Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru and Chitradurga have been selected for the works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/eshwarappa-challenges-dks-for-debate-on-irregularities-830541.html
27-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Karnataka: Kolar tops in irregularities of drinking water units, says K S Eshwarappa||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa on Monday directed officials to lodge criminal cases against those disrupting efforts to remove pump motors at borewells that had dried for reuse. He chaired a meeting here to review the status of drinking water and the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) works. He expressed displeasure that the officials did not have data about the pump motors at the borewells that had dried up. “The officials should remove the pump sets in police protection and store them at gram panchayat offices. Cases should be registered against those disrupting removal of the pump sets,” he said. MLA K R Ramesh Kumar said that vested interests were preventing the efforts to remove the pump motors. Some criminality is involved which is causing losses to state exchequer that should be prevented. “Drinking water crisis in the region is serious. Influential people are illegally storing the water in rural areas. The poor people don’t receive water at all. The sumps in rural areas should be closed,” he sought. KGF MLA M Roopakala justified Kumar’s demand and said that at some villages gram panchayat presidents and members were indulging in such illegal acts. Malur MLA K Y Nanje Gowda said that old pump motors were fixed to new borewells in his taluk and that there were no problems. Eshwarappa alleged that the Kolar district was in top in irregularities in commissioning and managing purified drinking water units. The district needed more such units as people were completely dependent on borewells. The officials had ignored the proper management of such units. He said that the officials were providing false data and misleading the elected representatives. “How can the act of protecting the interests of agencies managing such units be justified? The contract should be cancelled if the agencies fail to manage the units properly. An amount of Rs 3000 should be given to each village for the repair of the units,” the Minister said. There is drinking water crisis in 216 villages in the district of them 69 villages are receiving water through tankers. Water from private borewells is used to supply in the rest of the villages, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer H V Darshan said. District in-charge minister H Nagesh, MP S Muniswamy, MLAs K Srinivas Gowda, S N Narayana Swamy, MLCs R Chowda Reddy, Y A Narayana Swamy, Naseer Ahmed, Zilla Panchayat President C S Venkatesh, vice-president Yashodha, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj department principal secretary L A Ateeq, department commissioner Dr Vishal, MGNREGA commissioner Anirdh Sravan and deputy commissioner C Satyabhama were present||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/karnataka-kolar-tops-in-irregularities-of-drinking-water-units-says-k-s-eshwarappa-830604.html
27-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Kits delivered to detect Covid-19 in 10 minutes||The Tata Trust has donated rapid testing kits to the district which detects novel coronavirus in just 10 minutes. “The Tata Trust has donated the rapid testing kit to the district which is being used on an experimental basis,” said district health and family welfare officer Dr S N Vijay Kumar. The kits detect Covid-19 based on blood samples alone. The kits were used to test blood samples of Dr Vijay Kumar and district AIDS control officer Dr M Jagadish. The health department has planned to test 6000 people in the district using the kits. People are forced to wait for Covid-19 tests. At present, throat swabs and blood samples are sent to Bengaluru for a report. Report is delivered 48 hours after the test. The kits will reduce burden on laboratory in Bengaluru, besides saving time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/kits-delivered-to-detect-covid-19-in-10-minutes-830624.html
27-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Antarjala Chetana to be launched in Shivamogga on May 5||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa on Monday said that the State government had entered into an agreement with Art of Living for the implementation of Antarjala Chetana scheme to revive water bodies in 9 districts in the state. He was speaking after inspecting bunds, Raja Kaluves, pits and ponds under MGNREGA at Khajihalli, Narasapur industrial area, Ammerahalli and Kalvamanjali villages. The scheme would be launched in Shivamogga on May 5. It would be later expanded to Tumakuru, Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Chitradura and other districts. “About 41 taluks have been declared at drought-hit. Funds have been released to address drinking water crisis,” he said. Eshwarappa warned of initiating disciplinary action for delaying payment to workers under the scheme. The government had taken up community-development works to help poor people in the wake of lockdown. “The Central government has announced special package to the State government. Workers will not get wages if machines are used to carry out work. The contractors will be blacklisted if they use machines,” he said. Eshwarappa said that Rs 275 is given to each labourer per day in drought hit districts. The workers will get  wages in 15 days. ZP CEO H V Darshan, deputy conservator of forests Devaraj and tahsildar Shobhitha were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/antarjala-chetana-to-be-launched-in-shivamogga-on-may-5-830636.html
27-04-2020||Mysuru||Coronavirus: All measures in place for safety of COVID-19 patients in hospital, says Mysuru District Health Officer||In a wake of the suicide of a COVID-19 patient, at Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru, the authorities are more alert at the hospital. All COVID-19 patients are housed at new District Hospital on KRS road and all the security are in place to ensure the safety of the patients, said DHO Dr R Venkatesh.   The new building is totally secured and there is no option for untoward incident. The distance of five foot between patients have been maintained and adequate staff members are deputed to monitor them round the clock, he said. Each patient is being taken individual and special care. In addition, the patients are being counselled by a psychiatrist. "We have deputed psychiatrists to counsel and to instil confidence among them," he said. According to the DHO, all the patients in Mysuru are cooperative and are confident of recovering. We are taking utmost care and all the patients are doing good, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/coronavirus-all-measures-in-place-for-safety-of-covid-19-patients-in-hospital-says-mysuru-district-health-officer-830408.html
27-04-2020||Mysuru||One more COVID-19 positive case reported from Mandya||With this, the number of positive cases has increased to 17. The number of active cases is 13. Four persons who were under treatment, have tested negative and have been shifted from the designated COVID-19 hospital in Mandya to the public quarantine at a hostel in Mandya.  ‌This is the first case from Nagamangala. The patient 505 has a travel history to Mumbai, Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/one-more-covid-19-positive-case-reported-from-mandya-830479.html
27-04-2020||Mysuru||COVID-19 app by Mysuru man wins laurels in US||CEO of Gauss Surgical, Siddarth Satish, is the grandson of Mysuru-based industrialist and art patron K V Murthy. He is the son of Padma (second daughter of Murthy) and M N Satish, who have settled in the USA. Siddarth resides in California. Dr Prathibha Pereira, his aunt, said that Siddarth studied up to second standard at St Joseph’s School in Jayalakshmipuram. He is an alumnus of the University of California, Berkeley (BS in Chemical Engineering); the University of California, San Francisco (MS in Bioengineering); and Stanford University (SIMDesign Fellow).  Siddarth founded Gauss Surgical in 2011 and served as CTO and chairman initially. He then served as an Entrepreneur In Residence at StartX, Stanford’s Startup Accelerator, and as a SIMdesign Fellow at the Stanford University School of Medicine. He has over 50 issued or pending patents on medical technologies and has raised $50 million in venture capital funding. As leaders in the healthcare artificial intelligence (AI) space, Siddarth and his team wanted to help during the COVID-19 crisis and quickly began collaborating with researchers at Stanford and observing COVID-19 testing facilities in the Bay Area.  After spending time embedded at a testing facility, Siddarth said, he found the current testing process to be heavily paper-based and observed that it exposed testers to potential risks as they interacted closely with patients. “An iPhone-based testing solution could reduce the exposure to risk at testing centers and make the overall process much faster. The app optimises the existing testing procedures by eliminating paperwork, reducing the need for direct contact between patients and staff. This also helps to reduce the use of precious PPE resources,” he said. Design Award   Gauss Surgical’s life-saving Triton App, which monitors surgical bleeding using iPhones, had earlier won the Apple Design Award, which reflects the best in design, innovation, and technology on Apple platforms.  “We embarked on Apollo, as we felt that our expertise in clinical-grade digital decision-support tools enables us to build a tool for screening and triage of Covid-19. We teamed up with Evive Care, a national database of COVID-19 test centers to develop the app, which includes Stanford Medicine's Apollo Covid-19 Screening Survey (Apollo Study),” said Siddarth. Gauss is among a large group of Stanford alumni, scientists, and physicians participating in the StartX Med COVID-19 Task Force.  Apollo integrates tools that work across the current testing process. It is designed so that a person can analyse one’s symptoms and if necessary, drive to the closest testing centre. A tool locates one’s closest available testing centre on a map. It has tools for communication between the tester and tested. The self-diagnostic checks whether the potential patient has already transacted and then send the report via the app to the testing agent, reducing duplication of the same process. The data is available in the form of a QR code (the ‘Apollo Pass’) on the screen of the patient’s iPhone, which is read by the equivalent app on the tester’s smartphone. The patients can share their information while the car windows remain shut, minimising contact time with the tester. Once the patient sample is collected, the tester adds the kit to Apollo and sends the sample to test. Results can be quickly shared, once the procedure is completed. Apollo COVID-19 is available in 10 languages, most commonly spoken in the United States. The app can be downloaded for free on the Apple App Store or at https://covid19.gauss.com.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/covid-19-app-by-mysuru-man-wins-laurels-in-us-830498.html
27-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Hotspots in focus as PM Narendra Modi talks exit strategy with CMs on April 27||Ahead of his crucial Monday interaction with chief ministers on the next course of action after the 40-day lockdown ends on May 3, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday warned against any complacency in India’s “people-driven” fight against coronavirus. His word of caution came on a day when India reported the highest single-day rise in coronavirus infections — 1,975 cases (according to the health ministry). Maharashtra and Gujarat have the highest number of patients in the country.  The Centre and several states had relaxed lockdown norms to revive economic activities after April 20. While different states are responding differently to the idea of extending lockdown, the broad consensus is that relaxations can be eased in green (non-Covid) zones, but caution is required in orange and red zones with modest and aggressive spread. A total of 170 districts in the country are in the red zone, of which 47 have been divided into various clusters. Some of the hotspots are Chennai, Madurai and Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu; Thane, Pune and Mumbai in Maharashtra; Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot in Gujarat; Lucknow, Agra and Noida in Uttar Pradesh; Indore, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Kolkata and New Delhi.   The Centre is keen on strict vigil in hotspots and will take feedback of its inter-ministerial teams which visited West Bengal, Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. The inputs from states will be vital in a decision on extending lockdown. Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Guaba on Sunday held a video conference with the chief secretaries and DGPs of states and Union Territories to review preparedness. He said that states with a heavy load of cases should focus on effective implementation of lockdown measures and containment strategy. Telangana wants to continue curbs till May end, while Andhra Pradesh is pitching for more relaxations. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel favour scaled-down restrictions.   Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot wants the exit plan to be graded. “It is easy to clamp lockdown but difficult to remove it,” he said, batting for a larger role for the state in implementing it. Modi urged people not to be overconfident. “There should be no negligence at the local level or elsewhere,” he said in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ on Sunday. The Centre has already announced a number of relaxations in sync with its priority on life as well as livelihood (Jaan bhi Jahan bhi). Modi had earlier focused on saving lives (Jaan hai to Jahan hai).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-hotspots-in-focus-as-pm-narendra-modi-talks-exit-strategy-with-cms-on-april-27-830312.html
27-04-2020||National||Amidst coronavirus pandemic, talk of multiple virus strains ||A high number of coronavirus fatalities in some cities in India is making doctors wonder: are there multiple strains of the coronavirus in India? Take the case of Indore, the coronavirus hotspot in Madhya Pradesh, where 57 people have died so far. Doctors in Indore said a more virulent strain could be at work in the city. Samples from Indore will be sent to the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) to confirm doctors’ apprehensions of the strain being deadlier than other parts of the country. “We have a feeling the strain is definitely more virulent in Indore belt. We have discussed this with the NIV and will be sending samples for them to compare by extraction of virus genome,” said Jyoti Bindal, Dean of Government Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Medical College. In Gujarat, a scientist from the state-run Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC) said the novel coronavirus used for genome sequencing conducted by it was found to contain the L-type strain. According to experts, the dominance of the L-type strain of coronavirus, more prevalent in Wuhan in China, could be behind the high mortality rate in Gujarat. However, no research has been conducted to confirm this, they said. As of Sunday, Gujarat had 3,301 cases and 151 deaths. Claims disputed But experts in Bengaluru disputed the claim, saying that there are no different strains of the virus. “All of our studies so far have shown there is only one strain of the virus in India, which has a direct link to the Wuhan Sars-CoV-2 virus. All this talk of multiple strains is false,” said a virologist.   The statement was backed by another expert on Karnataka’s Coronavirus Task Force, who added that containment measures ultimately dictate the spike in numbers. “Virulence has little to do with the number of cases in a particular location or state. Viral spread ultimately comes down to containment,” said Dr Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India.  “Just because a hotspot emerges, it doesn’t necessarily mean that there is a more virulent strain of the virus at that location. If safety measures are not enacted in time, the diseases will proliferate within a community especially if the area is densely populated,” he added.  Low sequencing Dr Shashank Tripathi of the Centre for Infectious Diseases at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) pointed out that it was too early to determine if the disease in India had mutated into a more virulent form.   “As of last week, only 28 viral genome sequences have been submitted from India for analysis. This is not enough to determine if mutation has occurred. Worldwide, for comparison, over 10,000 sequences have been submitted,” Dr Tripathisaid. He added that he expected the number of submitted sequences to increase in the coming weeks, as other institutions, except for the National Institute of Virology (which held exclusive rights), have been granted permission to carry out the sequencing.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amidst-coronavirus-pandemic-talk-of-multiple-virus-strains-830313.html
27-04-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Guidelines issued to regulate movement of empty vehicles in Azadpur Mandi in Delhi||The Azadpur Mandi, Asia's largest wholesale vegetable and fruit market, on Sunday issued guidelines to regulate the movement of empty vehicles in the area to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee's decision comes in the wake of a trader dying of coronavirus infection and three people contracting the disease this week. A DDA ground in Burari has been earmarked as holding area for empty vehicles to reduce the traffic in and around the market, the committee's guidelines read. All empty vehicles have to go to Burari ground and take a token before coming to the mandi for loading, it said. The entry of vehicles in the mandi will be strictly on the basis of the time mentioned in the token. A total of 3,300 tokens will be issued from 5 am to 9 pm every day on first-come-first-serve basis. "Three-hundred tokens will be issued for the first slot 5 am to 9 am. After that, 200 tokens will be issued every hour till 9 pm," the committee said. The committee said a penalty of Rs 5,000 will be imposed on a trader or driver if a loaded or empty vehicle stays in the mandi for more than six hours. On Saturday, samples were taken from 50 traders and workers for COVID-19 test. Over 400 traders, workers and accountants at the market were screened for the disease on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-guidelines-issued-to-regulate-movement-of-empty-vehicles-in-azadpur-mandi-in-delhi-830334.html
27-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Making arrangements for quarantining most difficult part of planning evacuation of citizens stranded abroad||Making arrangements for quarantining a large number of evacuees for at least 14 days after their return is proving to be the most difficult part of the planning, as India is weighing options to bring back home its nationals stranded in France, Italy, the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and other foreign countries. Though the Centre and the State Governments are announcing relaxations to the curbs imposed across the country to contain the coronavirus pandemic, the blanket ban on the arrival of commercial passenger aircraft from foreign cities is likely to continue even beyond May 3 – the day the nationwide lockdown is currently scheduled to end. As a large number of Indians – students, professionals, tourists and others – got stranded around the world due to the curbs, New Delhi is working on plans to bring them back, either by sending chartered aircraft for the evacuation, or by granting special permissions for private airlines to fly them home on commercial flights. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) is holding consultations with the State Governments on bringing back the Indians, who got stranded abroad after the ban on arrival of international passenger aircraft to any airport was imposed. The decision on facilitating their return to the country would be taken after getting feedback on the preparedness of the States and the Union Territory to receive them following all required health precautions, said Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, who had a video-conference with the Chief Secretaries of all the States and the Union Territories on Saturday to review the implementation of the restrictions on travel and transport as well as the lockdown imposed across the country to contain the COVID-19 pandemic.  India’s diplomatic missions around the world are collecting details of the country’s citizens stranded in foreign countries, including some of the worst COVID-19 affected countries. New Delhi is planning to prioritize the students, tourists and others who got stranded in the foreign nations and have compelling reasons to return to the country urgently, a source in New Delhi told the DH. “But the number of evacuees will still run into thousands. The biggest challenge for the government is that it will have to ensure that the returnees are not already infected by the COVID-19 virus. As it is going to be difficult for them to get themselves tested abroad and obtain Covid-19 negative certificates, the government may have to send medical teams from India to run tests on them,” said the source. “This is going to be a very lengthy process”. The government had last year sent medical teams to Italy and Iran to collect swab samples of people stranded in the two coronavirus hotspots. The samples were brought back and tested in India. Only the COVID-19 negative Indians were evacuated. They were however still quarantined for 14 days on their return to India – in facilities set up by the armed forces.  The Centre, according to the sources in New Delhi, now wants the State Governments to share the burden of making arrangements for quarantining the evacuees on their return.   “It will be very difficult if the task of quarantining the evacuees is left only for the Union Government. The respective State Governments will have to share the burden,” said the source the DH spoke to.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-making-arrangements-for-quarantining-most-difficult-part-of-planning-evacuation-of-citizens-stranded-abroad-830342.html
27-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 27, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Download the e-paper to read today’s edition and beat the lockdown blues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-27-2020-edition-830343.html
27-04-2020||National||Coronavirus state-wise India update: Total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 27||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 29,400 as of April 27. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 923     Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19.   No. of people discharged: 6184 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-state-wise-india-update-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-27-830345.html
27-04-2020||National||5 fresh COVID-19 cases in Odisha; Total rises to 108||Five more people of Odisha tested positive for COVID-19, raising the total number of cases in the state to 108 on Monday, officials said. All the fresh cases were diagnosed in Balasore district, health and family welfare department said adding that contact tracing and follow-up action have been launched. The state is yet to reveal details of the fresh patients. The total number of COVID-19 patients in Balasore district, bordering West Bengal, has increased to 15. Many of the patients in the district have West Bengal links. Samples of the new patients were collected during the 60-hour complete shutdown imposed in the district from 10 pm of April 23 to 10 AM of April 26. Now, the total number of coronavirus positive cases in Odisha has mounted to 108. Seventy-two of the cases are active as 35 people have recovered from the disease. A 72-year-old man from Bhubaneswar died due to the contagion on April 6. Of the total Covid-19 cases reported in the state so far, 46 were detected in Khurda district which includes Bhubaneswar, followed by 18 in Jajpur, 16 in Bhadrak, 15 in Balasore, six in Sudargarh, two each in Kendrapara and Kalahandi districts and one each in Cuttack, Dhenkanal and Puri. A total of 25,103 samples have been tested till Sunday midnight in eight laboratories of the state, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-odisha-total-rises-to-108-830376.html
27-04-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh manufacturing 12,000 PPE kits every day: Official||Since the coronavirus outbreak, 1.5 lakh PPE kits have so far been manufactured in the state and out of these, about 75,000 each have been sent to Indore and Bhopal, State Industrial Development Centre's Managing Director Kumar Purushottam said. "Madhya Pradesh needs 10,000 PPE kits per day, whereas the state is producing 12,000 kits every day," Kumar said in a release, adding that the state has surplus stock of PPE kits for the 'corona warriors'. About 40,000 kits are available in stock in Bhopal and Indore and are being sent to various districts as per requirements, he said. A large numbers of donors are also coming forward to supply PPE kits in Indore, he added. During a video conference with office-bearers of the Indian Medical Association on Saturday, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the production of PPE kits in the state was started after an approval from the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). The state government has also started preparations to provide masks to people at reasonable rates. It has begun registration of women who are interested in stitching cotton cloth masks in the state, a public relations department official said. On the first day of registration on Sunday, 4,200 women registered themselves for the task, the official said. The state government will purchase masks made by these women at Rs 11 per piece and make them available to people at a reasonable rate, the official added. Till Sunday evening, Madhya Pradesh reported 2,090 COVID-19 cases and 103 deaths. So far, 302 patients have recovered from the disease and returned home, as per official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-manufacturing-12000-ppe-kits-every-day-official-830378.html
27-04-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll rises to 872 in country; cases climb to 27,892: Health ministry||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 872 and the number of cases climbed to 27,892 in the country on Monday, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 20,835 while 6,184 people were cured and discharged, and one patient has migrated, the ministry said. The total number of cases include 111 foreign nationals. A total of 46 deaths were reported since Sunday evening of which 19 fatalities were reported from Maharashtra, 18 from Gujarat, four from Madhya Pradesh, two from West Bengal and one each from Punjab, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Of the 872 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 342 fatalities, followed by Gujarat at 151, Madhya Pradesh at 103, Delhi at 54, Rajasthan at 33 and Andhra Pradesh at 31. The death toll reached 29 in Uttar Pradesh, 26 in Telengana, 24 in Tamil Nadu, 20 in West Bengal while Karantaka has reported 19 deaths. Punjab has registered 18 fatalities so far. The disease has claimed six lives in Jammu and Kashmir, four in Kerala while Jharkhand and Haryana have recorded three COVID-19 deaths each. Bihar has reported two deaths, while Meghalaya, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Assam have reported one fatality each, according to ministry data. According to the ministry's data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 8,068 followed by Gujarat at 3,301, Delhi at 2,918, Rajasthan at 2,185, Madhya Pradesh at 2,096 and Tamil Nadu at 1,885. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 1,868 in Uttar Pradesh, 1,097 in Andhra Pradesh and 1,002 in Telangana. Cases have risen to 649 in West Bengal, 523 in Jammu and Kashmir, 503 in Karnataka, 458 in Kerala, 313 in Punjab and 289 in Haryana. Bihar has reported 274 coronavirus cases, while Odisha has 103 cases.Eighty-two people have been infected with the virus in Jharkhand and 50 in Uttarakhand. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, Chhattisgarh has 37 cases and Assam has registered 36 infections each so far. Andaman and Nicobar Islands has 33 COVID-19 cases while Chandigarh has 30 cases and Ladakh has reported 20 infections so far. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases, and Goa and Puducherry have seven COVID-19 cases each. Manipur and Tripura have two cases each, while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported a case each. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website. States wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-872-in-country-cases-climb-to-27892-health-ministry-830385.html
27-04-2020||National||3 more test positive for COVID-19 in Bihar; total reaches 277||Three more persons tested positive for coronavirus infection in Bihar, taking the total number of Covid-19 patients to 277 in the state, a top health department of official said. The new cases were reported from Sadar Bazar area of Jamalpur in Munger district, Health department's Principal Secretary Sanjay Kumar said. These new COVID-19 patients were female and range in ages between 12 and 17 years, he said. "We are ascertaining their infection trail," Kumar said in a tweet posted on late Sunday night. The total number of active cases now is 219 while 56 people have recovered from the dreaded disease and two men have died due to Covid-19. The number of samples tested so far is 16,985.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bihar-total-reaches-277-830392.html
27-04-2020||National||PM Modi interacts with CMs on COVID-19 situation; to discuss staggered exit from countrywide lockdown||This is Modi's fourth such interaction with state chief ministers since March 22 when he discussed coronavirus situation and steps taken --both by the Centre and the states-- to contain the pandemic. Two days later on March 24, Modi announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown. He extended the lockdown by 19 days on April 14, the last day of the initial three week shutdown, till May 3. Sources in the government had on Sunday indicated that besides discussing the way forward in dealing with the pandemic, the prime ministers and chief ministers could also focus on a "graded" exit from the lockdown.  In a tweet on Monday, the Prime Minister’s Office said Modi and the chief ministers will be discussing aspects relating to the COVID-19 situation. In his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' radio address on Sunday, the prime minister said the country is in the middle of a 'yudh' (war) and asserted that people have to continue being careful and take precautions. His note of caution came amidst gradual exemptions being granted by the Centre and states to revive economic activities. "I urge you not to get overconfident. You should in your over-enthusiasm not think that if the coronavirus has not yet reached your city, village, street or office, it is not going to reach now. Never make such a mistake. The experience of the world tells us a lot in this regard," Modi said while referring to a popular Hindi idiom 'Sawdhani hati, durghatna ghati' (disaster strikes when you lower your concentration). The Centre and the state governments have been giving gradual exemptions to boost economic activities as also to provide relief to people as some states want further relaxation in areas which have seen few or no coronavirus cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-interacts-with-cms-on-covid-19-situation-to-discuss-staggered-exit-from-countrywide-lockdown-830401.html
27-04-2020||National||Gehlot appeals to people to extend all help to migrants returning to Rajasthan||As Rajasthan prepares for the return of migrants stuck in other states due to the lockdown, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday appealed to the people of the state to extend all help and give moral support to those returning home after “a very hard period”. The Rajasthan government has deputed teams of senior officers to coordinate with other states on the return of migrants. The Gehlot government had announced last week that migrant workers will be able to move out of Rajasthan or return to the state in a phased manner. Migrant workers have not been able to return home due to the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. These workers will be able to reach their home only after getting necessary permission from state governments concerned and proper arrangements. In a tweet, Gehlot said, “After much effort by the state government, migrants of Rajasthan will soon be returning home from other states. These people suffered a lot during the lockdown. Now when they return, it is our moral duty to take care of them, provide them with all help regarding food, medicines and quarantine facilities". “My appeal to all is please give moral support to our brothers and sisters returning home after a very hard period. Following the culture of Rajasthan that we never leave our people in distress, take proper care of migrants,” he said.  Those wanting to return to Rajasthan will have to register on helpline number 18001806127, eMitra Rajasthan portal, e-Mitra mobile app or e-Mitra kiosk. After registration, the Rajasthan government will obtain consent from state governments concerned. The Rajasthan government is also making arrangements for the movement of migrants in the state. Those who have their own vehicles may come in their vehicles after obtaining permission. Migrant workers will be kept in quarantine on return.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gehlot-appeals-to-people-to-extend-all-help-to-migrants-returning-to-rajasthan-830412.html
27-04-2020||National||Lucknow residents develop new online routines during coronavirus lockdown||Every morning Archana Srivastava and members of 12 other families sit down around their respective screens for an online recitation of the Ramcharitmanas, Tulsidas' epic poem. "We connect with each other through video calling and start recitation of the Ramcharitmanas at around 11.00 am. It continues till 1.30 pm, concluding with an 'aarti'. This infuses new energy among our family members," Srivastava said. She added that 'prasaad' is distributed among the family members at the end of the recital. "This has infused excitement among the children and the elderly people in the family," she said. Kathak teacher Uma Trigunayat said she uses WhatsApp and video conferencing to pass on dancing tips to children. "This is an interesting phase of life which we are going to remember for the rest of our lives," she said. Fitness enthusiast Shivam Kumar, who regularly went to the Botanical Garden here to exercise, now uses the internet to learn new workouts to stay fit. The Navyog Foundation imparts yoga training to many people through the internet. "Through video conferencing, people from different parts of Lucknow, and other districts such as Kanpur, Ballia, Prayagraj, Jhansi and Banda take yoga lessons together early in the morning," co-founder of the Foundation Deepali Tiwari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lucknow-residents-develop-new-online-routines-during-coronavirus-lockdown-830414.html
27-04-2020||National||Centre should arrange for migrant workers to go home: Shiv Sena||Several migrant labourers have been residing in the coronavirus hotspots of Mumbai's Dharavi slum area, it noted. "It is the Centres responsibility to arrange trains and buses so that labourers could reach their homes," an editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said. If these people continue to flock the streets, it is not safe for their health, the Marathi publication said, adding that the Centre cannot shrug off its responsibility. "We wish that the kind of promptness shown by the Centre for the return of some Gujarati tourists from Haridwar (in Uttarakhand), should also be shown for migrant labourers," it said. "These people are homesick and we cannot assess what would happen if they gather on streets," it added. Without taking any names, the Sena said it feared that some people in Maharashtra would "instigate" the migrant labourers for their petty political gains. It also took a dim view of the incident where hundreds of migrants gathered near Bandra station in Mumbai earlier this month and demanded that authorities make transport arrangements for them to go back to their native places. The Sena said Maharashtra needs to take note of each and every labourer who gathered there, make necessary arrangements to send them back home and ensure to "foil" their any future attempt to come back to the state. "These migrants should have trusted the state as it is trying to arrange food and shelter for them. If any other state has done so much for them, they should bring it to our notice," the Uddhav Thackeray-led said. It also referred to some recent comments of Union minister Nitin Gadkari on the need for policy measures to create jobs in rural areas and check migration to cities for employment. "What Gadkari has said is crucial. If these people wish to return to Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, how are they going to feed themselves. There is no work for these people anywhere in the country during the current crisis," the Sena said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-should-arrange-for-migrant-workers-to-go-home-shiv-sena-830416.html
27-04-2020||National||Search operation launched along Jammu-Pathankot highway||Security forces on Monday launched a search operation along the Jammu-Pathankot highway and hinterland areas in Jammu and Kashmir's Hiranagar sector on intelligence inputs about suspicious movement, officials said. On Sunday, search operations were carried out along the International border (IB) in Samba district. "There was an intelligence input (about suspicious movement). Acting on the input, security forces including army and police launched a cordon and search operation along the highway and hinterland areas in Hiranagar sector", a senior police officer told PTI. He said traffic on the highway was halted and the entire area has been searched. "Nothing has been found as of now", he said. Asked about the searches, SSP, Kathua, Shailender Kumar said, "We keep on doing searches."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/search-operation-launched-along-jammu-pathankot-highway-830423.html
27-04-2020||National||Punjab police launches campaign to show solidarity with colleague whose hand was chopped||The day-long campaign is called 'MainBhiHarjeetSingh'. "Let's show everyone that any attack on policemen & doctors fighting COVID-19 on the frontlines, like SI Harjeet Singh, will unite India together as one. In solidarity with SI Harjeet & all warriors, I urge you all to wear his name proudly on your chests today," Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta tweeted on Monday. Under this campaign, all personnel of Punjab police will have Harjeet Singh's name instead of their own names on the badges they pin up to their uniforms, a police official said. Ordinary people can also participate in this campaign by writing 'MainBhiHarjeetSingh' on a placard and posting it on social media, the official said. Harjeet Singh's hand was chopped off with a sword when a group of men had attacked police officials after being asked to show curfew passes at a vegetable market in Patiala on April 12.      Doctors had reattached his hand in a surgery. The 50-year-old Sun Inspector is recovering at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) hospital here. Singh, then Assistant Sun Inspector, was later promoted to Sub-Inspector in recognition of his exemplary courage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-police-launches-campaign-to-show-solidarity-with-colleague-whose-hand-was-chopped-830424.html
27-04-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: The future of co-working spaces||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. In this episode, we focus on the future of co-working spaces in the post-COVID-19 era. We also have a business news segment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-the-future-of-co-working-spaces-830426.html
27-04-2020||National||Lockdown: Death toll in accidents drops significantly||Mumbai has recorded a dramatic fall in the number of deaths due to rail and road accidents amid the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown, officials said. Eight people lost their lives on Mumbai's suburban rail network in April, a stark contrast to the 143 lives lost a month before, an official said on Monday. The suburban train operation in the city was halted on March 23, while the outstation trains were suspended a day earlier. Only goods trains and some 'workmen specials' ferrying railway staff are being operated by the Railways. In March last year, there were 225 deaths in train accidents and the number for April last year was 206, the official said. Road accidents in Mumbai have also seen a significant decline during the lockdown period, another official said.  According to RTO data, 13 people were killed in 94 road accidents in Mumbai in March this year, compared to 40 deaths in 258 accidents during the same month last year. The dip in road accidents during the lockdown period was also witnessed at the state level, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-death-toll-in-accidents-drops-significantly-830430.html
27-04-2020||National||Congress corporator dies of coronavirus in Ahmedabad||He was admitted to the civic-run Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel (SVP) Hospital here on April 15 after testing positive for the coronavirus. The victim died while undergoing treatment at the hospital, Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra told PTI on Monday. "He was suffering from multiple co-morbid conditions like diabetes and hypertension. He had also undergone a heart stent implant," SVP Hospital CEO Ramya Bhatt said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter to express grief over the corporator's demise. Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel also condoled the corporator's death, saying he was a committed party worker who always placed the welfare of society ahead of his own well being. Congress leader Rajeev Satav, Gujarat party unit president Amit Chavda, and other party leaders like Shaktisinh Gohil and Arjun Modhwadia also condoled the corporator's demise. A Congress MLA from Ahmedabad had also tested positive for coronavirus earlier this month and was undergoing treatment, an official said. Till Sunday, Ahmedabad reported 2,189 COVID-19 cases and 105 deaths due to the disease, as per official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-corporator-dies-of-coronavirus-in-ahmedabad-830432.html
27-04-2020||National||Lockdown restrictions tightened in Kashmir due to spike in COVID-19 positive cases||The decision to intensify the restrictions on the movement and assembly of people in most parts of the Kashmir valley was taken following a sudden spike in detection of fresh COVID-19 positive cases over the past few days, the officials said. The security forces have sealed off main roads in most places in the valley and erected barriers at several other places to check the unwanted movement of people, they said. The administration has said essential services including healthcare personnel have been exempted from the restrictions, while otherwise, only persons with valid movement passes are being allowed passage. The declared containment or red zones across the valley have been sealed to ensure strict adherence to the standard operating procedure. Markets across the valley were shut and public transport was off the roads with only pharmacies and groceries allowed to open, the officials said. Educational institutions across Kashmir are closed, while all public places including gymnasiums, parks, clubs and restaurants were shut down more than a week before the nationwide lockdown announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The lockdown in Kashmir has now entered its 40th day.  While the Prime Minister announced the countrywide lockdown on the evening of March 24, the union territory administration here had on March 22 announced a lockdown across Jammu and Kashmir till March 31 as part of its efforts to curb the spread of the coronavirus. However, restrictions were first imposed in many parts of the Kashmir valley on March 19 to contain the spread of the infection. The measures were taken after the detection of the first positive case of coronavirus in the valley. As many as 29 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in the Union Territory on Sunday. The total number of positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir has reached to 523 and seven patients have died while 132 have recovered. More than 66,000 people have been kept under surveillance including those who are either in government-established quarantine facilities or in home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-restrictions-tightened-in-kashmir-due-to-spike-in-covid-19-positive-cases-830436.html
27-04-2020||National||Fresh COVID-19 case reported in Uttarakhand; cases rise to 51||One more person has tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Uttarakhand, taking the total number of cases in the state to 51, a health bulletin said. The test of the man's samples were conducted at the Doon Medical College and the report came on Sunday night, it said. The man's wife had tested positive for COVID-19 soon after delivering a child at the Doon Hospital here on Saturday, the bulletin said. With this the number of coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand has risen to 51, it said. Twenty-eight of them have been discharged after recovery, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fresh-covid-19-case-reported-in-uttarakhand-cases-rise-to-51-830441.html
27-04-2020||National||UP MLA launches web portal to help stranded migrants amid coronavirus lockdown||There are nodal officers appointed in the state to help the stranded migrants. The collected information will be given to them, local MLA and former minister Anupama Jaiswal said. "We are getting information that hundreds of people of this area (Bahraich assembly constituency) are stranded in cities and other states, and we contacted them through phone, WhatsApp and email, and ensured that they got help in the place where they are stranded," Jaiswal told PTI on Monday. The former minister said that she has also got an easy online portal link prepared for collecting information about the people of Bahraich stranded in different parts of the country. "We in turn are getting in touch with the nodal officers appointed by the state government for the purpose as well as personal contacts and social organisations for providing them immediate help" Jaiswal said. The information collected through the portal would also be handy for the government in case it decides to bring back the stranded people to the state, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-mla-launches-web-portal-to-help-stranded-migrants-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-830446.html
27-04-2020||National||UP govt should wake up to situation in Agra: Akhilesh Yadav||Agra Mayor Naveen Jain had written a hard-hitting letter to Adityanath on April 21, requesting him to take measures to improve healthcare facilities in the city to deal with coronavirus. "According to Mayor, the much touted Agra model of chief minister has failed and will make Agra, Wuhan (China). No testing, no medicines and private hospitals for other diseases, no life saving kits and now mismanagement of quarantine centres is proving deadly. Wake up government," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. A total of 372 cases of coronavirus were reported in Agra till Sunday.While ten people have died, 49 were treated and discharged. The number of active cases is 313. In his letter, Jain had said, "I am writing this letter with a very sad mind that my Agra is going through a phase of excessive problems. The need is to take bold decision to save Agra, where the situation has become very serious. Hence, with folded hands, I am praying you to please save my Agra, please save it." The letter written by the Agra Mayor was also tweeted by Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday. The Congress leader had also said that transparency and testing were important to contain coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-govt-should-wake-up-to-situation-in-agra-akhilesh-yadav-830447.html
27-04-2020||National||Some earning profits in sale of COVID-19 test kits to govt, PM must intervene: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday alleged that some people were indulging in profiteering while supplying rapid test kits for COVID-19 to the government and demanded that the Prime Minister take strict immediate action against them. The Congress cited media reports about rapid test kits for COVID-19 being sold at around 150 per cent profits to the government and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to fix responsibility for the same. "When the entire country is fighting against the COVID-19 disaster, some people are still profiteering. One detests and feels ashamed of such a corrupt mindset. We demand from the prime minister strict action against these profiteers. The country will never pardon them," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also said it was "shameful and inhuman" that people were supplying test kits bought for Rs 225 at Rs 600 to the state exchequer. "Corruption in Corona Testing Kits OR Profiteering by duping the Exchequer. Import Price of 1 Testing Kit= Rs 225! Purchase Price of Testing Kit= Rs 600! Profit Margin = 166.66 pc! Shameful and Inhuman! Will PM fix responsibility," he said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-earning-profits-in-sale-of-covid-19-test-kits-to-govt-pm-must-intervene-rahul-gandhi-830452.html
27-04-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi's 'Swamitva Yojna' will empower villagers: MP minister||Madhya Pradesh Agriculture Minister Kamal Patel on Monday lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi for launching the 'Swamitva Yojna', saying it will change the face of the rural sector and empower villagers. On the Panchayati Raj Diwas on April 24, the prime minister launched the 'Swamitva Yojna', or the ownership scheme, to map residential land ownership in the rural sector with the help of modern technology like drones. Patel said despite the country getting Independence 70 years back, there was still a "big divide between the urban and rural areas" in terms of economic empowerment. Though people in rural areas have houses or shops on their plots, they cannot avail loan against the property because of the "complicated web of rules", he said. "The 'Swamitva Yojna' launched by Modiji will grant real freedom to people in rural areas in terms of economic empowerment, as it will ensure that financial institutions now grant them loans for construction of their own pucca houses and shops, Patel told PTI. He alleged that the earlier governments deprived people of this basic facility, which resulted in the huge urban-rural divide. "The new scheme will fulfil the dream of Mahatma Gandhi in real sense, as it will lead to economic empowerment of villages and also check migration of labourers to other parts of the country," the BJP leader said.  Earlier, unlike the urban population, rural folks were unable to get loans or bail from the court on the surety of their houses in villages, but now, with the launch of this scheme, the prime minister has bridged this wide gap between urban and rural areas, he said. Asked about a similar scheme launched by Patel in his earlier stint as the state revenue minister in 2008, he said, "We had implemented this scheme that time in the name of Mukhyamantri Gramin Awas Adhikar Pustika' and it empowered a lot of people in my home district Harda." Patel, however, had later quit as a state minister. He said the present scheme is on similar lines and it will benefit the entire rural hinterland of the country.  "It will prove to be a game-changer in rural areas and generate a lot of employment opportunities for the rural youth, as financial institutions now will provide them loans for their houses and shops situated on their own land," the minister said. He also urged the rural masses to take maximum benefit of the new scheme for empowering themselves economically. Patel alleged that the previous Congress government in the state cheated farmers in the name of loan waiver scheme. The minister said he has asked farmers to file FIRs in police stations against former chief minister Kamal Nath over the issue. "With an aim to dislodge the BJP government, the Congress had made tall promises but after coming to power, it did nothing for their benefit," he alleged. Referring to problems being faced by farmers in selling their crops because of the coronavirus crisis, Patel said he has issued directives to procure crops directly from the farms as far as possible. "Besides, I have also issued orders to discontinue the Tulavati Parchi (a kind of middleman system to weigh the crop quantity and issue receipt for it) to minimise hurdles in the procurement system, so that farmers get the maximum benefit of their crops, he said. Patel also said that the suggestion of BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia and some MLAs on raising the limit of purchase of gram and mustard crops up to 20 quintal following bumper yield, will be implemented as it will benefit the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modis-swamitva-yojna-will-empower-villagers-mp-minister-830462.html
27-04-2020||National||Journalist tests COVID-19 positive in UP's Unnao||A woman journalist has tested positive for coronavirus here, in the second case of COVID-19 in the district, a senior official said. The woman's test report was received on Sunday night from a lab in Kanpur where her sample had been sent for testing, district in-charge of communicable diseases Dr. R. S Mishra said on Monday. The patient is a resident of Shuklaganj area under Ganga Ghat police here station and has been taken to Kanpur to be kept in isolation, he said. Three members of her family have been isolated at the Unnao district hospital and their samples have been sent for testing, Mishra said. This is the second COVID-19 positive case in the district, the doctor added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/journalist-tests-covid-19-positive-in-ups-unnao-830469.html
27-04-2020||National||Keep separate towels, don't venture out at noon: NDMA advice on heatwave during COVID-19||With summer setting in, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has issued extensive guidelines for the public as well as employers and workers incorporating the situation arising out of the current situation. Since 2015, India has lost at least 3,775 people due to heatwave as per official statistics though activists have put these numbers much higher. While the numbers were high at 2,040 in 2015 and 2016, the numbers have been brought down to 384 in 2017 and 25 the next year, according to an NDMA document.  It also said India faced an "even more intense, severe and prolonged period" of a heatwave last year compared with the last four years but the number of deaths could be restricted to 215. A heatwave is a period of abnormally high temperatures, more than the normal maximum temperature that occurs during the summer season in the north-western parts of India. Heatwaves typically occur between March and June, and in some rare cases even extend till July. With COVID-19 spreading, officials said the situation has changed further and there is a need to factor in the pandemic situation while issuing guidelines to ensure that social distancing norms and other health precautions are taken. The NDMA advisory suggests that people should stay home, listen to the radio, watch TV or read newspapers for updates on local weather and COVID-19 situation. It advises people to drink more water, even if not thirsty but those with epilepsy, heart, kidney or liver disease who are on fluid-restricted diets should consult a doctor before increasing liquid intake.  While drinking water is advised, the advisory asks people to avoid alcohol, tea, coffee and carbonated soft drinks as it dehydrates the body. "Avoid high-protein, spicy and oily food. Do not eat stale food. Don't touch your eyes, nose and mouth without washing your hands," it said. Those venturing out should cover their head and face and avoid touching any surface as far as possible. Especially those who go out for "essential work" should schedule their journey during the cooler period of the day and should avoid travel during 12 noon and 3 pm. Employers should caution workers to avoid direct sunlight. "If they have to work in the open (agricultural labourers, MNREGS workers etc), ensure that they cover their heads and faces at all times," the advisory said.  Strenuous jobs should be scheduled to cooler times of the day and the employers should increase the frequency and length of rest breaks for outdoor activities, it said. "Make all the workers wear face covers, maintain a physical distance of 1-1.5 metre from others and practice hand hygiene. Provide soap and water for frequent hand washing. Caution them to not touch their faces without washing their hands," the employers are told. Sanitation workers should cover their heads, wear masks and gloves and they should ensure that they do not touch the mask after wearing it, the advisory added. Deaths due to heatwaves in India over the years 2015 – 2040 2016 – 1111 2017 – 384 2018 – 25 2019 – 215 Total – 3775 Source: NDMA||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/keep-separate-towels-dont-venture-out-at-noon-ndma-advice-on-heatwave-during-covid-19-830475.html
27-04-2020||National||SC refuses to entertain plea for free calls during lockdown||The Supreme Court Monday refused to entertain a plea seeking directions to the Centre and other authorities to ensure that free unlimited calling, data usage and DTH facilities are provided to the subscribers to ease "psychological stress" during the nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. "What kind of petitions are being filed?", observed a bench of Justices N V Ramana, S K Kaul and B R Gavai which was hearing the plea through video-conferencing. The petitioner, advocate Manohar Pratap, told the bench that he would withdraw the plea, which also sought a direction to the health ministry to take appropriate steps to deal with psychological pressure mounting on individuals due to the lockdown or being kept in quarantine. The plea had sought directions to the Centre and the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) to invoke relevant terms of agreement of licenses granted to DTH service providers and ask them to provide completely free and unlimited viewing facility of their channels and contents during the lockdown, which has been extended till May 3. It said the authorities should also be directed to exercise powers under appropriate provisions of the law so that content of video streaming websites could be provided free of cost during the lockdown. The petition had said that social interactions by way of talking over the phone, video calling and other modes of digital entertainment like watching TV channels on DTH platforms or contents on video streaming websites could be helpful in "lowering the psychological stress" caused by confinement during the lockdown.  It had said that unlimited free audio and video communication means would allow stranded persons, who are away from their family, to contact them and it would help in dealing with the present situation. It had said that free and unlimited access to internet and satellite TV channels would offer a better and wide mode of entertainment to individuals who are confined in-home or in quarantine facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-for-free-calls-during-lockdown-830477.html
27-04-2020||National||NCW asks Rajasthan police to conduct probe in gang rape of woman||The National Commission for Women on Monday asked the  Rajasthan police to conduct an immediate investigation in the alleged gang rape of a woman in that state and sought strict action against the culprits and the erring police officials.  A 40-year-old woman, who was unable to make her way back to her home in Jaipur due to travel restrictions amid the countrywide lockdown, was allegedly raped on the night of April 23-24 by three men at a school in Sawai Madhopur district where she was put up by the local authorities. The Commission has written to Bhupendra Singh Yadav, Director General of Police, Rajasthan, for immediate investigation and strict action against the culprits and erring police officials as per the law, the NCW said in a statement.  The Commission is concerned about the safety and security of women despite the enactment of the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 2013, that made laws against sexual crimes stricter, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncw-asks-rajasthan-police-to-conduct-probe-in-gang-rape-of-woman-830482.html
27-04-2020||National||33 staffers at Delhi's Max hospital test positive for COVID-19||Max Healthcare group had announced two weeks ago that it was going to conduct tests for COVID-19 on all its employees and patients at its facilities across the country. "Since the test started, 33 staffers, including two doctors, nurses, paramedics, and non-medical staff have tested positive for COVID-19 at Max Hospital, Patparganj, till date," a source said.  Max Hospital, Patparganj is an upscale health facility in east Delhi. All the affected people have been shifted to a quarantine facility in East Block of Max Hospital, Saket in south Delhi, sources said. The East Block of the hospital is a dedicated COVID-19 facility.  Healthcare workers from hospitals under Max Healthcare (18,000), BLK Hospital (3,000) and Nanavati Hospital, Mumbai (3,000) will be tested over the next few weeks, officials of Max Healthcare had earlier said. The move had come in the wake of a doctor, a nurse and a non-medical staff at Max Hospital, Saket earlier testing positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/33-staffers-at-delhis-max-hospital-test-positive-for-covid-19-830485.html
27-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Supreme Court asks Centre's stand on allowing inter-state travel of migrants ||A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to respond to a PIL filed by activist Jagdeep S Chhokar and advocate Gaurav Jain. The petitioners, led by advocate Prashant Bhushan, wanted safe travel for such workers to their native places after conducting COVID-19 tests on them. The bench brushed aside objections to the plea made by Mehta. The court, however, grilled Bhushan asking him why it should hear him if he did not have faith in the Supreme Court. Bhushan had made a tweet recently, apparently expressing his anguish with the institution. The counsel said he has expressed his personal views in the past, which have also been echoed by retired judges.  On this, the bench said Bhushan has been part of the institution for 30 years. Some orders are favourable and some are not, but the comments made by him in the past are indicative that he has no faith in the judiciary, the bench said. Solicitor General Mehta also said every time Bhushan lost in court, he ran to the SC lawns (where media is always present) and called it a black day. He cannot run the government as a PIL petitioner. During the hearing, though Mehta insisted that the matter should be posted for hearing after two weeks, the court decided to examine it after a week. The petitioners wanted migrant workers across the country to be allowed to return to their hometowns and villages after conducting the necessary Covid-19 test. It claimed the migrant workers were amongst the worst-affected category of people due to the lockdown. Hundreds of such workers had come out on the roads in Delhi, Mumbai and Surat and other parts of the country, feeling desperate after the announcement of a countrywide lockdown, initially for three weeks from March 25, and subsequently extended till May 3. Background The PIL filed by advocate Prashant Bhushan claimed thousands of migrant workers, who didn't join the mass exodus in the initial national 21-day lockdown, were being harassed by local residents and being beaten up at some places leading to "humiliation and inexplicable sufferings". Chhokar, former director-in charge IIM-Ahmedabad and founder of 'Association of Democratic Reforms', and Jain, in their joint plea, contended that the fundamental right of the migrant workers enshrined under Article 19(1)(d) (right to move freely throughout the territory of lndia) and Article 19(1)(e) of the Constitution (right to reside and settle in any part of the territory of lndia) cannot be suspended for an indefinite period. Forcing these workers to stay away from their families and living in unpredictable and arduous conditions were unreasonable restrictions upon their rights, they said.  They also contended the extension of lockdown was casting a disproportionate burden on migrant workers stranded in cities of their migration as compared to those living with their own families at their own residences. This was violative of the right to equality under Article 14 and right to live with dignity under Article 21 of the Constitution. Referring to a status report filed by the Centre in a separate case, the petitioners said only 25 lakh migrant workers were being taken care of while their actual number ranged from four to 12 crore. The petition drawn by advocates Neha Rathi and Jatin Bharadwaj gave examples of Delhi's Anand Vihar Bus Terminal, Mumbai's Bandra and Surat incidents where large numbers of workers came out on roads for salaries and the permission to go back to their respective native places. "In view of the extension of the national lockdown and also the possibility of its further extension, similar incidences are very likely to unfold across the country. Such skirmishes will result in problems of public order, over and above the primary and challenging task of taking care of the public health," their plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-supreme-court-asks-centres-stand-on-allowing-inter-state-travel-of-migrants-830488.html
27-04-2020||National||When will foodgrains stored in govt warehouses be used? asks Mayawati||BSP president Mayawati on Monday asked the central and state governments to make proper arrangements for food for thousands of poor migrant labourers and also provide financial assistance to them. Mayawati said it would have been better if the governments made proper arrangements for the millions of people, who are suffering due to the lockdown over the novel coronavirus pandemic, and send them safely to their houses. "The central and all the state governments, besides increasing the testing of coronavirus, should also make available proper food, especially to the helpless millions of poor migrant labourers," Mayawati tweeted. "Otherwise how will these people, suffering from hunger, be able to increase there immunity and save themselves from the deadly coronavirus? When will the foodgrains stored in government warehouses be used?" she asked. The BSP leader also demanded immediate financial help to the migrants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-will-foodgrains-stored-in-govt-warehouses-be-used-asks-mayawati-830492.html
27-04-2020||National||SC notice to Centre on plea against termination, salary cut and closure||The Supreme Court on Monday issued a notice to the Centre, the Indian Newspapers Society, and the News Broadcasters Association on a plea by a group of journalists' bodies against termination, salary cut, and forced leave effected in print and electronic media with impunity, following the lockdown clamped to check the COVID-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Sanjay Kishan Kaul, and B R Gavai said that the matter required consideration as it has raised some serious issues. "Other Unions are also raising such an issue. The question is if the business does not start, how long will they sustain. This issue needs hearing," the bench said, putting the matter for further consideration after two weeks. The writ petition filed jointly by the National Alliance of Journalists, Delhi Union of Journalists, and Brihanmumbai Union of Journalists questioned the validity of "unilateral knee-jerk decisions to terminate services, reduce wages and also send employees on forced indefinite unpaid leave". Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves appeared for the journalist bodies. The plea contended that what media establishments or employers were prohibited from doing by law, they were trying to achieve by subterfuge taking the excuse of the lockdown. They said the arbitrary actions on part of the private media houses placed journalists in a precarious situation. It will also have a pernicious effect on the media sector and will severely hamper the media’s ability to perform its functions in the democratic setup, they added. Their plea pointed out despite the Prime Minister's appeal, the Ministry of Labour and Employment's advisories and legal provisions that disallowed retrenchments, terminations or even suspension and closure of publications without due process, the media companies have gone ahead with these measures. This was also "unmindful of the fact that in a lockdown of such an incredible magnitude people can barely move out, leave alone go for job-hunting", it contended.  The petitioners, which named several newspapers, magazines, online media outlets, and other employers in the media sector for reportedly having taken such steps, have made the Union government, Indian Newspapers Society and News Broadcasters Association as parties to the petition.  "The nature of injury caused to the public is that this is an affront to the rights of journalists and also impedes their ability to perform their duties and provide independent journalism as a pillar of democracy," they said. Their plea said the retrenchment was also in violation of Sections 25N and 25O of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and Section 16A of the Working Journalists and Other Newspaper Employees (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955.  As per the Ministry of Home Affairs's order of March 24, 2020, the journalists and non-journalists employees working in the print, electronic and digital media sector were carrying out essential services and they continued to perform their duties even during the ongoing lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-against-termination-salary-cut-and-closure-830503.html
27-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: HC seeks centre, AAP govt stand on feeding stray dogs and other animals during COVID-19 lockdown:||A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh issued notices to the Ministry of Fisheries and Animal Husbandry, Delhi government, the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) and the municipal bodies here. The bench sought their reply on the petition by June 10, the next date of hearing. Advocate Gauri Puri, who appeared for the petitioner, said the high court also asked the Delhi government to issue travel passes on sympathetic grounds to animal welfare volunteers during the lockdown.  The Central government standing counsel, Anurag Ahluwalia, accepted notice for the ministry. The order came on the plea by Arti Puri who has been working for welfare of animal for the last 15 years. She contended that stray dogs and other animals are largely dependent on garbage and left over food from restaurants, canteens and marketplaces, all of which have been shut down in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Even those private persons who were feeding them are not venturing out of their homes due to the lockdown, and therefore, the strays are suffering from starvation, the plea said. It was further contended that while the governments were taking adequate measures to ensure the poor and needy get food, no such steps are being taken for stray animals. The petitioner submitted that the failure to take any action could result in deaths of countless stray animals due to starvation and it could lead to another epidemic as the limited municipal staff engaged in sanitization of colonies and garbage collection, would be unable to dispose of the dead animal bodies.  "Apart from loss of animal life, a situation will also arise where the stray dogs in particular, enter into other territories searching for food and display aggressive behaviour towards humans in search of food," the petition said. It also said that presently only a handful of NGOs and volunteers are ensuring that stray animals are fed in very limited areas of Delhi. Further, due to lack of adequate fund and support, as also penal consequences that may entail for violation of the lockdown order, the volunteers are unable to take care of the several starving stray animals in the national capital, the petition said. The plea has also sought directions to the Animal Welfare Board of India to establish a committee to ensure adequate food and water is being provided to stray animals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-hc-seeks-centre-aap-govt-stand-on-feeding-stray-dogs-and-other-animals-during-covid-19-lockdown-830505.html
27-04-2020||National||SC junks PIL for free mobile and DTH services during coronavirus lockdown||The Supreme Court on Monday rejected a PIL for direction to mobile and DTH service providers to give free services during the period of lockdown clamped to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. "What kind of petitions are being filed," a bench presided over by Justice N V Ramana said, declining to entertain the plea. In his petition, advocate Manohar Pratap also asked the court to direct Amazon and Netflix to provide all contents on their video streaming to the viewers, completely free during the period of lockdown as steps to deal with "psychological pressure mounting on individuals due to lockdown or kept in isolation or quarantine". The petitioner contended lakhs of people who are either stranded at various places with or without families or are in the quarantine facility, do not have any means or resources to get their phone recharged. "In the present emergent situation, where physical movement of individuals has been restricted for larger good, the only means of communication left is digital means by way of audio/video calling," he pointed out.  The petitioner also said that the free and unlimited access to the channels on satellite TVs (DTH) would give a new means of entertainment to the viewers. It will also help to combat the psychological pressure which is being mounted on the individuals being confined indoors or who are kept in isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-junks-pil-for-free-mobile-and-dth-services-during-coronavirus-lockdown-830506.html
27-04-2020||National||Indian national from Tamil Nadu killed in road accident in Singapore||The police are investigating the fatal accident of Sulthan Abdul Kathar Rahman Kareem from Tamil Nadu along with Mhamed Rbik Mohamed Farook, 27, from Malaysia. The accident occurred on Saturday when the man driving the car swerved on Hougang Avenue 3, making a sudden right turn onto Airport Road, towards the Kallang-Paya Lebar Expressway. The two men on the motorcycle were taken unconscious to Changi General Hospital, where they were later pronounced dead, reported The Straits Times. The two colleagues were heading to their workplace at an Indian restaurant. "My cousin is the sole breadwinner of his family, who were living back home in the Kottaipattinam village in southern India," said Sulthan's cousin, Kalandar Maraikayar Mohamed Riyas. Sulthan had been working in Singapore for over four years. He leaves behind his wife, 22, his two-year-old daughter and his parents, who are both in their sixties. Kalandar added that Sulthan's friends and family are now trying to raise funds for his funeral and to provide financial aid to his family. The 39-year-old male driver of the sedan car was arrested for dangerous driving causing death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-national-from-tamil-nadu-killed-in-road-accident-in-singapore-830508.html
27-04-2020||National||State fully prepared to deal with any situation arising due to COVID crisis: Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday apprised Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the state was fully prepared to deal with any situation arising due to the coronavirus crisis. Efforts are being made to revive economic activities in the state in a safe manner, Khattar said at a video conference convened by the PM to discuss the prevailing situation in the country with chief ministers. Haryana has so far reported 299 coronavirus cases. The figure includes 24 foreign nationals. Three fatalities have been reported in the state so far. Khattar also urged the Centre to take quick steps to remove the prevailing uncertainty around the dates of competitive examinations like the Combined Defence Services, the JEE and the NEET, an official statement said. Earlier, state Health Minister Anil Vij had said that Haryana has done better on many parameters, including the recovery rate of COVID-19 patients, than other states. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala had said that in compliance with the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, an initiative had been taken to bring industrial and economic activities in the state to normalcy in a phased manner and to revive them, online applications had been invited from industries. Committees have been formed at the block, district and state levels to allow the industries, which are not in containment zones, to operate with certain conditions, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-fully-prepared-to-deal-with-any-situation-arising-due-to-covid-crisis-khattar-830510.html
27-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: AYUSH hands out herbal decoction to boost immunity, asks states to promote its manufacturing||The Ministry of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy) said the formulation is in the interest of health promotion of masses, which has been endorsed by the prime minister. The formulation made of herbs tulsi (basil leaves), Dalchini (cinnamon bark ), Sunthi (dry ginger powder) and krishna marich (black pepper) will be manufactured and sold in generic name ‘Ayush Kwath’ or ‘Ayush Kudineer’ or ‘Ayush Joshanda’, according to a letter written by the ministry to all the States/UTs and ASU drug manufacturers on April 24. "Considering the importance of immunity-boosting measures in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, Ministry of AYUSH intends to promote the use of following ready-made Ayush formulation in the interest of health promotion of the masses, which has been endorsed by the Prime Minister during his address to the nation on the Constitution Day, April 14," the ministry said.  "States/UT governments are hereby requested to direct the AYUSH licensing authorities to consider granting license/approval for manufacturing of above-mentioned formulation to the interested licensed Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani drug manufacturers in accordance with the provisions of Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945," the letter stated. In line with the advisory, a firm engaged in producing a range of herbal products has already started the process of manufacturing the ‘Ayush Kwath', ministry sources said. The formulation will be available in powder and tablet forms in the market at the earliest, KK Sharma, Managing Director of the firm, AIMIL Pharma, said. “The ‘Ayush Kwath’ will have all the herbs enlisted by the Ministry. Various reports have shown that coronavirus has been found to be fatal for people with weak immune system. There are many herbs in Indian traditional system that can boost immunity and keep many diseases away,” Sharma said. The AYUSH ministry's letter also explained the method of preparation. It said the formulation can be dissolved in hot water or taken in tablet form.  According to health experts, while coronavirus reduces the immune response of the infected person, it has also been observed that mostly it targets people with a low immune system. Experts feel that the improvement of the immune system helps in reducing the effects of the infection and also fight COVID-19. The prime minister in his ‘Mann ki Baat’ radio programme on Sunday reiterated usage of AYUSH healthcare systems, saying that people across the world are paying special attention to the importance of Ayurveda and yoga amid the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-ayush-hands-out-herbal-decoction-to-boost-immunity-asks-states-to-promote-its-manufacturing-830514.html
27-04-2020||National||NBA demands stimulus for broadcast media to fight coronavirus impact||Facing the possibility of "almost zero or negligible income" in the coming several months due to COVID-19, the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) on Monday demanded a stimulus package from the government, that includes a 50 per cent hike in official advertisement rates and paying dues of Rs 64.49 crore accumulated over the last ten years. In a letter to Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar, NBA president Rajat Sharma said the operating costs of the broadcasters have risen "exponentially" during the COVID-19 lockdown due to arrangements being made to ensure social distancing and safety of staff. At the same time, he said, advertisements has come under severe pressure during this period with agencies putting pressure to defer the payments. He also expressed concern about the possibility of "almost zero or negligible income" in the coming several months. Recently, the Indian Newspaper Society (INS) also wrote to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting seeking a fiscal stimulus, saying the revenue has dwindled for the print media because of COVID-19 and subsequent lockdown.   "While the news broadcasters are coping with the financial problems of recovery of dues, we are also faced with serious problems of advertising inventory/release orders being cancelled and inventory/bookings being less than 50% for even the top-rated news channels. Poor recovery and lack of future income would mean that the news broadcasters would have to weather the storm for two/three quarters and hope for a partial recovery towards the end of the financial year," Sharma said. The NBA demanded that the Bureau of Outreach and Communication (BOC) advertisements rates be increased by 50 per cent. It also wanted a substantial increase in budgetary allocations of all central ministries and organisations for dissemination of information relating to COVID-19 through private satellite TV channels for its widest reach to all sections of the society. Sharma also raised the issue of outstanding dues by the BOC, which the NBA said was around Rs 64.49 crore, including Rs 8.62 crore from the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. This is a "substantial amount, which has remained unpaid over the years. Payment of these outstanding dues of BOC/ DAVP will give some relief to the broadcasters who are under severe financial stress," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nba-demands-stimulus-for-broadcast-media-to-fight-coronavirus-impact-830522.html
27-04-2020||National||SC issues notice to Centre on a plea against advisory to pay full salary||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to the Centre on a plea questioning validity of the orders issued by it to pay full salary to the employees during the period of lockdown. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Sanjay Kishan Kaul, and B R Gavai sought a reply from the Centre within two weeks on petitions filed by Mumbai-based Nagreeka Exports Limited, Punjab's Ludhiana Hand Tools Association and others. The petitioners contended the National Disaster Management Authority and National Executive Committee constituted under the National Disaster Management Act did have no power to direct the employers to make payment to their workers, without any deduction, during the period of lockdown. It said the orders issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on March 29 and Maharashtra government on March 31 were violative of fundamental rights, besides being "illegal, unethical, improper and illegitimate". "The orders have taken into consideration only the employee class and have totally ignored the rights of the employer. COVID-19 is adversely impacting both employer and employee class. Therefore, the government ought to have taken a balanced view so that both these classes could overcome this unprecedented situation," the plea said.  The petitioner sought permission to pay wages at the rate of 50% of basic pay plus dearness allowance to its workers or employees.  The company also contended the workers' absenteeism have led to zero production in this period. In such a scenario, if the employers are forced to make payment to the workers for the entire lockdown period, it may lead to closure of many micro, small and medium scale industries, causing permanent unemployment of many people and detriment to the economy, it added. Ludhiana Hand Tools Association was also aggrieved with the MHA's direction, saying it was manifestly arbitrary, unconstitutional and violative of right to equality and freedom to carry out business guaranteed under the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-issues-notice-to-centre-on-a-plea-against-advisory-to-pay-full-salary-830524.html
27-04-2020||National||CBI gets custody of Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan till Apr 29||A special court here on Monday remanded DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan and RKW Developers promoter Dheeraj Wadhawan to CBI custody till April 29 in connection with the Yes Bank scam, officials said. The duo was arrested on Sunday from a Mahabaleshwar-based quarantine facility, nearly 50 days after they were booked in the case also involving Yes Bank CEO Rana Kapoor. The Wadhawans were produced before a special court here which remanded them to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) custody till Wednesday, April 29, the officials said. According to the CBI, Kapoor, 62, entered into a criminal conspiracy with Kapil Wadhawan for extending financial assistance to DHFL through Yes Bank in return for substantial undue benefits to himself and his family members through companies held by them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-gets-custody-of-kapil-and-dheeraj-wadhawan-till-apr-29-830529.html
27-04-2020||National||UIDAI okays Aadhaar updation facility through CSC||In a major relief to those living in rural areas, the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) has allowed the Common Service Centre, an SPV (Special Purpose Vehicle) under the Ministry of IT and Electronics, to begin the Aadhaar updation facility at their 20,000 CSCs which operate as Banking Correspondents (BCs). “To make Aadhaar updating easier for citizens, UIDAI has permitted CSCs, which are designated banking correspondents of banks, to offer Aadhaar update services. Around 20,000 such CSCs will now be able to offer this service to citizens,” tweeted Union Telecom, MEITY, and Law Minister  Ravi Shankar Prasad. “I would like the CSC VLEs to start the Aadhaar work with responsibility and as per instructions issued by UIDAI in this regard...I am sure this facility will help a large number of the rural citizens to get Aadhar services closer to their place of residence,” Prasad said. UIDAI has set the June deadline for the commencement of the work after CSCs with banking facilities to upgrade their required infrastructure and get other necessary approvals. Earlier, the Aadhaar work through CSCs was discontinued in December 2018. Since then there has been a demand of village level entrepreneurs (VLEs) running over 3.5 lakh CSCs across India to start the Aadhaar enrolment work as they have invested in the Aadhaar kits and have trained manpower for the same. Thanking the Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad for getting Aadhaar updation work restarted through CSCs, Tyagi said it would further strengthen the efforts of achieving the goals of “Digital India” as envisaged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. CSCs were earlier doing Aadhaar work and more than 20 crore Aadhaar were generated through CSCs across the country. Highlighting the role of CSC BCs in these difficult times of COVID-19 pandemic, Tyagi said they are enabling citizens to get banking services close to their place of residence without the need to visit a bank branch. “Apart from 20,000 BCs, over 30,000 CSCs are delivering banking service using AePS (Aadhaar-enabled payment system). About 1.2 lakhs AePS transactions are taking place every day to the tune of around Rs.20 crore. This is helping the farmers, Jan Dhan account holders, pensioners, Ujwala beneficiaries in withdrawing the amount which has been transferred to their accounts by the government through DBT,”  Tyagi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uidai-okays-aadhaar-updation-facility-through-csc-830531.html
27-04-2020||National||SC notice to Civil Aviation Ministry on plea to refund flight tickets||The Supreme Court on Monday sought a response from the Union government on a plea for a direction to the domestic and international flight operators to refund full amount of ticket of the flights cancelled due to lockdown.  A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai issued notice to the Ministry of Civil Aviation on the PIL by NGO 'Pravasi Legal Cell'. According to petitioner's counsel Jose Abraham the bench observed that the policy of non refund was arbitrary. The hearing was conducted through video conferencing.   The NGO said the Ministry of Civil Aviation's order issued on April 16 directing the airlines to refund only those tickets that were booked during the lockdown period and left out the vast majority of passengers who had booked tickets before the flights were banned, was like treating the equals unequally in violation of fundamental rights of citizens. "The present policy is extremely harsh on the ordinary passengers who booked tickets in advance for travelling," it said. The petitioner contended that the action on the part of the airlines in not refunding the full amount collected for the tickets due to the cancellation of flights in the wake of restrictions imposed to contain COVID-19 was arbitrary and in violation of the Civil Aviation requirement issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation. "The airline companies instead of showing humanitarian virtues, are rather seeing these challenging times as an opportunity to extract unlawful gains from the people who are already in misery due to uncertainties," it claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-civil-aviation-ministry-on-plea-to-refund-flight-tickets-830539.html
27-04-2020||National||Kota row: Formulate one policy for shifting people, Nitish tells PM||Even as West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said that students from her State, stranded in Kota for over four weeks, would be brought back, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to formulate one policy over shifting people from one State to another. Nitish, who has vehemently opposed bringing back around 11,000 students from Bihar stuck up in Kota since March 24, was earlier today interacting with the Prime Minister during PM’s meeting with the CMs through video-conferencing. Last week, when the Patna High Court sought Nitish regime’s response on students stranded in Kota, the Bihar Government submitted that it was taking care of those stranded but “could not bring them to Bihar as it would violate the Centre’s guidelines and defeat the lockdown purpose.” The Patna High Court was scheduled to pass an order on this issue (students stranded in Kota) on Monday, but deferred the hearing to Tuesday as the lawyer representing the Union Government was not present today. Nitish, however, raised the issue with the PM on Monday as other than West Bengal, the UP, MP, Haryana and J-K Governments have brought their students from Kota by sending special buses to Rajasthan. “Formulate one policy for the return of migrants and students. This becomes all the more necessary as some of the States have sent buses and brought their students from Kota,” Nitish reportedly told the PM. Nitish has been drawing flak in the State over his obstinate stand in not bringing back stranded students. “When UP CM can send buses to bring back students from Kota, why can’t Bihar CM do so,” wondered Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kota-row-formulate-one-policy-for-shifting-people-nitish-tells-pm-830542.html
27-04-2020||National||Provide stimulus package, clear govt advertisement dues of channels: NBA president Rajat Sharma to Prakash Javadekar||Underlining that the COVID-19 crisis has put broadcast media under severe financial stress, the News Broadcasters Association on Monday urged the Information and Broadcasting Ministry to provide a stimulus package for them and ensure that the government advertisement dues of over Rs 64 crore owed to the news channels are cleared. In a letter to Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar, NBA president Rajat Sharma said the broadcast media has taken several steps to ensure social distancing for the safety of the editorial personnel and staff. This has resulted in the operating costs of news broadcasters going up exponentially during the current pandemic and the lockdown, Sharma said. "Advertisements which is an integral and essential part of the business and the main source of revenue for the news broadcasters has come under severe pressure during this pandemic/lockdown," he said. Advertising agencies are putting huge pressure to defer the payments to broadcasters and to allow more time over and above the 60 days credit period, Sharma said in the letter. "To overcome the financial crisis, we are suggesting that the MOI&B (Ministry of Information and Broadcasting) announce a stimulus package for the broadcast media," he said. The NBA suggested increasing rates of Bureau of Outreach and Communication/ Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity advertisements by 50 per cent. In the letter, the NBA also called for a substantial increase in budgetary allocations of all ministries/departments and organisations of the government for dissemination of information or communication relating to COVID-19 pandemic by BOAC/DAVP through private satellite TV channels for its widest reach to all sections of the society. "Further, we have been representing to the MoI&B for several years, the issue of outstanding dues of BOC/DAVP of our member broadcasters, which is pending since 2010, and there has been no resolution till date," Sharma said. "We have collated the current outstanding dues reported by our member broadcasters with regard to various Ministries/Departments released by BOC/ DAVP up to 31.3.2020. The total outstanding dues reported by members of NBA is approximately Rs.64,49,87,733, a substantial amount, which has remained unpaid over the years," he said. The outstanding amount pertaining to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting reported by the members is approximately Rs.8,62,25,333, Sharma said. Payment of these outstanding dues of BOC/ DAVP will give some relief to the broadcasters who are under severe financial stress, he noted. If the payments have not been made to the broadcasters due to non-receipt of payment, it is requested that the I&B ministry kindly take up the matter with the concerned ministries or departments and organizations of the government to release the long overdue payment expeditiously to BOC/ DAVP. The NBA is an association exclusively of round-the-clock news broadcasters in India. It has 27 broadcasters as its members representing 77 channels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/provide-stimulus-package-clear-govt-advertisement-dues-of-channels-nba-president-rajat-sharma-to-prakash-javadekar-830545.html
27-04-2020||National||6,184 or 22.17% COVID-19 patients have recovered: Health Ministry||A total of 6,184 COVID-19 patients have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate in the country to 22.17 per cent, the Health Ministry said on Monday. There has been a rise of 1,396 cases in 24 hours since Sunday morning, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases to 27,892 in India, the ministry said. According to Health Ministry data, the total number of COVID-19 deaths in the country stood at 872. Addressing a press briefing, Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said 16 districts which earlier had positive cases have not reported any new case of COVID-19 in the last 28 days. A total of 85 districts in 25 states and UTs have not reported any fresh case in the last 14 days, Agarwal said. He further urged people to ensure that no community or area should be blamed for the spread of the virus and healthcare and sanitation workers should not be attacked as they are helping in bringing the crisis under control. At the briefing, empowered group-5 chairperson Param Iyer said cooked meals are being served to 1.5 crore people daily by the government, NGOs and industry as per data available on April 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/6184-or-2217-covid-19-patients-have-recovered-health-ministry-830547.html
27-04-2020||National||'This institution is not hostage of government ', says Supreme Court||“This institution is not hostage of government,” the Supreme Court said on Monday as it sought reply from the Centre on a plea seeking direction to authorities to allow migrant workers across the country to return home after conducting coronavirus tests. The top court's remark came after advocate Prashant Bhushan told the court that the government's view is being blindly considered without verifying it, while fundamental rights of people especially migrant workers are not being enforced. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai questioned Bhushan, appearing for petitioners Jagdeep S Chhokar, former director in-charge of IIM, Ahmedabad, and lawyer Gaurav Jain, and said as to why should the court hear him, if he does not have faith in the system. Bhushan said that this is an institution created by Constitution but the fundamental rights are being violated of these migrant workers and I am entitled express by anguish. The bench told Bhushan, “You don't have faith in judiciary. This institution is not hostage of government." Clarifying that he never said that he has no faith in this system, Bhushan added he could be wrong but similar opinion is expressed by some retired judges. The bench told him that he claims to be practising in the apex court for past 30 years and then he must know that some orders are favourable and some are not and therefore he should not say such things. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Centre told Bhushan that he should not be under the impression that he is the only one who is concerned with enforcement of fundamental rights. He said the government is very much concerned with the issue and trying to provide all possible help to migrant workers. Bhushan said that if there was any objection with regard to his appearance as a lawyer in the case, then he was willing to withdraw from the matter and some other lawyer will appear. The bench said that it had never asked him to withdraw from the matter. Bhushan said the central government seems to have shut its eyes and should consider the distress situation faced by the migrant workers during the lockdown. He said that more than 90 per cent migrant workers have not received the ration or wages; they are in desperate situation and should be allowed to go to their native places. Mehta however said that these are incorrect reports and questioned the basis of the data given by the petitioners. He said the Centre is consulting states on the issue as to how many of migrant workers have to be transported, how many have to be given help and what kind of help. The bench told Mehta hat it means that Centre is in consultation with states and is ready to examine the issue. Mehta replied that the government is examining everything but the ideas of petitioner are not required and urged the court to not keep the petition pending as there are already several pleas, which have similar prayers. Bhushan urged the court to allow inter-state transportation of migrant workers which was objected to by Mehta saying that it is for the government to look into all aspects keeping the larger interest of people in mind. The Solicitor General requested the court to not issue notice and give directions on the plea as it would send wrong message and instead he would file a reply within two weeks. The bench said it is giving one week time to Centre to respond whether there is any proposal on allowing inter-state transportation of migrant workers. Meanwhile, the top court disposed of intervention applications filed by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava on the issue of stopping inter-state migration of workers and said that it is the Central government to look into the issue. The top court said it is not the coordinating agency between the Centre and states, and the Union government has to take necessary action in this regard. Chhokar and Jain in their plea had said that in wake of the extension of the nationwide lockdown, the migrant workers who are among the worst affected category of people must be allowed to go back to their homes after being tested for COVID-19. It said that those migrant workers who test negative for COVID-19 must not be forcefully kept in shelters or away from their homes and families against their wishes. It said that although the national lockdown has been necessitated because of the unprecedented pandemic of COVID-19 and its imposition is much needed, it is submitted by the petitioners that the fundamental right of the migrant workers enshrined under Article 19(1)(d) (right to move freely throughout India) and Article 19(1)(e) of the Constitution (right to reside and settle in any part of India) cannot be suspended for an indefinite period. It said that these migrant workers cannot be forced to stay away from their families and living in unpredictable and arduous conditions, as the same is an unreasonable restriction beyond what is envisaged under Article 19(5) of the Constitution. The petition said that necessary transport services may be provided by the state governments in abundance so that the purpose of 'social distancing' is not defeated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/this-institution-is-not-hostage-of-government-says-supreme-court-830551.html
27-04-2020||National||Experts developing protocol to test sewage for COVID-19 traces: Catalyst Group||A multi-disciplinary group of experts is developing protocol to test sewage for COVID-19 traces in selected densely populated urban residential areas of Bengaluru and Kolkata, as they feel it could be a simple and non-invasive method of community surveillance for coronavirus, Catalyst Group said on Monday. The expert group COVIDActionCollab (CAC), ideated by social enterprise platform Catalyst Group, aims to explore a more feasible and efficient way to test for presence of COVID-19 in the communities. "COVID-19 isn't going away anytime soon. Before we move into another lockdown, it is imperative that we have continued community monitoring especially in densely populated areas to serve as an early warning system," Catalyst Group Health Strategy Partner Angela Chaudhuri said in a statement. COVID-19 patients shed the virus through their stools and urine. Sensitive laboratory tests can detect traces of coronavirus in sewage even with high levels of dilution, Catalyst Group said. The experts are developing a method of collecting and testing samples in a way that helps identify localities where traces are found, that can help authorities to identify these areas, it said. By mapping collection areas, it will be possible to narrow down where people infected with the virus live and follow it up with identification through clinical tests, quarantine and treatment measures, Chaudhuri added.  According to the group, CAC is developing a cutting-edge sewage testing method for COVID-19 in selected densely-populated urban residential areas of Kolkata and Bangalore. It will also extend testing to factory clusters in these neighbourhoods, it said in a statement said. Urban local bodies in these cities like Municipal Corporations, Directorate General Of Health Services and line departments would find this immensely useful, it said, adding "concerned officials have been approached for an early pilot". This protocol will adapt methods developed in Europe, the US and Australia for Indian conditions. This is of significance in densely populated urban areas and factory clusters where testing individuals is extremely challenging. "If COVID-19 traces are found, they must follow it up with clinical testing to identify and treat those infected," said Sandeepan Choudhury, a Kolkata based Water Sector Consultant from STUP Consultants. The sewage testing-based approach is used routinely in the US to monitor community-wide use of illicit drugs, tobacco and alcohol in the densely populated boroughs of New York City, said Paramita Basu, an antimicrobial resistance researcher and Associate Professor of Biomedical Sciences in the Clinical Doctor of Pharmacy program at Touro College of Pharmacy in New York City. "...but we are working to adapt this technology for assessing community-wide health, specifically in terms of COVID-19 prevalence," Basu said. The group said that mass testing has not been possible due to a lack of adequate kits and infrastructure. Moreover, mass testing is even more challenging in densely-populated urban areas. As the government mulls reopening factories, it is essential to put in place a surveillance method that can quickly and reliably detect the presence of the virus in a locality, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-developing-protocol-to-test-sewage-for-covid-19-traces-catalyst-group-830559.html
27-04-2020||National||Stranded French family 'enjoys' lockdown in UP village||Toulouse, the capital of France’s southern Occitanie region, has no similarity with Kalhua Dhala, a little known village in Uttar Pradesh's Maharajganj district. The village, however, has been the temporary abode of French national Pollarez, his wife Virginie, daughters Ophelie and Janniefer, and son Tom for the past over a month. The passers-by, the locals, as well as the media, have been flocking the small Shiva Temple in the village, where the French family has been staying, to meet them. Pollarez was not there by choice but by compulsion, at least initially. While driving on way to Nepal from Pakistan, he had arrived there on the day the first lockdown was declared. They were stuck up there since then. They had entered India from the Wagha border. A month-long stay, however, has changed everything for the French family. They have adapted themselves to the Indian way of life and enjoying the 'desi' food. Such was their love for the village that the family refused an offer from the district administration to shift to a hotel in Maharajganj town. ''We are enjoying here,'' Pollarez says. The family takes part in the daily 'worship' at the temple and also sing 'bhajans' (religious songs) though they maintain social distancing. ''We had plans to visit Nepal, Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia...but now I don't know,'' Pollarez, a mechanic by profession, said. The family has also learned Hindi and some 'desi' words also. They would leave once the lockdown was lifted. But they would certainly 'miss' the village. ''We have developed good relations with the local residents,'' said Virginie.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stranded-french-family-enjoys-lockdown-in-up-village-830563.html
27-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Assam puts 391 students back from Kota into quarantine||A total of 391 students, who returned from Kota in Rajasthan, a COVID-19 'Red Zone' were put into quarantine here on Monday. A group of Assam police personnel, who accompanied the students from Kota, were also put into quarantine. The students, who hired 17 buses from Kota, a coaching hub reached Guwahati at 3:00 am after more than 2,000km of travel. "After a long journey from Kota, 391 children are back, with smiles & cheers. To ensure they & their families remain safe, we are putting them into 14-days quarantine," Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted after receiving them at Sarusajai sports complex here. The boys have been quarantined in the facility inside the sports complex while the girls were provided quarantine facility in two hotels near the complex. "The students can not come out to the lobby or any other common space during their quarantine. They must be inside their rooms and our officers will be there to help them with whatever they require," Sarma said. Their swab samples will be collected after five days and those testing negative are likely to be allowed to go home for home quarantine for another nine days.   Kota is a coaching hub where medical and engineering aspirants from different parts of the country go every year in large numbers to prepare for competitive exams. Parents of these students had sought permission from the state government for their return amid the lockdown. They also incurred the bus fare (Rs.7,000 per head). The state government, however, sent a team of policemen to Kota by a chartered flight to accompany them. The students so far have not shown any symptom of COVID-19, officials said.  Assam has reported 35 COVID-19 positive cases so far, of which one died. However, 27 others have been discharged from the hospital after they tested negative after their days in hospitals. Seven others are still in hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-assam-puts-391-students-back-from-kota-into-quarantine-830572.html
27-04-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll rises to 886 in country; cases climb to 28,380: Health ministry||The number of COVID-19 cases climbed to 28,380 and the death toll due to it rose to 886 in the country on Monday, registering a record increase of 60 deaths in 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry. There has been a spike of 1,463 cases since Sunday evening. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 21,132, while 6,361 people have recovered, and one patient has migrated, the ministry said. Thus, around 22.41 per cent of patients have recovered in the country so far. The total number of cases includes 111 foreign nationals. A total of 60 deaths were reported since Sunday evening, of which 19 fatalities were reported from Maharashtra, 18 from Gujarat, eight from Rajasthan, seven from Madhya Pradesh, two each from Karnataka, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, and one each from Punjab and Tamil Nadu. Of the 886 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 342 fatalities, followed by Gujarat at 151, Madhya Pradesh at 106, Delhi at 54, Rajasthan at 41, and Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh at 31 each. The death toll reached 26 in Telangana, 24 in Tamil Nadu while West Bengal and Karnataka have reported 20 deaths each. Punjab has registered 18 fatalities so far. The disease has claimed six lives in Jammu and Kashmir, four in Kerala while Jharkhand and Haryana have recorded three COVID-19 deaths each. Bihar has reported two deaths, while Meghalaya, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha and Assam have reported one fatality each, according to the ministry data. According to the Health Ministry data updated in the evening, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 8,068, followed by Gujarat at 3,301, Delhi at 2,918, Rajasthan at 2,185, Madhya Pradesh at 2,168, Uttar Pradesh at 1,955 and Tamil Nadu at 1,885. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 1,177 in Andhra Pradesh and 1,002 in Telangana.  The number of cases has risen to 649 in West Bengal, 523 in Jammu and Kashmir, 511 in Karnataka, 469 in Kerala, 313 in Punjab and 289 in Haryana.   Bihar has reported 277 novel coronavirus cases, while Odisha has 108 cases. Eighty-two people have been infected with the virus in Jharkhand and 51 in Uttarakhand. Himachal Pradesh has 40 cases, Chhattisgarh has 37 and Assam has registered 36 infections each so far. Andaman and Nicobar Islands has 33 COVID-19 cases while Chandigarh has 30 cases and Ladakh has reported 20 infections so far. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases, Puducherry has eight cases while Goa has seven COVID-19 cases. Manipur and Tripura have two cases each, while Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh have reported a case each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-886-in-country-cases-climb-to-28380-health-ministry-830575.html
27-04-2020||National||2,825 SEZs, 60% food processing units operational: MHA||With the easing of Covid-19 lockdown norms to step up economic activities, the government on Monday said 80% of the wheat crop has been harvested while over 3,000 Special Economic Zones (SEZs) and Export Oriented Units (EOUs) have started functioning. Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) Joint Secretary Punya Salila Srivastava said around 2,000 markets have started functioning while farmers and agri-traders have started trading crops in the lockdown. She said 80% of the wheat has been harvested while around 80,000 farmers and 70,000 traders have utilising the Kisan Rath App for trading. The works under the rural job guarantee scheme have also been initiated, which is helping the rural economy. Under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, around two crore workers have already got a job. "Sixty percent of the food processing units have started operations while 2,825 SEZs and 350 EOUs have started functioning. With the resumption of construction activities, locals and migrant workers are also getting work," Srivastava said. The government had allowed opening up certain sectors with limited exemptions from April 20 so that the stalled activities could re-start and give an impetus to the economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2825-sezs-60-food-processing-units-operational-mha-830577.html
27-04-2020||National||We are not toeing govt line: CJI||Chief Justice of India S A Bobde on Monday rubbished the allegation that the Supreme Court was toeing the government's line and was not hauling it up on inadequacy of measures during the COVID-19 pandemic. In times of crisis, all the organs of the state should act in harmony for getting over the crisis, he said. "How men, money and material should be deployed, and prioritised, it is for the executive to decide. We are doing whatever we can during this crisis," he said. Responding to criticism by the activist lawyers, Justice Bobde said epidemic or any disaster can be best handled by the executive. "Undoubtedly, executive can’t allow the lives of citizens be endangered. and when that happens surely the court jurisdiction will arise. In all cases relating to COVID-19, we asked executive what steps are being taken," he said. "All these matters are sub judice. But we have done whatever we can. We are not on the field. We have given directions to the government to provide shelter, food and psychological counselling to migrant workers," the CJI added. He also said the pressure of litigation on courts have reduced considerably. In January 2020, there was 205 cases filed daily in the Supreme Court. But in April only 305 cases have been filed through e-filing. He also said that video conferencing proceedings are here to stay now but it will not entirely replace the courts. "During this time, we are not taking rest and we are working and disposing of the cases. We work 210 days in a year as per our calendar," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-are-not-toeing-govt-line-cji-830581.html
27-04-2020||National||Indian Railways transports record foodgrains during lockdown period||With Centre and state government announcing free rations to poor during lockdown period, Indian Railways transported record foodgrains to different parts of the country to be distributed to poor under Public Distribution System (PDS) for the past one month. The railway transported more 5.2 million tonnes of foodgrains from March 25  to April 25, 2020.  It is more than double the quantity foodgrains moved in 2019 same period. On April 22, the national transporter did record loading of 112 rakes equivalent to 3.13 lakh tonnes beating the previous record of loading of 92 rakes of 2.27 lakh tonnes on April 9,   said an official in the Railways. While wheat was loaded from Punjab and Haryana, rice was loaded from Chhatisgarh, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu. "The Railways is making all efforts to ensure that farm products like foodgrains are picked up on time and also to ensure uninterrupted supply chain," said the official. The loading, transportation and unloading of these essential commodities have been in progress in full swing during the lockdown period in coordination with Food Corporation of India  ( FCI). Besides, large quantities of pulses also transported by national transporter during the lockdown period.   The railways also operating more than 500 parcel trains since the start of the lockdown transporting for perishable commodities including fruits, vegetables, milk and dairy products and seeds for agriculture purpose. It also notified routes with a fixed time table to run parcel trains. "These parcel trains have been given en-route stoppages at all feasible locations so that maximum possible clearance of parcels can be done," said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-transports-record-foodgrains-during-lockdown-period-830585.html
27-04-2020||National||Over two lakh Malayali NRIs register to return to India in 24 hours||Within 24 hours of Kerala launching registration for NRIs from the state who wish to return, over two lakh persons have registered. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that till Monday afternoon the number of persons registered reached 2.02 lakhs. A registration facility for Malayalis in other states who want to return would be initiated soon, he said.   NORKA Roots, an agency of Kerala government for the welfare of non-resident Keralites and returnees, launched the online registration facility on Sunday evening. By Monday morning itself, the number reached 1.5 lakh. Kerala is anticipating an exodus of about five lakh Malayalis from various countries in one month over air connectivity is restored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-two-lakh-malayali-nris-register-to-return-to-india-in-24-hours-830590.html
27-04-2020||National||HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal to discuss issues related to COVID-19, mid-day meals with state education ministers on April 28||Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' has called a meeting with state education ministers to discuss issues related to COVID-19 and mid-day meal programme, officials said on Monday, The meeting will be held at 2.00 pm on Tuesday through video conferencing. "The HRD minister will interact with state education ministers through video call tomorrow to discuss issues like handling of COVID-19, mid-day meal programme and Samagra Shiksha programme," a senior Human Resource Development (HRD) Ministry official said. Earlier on Monday, Pokhriyal interacted with parents online and addressed various issues, including unavailability of books and uncertainty over board exams, arising due to the lockdown imposed to curb the coronavirus spread. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. Later, a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which has now been extended till May 3. In March last week, the HRD Ministry had asked states and union territories to ensure continued supply of mid-day meals to students despite the closure of schools around the country to check the spread of coronavirus. The suggestions offered included delivering packaged meals or the equivalent amount of food grains to students at home, or depositing money in the bank accounts of their parents. The Samagra Shiksha programme is an integrated scheme for school education.  While Punjab and Karnataka have already announced summer vacations due to the COVID-19 outbreak, other states are working on academic calendar and deliberating on various measures, including advancing the summer break, to minimise academic losses. "Education being a state subject, states are free to decide their own academic calendar and schedule for summer break. They also need to keep in mind the coronavirus situation in the particular state," the official said. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) also wrote to states and union territories last week to examine the issues of school fees payment and salaries to teachers "sensitively and holistically" keeping in mind the interest of all stakeholders.  While the Delhi government has announced that schools will not be allowed to hike fees during the period and only tuition fees will have to be paid, the Maharashtra government has said parents can complain to district education officers if schools demand fees during the lockdown period. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 872 and the number of cases climbed to 27,892 in the country on Monday, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 20,835 while 6,184 people were cured and discharged, and one patient has migrated, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hrd-minister-ramesh-pokhriyal-to-discuss-issues-related-to-covid-19-mid-day-meals-with-state-education-ministers-on-april-28-830595.html
27-04-2020||National||Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad Kandhalvi not an absconder: Lawyer||Controversial Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad Khandalwi is not an absconder and he has responded to three notices issued by Delhi Police following the controversial religious gathering here that is linked to a number of Covid-19 cases, his lawyer Fuzail Ayyubi said on Monday. It was wrong to say that Maulana Saad is an absconder as he has responded to all three notices issued by Delhi Police. Searches were also conducted at his residence in the presence of his son. Ayyubi said whenever Delhi Police summon him, Maulana Saad would appear before the investigation team. Maulana Saad faces a case for the religious gathering held at the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in mid-March against the orders of the Delhi government. Delhi Police has slapped the charge of culpable homicide not amounting to murder in the case. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has also registered a money laundering case against Saad and others under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tablighi-jamaat-chief-maulana-saad-kandhalvi-not-an-absconder-lawyer-830611.html
27-04-2020||National||India in talks with China, Russia, other BRICS nations to set up vaccine research centre||India is discussing with China, Russia, Brazil and South Africa, to set up a BRICS Vaccine Research and Development Centre, as the COVID-19 pandemic has apparently brought cooperation in the healthcare sector to the top of the agenda of the five-nation bloc. The process to set up the BRICS Vaccine Research and Development Centre is likely to gain momentum on Tuesday, when External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will hold a video-conference with his Russian, Chinese, Brazilian and South African counterparts. They will also discuss another proposal to hold drills, not among the armed forces of the five nations, but among the respective national agencies responsible for responding to the epidemics. Jaishankar and the Foreign Ministers of the four other nations will also work out a BRICS strategy to respond to the huge social and economic impact of the travel and transport restrictions as well as the lockdowns imposed in most of the nations around the world to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. It was during the BRICS summit hosted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Goa in October 2016 that the leaders of the five nations stressed on “cooperation in promoting research and development of medicines and diagnostic tools to end epidemics and to facilitate access to safe, effective, quality and affordable essential medicines”.  The BRICS summit at Xiamen in September 2017 saw Modi and the leaders of the four other nations agreeing that the bloc would step up its role in global health governance, especially in the context of the World Health Organization and United Nations agencies. They also agreed to ensure “availability of innovative medical products through the promotion of research and development and access to affordable, quality, effective and safe drugs, vaccines, diagnostics and other medical products and technologies as well as to medical services through enhanced health systems and health financing.” The proposal of setting up a BRICS Vaccine Research and Development Centre was mooted and endorsed in the bloc’s 10th summit in Johannesburg in South Africa in July 2018.    It, however, did not see much progress on the ground over the past couple of years. As the COVID-19 pandemic underscored the need for stepping up international cooperation in the healthcare sector, the process of setting up the BRICS Vaccine Research and Development Centre is expected to gain momentum in the coming months, a source in New Delhi told the DH on Monday.  The BRICS Foreign Ministers are also likely to discuss during the video-conference on Tuesday preparations for the forthcoming summit, which is scheduled to be held at Saint Petersburg in Russia from July 21 to 23, but has now come under a shadow of uncertainty due to the COVID-19 crisis. The diplomats of the five nations are also discussing the possibility of holding the summit through video-conference if the crisis continues beyond June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-in-talks-with-china-russia-other-brics-nations-to-set-up-vaccine-research-centre-830618.html
27-04-2020||National||Transporters demand coronavirus insurance cover for drivers, co-workers||All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) on Monday said transporters are finding it difficult to bring back drivers and co-workers amid COVID-19 pandemic and this may impact the supply of fruits, vegetables and essential commodities. The apex body of transporters that represent about 95 lakh truckers and entities, demanded immediate COVID-19 insurance cover for the drivers and co-workers engaged in essential services and cargo and passenger space. "The announcement of COVID-19 insurance for the drivers and co-workers engaged in essentials services in cargo and passenger space is still pending. Our members are still finding it difficult to bring back the drivers and workers, who are reluctant to come back fearing corona infection," AIMTC said in a statement. It also pointed out that the E-pass system is not working properly and the movement of staff apart from drivers is still a tedious task. Moreover, "local restrictions are not helping the transport fraternity as there is no fresh load, no unloading at the factories, godowns or warehouses and the laden vehicles get stuck up for days together, apart from harassment by the local administration," it said. It appealed the government for ensuring sanitisation of vehicles at petrol pumps and toll plazas besides screening of drivers, helpers and creating adequate awareness on the highways/roads. Stating that majority of the small operators are bankrupt, AIMTC said the financiers are exerting pressure while there is acute financial crunch making it difficult for them to work. "Unless the package is announced soon, the coming days will be very difficult especially for the small operators," it said and demanded suspension of toll and reduction in diesel prices. "The members proving transport services at the port said that there is no unloading at ports like Mundra, Kandla, JNPT and the containers have piled up. As the industries are not opened there is no inland movement as they do not want to increase their inventory or have adequate finance to pay up import duties," AIMTC said. It added that there is screening process at the inter-state border including Barobhisha Border (Bengal – Assam Border) and "there are long queues up to 6-7 kilometres and the drivers and crew remain stranded without food and water," and sought government intervention. Assuring all support to the government during these critical times, AIMTC said the government should extend a helping hand to more than 20 crore people dependent on this sector to contain the huge social and economic cost arising out the present scenario.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/transporters-demand-coronavirus-insurance-cover-for-drivers-co-workers-830633.html
27-04-2020||National||PM spoke on spike in coronavirus cases in June-July: Singh Deo||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his interaction with chief ministers via video conferencing on Monday mentioned that coronavirus cases might spike during June and July, Chhattisgarh Health Minister TS Singh Deo said. He also said that the PM did not speak about ending the lockdown, which remains in force till May 3. Singh Deo took part in the meeting with Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel. "It was the PM's fourth such interaction with state chief ministers, wherein nine states were kept in talking mode...The summary of the PMs video conference was that the coronavirus will be with us for a longer period. He (PM) gave this clear message that coronavirus will be among us," Singh Deo told reporters. "The PM said that spike in cases could happen in June and July so the coronavirus will be among us for a long period and (present) activities must be done keeping this in view," the Health minister said. He said the prime minister expressed the view that green, orange and red zones (division of areas on the bass of the number of coronavirus positive cases) are fluid in nature. "The green zone can become an orange zone while an orange can become a red zone, and the condition could become worse in red zones. It would be wrong to assume that if we are in a green zone, we will never get affected," Singh Deo quoted the PM as telling the chief ministers. The PM dubbed green zones as a "teerth sthal" (a pilgrimage spot) in view of the present situation, the minister said. Meanwhile, replying to a query on the coronavirus scenario in Chhattisgarh, Singh Deo said the situation was under control, but the spike can happen anytime. State Home Minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, Chief Secretary RP Mandal, Director General of Police DM Awasthi and other officials were present along with the CM during the video conference.  CM Baghel had earlier written to the PM demanding a financial assistance of Rs 30,000 crore in the next three months for relief and welfare schemes in view of the coronavirus pandemic, which has adversely affected economic activities. In another letter, Baghel had requested the Centre to immediately transfer to Chhattisgarh the CSR funds donated to 'Prime Minister CARES Fund' by industrial and mining units operating in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-spoke-on-spike-in-coronavirus-cases-in-june-july-singh-deo-830646.html
27-04-2020||National||Bar members can't hold judiciary to ransom: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said that no litigant has the right to question integrity and ability of a judge. The court also made it clear that members of the Bar cannot hold the judiciary to ransom by threatening judges of initiating criminal action. A bench of Justices Deepak Gupta and Aniruddha Bose convicted three persons, including two lawyers of contempt of court, for writing letters to the President, Chief Justice of India and other judges, with allegations against two sitting judges of the top court. The bench found that the contents of these letters with allegations like "criminal-minded judges" and "judges running a syndicate" amounted to scandalising the court and lowering its majesty. The court fixed May 1 as the date for hearing arguments on the quantum of sentence which may go up to six months in jail. The court said when the ability, integrity and dignity of the judges are questioned, this is an attack on the institution. It is an attack on the majesty of law and lowers the impression of the courts in the public eye. “There can be no manner of doubt that any citizen of the country can criticise the judgments delivered by any court including this court.  However, no party has the right to attribute motives to a judge or to question the bona fides of the judge," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bar-members-cant-hold-judiciary-to-ransom-sc-830647.html
27-04-2020||National||COVID-19 effect: IIMA survey reveals 74% of poor households losing income, anxiety reigns over future||A rapid survey of 500 low-income group households by the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIMA) has found that 74% of them not only have lost their regular incomes during the lockdown but also will not be able "to make next month’s rent, phone bills, electricity bills, next installment of school fees" and many of them surviving on credit taken from employers or neighbours to meet basic food-related expenses. "Rapid Covid-19 survey" was conducted from March 29 to April 9, during the first lockdown aimed to curb the spread of coronavirus infection, on 500 families of bus drivers, rickshaw pullers, vegetable vendors and other daily wagers living in various parts of the city, which now fall under severely hit coronavirus hotspots. The survey reveals that "Around 74% of households reported not earning regular incomes anymore (most have lost or will lose their entire income). Among the others, many expressed anxiety about the future stability of their incomes."  The survey reveals that over 40% of households reported that they or their neighbours were facing urgent problems related to food and medicine. It says that “due to the sudden fall in incomes, most households were unable to procure vegetables, milk, washing powder, sanitary pads among other essentials (other than food).  Some households in distress even responded, “I have only Rs. 500-800 left for managing everything”, “I will lose everything”, “Due to lack of food and essential items, the stores have increased prices and the family doesn't have enough money to purchase,” “I have no job and have withdrawn all my money from the bank to feed my family of 6 people.” According to the survey, only 56% of the households could collect ration post lockdown, while in some cases, they were informed that the ration shops were shut in some areas or they ran out of grains. More than 80% had not received any food-related assistance from Anganwadi or schools.  Interestingly, the survey found that despite most of the households being aware of helplines, only 3% have called out of which 20% sought information regarding symptoms, precautions, and helplines from surveyors.  It has found 11% of households left for their native mostly Rajasthan and within Gujarat. The survey on the ground by community workers, 4,500 workers were found taking shelter small, informal workshops that also serve as their workspaces. "Abandoned without income, they had also lost access to food as they relied on street vendors for cooked food," the survey states.  The survey was conducted by a group of volunteers, including students and staff, at IIMA. These households are associated with various community initiatives of the institute including SMILE and student initiatives like Prayaas and RTERC which work for imparting education to children. In a release issued by the institute, it is stated that finding has been prepared by professor Ankur Sarin along with a team of researchers at IIMA and the finding "does not necessarily reflect the views of the institute."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-effect-iima-survey-reveals-74-of-poor-households-losing-income-anxiety-reigns-over-future-830664.html
27-04-2020||National||COVID-19 lockdown's distress aggravated by denial of access to food to needy: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court Monday observed that the distress caused to people by the ongoing lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19 virus, has been aggravated by the “denial of access of food grains” to the poor, under-privileged and marginalised sections of the populace and directed AAP government here to ensure ration shops remain open and operational all seven days to meet their requirements. The high court was hearing a plea by an NGO seeking directions to the AAP government to ensure no one goes hungry for want of food on technical grounds like want of proper identity or ration card during the COVID-19 lockdown. A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh, which conducted the hearing through video conferencing, was informed by the Delhi government that it was undertaking necessary steps to alleviate the sufferings of needy people through various measures, including serving of hot meals twice a day at a large number of specified locations. However, the bench in its order said, “We observe that, the distress caused to the residents of the city, by the ongoing lockdown imposed in order to contain the spread of the COVID-19 virus, has been further aggravated by the stated denial of access to food grain to the poor, under-privileged and marginalized sections of the populace, even though we are informed at the Bar that, the GNCTD (Delhi Govt) is undertaking necessary steps to alleviate their suffering through various measures, stated to include the serving of hot meals twice a day at a large number of specified locations.” It issued notice to the Delhi government on the application and directed that the response be filed within three days and listed the matter for further hearing on May 6. The high court also directed to ensure that all ration shops remain operational and disburse food grains in accordance with the policy formulated by the Central and Delhi government and also ensure delivery of the requisite food grains from the PDS ration shops on a regular basis on all seven days of the week. “The GNCTD shall also ensure that food grains are distributed to the poor, needy and marginalised non-PDS residents from the PDS, as well as, other distribution centers stated to be set-up by them, for the said purpose. "The GNCTD shall further ensure that the Sub-Divisional Magistrates of each district carry out strict and regular monitoring and oversight of the distribution of food grains, as afore directed and upload the details of shop-wise distribution of ration to both the PDS and non-PDS residents on their official website, at the end of each day,” the bench said. It directed the state government to widely publicise and circulate the information qua the compliance of the directions issued by the court through the print and electronic media, on a daily basis. The court also asked the Delhi government to immediately place the grievance helpline numbers on its official website and publicise in media to enable people, who are aggrieved regarding lack of distribution of food grains, to seek redressal of their grievances by contacting the nodal officers appointed for this purpose. It said the details of nodal officers be also placed in public domain forthwith and the officers shall address the grievances by placing on the official website the action taken by them. The application by Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan has also sought directions to the Delhi government to "continue providing mid-day meals (either in the form of cooked meals or equivalent quantities of dry rations or food allowance in lieu of cooked meals) in all government schools".  Delhi government's additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal submitted that the authorities are giving cooked food and dry ration to the needy persons and they are feeding 10 lakh people daily with cooked meals at various hunger relief centres. He also said all the fair price shops are being opened in Delhi on all seven days for disbursing ration. The NGO, represented through senior advocate Sanjay Parikh and lawyer Prasanna S, has also sought a direction to the Delhi government to indicate on its food department's website a list of all ration shops in the national capital with their phone numbers, addresses and GPS location, list of ration card holders, real time stock position in the ration shops and record of sales made each day. The application was filed in the pending petition by the NGO challenging the decision to link ration cards with Aadhaar. In the main petition, the high court has already issued notices to the Centre and the Delhi Government. In its application, the NGO has said that the lockdown has led to sudden and large scale loss of livelihood in the informal sector and has "plunged lakhs of people into food insecurity and hunger". The various food programs, under National Food Security Act, are the only lifeline for such people and therefore, it is crucial that such schemes work properly, it has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdowns-distress-aggravated-by-denial-of-access-to-food-to-needy-delhi-hc-830669.html
27-04-2020||National||Vijayawada is the new COVID-19 epicenter in Andhra Pradesh||Vijayawada, the political capital of Andhra Pradesh, has become the new epicenter of the COVID-19 pandemic in the state. Out of the 222 cases reported from AP in the last three days, 110 – half – are of Vijayawada and surroundings, where several government establishments are. Among the fresh positive cases detected are four of the Andhra Pradesh Raj Bhavan staff, triggering the health officials to check the samples of the Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan. AP’s special chief secretary Dr. Jawahar Reddy confirmed to DH that the governor has tested negative. Some of these asymptomatic four have proximity to the governor – his chief security officer and his butler. The other two are staff nurses and housekeeping staff. “Whether he is positive or negative, the governor and other Raj Bhavan staff, now primary contacts, have to be quarantined. We are not sure from where the four have acquired the virus,” a highly placed source in the government told DH. Such untraceable origins of infection among several other cases reported from Vijayawada have the Krishna district machinery jittery.   “Over 90 percent of the district’s cases are from Vijayawada and we could not establish the source of several cases till now. There are five auto-drivers, one employee in a popular mall and so on,” a senior doctor at the COVID-19 control room says.  At the same time, quite a few cases have a single source. A truck driver in the city’s Krishnalanka has infected about 25, playing rummy like card games with neighbors and friends, while a food outlet operator is said to be the cause of around 35 infections.  Stringent restrictions on public movement could have helped avoid the disturbing numbers, health officials lament. “Lockdown passes were issued at will by the police allowing several people to move freely in the city,” the doctor said.   At-least eight policemen are also virus hit, reportedly. On Monday, videos emerged where Vijayawada police are seen moving people found loitering on roads into ambulances “to be taken for confinement.”  Vijayawada lies along-side the Krishna river, the other side of which is Guntur district where the capital Amaravati is located. COVID-19 cases in Guntur have eased in the last three days, with a total of 237. Kurnool in Rayalaseema still tops with 292 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vijayawada-is-the-new-covid-19-epicenter-in-andhra-pradesh-830674.html
27-04-2020||National||Gujarat govt bans use of loudspeakers amid lockdown||The Vijay Rupani-led Gujarat government on Monday issued orders banning use of loudspeakers at religious places and prohibiting gathering of all kinds till May 3, the last day of second phase of lockdown. The government said that these restrictions will be followed strictly in the coming days of festivity and it will not be lifted until further orders from the central government comes. The circular issued by home department mentions central government's decisions prohibiting all activities barring essential services till May 3 in the country that includes all "social/political/ sports/ entertainment/ academic/ cultural/ religious/ function/other gatherings." The state government's circular states that "to control the impact of COVID-19 social distancing is required and in view of this, the restrictions imposed by the central government will be implemented strictly. Gujarat is the second worst affected state after Maharashtra with 3,548 positive cases and 162 deaths. It says that all kinds of religious activities can be performed only "privately and in individual capacity." It states that after individual pooja/bandgi, people can't congregate for the purpose of having food or snacks or for any other reason. The circular also appeals religious leaders to create awareness to implement complete lockdown. And, the circular states, those who are found violating these restrictions will be booked under Disaster Management Act, 2005. The new order comes a day after Chief Minister Vijay Rupani claimed in his speech that certain elements were trying to spread misinformation saying conditional relaxation being extended to small shops to reopen in the state in order to facilitate Muslims observing Ramzan. He had said, without naming anyone, that people were spreading false information.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-govt-bans-use-of-loudspeakers-amid-lockdown-830683.html
27-04-2020||National||Over 80% wheat crop harvested: MHA||Over 80 per cent of the wheat crop was harvested in the country till April 26 and a majority of "mandis" were also operational now, a senior government official said on Monday. Punya Salila Srivastava, a joint secretary in the Union home ministry, told reporters that over two crore people got employment through the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in the country till now. While 80 per cent of the wheat crop has been harvested, about 2,000 or 80 per cent of the "mandis" (wholesale markets) are operational in the country now, she said.  Srivastava said this during a press briefing on the measures taken to enforce the ongoing lockdown, which was imposed with an aim to break the chain of COVID-19 in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-80-wheat-crop-harvested-mha-830685.html
27-04-2020||National||New Delhi, Kuwait play down Twitter posts that claimed attacks on Muslims in India||After some posts on social media claimed that the Council of Ministers of Kuwait condemned alleged attacks on Muslims in India, New Delhi and the West Asian nation’s Government on Monday scrambled to play it down and stop it from turning into an irritant for bilateral relations.  ‘ “The Government of Kuwait has assured us that they are deeply committed to friendly relations with India. They also do not support any interference in the internal affairs of India,” Anurag Srivastava, the official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said in New Delhi. Some Twitter users from Kuwait recently posted on the micro-blogging website that the Council of Ministers of Kuwait condemned attacks on Muslims in India. A Kuwaiti Twitter user also posted on Twitter a March 2 note of Kuwaiti Council of Ministers expressing concerns over alleged targeting of Muslims in India and asking Organization of Islamic Cooperation to take note of it. The tweets followed similar posts by a section of Twitterati from United Arab Emirates and other West Asian nations, criticising comments on the social media platforms holding Muslims responsible for much of the spread of COVID-19 virus in India. New Delhi was worried over implications of such posts on Twitter as a large number of Indians live and work in UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain and Oman.   Prime Minister Narendra Modi and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar spoke to their counterparts in several Gulf Arab nations over the past few days – ostensibly to make sure the social media posts do not cause any strain in bilateral relations. New Delhi also detected attempts by elements in Pakistan to fish in troubled waters and re-launch its propaganda against India, including by creating fake accounts on Twitter. “India recently deployed a Rapid Response Team there to assist the country in its fight against coronavirus. During its two week stay in Kuwait, the team rendered valuable medical assistance in testing and treatment of afflicted persons and training their personnel,” the MEA spokesperson said, adding: “It is therefore important that friendly and cooperative nature of our relations is accurately recognized and misuse of social media is not given credence.” Kuwait’s envoy to India, Jassem Al-Najem, too stressed on the principle of non-interference in relations between the two countries. “Kuwait and India share many principles in their foreign policies, like respecting UN Charter, non-interference in other countries’ affairs and respecting sovereignty of nations,” Kuwaiti news agency KUNA quoted Al-Najem as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-delhi-kuwait-play-down-twitter-posts-that-claimed-attacks-on-muslims-in-india-830689.html
27-04-2020||National||Kanika Kapoor offers to donate plasma for treating COVID-19 patients||Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor on Monday expressed her desire to donate her plasma for treating coronavirus patients, officials said. She has given her blood sample for testing at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) here, they said. "Singer Kanika Kapoor on Monday expressed her desire to KGMU doctors to donate plasma. After this, she was called and her blood sample was taken for testing. If everything is found appropriate in the report (of the blood test), she will be called on Monday evening or Tuesday to donate her plasma,” Tulika Chandra, Head of Department of Transfusion Medicine, KGMU told PTI. "So far, three COVID-19 patients, who have recovered from the infection at the KGMU, have donated their plasma. This includes a resident doctor of KGMU Tauseef Khan, a female doctor from Canada (who was admitted here) and another patient,” she said. Kapoor had tested positive for novel coronavirus on March 20. She came under attack for negligence and not practising self-quarantine despite returning to the country from the UK amid the coronavirus pandemic. In a statement on Sunday, the singer said she is aware of "several versions of stories" about her diagnosis, but "negativity thrown at a person does not change the reality". The singer clarified that she travelled to Lucknow to meet her family on March 11 and claimed there was "no screening setup for domestic flights". On March 14 and 15, Kapoor said she attended a friend''s lunch and dinner and clarified "there was no party hosted by me and I was in absolute normal health." However, on March 17 and 18, she developed symptoms and said she got herself tested on March 19. "On March 20 when informed that my test was positive, I chose to go to the hospital. I was discharged after three negative tests and have since been at home for 21 days,” she added. Meanwhile, a 58-year-old doctor became the first coronavirus patient at the KGMU here to receive plasma therapy as an experimental treatment for the disease on Monday, a hospital official said. The doctor from Orai in Uttar Pradesh was administered the plasma donated by the woman doctor from Canada who was the first COVID-19 patient admitted to the KGMU and later recovered, Chandra said. Convalescent Plasma Therapy is an experimental procedure for COVID-19 patients. In this treatment, plasma (a blood component) from a cured COVID-19 patient is transfused to a critically ill coronavirus patient. The blood of a person who has recovered from COVID-19 develops antibodies to battle against the virus. The idea behind the therapy is that immunity can be transferred from a healthy person to a sick patient using convalescent plasma. Once the blood plasma of the recovered patient is infused with that of the second patient, the antibodies start fighting against coronavirus in the second person's body. The process of donating plasma is similar to that of donating blood and takes about an hour. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had recently asked the state's medical authorities to promote plasma therapy for the treatment of COVID-19 patients after examining its efficacy. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has recently allowed states to start clinical trials of plasma therapy. Many states like Kerala, Gujarat and Punjab have already started using it for treatment of coronavirus patients. Several other countries including the United Kingdom and the United States have also started plasma therapy trials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kanika-kapoor-offers-to-donate-plasma-for-treating-covid-19-patients-830695.html
27-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Cong leader Ashwani Kumar urges Amarinder to seek Oppn support in mobilising people||Senior Congress leader and former Union law minister Ashwani Kumar has appealed to Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to open dialogue with opposition parties and seek their support in mobilising people during testing times of coronavirus. In a letter to Singh, Kumar said his resolve to bring succour to the people will be best served by continuing an ongoing dialogue with the opposition parties, whose support will be necessary for mobilizing the people in this do-or-die battle for the survival of humanity. "We need to embrace an elevating politics that is anchored in compassion and idealism. It is in moments such as these that leadership is tested. We all stand by you in the line of duty," Kumar said in the letter. The former Rajya Sabha MP from Punjab also asked the chief minister to set up a committee of prominent citizens of the state and seek their response primarily on the possible humanitarian measures required to bring succour to the poorest of the poor, particularly those in the most backward rural areas who have absolutely no means of subsistence. He said inputs of active NGOs working or willing to work in these areas would vastly help the government. Kumar sought larger resources for discretionary financial aid for the victims should be placed at the disposal of District Collectors so that immediate assistance to the destitutes can be given. "The DC's should be instructed to place highest priority on relieving acute distress of those facing destitution. This is a matter of the citizens' rights in a welfare state," he said.  "While the lockdown is in place and has to be effectively enforced, the administration must act with compassion and consideration, given that in extraordinary circumstances such as these, the state assumes the role of a guardian of the people," the former union minister said.   He also sought immediate initiatives for an extensive health care infrastructure is an obvious need which will require a review of financial allocations by the state. "The Centre and the state are together in this fight. It is therefore imperative that the Centre be persuaded to allocate to the border State the necessary funds considering the nature of the agriculture driven State economy, its inadequate revenue base and its special responsibilities as a border State," he told the chief minister. The senior Congress leader said the fight against COVID-19 is clearly a long battle in which the full resources of the Indian State and collective wisdom of our people is required to be marshalled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cong-leader-ashwani-kumar-urges-amarinder-to-seek-oppn-support-in-mobilising-people-830696.html
27-04-2020||National||Political row over rapid antibody tests||A political row erupted over the pricing of rapid antibody test kits as a court battle between an importer and a distributor revealed massive profiteering to the tune of 145 per cent over the landed cost of the kits bought from Chinese companies. As the Congress and the DMK targeted the Modi government and the Tamil Nadu government over buying the kits at inflated prices, the Centre claimed that it opted to make the purchases from the Chinese company’s exclusive distributor as it offered better terms. An official statement said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had approached the Chinese company Wondfor directly, but it had insisted on 100% advance payment without any commitment on logistics or timelines. “...it was decided to go Wondfo’s exclusive distributor for India for the kit who quoted an all inclusive price for FOB (logistics) without any clause for advance,” a Health Ministry statement said. “No payment has been made to the seller of the kits,” Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry told reporters here. He added the kits were being returned after field validation tests showed a wide variation in the results. A controversy erupted as a court battle between the importer – Chennai-based Matrix Labs and distributor Real Metabolics – over payment for the test kits revealed a massive difference between the procurement price of the vaccine and its selling price to the government. The importer procured the kit at Rs 245 a piece and sold it to the government at Rs 600 a piece. “When the entire country is fighting against the COVID-19 pandemic, some people are still trying to earn profits using unscrupulous ways. Such a corrupt mindset makes me cringe. The country will never pardon them,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said. “That any human being would try & profiteer from the immeasurable suffering of millions of his brothers & sisters, is beyond belief & comprehension. This scam is an insult to every Indian. I urge the PM to act swiftly to bring the corrupt to justice,” Rahul said. His remarks came after a trial in Delhi High Court revealed massive profiteering and over-pricing by a firm in the Covid-19 kits supplied to the ICMR. Congress leaders went on the offensive accusing the Modi government of purchasing testing kits for Rs 600 per piece against the landed price of Rs 245. In Chennai, the opposition DMK accused the AIADMK-led Tamil Nadu government of buying the kits independently at inflated prices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/political-row-over-rapid-antibody-tests-830707.html
27-04-2020||National||IIMA survey reveals 74% household losing income amid lockdown; anxiety looms over future||A rapid survey of 500 low-income group households by the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIMA) has found that 74 per cent of them not only have lost their regular income during the lockdown but also willl not be able "to make next month’s rent, phone bills, electricity bills, next installment of school fees". Many of them are surviving on credit taken from employers or neighbours to meet basic food related related expenses.  Some households in distress even responded, “I have only have Rs. 500-800 left for managing everything”, “I will lose everything”, “Due to lack of food and essential items, the stores have increased prices and the family doesn't have enough money to purchase,” “I have no job and have withdrawn all my money from the bank to feed my family of 6 people.” According to the survey, only 56% of the households could collect ration post lockdown, while in some cases, they were informed that the ration shops were shut in some areas or they ran out of grains. More than 80% had not received any food related assistance from Anganwadi or schools.   The survey was conducted by a group of volunteers, including students and staff, at IIMA. These households are associated with various community initiatives of the institute including SMILE and student initiatives like Prayaas and RTERC which work for imparting education to children. In a release issued by the institute it is stated that finding has been prepared by professor Ankur Sarin along with team of researchers at IIMA and the finding "does not necessarily reflect the views of the institute."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iima-survey-reveals-74-household-losing-income-amid-lockdown-anxiety-looms-over-future-830708.html
27-04-2020||National||FIR filed against man for posting morphed photo of PM||An FIR was on Monday filed here against a man who allegedly posted a morphed photograph of Prime Minister Narenda Modi on social media, a police officer said. The man has been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and IT Act, he said. "The FIR was filed with Bagodar police station against Barkath Ansari for editing the photo of prime minister and posting indecent comments," the officer said, adding that efforts were underway to trace him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fir-filed-against-man-for-posting-morphed-photo-of-pm-830711.html
27-04-2020||National||India cancels orders for Chinese COVID-19 test kits; says will not lose a single rupee||The Indian Council of Medical Research on Monday asked the states to stop using COVID-19 rapid testing kits procured from China due to their poor quality even as the government said not a single rupee will be lost in cancelling the orders as payments were not made to the Chinese suppliers. India procured around five lakh rapid antibody test kits from the two Chinese firms, Guongzhou Wondfo Biotech and Livzon Diagnostics, and they were distributed to several states reporting rising cases of the coronavirus infection. In a communication to chief secretaries of all states and union territories, the ICMR asked them to stop using the kits saying it found "wide variation" in effectiveness of the equipment supplied by the two Chinese firms despite promise of good performance. "The ICMR has not made any payment in respect of these supplies. Because of the due process followed (not going for procurement with 100 per cent advance amount), Government of India does not stand to lose a single rupee," the health ministry said, in the midst of a raging controversy over the procurement. Earlier, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that some people were indulging in profiteering while supplying rapid test kits for COVID-19 to the government and demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi take strict action against them. The Congress cited media reports about rapid test kits being sold at around 150 per cent profits to the government and asked Modi to fix responsibility for the same. In an order last week, the Delhi High Court fixed the price of the antibody test kits at Rs 400 each as against Rs 600 approved by the ICMR. The ruling came on a plea by two companies, Rare Metabolics Life Sciences Pvt Ltd and Aark Pharmaceuticals, which had entered into an agreement with Matrix Labs, for distribution of the kits in India. Matrix Lab is the the importer of the kits. The two companies approached the court after Matrix sought full payment for the kits before delivering them, according to details submitted in the court. In a fact sheet on the issue, the government said it had conducted a tender process to procure the kits and the evaluation committee received four bids of Rs 1,204, Rs 1,200, Rs 844 and Rs 600. Accordingly, bid offer of Rs 600 was considered as it was the lowest. The government said the procurement was undertaken when there was a huge demand for the test kits globally and various countries were applying their "full might", monetary and diplomatic, to acquire them. The government said the ICMR also tried to procure the kits directly from Wondfo in China but the quotation received for direct procurement had a number of issues including of 100 per cent direct advance without any guarantees. It said there was no commitment on timelines and rates were communicated in US dollars without any clause for accounting for fluctuations in prices. "Hence, it was decided to go for Wondfo’s exclusive distributor for India for the kit who quoted an all inclusive price for FOB (logistics) without any clause for advance," it said. The government had decided to procure rapid antibody testing kits as the regular tests (RT-PCR) takes longer time. "Based on scientific assessment of their performance, the order in question (Wondfo) along with order in respect of another make found under-performing have been cancelled," the government said. The ICMR in its advisory advocated that RT-PCR throat/nasal swab test is the best use for diagnosis of COVID-19. The RT-PCR test detects the virus early and is the best strategy to identify and isolate the individual, the advisory said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-cancels-orders-for-chinese-covid-19-test-kits-says-will-not-lose-a-single-rupee-830718.html
27-04-2020||National Politics||Danger of coronavirus is far from over: PM Modi||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday held interactions with chief ministers to discuss graded exit plan after May 3, a broad consensus appeared firming up about not lifting the restrictions altogether with many states remaining wary of allowing inter-state movement from May 4. “The danger of the virus is far from over and constant vigilance is of paramount importance. As per experts, the impact of coronavirus will remain visible in the coming months,” Modi said. Reiterating the mantra of ‘do gaz doori’, he said that masks and face covers will become part of our lives in the days ahead. He highlighted the importance for states to enforce guidelines strictly in the hotspots-- the red zone areas. He stated that the efforts of the states should be directed towards converting the red zones into orange and thereafter, to green zones. The Prime Minister’s focus on zones come amid plans to have separate exit plans for each of the three zones as per which lockdown with stringent norms will continue in the red zone, while there will be big relaxations in green zones. Orange zone falls in between the two. The Prime Minister expressed glee over nearly 300 districts with no COVID-19 cases and said they should be treated as “sacred”.  Four of the nine chief ministers were in favour of extending lockdown, while the remaining five either disapproved it or batted for only partial lockdown. Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik was the only one, who sought extension of the lockdown for one more month. Telangana has already extended the lockdown till May 7, four days more than the 40-day national lockdown, which ends on May 3 unless further extended. At the nearly three-hour long meeting during which nine chief ministers spoke, the Prime Minister lauded the contribution of states in fighting COVID-19 and stressed that the lockdown has helped contain the spread of virus. Emphasising the need to give importance to the economy as well as continue the fight against COVID-19, Modi said the impact of coronavirus will remain visible in the coming months and masks and face covers will be part of our life. Modi said that the lockdown has yielded positive results and the country has managed to save thousands of lives in the past 1.5 months. Amid demands for extending the lockdown further, the Prime Minister said that efforts of states should be directed towards converting the red zones into orange and thereafter to green zones.  Broad indication of continuation of the lockdown in hotspots emerged during the meeting that discussed the emerging situation and plan ahead for tackling the COVID-19 pandemic. The Prime Minister called for brave reforms in the economy that touch the lives of common citizens. Modi also assured the states that the country’s economy is robust and there is no need to worry as states talked of resources and future impact on the economy due to lockdown. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who has already decided to bring back the labours from the state stranded in 14 districts, raised the issue of migrant labours and said the  decision on removing lockdown should be left to the state while new efforts are required to pep up industrial production. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeary has already sought running of special trains to send migrants home, who do not want to stay back.  At the meeting chief ministers from Goa and Meghalaya also favoured extending the lockdown. Bihar Chief Minister Kumar raised the issue of many states bringing back students belonging to their states from Kota in Rajasthan and said that the lockdown rules should be one for all students and migrant labourers. Bihar is the only state government which has not brought back its students from Kota, though one BJP MLA from the state brought back his son on his own, kicking up a row. Providing their feedback, Chief Ministers suggested measures to meet economic challenges and boost health infrastructure. This was the fourth such interaction of the Prime Minister with the Chief Ministers. The earlier ones were held on March 20, April 2 and April 11. Modi said the lockdown has yielded positive results as the country has managed to save thousands of lives in the past one and a half months, while the situation in many other countries has worsened. Underlining the need to give importance to the economy as well as continue the fight against COVID -19, the Prime Minister highlighted the importance of usage of technology as much as possible and also to utilize time to embrace reform measures. He also suggested that people associated with Universities can be integrated on devising ways to fight the pandemic and strengthen research as well as innovation. On the issue of getting back Indians who are overseas, he said that this has to be done keeping in mind the fact that they don’t get inconvenienced and their families are not under any risk. The Prime Minister also urged Chief Ministers to factor in the changes in weather - advent of summer and monsoon - and the illnesses that can potentially come in this season, while strategizing ahead.  Home Minister Amit Shah in his opening remarks, reaffirmed the need to enforce lockdown so that maximum lives are saved. Shah is learnt to have said that this is a long battle, which has to be fought patiently while Prime Minister Narendra In the Supreme Court separately, the MHA said migrants do not need to return to their villages. The nearly three-hour long meeting saw a number of states raising concern about lack of resources to meet the Covid-19 challenge during the lockdown and its cascading effect on the economy. The challenges before governments are how to bring a flagging economy back to rails and ensure the return of migrant workers to their homes in the backdrop of frequent agitations by migrants in different states and large numbers of them in  desperation starting foot-march to cover thousands of kilometers to reach their homes. Kerala, whose Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan chose to skip the meeting, will submit its views in writing. In absence of Chief Minister, the state was represented by state Chief Secretary, is not in favour of a blanket withdrawal of all restrictions and post May 3 and will prefer a graded exit from the lockdown. The meeting saw a number of Chief Ministers asking for ramping up the tests. Rahul Gandhi had on Sunday said, “Experts agree that mass random testing is the key to beating Corona. In India, a bottleneck is stopping us from scaling testing from the current 40,000 per day to 1 lakh tests a day, for which test kits are already in stock. PM needs to act fast & clear the bottleneck.” The total number of cases crossed 27 thousand. 29 percent of total cases of India are from Maharashtra while over 17 percent of Covid 19 deaths are in Gujarat. Madhya Pradesh is another state with a high number of Covid 19 cases. Many Chief Ministers  want that the lockdown should not be lifted overnight and should continue with more relaxations for at least a month. Some of the demands raised during the meeting were resuming activities in non-hot-spot areas, running special trains to ferry migrant workers and making additional kits and PPE to states. There are indications that any opening will be followed up with aggressive testing and tracing protocols to avoid the proliferation of new clusters. The nine Chief Ministers, who spoke in the meeting were from Bihar, Odisha, Gujarat, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh Meghalaya, Mizoram and Puducherry. Others were asked to send their representatives—Chief Secretaries, who sat in the conference but did not speak. These states sent their feedback in writing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/danger-of-coronavirus-is-far-from-over-pm-modi-830442.html
27-04-2020||National Politics||Govt must make details of all purchases for fighting coronavirus public: Congress||Congress spokesperson Manish Tewari said the government should ensure that huge profiteering in procurement of equipment for fighting COVID-19 be stopped immediately. "There seems to be absolute anarchy in procurement of equipment for fighting COVID-19," he said at a press conference via video conferencing.  "We would like to demand from the Health Ministry and the government to make public all procurements made with regard to equipment to fight COVID-19 for testing, PPEs and ventilators. All those transactions must be transparently placed in public domain," he said. Referring to a company engaged in supply of testing kits, he alleged that kits purchased at Rs 245 were being sold by the same company to ICMR at Rs 600 each while the same to Tamil Nadu government were sold at Rs 400 each.  He said the matter came to light in a petition before the Delhi High Court by a company supplying such equipment. "This is an extremely serious matter which hurts the fight of India against COVID-19," he said, adding, that "our country's resources are scarce and we have to optimise the resources and not allow companies to make arbitrage of over 60 per cent in these transactions."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-must-make-details-of-all-purchases-for-fighting-coronavirus-public-congress-830494.html
27-04-2020||National Politics||CMs pitch for extension of coronavirus lockdown; financial package to PM Narendra Modi, says Puducherry CM V Narayanasamy||A majority of chief ministers on Monday favoured continuation of the nationwide lockdown as number of coronavirus patients continued to increase every passing day, Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy said. Briefing reporters on the deliberations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi had with chief ministers, Narayanasamy said the general mood of the meeting was that the lockdown should continue with partial relaxations. The chief ministers also demanded a financial package to bail out states, particularly small states, that were finding it difficult to meet daily expenses due to absence of revenue generation since the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24. Narayanasamy said chief ministers of nine states, including Meghalaya, Odisha, Bihar, Puducherry, Haryana, Gujarat, spoke during the meeting called by the Prime Minister, the fourth such deliberations since the lockdown. “Majority of the chief ministers said lockdown should continue, some said with more economic activity it can be there, as far as I am concerned I said the decision should rest with Government of India,” he said. Narayanasamy said he raised the issue of bringing back Indian nationals stranded in foreign land, including workers in the Persian Gulf, and those stuck in different states. He said Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar spoke in detail about the plight of migrant workers and sought a national policy to enable their return to their home states. The Congress leader said the Prime Minister remained silent on chief minister’s demand for a financial package and only lauded the efforts taken by state governments in the fight against Covid-19. Narayanasamy said the economic activity should be started gradually and the Ways and Means Advances made by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) should be made interest-free for a year. He also sought immediate disbursal of GST compensation to state governments to and a special package of Rs one lakh crore for states handed out as per the formula for paying GST compensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cms-pitch-for-extension-of-coronavirus-lockdown-financial-package-to-pm-narendra-modi-says-puducherry-cm-v-narayanasamy-830613.html
27-04-2020||National Politics||Cabinet requests governor to consider Uddhav Thackeray for Council post||In what appears to be snowballing into a governor vs government issue in Maharashtra,  the state government once again recommended the name of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to the governor for the vacant post of the Council. The decision to make a formal request  on Thackeray's nomination to governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari was taken at a Cabinet meeting presided over by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. The formal recommendation was made on April 9,  however,  the Raj Bhavan has not yet responded to it. "The state is fighting COVID-19,  the government and the administration is working round-the-clock. The situation is aggravating day by day. At this stage the (political and Constitutional) uncertainty has to be removed. The honourable governor should take a decision on our recommendation," Pawar said. Koshyari has kept the proverbial Sword of Damocles hanging over Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for a month now but the Shiv Sena has another month to work out a salvage plan.The 59-year-old Thackeray is not a member of the Maharashtra legislature. Thackeray, who is the Shiv Sena President, was sworn in on November 28,  2019, and, as per the Constitutional requirement, has had to get elected as a member of Assembly or Council within six months. This deadline ends on May 28. It is clear that Thackeray cannot become an MLA or MLC by contesting elections at this stage and the only option is to become an MLC from Governor's quota. Thackeray is a reputed photographer and has published several compilations. The delay in  making him an MLC has created anxiety in the Shiv Sena and the Maha Vikas Aghadi,  that besides Thackeray's party comprises of Sharad Pawar-led NCP and Congress.   MVA leaders have accused the BJP of misusing the Governor's houses for political conspiracies. The Shiv Sena's strategy is to get Thackeray into the Upper House through Governor's quota - and once the lockdown is lifted the Council polls - that were due in April -  will be announced. If the Governor refuses,  the Shiv Sena is ready to move court. The other option is that Thackeray resigns by May 28 and get sworn in again as Chief Minister. This has to be a smooth 24-hour operation, as BJP will leave no stones unturned to topple the government. As per Article 164 (4) of the Constitution, a minister,  who is not a member of either Houses, will cease to be a minister, on expiry of six months. However,  there are various interpretation and judgements on the article.  The MVA does not want to take bay chances of legal wrangles and Constitutional crisis and decided to get Thackeray elected from governor's quota. Precedents and norms say that the Governor goes with the decision of the Cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cabinet-requests-governor-to-consider-uddhav-thackeray-for-council-post-830625.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Mixed response in Delhi to relaxation on opening standalone shops||For the first time in over a month, Akash opened his tea stall in Laxmi Nagar on Sunday with a soft smile and a hope of getting business back on track, as the Delhi government ordered the implementation of the Union Home Ministry's guidelines on reopening of standalone shops in COVID-19 non-containment zones. With the nation going into lockdown on March 25 to contain the spread of the coronavirus, Akash took to selling vegetables. He reopened the tea stall after a 33-day hiatus, but business is lean. "There is not much sale as people are not venturing out due to the lockdown. I hope the situation improves after May 3," he said. The government order allowing certain relaxations amid the lockdown has evoked a mixed response in Delhi. Some tea sellers, tailors and electricians have reopened their shops. However, in many areas, including Harinagar in West Delhi and Lajpat Nagar in South Delhi, all shops barring grocery stores and pharmacies kept their shutters down. Arvind Aggarwal, who deals in household items in Laxmi Nagar said he did not expect many customers. "I came to take stock of the situation and do some cleaning work. I hope business will be back on track with the opening of more shops and lifting of restrictions," he said. The second phase of the nationwide lockdown will continue till May 3. The ruling AAP's trade and industry wing convener Brijesh Goyal said many people in Laxmi Nagar had opened their shops in markets on Saturday due to some confusion, but there is no such report on Sunday. "We expect shops in residential areas to open following the government order. Shops in coronavirus containment zones, however, will remain shut and no business activity is allowed in such areas," he said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday the Delhi government was implementing the Centre's guidelines on opening of neighbourhood and stand-alone shops during the lockdown till May 3. He, however, clarified that no markets and malls will be allowed to open in the national capital and all shops in COVID-19 containment zones will remain shut. "The Delhi government will maintain status quo and will not relax lockdown restrictions till May 3, except those permitted by the Union home ministry," Kejriwal said. Praveen Khandelwal, Secretary General of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), said traders in many states, including Delhi, have been finding it difficult to open their shops because of confusion on what constitutes 'neighbourhood and standalone shops' as there is no specified definition in this regard. In Delhi alone, there are around 75,000 shops which can be opened following the order, but the response so far has been lukewarm owing to the confusion, he said. The CAIT wrote to Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla on Sunday seeking further clarification on 'neighbourhood/standalone shops'. There is a lack of consensus between the administration and law enforcement agencies, which has kept traders from opening their shops, it said.  In a late-night order on Friday, the MHA said, "all shops, including neighbourhood shops and standalone shops, shops in residential complexes, within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, registered under the Shops and Establishment Act of the respective State and UT" will be allowed to open during the lockdown. The shops will be functioning with 50 per cent workforce and will have to adhere to precautions like physical distancing and wearing of masks. However, the order signed by the Union home secretary made it clear that shops in market places, multi-brand and single-brand malls located in municipality areas shall continue to remain closed till May 3. In southeast Delhi's Jangpura, Pankaj Kumar opened his tailoring shop for the first time since March 22, when the country observed a 14-hour Janata Curfew to pay tributes to frontline workers battling the deadly virus. "I will do some cleaning and complete pending work. The COVID-19 outbreak has changed the way we work. Even after the lockdown ends, it will take a lot of time for normalcy to return," he said. Mukesh Sharma runs a small shop in Burari. He said since it is Sunday, many shops anyway remain closed, but the situation might improve on Monday. Madhu Maini has a watches and mobile showroom in south Delhi's Yusuf Sarai market. She said with the clamping of the lockdown, she was paying her employees from her own pocket. "It has been more than a month that the lockdown is in place. We have been bearing a huge loss. Though, I am paying my employees from my own bank account, but up till when? We don't have unlimited resources," she said. In Delhi's neighbouring Ghaziabad, shops selling non-essential items and those providing electrical repair services remained closed. "Police have no objection if I am open my shop, but then people will visit and increase the risk of contagion. People call me over the phone if they need anything and I try to arrange it for them," a stationary shop owner said. A computer repair shop owner in Vaishali area said demands for printer cartridge and broadband modem repair have increased, but those can't be provided unless there is supply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-mixed-response-in-delhi-to-relaxation-on-opening-standalone-shops-830333.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Jharkhand sees highest single-day jump in coronavirus cases as 15 people test positive||Fifteen people tested positive for COVID-19 in Jharkhand on Sunday, the highest single-day jump in the number of cases so far, officials said. The total number of COVID-19 positive cases in the state has now gone up to 82, they said. The Director of the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Dr D K Singh, said 15 samples tested positive during the day. Thirteen people have been cured so far, while two patients have died. One person died after testing negative due to comorbidity or other reasons, but before being discharged, according to the state health department. Of the 15 fresh COVID-19 cases, 13 are from Ranchi and two from Garhwa, officials said. Ranchi Deputy Commissioner Rai Mahimapat Ray said, "There are some rumours regarding the positive cases that came up today... among the cases, three are connected with Hindpiri, one is a nurse from Sadar hospital, one is a district administration employee and another is a labourer hired by administration, who works in the Command and Control Room." Contact tracing was on, Ray said, adding that inquiry of all the people who had come in contact with the person employed in the Command and Control Room had concluded and they were quarantined. He said secondary contact tracing was also on and they would also be asked to go into home quarantine. The DC said Ranchi has come under the Red Zone for COVID-19, adding that the district administration is waiting for instructions from the state government following the Union home ministry's guidelines on relaxation during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jharkhand-sees-highest-single-day-jump-in-coronavirus-cases-as-15-people-test-positive-830336.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Encounter breaks out between security forces, militants in Jammu and Kashmir'sKulgam||An encounter broke out between militants and security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam district on Monday, police said. The militants fired on a patrol party at Lower Munda in the Qazigund area of the south Kashmir district, a police official said. He said security forces retaliated and the gunfight is going on. The area has been cordoned off. Further details were awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-militants-in-jammu-and-kashmirskulgam-830367.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Ashok Gehlot appeals to people to extend all help to migrants returning to Rajasthan||The Rajasthan government has deputed teams of senior officers to coordinate with other states on the return of migrants. The Gehlot government had announced last week that migrant workers will be able to move out of Rajasthan or return to the state in a phased manner. Migrant workers have not been able to return home due to the nationwide lockdown to contain spread of coronavirus. These workers will be able to reach their home only after getting necessary permission from state governments concerned and proper arrangements. In a tweet, Gehlot said, “After much effort by state government, migrants of Rajasthan will soon be returning home from other states. These people suffered a lot during lockdown. Now when they return, it is our moral duty to take care of them, provide them all help regarding food, medicines and quarantine facilities". “My appeal to all is please give moral support to our brothers and sisters returning home after a very hard period. Following the culture of Rajasthan that we never leave our people in distress, take proper care of migrants,” he said. Those wanting to return to Rajasthan will have to register on helpline number 18001806127, eMitra Rajasthan portal, e-Mitra mobile app or e-Mitra kiosk. After registration, the Rajasthan government will obtain consent from state governments concerned. The Rajasthan government is also making arrangements for the movement of migrants in the state. Those who have their own vehicles may come in their vehicles after obtaining permission. Migrant workers will be kept in quarantine on return.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ashok-gehlot-appeals-to-people-to-extend-all-help-to-migrants-returning-to-rajasthan-830407.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Lockdown: More fasting than feasting this Ramzan in city of Nawabs||Iftar parties for 'rozedars' in the city of Nawabs no longer conjure up the image of mouth-watering galouti kebabs with the aroma of lip-smacking biryani wafting all over. With markets closed and meat supply hit due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, Muslims are in for a Ramzan without their favourite kebabs and other chicken and mutton dishes. 'Lauki kofta' (a bottle gourd dish) and 'palak (spinach) kebabs' have invaded their dining tables ever since the coronavirus scare has pushed people indoors, leaving the usually vibrant markets, once dotted with 'sewai' and dry fruit stalls all deserted. The holy month of Ramzan marked by fasting by followers of Islam commenced on Saturday as per the lunar calendar. The Shahi Imams of the Jama Masjid and the Fatehpuri Masjid in Delhi have appealed to Muslims to offer namaz during Ramzan at their homes and follow lockdown guidelines to prevent the spread of the coronavirus disease. Abdul Karim, a 35-year-old rickshaw puller, is selling 'egg pakoras' and 'palak kofta' in a narrow bylane in Hussainganj, while his father Suleiman has set up a kiosk to offer sewai (rice vermicelli) a special dish for iftar. "Since rituals are being followed at home, no one ventures out in the marketplaces. We used to sell kebabs and biryani in the past, but things are different this time," Suleiman said. His son spoke in a similar refrain.  Tauheed, who once did brisk business from his small hotel in the city's Chowk area, said 'aloo tikki' has replaced the famous 'shami kebab on the platter in the absence of supply of chicken and mutton. Jack fruit has taken the place of mutton, said Nadeem. "Inshallah, it is more of fasting than of feasting this time," he said. Every year, the sighting of the Ramzan moon brings joy and happiness for Muslims, as this is the holiest month for them, during which they refrain from eating and drinking from dawn to dusk for 30 days. At the crack of dawn, people gather for 'sehri' and eat together before beginning the fast. As the sun sets, preparations are made for 'iftar', when the community gets together after breaking the roza and head to mosques to perform the special 'taraveeh' prayers. But, this year prominent mosques in the Uttar Pradesh capital wore a deserted look, a marked departure from the days when the poor used to line up for iftar food and some alms. In a video message, Syed Ahmed Bukhari, the Shahi Imam of the Jama Masjid, has asked people not to venture outside unnecessarily and remain indoors during Ramzan for prayers. "Namaz and Taraveeh (ritual prayer) should be offered at home. Care should be taken that not more than three to four people read the Tarabi because large numbers can be harmful for families and the society in view of the pandemic," Bukhari said.         The Shahi Imam of the Fatehpuri Masjid, Mufti Mukarram Ahmed, said those who are under quarantine and unable to observe ''Roza" (fast) can compensate for it through 'Qaza'. Such persons can observe fast later, he said. Besides the imams, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath have appealed to the community this year to not go to mosques but stay at home and follow the rituals.  "The spectre of coronavirus has cast a shadow over the festive spirit and has brought along with it a sense of gloom, especially for those who used to make annual earnings at this time of the year," lamented Naseem, a small trader in famous Aminabad market. A Muslim scholar observed that COVID-19 has changed many things. "This year's Ramzan will be special in the sense that due to the lockdown and physical distancing, people have to avoid mass gathering in mosques,” he said, requesting anonymity. He noted that the Muslim community has taken a wise decision to carry out all religious activities from the confines of homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-more-fasting-than-feasting-this-ramzan-in-city-of-nawabs-830415.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Three unidentified militants killed in Kashmir’s Kulgam||Three unidentified militants were killed by security forces in an encounter which broke out in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Monday morning. The police, however, said that the body of one militant has been recovered so far and the operation was going on. “Only 01 dead body recovered so far from the site of #encounter. Search is going on. Further details shall follow (sic),” J&K police tweeted. Reports said the encounter erupted after a patrol party of the Army, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Jammu and Kashmir Police was attacked in Lowermunda, Qazigund, in Kulgam, 85 km from here. The patrol party had gone to the village after receiving ‘specific inputs’ about a group of militants hiding in the area. “The security forces had cordoned a cluster of houses and as they launched a search operation in the morning, they came under heavy firing from a house where the militants were hiding,” sources said. It was the second encounter in Kulgam district within the space of a few hours. Four militants were killed in an encounter with security forces at Ashtal village in Kulgam on Sunday evening. In the last one week, six encounters have been reported in south Kashmir in which 17 local militants and one of their associates were killed. Over 60 militants, including several top commanders of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) and Lashker-e-Toiba (LeT) have been killed in counter-insurgency operations by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir this year so far. April witnessed the highest number of militant casualties with 30 ultras killed so far. All the bodies of local militants in recent days were taken by police either to north Kashmir or central Kashmir’s Sonamarg for burial as part of a new strategy to avoid huge gatherings at funerals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-unidentified-militants-killed-in-kashmir-s-kulgam-830431.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: 5% in every 600 J&K households show symptomatic data||According to officials, nearly 250 medical officers have been appointed for this exercise in each district. The extensive COVID-19 health audit was announced earlier this month for capital cities Srinagar and Jammu, but has now been launched in 15 out of 20 districts of J&K, they said.  “Each doctor receives data of 500-600 households from the field teams at the end of the day out of which 20-30 on an average are showing symptomatic data,” Dheeraj Gupta, J&K Principal Secretary, Housing and Urban Development Department, who is also looking after the survey as the nodal officer, said. He said from the collected household data, the designated medical officers select houses where they feel the need for making a personal visit.  “Based on their field visit and clinical examinations of the persons showing some sort of symptoms, the medical officers decide about the need for sampling and testing of the COVID-19 suspect,” Gupta said. The survey so far has covered three lakh households involving 15 lakh individuals across the Union Territory, he added.  Till Sunday, 66,343 travellers and persons in contact with suspected cases had been enlisted for surveillance which includes 6,324 people in home-quarantine, including facilities operated by the government, 263 in hospital quarantine, 376 in hospital isolation and 10,974 under home surveillance. Besides, 48,400 people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-5-in-every-600-jk-households-show-symptomatic-data-830454.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Three more die of COVID-19 in Indore; district toll reaches 60||The victims, in the age group of 55 to 67 years, died in different hospitals here in the last two days, Indores chief medical and health officer Praveen Jadia said.  All the three victims also suffered from other health conditions like diabetes, high blood pressure and heart- related ailment, he said. "So far, 60 COVID-19 patients have died in the district, while 123 have been discharged from hospitals after recovering from the disease," he said. In the last 24 hours, 31 more people tested positive for coronavirus in Indore, taking the total number of such cases in the district to 1,207, the official said.  According to data analysis, the COVID-19 death rate in Indore was 4.97 per cent till Monday morning, higher than the national average. Curfew is in force in the urban limits of the district since March 25, after the first coronavirus case was found here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-more-die-of-covid-19-in-indore-district-toll-reaches-60-830455.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: 369 stranded students reach J-K from Kota, heading to their home districts||A group of 369 students, hailing from different districts of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, reached here on Monday from Kota in Rajasthan onboard 15 SRTC buses, officials said. Soon after their arrival, they were screened for COVID-19 and later allowed to proceed to their home districts in the two Union Territories where they would undergo administrative quarantine before joining their families, the officials said. They said six students from Kargil, who also completed their quarantine period of 14 days in Kathua, also joined the group from Ladakh. "The Jammu and Kashmir government had dispatched 15 SRTC buses three days back to bring back 369 students who were left stranded in Kota due to the lockdown. The students entered Jammu and Kashmir this (Monday) morning,” District Development Commissioner, Kathua, O P Bhagat, who himself received the students, said. He said all the students were screened by the special team of doctors and later allowed to move towards their respective districts. "Eight buses with students of Kashmir and Ladakh left for Srinagar. Six students of Kargil, who had completed administrative quarantine in Kathua, also boarded the Ladakh-bound bus," he said.  Officials said a group of 57 students from Ladakh is travelling from Kota to their home districts.   Bhagat said all the students would go through mandatory administrative quarantine as a precautionary measure after reaching their home districts||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-369-stranded-students-reach-j-k-from-kota-heading-to-their-home-districts-830495.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Bihar ADJ going for brother's funeral made to wait for hours, action sought against UP policemen||The Bihar Judicial Services Association (BJSA) on Monday expressed displeasure after Uttar Pradesh Police made one of its members wait for five hours before allowing him to enter the state to attend his brothers funeral in the neighbouring state, though he possessed a valid pass to travel during the lockdown. Personnel of Deoria district police in UP stopped Additional District and Sessions Judge (ADJ) of Siwan, Ramayan Ram, twice and he, along with his family members, had to wait inside the police station of Guthni for hours, BJSA Secretary Ajit Kumar Singh said. The funeral of his brother was also delayed because of this, he said and demanded action against the erring officials. "A judicial officer, who was going to attend the funeral of his younger brother with a valid pass, was wrongfully restrained for five hours by Deoria Police. This is an insensitive and callous approach of the Deoria Police and the SP of Deoria," Singh said. Deoria police also defied the official order issued by the Siwan district magistrate allowing Ram to travel to Pahalwanpur village in Ghazipur district of UP, he said. After the judicial officer was stopped at a check post at Mehrauna in Deoria district on Friday afternoon, he came to Guthni police station. The station house officer of Guthni later took him to the check post and urged the UP police to allow Ram to enter. Mehrauna police, however, denied him permission again saying Siwan has several Covid-19 hotspot areas, and he had to return to Gutthni police station. Ram also talked to the Deoria SP seeking permission to travel to Gazipur, but in vain, sources said. The BJSA secretary said he has written to the chief secretary and the director general of police of both UP and Bihar demanding action against the erring officials. "It will be my endeavour to see that the grievance of the judicial officer is appropriately redressed," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-adj-going-for-brothers-funeral-made-to-wait-for-hours-action-sought-against-up-policemen-830497.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||No third stage spread or community transmission in Kerala so far: Health minister||"We have not identified the exact contact in certain cases, but there are certain suspected points," she said. "Community spread is the infection of the virus in a community as a whole. We have been conducting random testing. We got a nurse infected with the virus in random testing conducted at hospitals. There is sentinel surveillance, random testing and all this is being done to check the community spread and it has been found that as of now there is no community spread," she said. The peripheral hospitals like Taluk hospitals and others were also being monitored to find out if there has been an increase in respiratory infections and pneumonia cases. "We are checking whether there is any rise in respiratory-related cases or pneumonia.As of now, there are no such reports suggesting that such cases have increased. This monitoring will continue and in case there is any rise in such cases we will focus on that area. So as of now, there is no community spread. But we cannot be sure that it won't happen." Giving the example of Singapore, she said everything looked fine from January 23 to March 23 as they had only 500 cases but after the lockdown was lifted they are around 15,000 cases. There is a need to be extremely careful in the coming months else it would result in community spread, she said. She asserted that testing was being done in a systematic manner-- those who have been exposed to the virus and have symptoms were being tested first followed by those who did not show any symptoms but had come from high-risk areas. Priority is then being given to sentinel surveillance to understand whether there is any presence in the community and people who have no travel history and symptoms are being tested. But still, to rule out the spread in the community, random testing has also been done, she said. Asked about the lack of enough test kits, the minister said Kerala had more PCR test kits than Maharashtra, which has tested the most number of people. Maharashtra has conducted the highest number of tests-- both PCR and rapid combined. Though Kerala was ready for rapid tests, it was found that the kits were faulty and the Centre was informed. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) conducted a validation and found that there was a fault with the test kits. Many positive samples were shown as negative in those kits, she said. Asked about the huge increase in the people registering at NORKA website for returning to the state, she said bringing everyone was not practical and they will be brought back as per priority. On allegations that more health workers were getting infected as proper safety precautions were not being followed, she said if a single health worker is infected, the health department would provide all facilities and treat them in isolation and cure them before sending them home. "We have asked everyone to take necessary precautions and the department will also monitor whether every health worker is following the protocol on using masks, social distancing and all. We will take care of the health workers because they are the ones who have to take care of the patients," she said. There are many small clinics in rural areas and instructions have been given to doctors and nurses there to take proper precautions including using masks and gloves before treating those who reach there for normal treatment, the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-third-stage-spread-or-community-transmission-in-kerala-so-far-health-minister-830517.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Arrested JMI student lodged in separate cell in Tihar, medical facilities being provided:Authorities||Jamia Coordination Committee's media coordinator Safoora Zargar, who was arrested in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi, has been lodged in a separate cell in Tihar jail and all medical facilities are being provided to her, officials said on Monday. Zargar, who is pregnant, has been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and is in judicial custody.  The student of Jamia Millia Islamia is also fasting during the holy month of Ramzan. Jail authorities said they make special arrangements for food during sehri and iftar. "She is in jail number six, which is a women's jail. She is alone in the cell. Due to COVID-19, we lodge new inmates separately for a particular time," a jail official said. Jail officials said since she is pregnant, she has been placed under a doctor's supervision and all the medical facilities have been provided to her. "If doctors recommend something extra in her diet, it will be provided to her," the official said. The Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC) had last week said the arrest of two of its members, including Zargar, in connection with the February northeast Delhi violence was made "without rhyme or reason". The JCC is a group comprising students and alumni of the Jamia Millia Islamia, and it was formed in protest against the CAA. Another JCC member, Meeran Haider, was arrested in connection with the violence and also charged under the UAPA. The arrests have been condemned by various activists and student groups. However, police have said that these arrests were made after analysis of forensic evidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arrested-jmi-student-lodged-in-separate-cell-in-tihar-medical-facilities-being-providedauthorities-830520.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Personnel Ministry's training division office sealed after death of one of its staff||The sudden death of an officer, working with the Personnel Ministry's training division here, prompted the authorities to seal an office building and send the other employees on self-isolation for a few days as a preventive measure, officials said Monday. The employee, who worked as a Section Officer, died Sunday evening. He was feeling uneasy since Saturday and on Sunday his family admitted him to the Ram Manohar Lohia hospital here where he later died, the officials said. It is not yet confirmed whether or not he was suffering from coronavirus. "A post mortem report is awaited," an official said. As a preventive measure, the building of the training division at old JNU premises has been sealed, the official said. "All staff members have been asked to be on self-isolation at home for a few days till postmortem report of the deceased is available," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/personnel-ministrys-training-division-office-sealed-after-death-of-one-of-its-staff-830527.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Three militants killed, Army officer, six children injured in Kashmir||Three militants and one of their ‘associate’ were killed while an Army officer and seven people, including six children, were injured in militancy related incidents in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district since Sunday evening. Late on Sunday evening, police claimed to have killed four militants in an encounter in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district. The incident was confirmed by the police on its twitter handle- Kashmir Zone police. However, on Monday morning, police said it recovered only one body. “Only 01 dead body recovered so far from the site of #encounter. Search is going on. Further details shall follow,” a police statement said. “In view of inputs regarding militants planning to abduct and murder police personnel, exhaustive domination was being carried out by security forces from the last few days. On Sunday, (26 April), one of such patrolling parties of joint forces was attacked by militants numbering four to six in between villages Chehlan and Asthal,” it said. The statement said that in the exchange of firing that ensued, one Army officer received firearm injuries. “The attack was followed by an exchange of firing between forces and militants in which forces confirmed having hit two to four militants. The exchange of firing stopped around 10 pm. Due to expansive area of search, undulating terrain and total darkness, it was decided to carry out search of the area after first light.  When search started in the morning, body of an unknown militant associate along with a pistol and a grenade was recovered. Besides, six SIM cards were also recovered from his pocket. While a trail of blood was found leading out of the search area which proved that apart from the militant associate killed, one or more militants were injured. The search for injured militants continues,” it added. With the first light of the day on Monday, another encounter broke out in Lower Munda area of Qazigund in Kulgam district, where police claimed to have killed three militants. The house, as per locals, where militants were hiding, was razed to ground by the security forces. Tragedy, however, struck the area again after an unexploded material went up injuring seven people including six children, who had assembled at the encounter site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-militants-killed-army-officer-six-children-injured-in-kashmir-830528.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||UP police serves notice on Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor||A notice was served on Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor on Monday regarding an FIR registered against her for negligence and committing acts likely to spread a disease dangerous to life, police said. She has been asked to report at Sarojini Nagar Police Station on April 30 and record her statement, they said. "The notice has been served on Kapoor and she has been asked to visit Sarojini Nagar Police Station, where an FIR under IPC sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) was registered against her on March 20," a senior police official said here. "If the notice is not followed, the accused could be arrested and produced to the court,” he said. The FIR was lodged on a complaint of the Lucknow chief medical officer. The popular singer had tested positive for novel coronavirus on March 20. She came under attack for negligence and not practising self-quarantine despite returning to the country from the UK amid the coronavirus pandemic. Kapoor was booked by the Uttar Pradesh Police for negligence and committing acts that were likely to spread the infection after she attended at least three gatherings in Lucknow, including a party where political personalities, including senior BJP leader and former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje and her son, Dushyant Singh, were present. In a statement on Sunday, the singer said she is aware of "several versions of stories" about her diagnosis, but "negativity thrown at a person does not change the reality". "Some of these seem to be fuelled even more because I have chosen to be silent till now. I stayed quiet not because I am wrong but in-fact being fully aware that there have been misunderstandings and wrong exchanges of information. I was giving time for the truth to prevail and for people to reach their own realisation," she said.  The singer clarified that she travelled to Lucknow to meet her family on March 11 and claimed there was "no screening setup for domestic flights". On March 14 and 15, Kapoor said she attended a friend's lunch and dinner and clarified "there was no party hosted by me and I was in absolute normal health." However, on March 17 and 18, she developed symptoms and said she got herself tested on March 19. "On March 20 when informed that my test was positive, I chose to go to the hospital. I was discharged after three negative tests and have since been at home for 21 days,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-serves-notice-on-bollywood-singer-kanika-kapoor-830533.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Adityanath apprises PM Modi of COVID-19 situation in UP||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the situation in the state in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic on Monday. "All of us are waging a battle against COVID-19 under the able leadership of the prime minister," Adityanath said in a tweet Hindi. The prime minister had an interaction with the chief ministers of various states and Union territories through video-conferencing on Monday, during which he took stock of the situation arising in the country due to the coronavirus outbreak. "During today's interaction with the prime minister and Home Minister Amit Shah through video-conferencing, I apprised them of the situation in Uttar Pradesh and also took necessary guidance from them," Adityanath said in his tweet. This is the fourth such interaction Modi held with chief ministers since March 22, when he first spoke to them on the coronavirus situation in the country and steps taken -- both by the Centre and the states -- to contain the pandemic. Two days later on March 24, the prime minister announced a 21-day nationwide lockdown and extended it till May 3 on April 14, the last day of the initial three-week shutdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/adityanath-apprises-pm-modi-of-covid-19-situation-in-up-830537.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Ladakh gets its first COVID-19 testing lab||A COVID-19 laboratory has been set up in the Union Territory of Ladakh to ensure timely and cost-effective sample testing, officials said on Monday. Earlier, the samples had to be sent to Delhi by flights leading to delays and heavy expenditure, they said. The COVID-19 testing laboratory, first such facility in the union territory, was set up with the help of Pernod Ricard India foundation, the officials said. “At this crucial time when COVID-19 poses a national challenge, we believe that urgent emergency resources need to be deployed to fight the crisis. We are happy to support Ladakh in setting up its first COVID-19 testing lab,” said Sunil Duggal, Vice President, Corporate Affairs, Pernod Ricard India. The new laboratory is a fully equipped facility compliant with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) standards, he said. It would enable the administration to understand the scale of the disease spread, gauge preparedness of the local healthcare system and enforce preemptive measures, Duggal added. The foundation has also provided 40,000 medical masks, 500 N95 masks and 1,000 hand sanitisers for the frontline workers in the union territory, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ladakh-gets-its-first-covid-19-testing-lab-830553.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police receives 750 calls on its helpline regarding coronavirus lockdown in 24 hours||The Delhi Police received over 700 calls on its 24x7 helpline number from 2 pm on Sunday and the same time on Monday, seeking assistance on issues faced during the lockdown, officials said. A total of 30,899 calls were received by the police till Friday on its helpline (011-23469526), they said. Police received 750 calls from 2 pm on Sunday to 2 pm on Monday. Out of the 750, fifty-two were related to areas outside Delhi, which were referred to the respective state helpline numbers. Four calls were related to no food or no money, which were forwarded to NGOs.  A total of 558 calls were related to movement passes, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-receives-750-calls-on-its-helpline-regarding-coronavirus-lockdown-in-24-hours-830566.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Northeast Delhi riots: President of Jamia alumni association arrested under UAPA||The president of Jamia Millia Islamia Alumni Association has been arrested under the stringent UAPA in connection with the riots in northeast Delhi in February, officials said on Monday. Shifa-Ur-Rehman, also a member of Jamia Coordination Committee, was booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for alleged involvement in the riots and was subsequently arrested by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police on Sunday, they said. "We had technical evidence against him which suggests that he incited mobs during the riots. He was also seen in the CCTV footage which was collected from the riot-affected areas. We have checked his call record details and WhatsApp messages and found more evidence which suggests his involvement in the riots," a senior police officer said. According to the police, he was produced in a city court which remanded him in police custody for 10 days for further interrogation in connection with the case. So far, 10 people have been arrested by the special cell of the Delhi police for alleged involvement in the communal riots. Earlier, Jamia Millia Islamia students Meeran Haider and Safoora Zagar were also arrested under the Act for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to incite the communal riots. While Zargar is the media coordinator of Jamia Coordination Committee, Haider is a member of the committee. In the FIR, police have claimed that the communal violence was a "premeditated conspiracy" which was allegedly hatched by former JNU student leader Umar Khalid and two others. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/northeast-delhi-riots-president-of-jamia-alumni-association-arrested-under-uapa-830582.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Abandoned by hubby and thrown out by landlord, woman gets help from cops in Delhi||COVID-19 is bringing the best and worst out of men and women at the same time. Abandoned by her husband and thrown out by her landlord during the coronavirus lockdown, a young woman from West Bengal was on Delhi streets roaming around with her two children but help has come her way in the form of two policemen who saw her at a food distribution centre. Last week, the woman was standing in a queue for food when Head Constable Ranvir Nagar and Constable Bheem in south Delhi's Pul Prahladpur saw her. What attracted their attention was that the woman was carrying her belongings on her shoulder while her two children -- one 12-year-old and another seven-year-old -- were clinging to her. The policemen approached her and enquired about her situation. It was then she opened up her mind.   She told them that she belonged to West Bengal's Dinajpur and her husband has abandoned her and children, leaving the family in the lurch. The husband, whom she met at a construction site in Haryana's Gurugram where she was a daily wager, has switched off his phone and they are not in a position to reach out to him. Her ordeal did not end there, as her landlord asked her to vacate her rented room, leaving her no choice except to roam around. Hearing her story, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) R P Meena said, the policemen took her to the landlord and "convinced" him to allow them to stay there. They also asked him not to take rent from the woman till the lockdown is lifted. After the policemen informed Station House Officer Ajay Pratap Singh, the latter then arranged for food articles for them, including milk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/abandoned-by-hubby-and-thrown-out-by-landlord-woman-gets-help-from-cops-in-delhi-830597.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||With 23 more coronavirus positive cases, Jammu & Kashmir’s tally reaches 547||Jammu and Kashmir recorded another spike in COVID-19 cases on Monday after 24 persons tested positive for the novel cornavirus, taking the toll to 547 in the Union Territory (UT). Officials said that among 23 new cases, 15 were confirmed at Viral Diagnostic Lab of tertiary-care SKIMS hospital, while seven other cases were confirmed at Chest Disease hospital in Srinagar. Also, Jammu division reported one fresh case, taking the toll of total positive cases in Jammu to 58 while the tally in Kashmir reached 489.   From 407 cases on April 22, COVID-19 tally in J&K reached 547 on April 27. The addition of nearly 150 cases took just five days. The rate is far less than the rate during the first and second week of April when cases doubled in five days. Thereafter, the cases did not double in five days but 100 new were added in five days. The next hundred cases were slower and accumulated in seven days. With 547 cases, J&K stood at number 12 in terms of number of cases among states and UTs of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-23-more-coronavirus-positive-cases-jammu-kashmir-s-tally-reaches-547-830629.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Ex-Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to guide group of experts for post-COVID-19 revival strategy for Punjab||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday said former prime minister Manmohan Singh has accepted his request for guiding a group of experts formed to come out with a post-COVID-19 revival strategy for the state. “I had written to Dr Manmohan Singh Ji to guide us along with the group of experts headed by Montek Singh Ahluwalia & I am grateful to him for accepting. We have been working hard to steer Punjab to the path of economic growth & post-COVID-19 we will again focus on same,” he tweeted. On April 25, the state government had constituted the group of experts, headed by noted economist and former deputy chairman of Planning Commission, Montek Singh Ahluwalia to revive the state's economy. The group which includes leading economic and industry experts shall recommend to the Punjab government a short-term as well as a medium-term action plan, including a fiscal management strategy along with other policy measures, to revive the state's economy in the aftermath of the COVID-19 crisis. The 20-member group has been mandated to submit its initial set of recommendations by July 31 followed by two more reports by September 30 and December 31 this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-prime-minister-manmohan-singh-to-guide-group-of-experts-for-post-covid-19-revival-strategy-for-punjab-830635.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||10 Tablighi Jamaat members who recovered from COVID-19 donate their plasma, many others volunteer||Ten members of Tablighi Jamaat, who attended its congregation and tested positive for COVID-19 have come forward and donated their plasma to treat severally-ill coronavirus patients in the national capital. Sources said those who have come forward to donate their plasma have recovered from COVID-19 at the Sultanpuri and Narela quarantine centres. Many more have volunteered to donate their plasma, they added. The Tablighi Jamaat, a religious organisation in south Delhi's Nizamuddin came under intense attack for the spread of coronavirus after it allegedly organised a congregation after the lockdown and even when the Delhi government had imposed curbs before it. In the therapy, transfusion of plasma from recovered patients to severally-ill COVID-19 patients is conducted. Convalescent plasma is an experimental procedure for coronavirus patients. Sources said several Tablighi Jamaat members at different quarantine centres have also volunteered to donate their plasma for the recovery of COVID-19 patients. The move comes after an appeal was made by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal last week to patients, who have successfully recovered from coronavirus, to donate their plasma for treatment of COVID-19 patients. Kejriwal said the initial results of plasma therapy on critically-ill COVID-19 patients have shown "encouraging" initial results. Last week, Tablighi Jamaat head Maluana Saad Kandhalvi also appealed to the organisation's followers who have recovered from the infection to donate their plasma.  A Delhi government official said the process of taking plasma from the Tablighi Jamaat members has started. According to Dr Mohammad Shoaib, who is facilitating the exercise, till now, 10 Tablighi Jamaat members have donated their plasma to help other coronavirus patients. Shoaib said he is not related to the Tablighi Jamaat, but he is acquainted with its followers. He also claimed that the Delhi government requested him to involve Tablighi Jamaat followers to donate plasma. The exercise commenced on Sunday evening after the iftar at Sultanpuri and Narela quarantine centres following which a team from the Delhi government's ILBS Hospital and another private hospital visited the premises, he said. The Tablighi Jamaat congregation which took place in March was attended by nearly 9,000 people, including foreign nationals. After that hundreds of Tablighi Jamaat followers were quarantined at different centres and many were booked for alleged misbehavior with the staff there. On April 18, at a daily media briefing about the COVID-19 situation in the country, Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Health, said, "A total of 4,291 COVID-19 cases or 29.8 per cent of the 14,378 coronavirus infections reported till that day were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation." According to the bulletin released by the Health Department of the Delhi government, on April 10, when the total number of COVID-19 cases were 903 in Delhi, 584 infections were linked to the Tablighi congregation. Since then the Delhi government dropped usage of the "markaz", the centre of the Tablighi Jamaat after the Delhi Minorities Commission raised an objection over it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-tablighi-jamaat-members-who-recovered-from-covid-19-donate-their-plasma-many-others-volunteer-830642.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC in Uri||Pakistani troops violated ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Uri sector of Jammu and Kashmir by resorting to unprovoked firing, officials said on Monday.  The Pakistani troops targeted Indian positions by using both small and heavy firearms in Silikote, Churunda and Tilawari areas of Uri sector in Baramulla district, they said. There were no reports of any casualties so far, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-uri-830657.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||5 civilians hurt as shell explodes at encounter site in J&K's Kulgam||At least five civilians were injured in a blast on Monday at the encounter site in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam district, where three militants were killed in the morning, officials said. An explosion took place at the encounter site at Lower Munda in the Qazigund area, injuring five civilians who had assembled there, the officials said. They said a shell left behind during the gunbattle between militants and security forces exploded, injuring the civilians. Three militants were killed in the encounter that took place in the early hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-civilians-hurt-as-shell-explodes-at-encounter-site-in-jks-kulgam-830677.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi violence: High Court seeks police reply on bail plea of man who pointed gun at policeman||The Delhi High Court Monday sought the response of the police on a plea by Shahrukh Pathan, who allegedly pointed a gun at a head constable during the communal violence in northeast Delhi, seeking bail on the ground that jails are overcrowded raising the risk of catching coronavirus. Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, issued notice to the investigating officer of the case and sought a response on the bail plea by Wednesday. The court listed the matter for further hearing on April 29. Advocates Asghar Khan and Abdul Tahir Khan, representing Pathan, sought bail for the accused contending that there was a delay of two days in lodging of the FIR. The counsel said due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it is not safe to remain in jail as it is not possible to maintain social distancing due to overcrowding and sought that he be released on bail. The accused sought bail saying he has been languishing in jail for over a month now.  Pathan, 23, whose picture showing him pointing a gun at unarmed Delhi Police head constable Deepak Dahia during the communal riots went viral on social media, was arrested on March 3 from Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district. The police registered a case against him under the sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act.  The police said it recovered the pistol that Pathan had allegedly pointed at the police official, from his house.  After opening fire, he kept the pistol at home and fled from the city in a car, police had said. In the viral video, Pathan, a resident of northeast Delhi's Ghonda, could be seen pointing his pistol at the policeman on the Jaffrabad-Maujpur road on February 24. Police had said after seeing himself on news channels following the incident, Pathan changed his clothes and fled to Punjab. He then moved to Bareilly in UP before hiding at a friend's house in Shamli in the state.  In February, clashes broke out in northeast Delhi between the groups supporting and opposing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-high-court-seeks-police-reply-on-bail-plea-of-man-who-pointed-gun-at-policeman-830682.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus cases in Delhi cross 3000-mark||Delhi crossed 3,000-mark in COVID-19 cases on Monday with the addition of 190 fresh cases even as no deaths and fresh recoveries were reported during the day. It took eight days from April 19 (2,003 cases) to add another 1,000 cases in the capital where now the total number of COVID-19 cases has touched 3,108 cases. Delhi had crossed 1000-mark on April 11 when it registered 1,093 cases. At present, there are 2,177 COVID-19 patients still in hospitals while 877 have recovered. The death toll remained at 54. The past two days have seen a rise in number of cases with Sunday reporting 293 cases. In the past one week, the numbers had been below 150 mark. However, on Sunday it rose suddenly.   So far, Delhi has conducted samples of 39,911 people out of which, 34,145 were tested negative. Results of 2,401 are still pending. One more locality has been added to the containment zones, taking the total to 98. At least, 4.28 lakh people are living in these zones. Authorities have tested 5,438 samples from these zones of which only 273 have tested positive for Covid-19. Between April 19 and 25, an analysis of the figures provided in medical bulletins showed that there were 752 deaths during the week. On April 19, there were 110 cases, which dipped to 78 on April 20 and to 75 the next day. However, on April 22, it further rose to 92. The increasing trend continued for the next two days with 138 and 128 on April 23 and 24 respectively while on April 25, it again dipped to 111.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-cases-in-delhi-cross-3000-mark-830701.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Over 3,000 booked for violating lockdown in Rajasthan||Over 3,000 people have been booked so far in Rajasthan for violating the ongoing lockdown, an official said on Monday. More than 1,575 cases have been registered against 3,687 persons for flouting COVID-19 lockdown rules, said ADG (Crime) BL Soni. Rajasthan police has also taken effective action against the misuse of social media and 247 people have been arrested, the additional director general said. He said 1.10 lakh vehicles were seized under the MV Act and fine of more than Rs 3.30 crore has been recovered. Action is being taken against shopkeepers found to be involved in black marketing during the lockdown and 111 cases under the Essential Commodities Act have been registered so far, Soni said. In Rajasthan, about one lakh police personnel and home guards are tirelessly working to protect people from the novel coronavirus pandemic, he said. Curfew has been imposed in more than 90 police stations areas in 20 districts of the state where there are COVID-19 hotspots, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-3000-booked-for-violating-lockdown-in-rajasthan-830722.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||No major harm if Rath Jatra not held, says religious body||Mukti Mandap, the highest religious dispute resolving body in Lord Jagannath shrine in Puri, said on Monday that there is "no such major harm" if the annual Rath Jatra festival is not held this year in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. In a statement signed by its working president Biswanath Mishra and secretary Ajit Mishra, Mukti Mandap said that the Rath Jatra did not take place following attacks by invaders in the past. Therefore, there is no such harm if the festival is not held this time. The lord will be really happy if his devotees, priests and people remain healthy and safe, it said. However, the opinion of Jagatguru Shankaracharya is supreme and acceptable to all, it added. Mukti Mandap, however, has suggested that the government can organise the Rath Jatra with a limited number of priests by sealing the Puri town. This year's Rath Jatra is supposed to take place on June 23. The fear over the coronavirus pandemic can be tackled if the administration organises the festival by taking tough measures, Mukti Mandap said, adding that lakhs of devotees can watch the festival through television by sitting at their homes. Mukti Mandap's statement regarding Rath Jatra is significant as Gajapati Maharaja Divya Singha Deb last week stated that the decision on whether to conduct the festival depends on the guidelines issued after the lockdown is lifted on May 3.  He said the temple will abide by the guidelines of the Centre and the state government in regard to the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. The temple on Sunday held its two important rituals -- 'Chandan Jatra' (sandalwood festival) and 'Akshaya Tritiya' (beginning of chariot construction work) -- inside its premises. These rituals are usually held outside the temple, but this time was performed in the presence of a limited number of servitors. The 12th-century shrine is closed for devotees for over a month due to the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-major-harm-if-rath-jatra-not-held-says-religious-body-830726.html
27-04-2020||North and Central||Two AAP volunteers test positive for COVID-19 in Mehrauli||Two AAP volunteers engaged in food distribution at Delhi government-run centres in Mehrauli tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, prompting the district administration to declare several localities in the city as containment zones. A senior district official said the two Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) volunteers, engaged by Mehrauli MLA Naresh Yadav, were involved in distributing food to thousands of people. “The two COVID-19 cases have been traced to Jamila Masjid Baoli in Mehrauli area of South Delhi,” an order issued by Mehrauli SDM Sonalika Jiwani said. According to another official, around 6,000 people will be put under containment zones. He said the district administration will launch an exercise of testing all high-risk contacts and isolating suspects. "The administration conducted COVID-19 tests on three persons and out of them, two tested positive. The two were engaged in food distribution at food centres set up in view of lockdown," he said. Reacting to the development, AAP MLA Naresh Yadav said three party volunteers were involved in food distribution around the Dargah and Pehelwan Dhabha area in Mehrauli. He said the volunteers were provided masks and gloves. "They did not have any symptoms. One of them had fever, so we randomly checked them and quarantined them,” he said. "Out of the three volunteers, two have come out to be positive, while one is negative, even though all of them were working together," Yadav said. Meanwhile, the Mehrauli administration has put many localities under the containment zones. “Nirankari Gali, Nakshtra Gali, Nala Boring Gali, Rawan Wali Gali, Jamila Masjid Baoli, Dargah Gurudwara Gali, Thane Wali Gali and Terminal Wali Gali have been put under containment zones,” the order said. "Jamila Masjid Baoli is a densely populated area and there is high potential for local transmission that may lead to clustering of cases in time and space, epidemiologically linked to the positive case," the order stated. Recently, a pizza delivery agent was found to be infected with coronavirus in the city following which the administration put 72 families under quarantine. On Sunday, the national capital reported 293 fresh COVID-19 cases, the second highest in a day, taking the tally of such cases in the city to 2,918.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-aap-volunteers-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mehrauli-830729.html
27-04-2020||Right in the Middle||Hair today, gone tomorrow!||Recently, I watched two movies that dealt with the travails of young men with balding pates-- “Ujda Chaman” and its original Kannada version “Ondu Motteya Kathe”. Luckily for me, even in my advanced years, I require to take my mandatory visits to my favourite haircutting salon every two months. It is something I have been looking forward to for decades as interaction with one’s barber is an enlightening and information-filled experience. In fact, even Dagwood Bumstead is shown having a love-hate relationship with his barber. As a youngster in Mysore, our neighbourhood barber, Shivaram, claimed that he used to be the Palace barber earlier. Whether it was true or not was hard to tell but the royal gossip he dished out was entertaining. Unfortunately, my hair was cut by his son as I had not yet reached a status of eminence to be handled by the senior man. My school-boy days in Delhi were different. The barber, a refugee from Burma of yore, would come home. A chair would be kept out in our back lawn and my mother would give one old white bedsheet to be used to cover me. For the grand sum of eight annas (50 paise), under instructions from my father and sulking protest from me, the barber would let himself go with his clipper and scissors. Many years later I actually understood the term “looked like a plucked chicken”. As my financial status moved up and seduced by the enticing advertisements, I fell prey to what is referred to as value-added services at a salon. A small beginning was made with a head massage (using the same strong-smelling oil promoted by The AB and Govinda). Later, I graduated to a steam face massage and finally to a facial. Obviously, the bill cut a big hole in my pocket. I continued with this extravaganza after my retirement. However, with the sinking returns from my investments and with general economic slowdown I had to be more pragmatic on “non-essential” expenditure. That is when I realised that I was not the only one. I did a survey at various salons and came out with a report grandiosely titled “The Salon Index: Why economists need to study hair-cutting salons’ performance to judge the economy of a country.” Today, I am in a psychologically comfortable zone. Most of my gang members look like the typical grandfathers shown in TV commercials: pleasant looking, sitting on a bench in a park…but mostly bald! I, of course, gloat about my necessary visits to my favourite hair cutting salon. A hirsute brownie point!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/hair-today-gone-tomorrow-830355.html
27-04-2020||South||COVID-19 situation under control in Telangana: Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan||She also said that the "positive cases' curve has almost started flattening in the last few days" in the state. Telangana has reported 1,002 COVID-19 cases so far, with 280 persons cured or discharged. The death toll in the state is 26, according to Union Health Ministry data. In three of the 33 districts in the state, there has been no new cases in the last few days, the governor, who is a doctor, told PTI over phone on Sunday. "Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao's government is doing its best to contain the disease. The spread of the infection is under control and the positive cases' curve has almost started flattening in the last few days," Soundararajan said. The government had deputed some secretary-level Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers as in-charges to supervise actions to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the three districts when more cases were being reported, she said. "The chief secretary and the IAS officers took a helicopter journey to Suryapet and some other districts to personally monitor the control measures,” Soundararajan said. The governor thanked the Centre for helping and cooperating with the state government in its fight against COVID-19. On Thursday, a mobile virology research and diagnostics laboratory, a testing facility developed by the DRDO, was launched by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh through video conference in Hyderabad, she said. The ESI facility in Hyderabad will work with state authorities in the project and the mobile lab can test 1,000 samples in a day, Soundararajan said. On adopting “plasma treatment” for COVID-19 patients, she said experts state that first sufficient anti-bodies should have been formed in cured patients. Plasma treatment is given by taking blood plasma from a cured COVID-19 patient to treat positive cases to effectively strengthen the immune system. “Only if adequate anti-bodies are formed it will be effective for treatment. In our Indian set up it is difficult for the formation of adequate anti-bodies they say”, the governor added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-situation-under-control-in-telangana-governor-tamilisai-soundararajan-830379.html
27-04-2020||South||80 new COVID-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh; tally surges to 1,177||While the government bulletin gave only the overall numbers without any other details, official sources revealed that four staff members of Governor Biswabhusan Harichandan were afflicted with the virus. A local newspaper quoted the MP as saying that six of his family members, including his 83-year old father, tested positive for coronavirus.  Krishna district reported 33 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, followed by Guntur (23) and Kurnool (13).  The COVID-19 toll remained at 31 while four patients were discharged from hospitals in Chittoor and West Godavari districts. The total number of discharged is now 235.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/80-new-covid-19-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-surges-to-1177-830439.html
27-04-2020||South||Kerala bridegroom, Uttar Pradesh bride tie nuptial knot online amidst coronavirus lockdown||Sreejith Natesan, hailing from Changanasserry in Kottayam district and Anjana P, a native of Alappuzha, who is now working in Lucknow, got engaged last November. Their marriage was scheduled to be held at an auditorium in Alappuzha on Sunday.  As the lockdown came into force, both the families initially discussed the option of postponing the marriage. But then they decided to conduct the marriage at the fixed, auspicious time itself. The families decided to go for a virtual marriage, an idea mooted by Anjana who is working in the computer field. On Sunday, Sreejith, who is a bank employee, reached Anjana's relative's house at Alappuzha. Anjana's father was present there while her mother and brother were also in Lucknow.   At the scheduled time -- 12.15 pm to 12.45 pm -- Sreejith and Anjana, both dressed up in bridal attire, came live on the mobile and symbolically tied the nuptial knot. Sreejith said that once the lockdown was lifted, Anjana would come down and a marriage reception and registration would be done.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-bridegroom-uttar-pradesh-bride-tie-nuptial-knot-online-amidst-coronavirus-lockdown-830451.html
27-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Over 1.5 lakh NRKs register to return to Kerala||Over 1.5 lakh Non-Resident Keralites (NRK)s, stranded in various countries, have registered online for returning to the state, once the Centre gives the nod and air services resume The Norka (Non-Resident Keralites Affairs) department had commenced the registration process at around 6 pm on Sunday and within an hour 25,000 had registered, government sources said. Till Monday morning, over 1.5 lakh NRKs have registered, the maximum is from UAE-- over 60,000. The aged, pregnant women, children, critically ill patients, those with expired visas and those who had gone abroad on visiting visa are among the large numbers of people who are waiting to return. Those wanting to return, have to get themselves tested for COVID-19 in the respective countries, where they are and register after getting a negative certificate for the infection.  The registration is for arranging quarantine facilities in the state, if necessary, and not forgetting any priority on flight bookings, the sources said. After the NRKs register themselves, the government would draw up a list on how to bring them back as per priority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-over-15-lakh-nrks-register-to-return-to-kerala-830471.html
27-04-2020||South||13 new COVID-19 positive cases in Kerala; tally now 481||Thirteen fresh C0VID-19 cases were detected in Kerala on Monday taking the total cases to 481, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. The new cases were from Kottayam which reported six cases, Idukki four, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kannur one case each. Five people, who were found positive, are from Tamil Nadu, one person had come from abroad and remaining had been infected through contact, he said. It was not yet clear from where one person had been infected, Vijayan told reporters. He said the number of those who tested negative for the virus were also 13 in the state. There are 123 active cases, while 355 have been cured. Over 20,000 people are under observation, including over 400 in various hospitals. Kottayam and Idukki have been included in the Red zone with positive cases rising from the two districts in the last two days, Vijayan said. Earlier, there were four districts in the zone. Two panchayats from Idukki and four from Kottayam have been included in the list ofhotspots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/13-new-covid-19-positive-cases-in-kerala-tally-now-481-830561.html
27-04-2020||South||1 COVID-19 patient discharged, total Pondy cases now 3||The number of COVID-19 cases under treatment in the Indira Gandhi Government Medical college hospital here has fallen to three from four with the discharge of one after recovery, a territorial Minister said on Monday. The Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told reporters that the union territory had eight patients and were taking treatment in the hospital. At one stage, the number of patients stood at four after recovery of four patients from the infection, he said. On one more patient tested negative on Sunday and was discharged bringing down the total active cases to three now, the Minister said. The fall in the number of patients to three was a welcome development for the government and health authorities. The patient discharged hailed from neighbouring Reddiyarpalayam and was undergoing treatment for more than 14 days. He said there was no COVID-19 case in Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam regions, all enclaves of Puducherry, in Tamilnadu, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh respectively. The Minister said door-to-door surveillance was continued and teams of health professionals and volunteers from private medical colleges contacted the people in each of the 2.89 houses (with a population strength of 11.52 lakh out of the total population of 13 lakh) so far and collected details of their health status.  Rao said 1,983 samples out of 1,987 samples tested so far were negative and results of the remaining four samples were awaited. He appealed to the people to continue their cooperation during the remaining days of the ongoing lockdown to maintain the record of Puducherry in containing the infection.   Rao said the Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had at a video conference with him recently appreciated the work of the territorial administration in checking the spread of the virus. "The coordinated work by staff of Health, Police, PWD, Local Administration, Welfare and other departments with the cooperation of the people has made Puducherry a safe place," Rao said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/1-covid-19-patient-discharged-total-pondy-cases-now-3-830598.html
27-04-2020||South||COVID-19: TN freezes DA, earned leave for employees||Citing the severe fiscal crisis due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Tamil Nadu government on Monday announced freezing of additional installment of Dearness Allowance for its employees and pensioners till July 2021 and suspended earned leave encashment for a year. Pointing to the Centre's recent communique that additional installment of DA to its employees and pensioners due from January 1, 2020 shall not be paid, a Government Order (GO) said Tamil Nadu toed the Union government's rate of dearness allowance for its employees, pensioners and family pensioners. Hence, Tamil Nadu has decided to follow the Centre's decision to put on hold the additional DA payout as well, it said. Also, in view of "the severe fiscal crisis arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic," the government has decided to freeze the additional Dearness Allowance payout till July 2021, the order said. As per a GO of last year, effective July 1, 2019, the rate of Dearness Allowance was 17 per cent of basic pay. It was a revision following orders by the Centre enhancing the DA for its employees. Ahead of that enchancement, the rate of DA stood at 12 per cent for Tamil Nadu government employees. Accordingly, the additional installment of DA payable to government employees, teachers, pensioners, family pensioners due from January 1, 2020 shall not be paid. "The additional installments of DA due from July 1, 2020 and January 1, 2021 shall also not be paid," it said. The order is applicable to teaching, non-teaching staff in aided educational institutions and employees under local bodies as well. In another G.O, the government said the periodicial surrender of earned leave for encashment for 15 days every year/30 days every two years stands suspended initially for one year to all government employees and teachers. "All surrender requests and bills pending as on date, irrespective of their stage of sanction and disbursement, shall not be processed. The curb covers local bodies and institutions under the government as well," the order said. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tn-freezes-da-earned-leave-for-employees-830610.html
27-04-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: Wall built along Tamil Nadu-Andhra Pradesh border demolished after outrage||After outrage from various quarters, the Vellore District Administration in Tamil Nadu on Monday demolished walls it raised across the border with Andhra Pradesh to prevent movement of people during Covid-19 lockdown. The walls measuring three feet were erected on Sunday as part of the efforts to prevent vehicular traffic through the porous border between the two states. Raising of walls at two entry and exit points of the border in the district led to a hue and cry among people from both states saying this was “unwarranted.” The walls were built using hollow block stones at Sainagunta and Ponnai check posts along the border on Sunday. However, four other check posts along the border were kept open without erecting any wall or barricade. After pictures of walls being constructed across the border went viral and Andhra Pradesh taking objection it, Vellore District Collector A Shanmuga Sundaram has ordered its demolition. “It (the wall along the border) was a temporary structure. We have removed it now,” Sundaram told DH. Officials said none of the borders where the walls were erected fall on the main highway connecting Vellore with Chittoor, which sees massive vehicular traffic as both are important towns in their respective states. Hundreds of patients come from Andhra Pradesh to the Christian Medical College (CMC) in Vellore. After the lockdown, authorities said, the movement of vehicles could not be restricted due to non-cooperation from people from both states. Since both states have more than 1,000 coronavirus cases each, the district administration felt the need to close the borders at two key locations, while keeping open the other four, an official said. Speaking to DH, Chittoor collector Dr Bharath Gupta said the Vellore district collector spoke to him over the phone to inform that they have removed the walls. The Andhra Pradesh government had earlier taken up the matter with the administration in Tamil Nadu.  “We do not know what transpired on the TN side but yes, a few roads were blocked. Our district has porous borders with the neighbouring state. Blocking roads as such would affect both sides,” Gupta said. Chittoor, which has several popular Hindu shrines like Tirupati, Srikalahasti, and Kanipakam, has a mix of Telugu and Tamil cultures especially in the district’s south part which has strong connections with TN. While AP has a total of 1,177 cases as of Monday morning, the cases from Chittoor are only 73. 57 are active while 16 are discharged. Some AP officials saw the wall move as strange since TN is more severely hit by the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-wall-built-along-tamil-nadu-andhra-pradesh-border-demolished-after-outrage-830671.html
27-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu to return 24,000 coronavirus test kits to Chinese firm||Tamil Nadu government, which had placed orders for 50,000 rapid test kits from a Chinese firm, on Monday said it was returning the first set of 24,000 kits that it received to the seller and announced cancellation of all procurement. Health Minister C Vijayabaskar said in a statement that the government is returning the kits as per orders from Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) on whose recommendation the rapid test kits were bought. He also rubbished Opposition allegation that the government had procured the kits from an “intermediary firm” not approved by the IMCR.  “ICMR approved two firms Cadillac Pharma and Matrix Lab for importing these kits and these two firms have given dealership to several firms which includes Shan Biotech with whom Tamil Nadu placed orders. The price of Rs 600 was fixed by the ICMR and the state government procured at the same price,” Vijayabaskar said. He was responding to Opposition allegation that the state government procured the kits from an “intermediary company” rather than directly from the importer who is also based in this city for a “higher price.” The Minister also said that Tamil Nadu was returning 24,000 kits and has cancelled all procurement orders with regard to purchase of rapid test kits. The parties, including principal Opposition DMK, cited the Delhi High Court order that capped the price of each testing kit at Rs 400, rather than Rs 600 approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). The Tamil Nadu government had placed an order for 50,000 rapid test kits of which 24,000 have been delivered already at the ICMR approved price of Rs 600 through Shan Biotech, which bought the kits from Matrix Labs, also based out of the city. Matrix Labs, which imported the kits from China, told the Delhi High Court it procured them from a Chinese company, Wondfo, for a price of Rs 245 each which includes the freight price.  The company sold the kits at Rs 400 each to Rare Metabolics, which fixed the price at Rs 600 per kit for purchase by ICMR and states. The price issue came to the fore after the importer and the distributor went to the Delhi High Court to sort out their pricing dispute. DMK chief M K Stalin had sought to know why the government went for a “non-transparent” method in procuring these kits even as it battles a shortage of funds.  VCK chief Thol. Thirumavalavan’s asked the government to clarify why it chose to buy the kits from an intermediary company rather than procuring them directly from the importer, who is also based in Chennai. “The company, Matrix Labs, that sold the kits to Shan Biotech at Rs 400 per piece is also from Chennai. If the government had inked a pact with Matrix Labs, it could have saved Rs 200 per kit. Why and how did this happen? The government should explain and be transparent about the process,” Thirumavalavan said. AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran demanded a white paper on the procurement process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-return-24000-coronavirus-test-kits-to-chinese-firm-830676.html
27-04-2020||South||ANALYSIS | Have a look at the fluctuating trends of coronavirus in Kerala||Kerala is witnessing a fluctuating trend in fresh coronavirus cases being reported daily. Even two districts that had no cases a week ago now have over 30 cases, forcing the government to enforce total lockdown there. Of the 13 fresh cases reported in the state on Monday, six were in Kottayam and four in Idukki, taking the total numbers to 17 and 14, respectively. Both these adjacent districts had no cases till a week ago and even lockdown norms were relaxed. But with the cases increasing and the source of infection of many yet to be traced, the government brought these two districts under the red-zone and restored total lockdown. Meanwhile, the number of COVID-19 cases in Kannur district, which was emerging as another hotspot after Kasargod, is now witnessing a declining trend with only one case being reported on Monday while six were discharged. Kerala has been witnessing only a few fresh cases for nearly ten days from the second week of April and hence the state was heaving a sigh of relief. But the daily numbers of fresh cases witnessed a spike for three days from April 21 with more cases being reported in Kannur.  Meanwhile, the recovery rate in Kerala has remained almost steady. The total recovered so far reached 355 of the 481 infected so far, three have lost their lives. A total of 123 are under treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/analysis-have-a-look-at-the-fluctuating-trends-of-coronavirus-in-kerala-830694.html
27-04-2020||South||NIA chargesheets Kerala youths||The National Investigation Agency on Monday filed chargesheet against three youths from Kozhikode district in connection with the alleged Maoist activities. Allan Suhaib, 20, Thwaha Fasal, 24, and C P Usman, 40, were chargesheeted. Various sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Indian Penal Code were framed against the two. While Allan and Thwaha were already arrested, Usman was still absconding. The chargesheet was filed at NIA special court in Kochi. The arrest of Allan and Thwaha by the Kerala police last year and invoking UAPA became a political row in Kerala as the two were CPM workers and even CPM national leaders condemned registering UAPA case against the two. The two were alleged to be having links with CPI (Maoist) and organised secret meeting and distributed pamphlets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nia-chargesheets-kerala-youths-830704.html
27-04-2020||South||Goa in talks with Karnataka over migrant labourers trapped in lockdown: CM||The Goa government is in touch with neighbouring governments in Karnataka and Maharashtra over taking back of a large number of labourers from the two states, who are caught in the lockdown in the coastal state, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday. Speaking to reporters, Sawant also said that while he was looking at reviving economic activity in the state, in view of the relaxations recommended by the Central Government through a set of guidelines, the Chief Minister ruled out opening up of the state's boders with Karnataka and Maharashtra, two states between which Goa is wedged in. "If Karnataka is swilling to take their labourers back, they can. We are in touch with Karnataka and Maharashtra too. We have begun a conversation at the official level over facilitation of their transfer back home," Sawant said. Thousands of labourers native to Karnataka, especially from districts like Belgaum, Bijapur, Karwar and Hubli district are currently stuck in Goa, on account of the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/goa-in-talks-with-karnataka-over-migrant-labourers-trapped-in-lockdown-cm-830709.html
27-04-2020||State||Surging cases in hotspots pose challenge for Karnataka||The Covid-19 outbreak in Karnataka hasn’t been so virulent compared to other states, as many districts have remained virus-free. But what should worry the government are the surging cases in the hotspots in the past 10 days, even as the number of taluks and BBMP wards classified as hotspots saw a marginal decline.   A case in point is Hongasandra in Bengaluru, which has the most cases as of April 25. Interestingly, Hongasandra was not even classified as a hotspot on April 15, revealing the see-sawing nature of the battle. Apart from Hongasandra, Padarayanapura, which was sealed recently, is another challenge for the government. Cases in the ward shot up from a mere three on April 15 to 19 by April 25. Among taluks, the outbreak in Nanjangud has been the most severe, with cases surging from 18 to 53 during the period, making it the worst-hit taluk in the state. Other taluks with high infections include Bengaluru North (44 cases) and Vijayapura (39 cases). The surge in numbers was also due to the rise in the number of tests conducted by the state government.  But there is also some encouraging news. According to government data, between April 15 and April 25 the number of BBMP wards classified as hotspots — which applies to any ward or taluk with one Covid-19 positive case in the last 28 days — decreased from 34 to 30. While 20 of the 198 wards have one case each, five wards have reported two cases, three have reported three cases. The number of hotspot taluks saw a slight increase from 38 to 39. Among them, 13 taluks have one case, one taluk has two cases while three taluks have three cases. Medical Education minister K Sudhakar told DH that they were awaiting directions from the central government on the future course of action. “On Monday, the PM will have a video conference with all CMs. Such issues will be discussed and directions issued,” he said. On hotspots in Karnataka, he said that the government was carefully handling such red zones. “Many people have recovered from Covid-19 and the number of such hotspots has also decreased marginally,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/surging-cases-in-hotspots-pose-challenge-for-karnataka-830314.html
27-04-2020||State||Karnataka: Activists decry lack of safety for frontline forest staffers, officials blame poachers||A day after two forest personnel drowned while trying to catch persons engaged in fishing at Kabini backwaters in Bandipur Tiger Reserve, environment activists said the incident highlights lack of safety equipment for frontline workers fighting to save forests and wildlife. Mahesh and Shivakumar, the two forest watchers, were killed when the coracle in which they were chasing the poachers capsized in the Kabini backwaters in Gundre Forest Range in Karnataka on Saturday. A wildlife conservationist said the death highlights the risk the frontline forest staff face everyday. “Assault by poachers, timber smugglers and encroachers have become common. Despite these attacks, they have risked their lives to conserve the natural heritage of this country. Incidents like this will demoralise the entire forest cadre and in the future, there will be little or no interest in joining the forest department. This will only increase the threat to the country’s forests and wildlife,” he said. Activists noted that one of the deceased staffers was a temporary watcher. "There are no medical facilities, no insurance and no ex-gratia is paid to their families during tragic incidents like these. Apart from bringing the accused to justice, the government should extend benefits such as medical, insurance, jobs on compensatory grounds, and ex-gratia payment to all temporary forest department staff. The same has to be extended to semi-permanent staff such as those employed under the Kshemabhivrudhi scheme,” an activist said. To a question, Field Director at Bandipur Tiger Reserve T Balachandra said the staffers took the coracle instead of the regular boat as its operator was not available at the time. “It’s an unfortunate incident. All the safety equipment is available. We are still investigating whether they were wearing it and what went wrong,” he said. Asked about aid to the kin of the deceased, he said families of both the staffers will get insurance as well as ex-gratia of more than Rs 10 lakh each. A source in the department said the staffers on the anti-poaching operation were killed because the miscreants engaged in illegal fishing capsized their coracle. “They got tipped off about poaching at 10 pm and reached the site around 11.30 pm. While they were in water, poachers in eight or nine coracles surrounded them, attacked them with paddles and also capsized one of the coracles. One person was caught in the nylon fishing net and drowned. We suspect another person might have got his legs caught in the silt,” the source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-activists-decry-lack-of-safety-for-frontline-forest-staffers-officials-blame-poachers-830326.html
27-04-2020||State||'Subahu' app launched by police at check-posts||The district police is keeping vigil on people who come outdoors unnecessarily during the lockdown using the newly launched 'Subahu' app. The app is being used to monitor all check-posts and traffic junctions. The app provides photographs of the vehicles used to violate lockdown norms. It also records why the motorist has come out of home and the exact place where it was checked when police scan the vehicle and upload the details. "Using this app, the police can monitor all checkpoints to ascertain how many people are using the checkpost and why," said Superintendent of Police K Vamshi Krishna. He said that the app provides evidence of a violation of lockdown norms and facilitates the police to take legal action against the violators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/subahu-app-launched-by-police-at-check-posts-830564.html
27-04-2020||State||Youth ensure no thirsty souls on the streets||Two youth have set aside their personal problems and are supplying packaged mineral water to those on the streets from the time lockdown was implemented to contain Covid-19. For the two unemployed youth, Samad from Ullal and Yasir Angaragundi from Baikampady, the day begins with loading cases of packaged drinking water into their car. When others make a beeline to buy grocery shops, the youth hit the streets when the lockdown is relaxed between 6 am to 12 pm. The youth begin to distribute the packaged mineral water from Talapady, near Karnataka-Kerala border, and end the day’s long drive in Baikampady. “We initially begun by distributing water bottles (each bottle has 300 ml water) to thirsty policemen patrolling the roads and highways,” recollects Yasir. Then on the request of policemen, they begun distributing water bottles to beggars and mentally challenged people found loitering on the streets. While distributing water they met non government organisations distributing food to the needy. They begun handing over cases of water bottles to such groups involved in mitigating the humanitarian crisis. The duo distribute daily over 20 cases of packaged mineral water (worth Rs 2,500) and over 20 kg of Banana mainly to beggars. “When the lockdown was announced, we were keen on helping the needy. But the fact that we were unemployed did not deter us from doing something to people during Corona crisis,” says Samad Ullal. Samad owned a fishing business which was shut down after lockdown was announced. Yasir owned a textile shop which he eventually closed it down post demonetisation. The duo’s desire to be of help to other was nurtured by many donors. Samad for the past six years also uses his car to drop patients at hospitals or pick them from hospitals and drop them at their houses, sometimes as far as Davangere.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/youth-ensure-no-thirsty-souls-on-the-streets-830653.html
27-04-2020||State||18 people admitted for observation||Eighteen people with symptoms of Covid-19 were admitted to isolation wards in the district on Monday. Around 15 samples were collected and sent for testing, while 40 samples are pending for the results. As on Monday, 1,025 swab samples out of 1,068 samples had tested negative for Covid-19. As many as 521 people are under home quarantine, while 27 people are quarantined in hospital. Three people with low risk have been discharged. A total of 3,347 people were screened for the virus infection in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/18-people-admitted-for-observation-830654.html
27-04-2020||State||Last call: Transport dept gives 3 days to register BS-IV vehicles||In a good news to many persons who bought BS-IV vehicles days before the ban on their sale came into force, the Transport department has extended the last date for registration of such vehicles from March 31 to April 30. As per the Supreme Court order, manufacturing and selling of Bharat Stage (BS) IV vehicles was banned after March, 2020. The decision was taken to push the automobile industry to embrace BS-VI emission standards to reduce the harm caused to environment. To clear the stock of BS IV vehicles, dealers had offered huge discounts to lure customers. The Transport department, had, however warned that registration of such vehicles will not be allowed after March 31. The department had further clarified that the one-month time given for registration of the newly purchased vehicles will apply to BS-IV vehicles beyond the month of March. However, in view of the latest order by the Supreme Court, the department has allowed the owners to get their vehicles registered by April 30. Vehicle owners who have already paid the taxes through online/offline methods as well as those who are yet to pay have three more days to complete the registration process by producing relevant documents at the jurisdictional RTO offices, the commissioner for Transport and Road Safety said in a release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/last-call-transport-dept-gives-3-days-to-register-bs-iv-vehicles-830661.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Former CM H D Kumaraswamy proposes ‘COVID cess’ on ultra-rich||Expressing concerns on India’s economy, the JD(S) leader called for “citizen-centric” measures. “According to RBI and international economic assessment agencies, the GDP growth rate of the country is expected to fall to a historic low. Such a dire situation calls for citizen-centric measures like full or partial waivers of EMIs, rents, school fees and other levies,” Kumaraswamy said in a tweet.   “The economy won't bounce back within a very short period. It is important to lower the cost of living as the spending power of the consumer has depleted. The government must cut the petrol/diesel prices. The loss of revenue may be offset partially by imposing COVID cess on the ultra-rich,” he suggested. It was “high time” for the government, he said, to announce schemes to “save livelihoods of people, especially those in the unorganized sector.” He demanded “immediate relief” to farmers, construction workers, cab/auto drivers, garment workers and others. The economy won't bounce back within a very short period. It is important to lower the cost of living as spending power of the consumer has depleted. The govt must cut the petrol/diesel prices. The loss of revenue may be offset partially by imposing COVID cess on the ultra rich.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-former-cm-h-d-kumaraswamy-proposes-covid-cess-on-ultra-rich-830437.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt, MPL to host online chess tournament to raise funds for COVID-19 relief||The State government and Mobile Premier League (MPL) are hosting an online chess tournament on May 2 and 3 to raise funds for COVID-19 relief. The tournament is being held in partnership with the United Karnataka Chess Association (UKCA). The Youth Empowerment and Sports Department has announced that it will host the online chess tourney to raise funds for Covid-19 relief, in association with UKCA and Bengaluru-based MPL, a mobile gaming platform. The tournament will be held on May 2 and 3 on the MPL app and all proceeds from the tournament will be donated to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for Karnataka, for Covid-19 relief, states a press note. The online chess tournament is open to all, across India for an entry fee of Rs 50. The total prize pool is Rs 10 lakh and the first prize is Rs 1 lakh. R Hanumantha, secretary of UKCA said, “We will mobilise the chess community in Karnataka and other states to ensure that this becomes a way to demonstrate our solidarity and will for resilience”. “This is a time when the entire nation needs to come together and fight COVID-19. We expect participation in huge numbers,” said Sai Srinivas Kiran, co-founder, and CEO of MPL.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-mpl-to-host-online-chess-tournament-to-raise-funds-for-covid-19-relief-830461.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka taxi drivers beat empty utensils to highlight hunger amid lockdown||In a protest that directly took on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, taxi drivers who have lost their livelihood for more than a month banged empty vessels and plates to highlight the issues of hunger and poverty. In a campaign organised by Ola, Taxi for Sure and Uber Drivers Association, hundreds of drivers sat in their homes and recorded moments of banging utensils in protest against the government's alleged apathy.   "It has been nearly one and a half month since lockdown was imposed in Karnataka but the government has not made any attempt to look into the problems of the drivers who are sitting at home without a job and without minimum income for subsistence," the association said. The campaign saw drivers and their family members tying a black cloth and beating the plates. "These moments recorded at home will be sent out to the world through social media. Every driver will tag the Prime Minister, Union ministers, MPs, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, cabinet ministers and MLAs in their message," said association president Tanveer Pasha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-taxi-drivers-beat-empty-utensils-to-highlight-hunger-amid-lockdown-830530.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Deve Gowda demands special package for farmers||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Monday demanded that the Karnataka government announce a special package for farmers who are on the verge of quitting agriculture as their profession following losses due to the COVID-19 pandemic. "Please announce special package for the farmers to bail them out of the loss due to the lockdown. Drop many of the schemes in the budget but don't leave the farmers in distress," Gowda said in his letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. The JD(S) supremo said the way relief has been announced for the milk producers by procuring the unsold milk and distributing it to the slum dwellers, the same assistance should be provided to the farmers of the state. "If you don't come forward to assist the farmers, then they will be forced to sell their land," Gowda cautioned the Chief Minister. The former prime minister said the farmers are on the verge of falling in the debt trap and may be compelled to take the extreme step of suicide due to the losses. Gowda said the farmers are unable to sell their crop because they are not getting proper price for their produce and are selling their crop at a throwaway price to minimise their losses. "In just one month farmers reached the brink of bankruptcy as they are unable to sell the standing crops in lakhs of acres of land," Gowda said. The JD(S) supremo has been championing the cause of farmers in the state and highlighting their sufferings. On April 3 Gowda has appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to look into the plight of farmers, labourers and the middle class people due to the lockdown. "In such times of crisis, we should see to it that there is no disruption in farming activities by ensuring proper marketing channels to agricultural produce, especially perishables. Only then we can sustain our long battle against this pandemic," Gowda said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/deve-gowda-demands-special-package-for-farmers-830536.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: 'For us, they are like our babies'||The impact of lockdown has not been limited to humans alone. In fact, stray dogs, with empty streets and rumbling bellies have been severely affected too. But on a positive note, some animal lovers have refused to shunt their canine friends amid lockdown restrictions.  A group of IBM employees including Geeta Philip, Modestine J Desouza, Anushree Dubey and Priyanka Kalra had been feeding stray dogs even before the lockdown, particularly at Embassy GolfLinks (EGL) Tech Park in Bengaluru, where their office is located.  The team is now going out of their way to feed the stray dogs, for whom the lockdown has come like a bolt from the blue.  Modestine, who is in her fifties, and has been dedicatedly feeding dogs for over three years, says the dogs even recognise her honks. She feeds 25 to 28 dogs every day. After the lockdown was enforced, she has been feeding dogs at OMBR layout, where she stays, and Old Madras Road. Priyanka Kalra from the team takes care of the dogs at the EGL campus, and also feeds dogs in her neighbourhood.  “I share a unique bond with indie dogs. I go around on my two-wheeler carrying chicken and rice, and feed any stray dog I come across,” Modestine says.  “Since I know the cops in my area, it hasn't been a problem so far. However, to convince my family that I’ll be fine has been a major issue. My only son who lives in the Netherlands is very concerned, as me and my husband are by ourselves. I tell my family not to worry. I just feed the dogs and come back home,” she adds. The group also manages the dogs’ veterinary care in case they fall sick. Anushree Dubey from the team says, stocking up on dog food is still a challenge as there is the shortage of meat right now. “Modestine procures dry food bags, but we don't know for how long it will last. We hope to procure more food soon.” “At every checkpoint we find police. For them, it’s not a priority, but for us, they are like our babies,” says Priyanka, who has stocked up some 40 kg of dry food. “Not just dogs, crows too are hungry. When I went to feed the dogs one time, quite a few crows flew down and ate the dog food, as they have no food either,” says Priyanka. “With the lockdown restrictions in place, the least one can do is leave some bread or chapatis, and a bowl of water outside the house,” she says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-for-us-they-are-like-our-babies-830556.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||K S Eshwarappa unhappy with Central ministers from Karnataka||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa on Monday vented anger against some Central ministers representing Karnataka. “Some Central ministers representing the State have lodged a complaint with Prime Minister Narendra Modi over handling of Covid-19 situation in the State. It is wrong,” he said. Speaking to reporters he said that some people lacked common sense. Complaints had been lodged making unnecessary criticism against the State government and works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). “Let them directly meet Modi and discuss in person if they are so courageous,” Eshwarappa challenged. The Minister claimed that the State government was discharging duties properly. The MGNREGA works were carried out as per Prime Minister’s directions. An amount of Rs 1,000 crore had been released under the scheme. People were willing for the works. There was no need to halt the works just because some people made criticism. Eshwarappa came down heavily on Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President (KPCC) D K Shivakumar. “Shivakumar believes in the appeasement of Muslims. He can’t be in politics without Muslims. He is indulging in gimmicks to project himself as able KPCC president. He has failed in all the dramas he staged in the past and he will fail in the dramas he is staging now,” Eshwarappa charged. “The BJP won’t permit communal disharmony,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/k-s-eshwarappa-unhappy-with-central-ministers-from-karnataka-830557.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Vedanta Iron Ore Karnataka contributes Rs 1 cr to support fight against Coronavirus||Vedanta Iron Ore Karnataka on Monday said it has contributed Rs 1 crore towards the Karnataka Chief Minister's Relief Fund to combat the coronavirus pandemic. Vedanta's iron ore business has also been working in close coordination with local authorities to provide protective equipment across COVID-19 medical facilities in the state. "We, at Vedanta, have always believed in giving back to the society and the nation. Today, when the COVID-19 pandemic has posed unprecedented challenges for the state of Karnataka, the contribution of Rs 1 crore towards Chief Minister's Relief Fund COVID-19 is a step forward to combat coronavirus," Vedanta CEO (Iron Ore) Sauvick Mazumdar said in a statement. "We are together in the current contagion situation and I am hopeful that through our collective efforts, we will succeed in fighting this dreaded virus. I would also request citizens of Karnataka to stay safe and act responsibly," Krishna Reddy, director, Vedanta Iron Ore Business, Karnataka, said. As part of the Vedanta Group's efforts to support people in distress, Vedanta Iron Ore Karnataka is ramping up its community outreach programmes and reaching out to all stakeholders in this battle against the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vedanta-iron-ore-karnataka-contributes-rs-1-cr-to-support-fight-against-coronavirus-830573.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||57-yr-old man dies of COVID-19 in Karnataka; toll at 20||A 57-year-old man died of COVID-19 in Kalaburagi on Monday taking the fatalities due to the virus in Karnataka to 20. "One more person died due to COVID-19 in the state. The 57-year-old person was tested positive for coronavirus on April 21," Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted on Monday evening. The minister said he was admitted to the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences with respiratory problem. He was also suffering from severe liver related ailments. "With this five deaths have taken place in Kalaburagi district due to the virus," the minister added in his tweet. The first COVID-19 death in the country was reported from Kalaburagi in March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/57-yr-old-man-dies-of-covid-19-in-karnataka-toll-at-20-830602.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Transport dept extends registration date for BS-IV vehicles till April 30||In a good news to many, who bought BS-IV vehicles days before the ban on their sale came into force, the Transport Department has extended the last date for registration of such vehicles from March 31 to April 30. As per the Supreme Court order, manufacturing and selling of Bharat Stage (BS) IV vehicles was banned after March, 2020. The decision was taken to push the automobile industry to embrace BS-VI emission standards to reduce the harm caused to environment. To clear the stock of BS IV vehicles, dealers had offered huge discounts to lure customers. The Transport Department, had, however warned that registration of such vehicles will not be allowed after March 31. The department had further clarified that the one-month time given for registration for newly purchased vehicles will apply to BS-IV vehicles beyond the month of March. However, in view of the latest order by the Supreme Court, the department has allowed the owners to get their vehicles registered by April 30. Vehicle owners who have already paid the taxes through online/offline methods as well as those who are yet to pay have three more days complete the registration process by producing relevant documents at the jurisdictional RTO offices, the Commissioner for Transport and Road Safety said in a release.DH News Service||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/transport-dept-extends-registration-date-for-bs-iv-vehicles-till-april-30-830619.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Deve Gowda wants special package for farmers||Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda has demanded a special package for farmers in the state, in the wake of several financial distress faced by them, owing to the pandemic. Gowda, who wrote a letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in this regard, pointed out that farmers were, on the one hand, unable to send their produce outside the state and on the other, had lost the local market as well. Horticulture and floriculture farmers who had invested lakhs of rupees into cultivating crops were staring at loans and losses, he said. “Desperate to sell their produce, in some places, they are selling it at low rate where in, they are unable to gain back their investment,” he wrote in his letter. Considering that the farmers are staring at a bleak future, the government should announce a special package for them, even if it comes at the cost of scrapping certain projects announced in the budget, Gowda added. Cong leaders buy veggies Former Congress minister Krishna Byre Gowda said that the price farmers get for their produce has increased by 20-30% after the party's leaders started buying vegetables from them directly. Gowda alone has bought 230 tonnes of vegetables from farmers and distributued them among the needy. "Many leaders have also started this initiative and thousands of tonnes are being purchased. Crops that were being thrown are now finding buyers and there's been a 20-30% increase in the prices farmers are getting," Gowda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/deve-gowda-wants-special-package-for-farmers-830658.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: Karnataka kids’ YouTube channel 'Makkala Vaani' proves a roaring hit; Over 47,000 subscribe||‘Makkala Vaani,’ a dedicated YouTube channel for children which was launched by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education, has received overwhelming response from the children. In just 12 days of its launch, over 47,000 students subscribed to the channel and the content recorded 3.88 lakh views, department officials said, adding that video clips were pouring in every day to be aired on the channel.   "As the video clips sent by public needs to be verified and cleared by the designated committee, we are limiting the number of videos uploaded every day," said a senior official of the department. On April 16, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa launched the channel for the benefit of schoolchildren during the coronavirus crisis. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar had described the channel as an alternative to summer camps planned for children in government schools. "The interesting is that is we are getting video feedback from children. For instance, recently there was a video clip about Origami craft. The next day we received hundreds of videos from children, they practising the craft," said the official. According to department officials, the plan is to keep the channel going even after the lockdown period and summer vacation. "We feel this is one of the best ways to reach out to children, to keep them engaged, entertained and to educate them. We are planning to make this channel available throughout the year," the official said. Interested public can send children-centric, educative and entertaining audio-video contents to be telecast on the channel.  Shows start at 10.30 am every day. Even children can send videos of 5-6 minutes. The channel will have: story-telling, story reading, book reading, singing, quiz, drawing and painting, magic shows, etc.  The link: https://www.youtube.com/ channel/ UCDaVbK0F5b7y4hgSZrTwZNg. Send the videos to makkalavanissk@gmail.com or WhatsApp to 94494 32614.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-kids-youtube-channel-makkala-vaani-proves-a-roaring-hit-over-47000-subscribe-830659.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Farmers want direct sale system to continue post lockdown||The 'Agriwar' unit of the University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Bengaluru sold 10 quintal of grapes and 1 ton of butter fruit on Monday with farmers requesting that the system be continued even after the lockdown. UAS officials said Ravi, a grape cultivator from Devanahalli taluk, and Girish Kumar, a butter fruit grower from Kodagu, saw their produce get sold out at Gandhi Krishi Vignana Kendra (GKVK), Sahakaranagar, Judicial Layout-Jakkur and Hebbal. The war room has been proving to be a win-win situation for both farmers and consumers. "As the absence of mediators made the produce available at cheaper prices, consumers were happy. Farmers said the system has to be continued in the coming days," the release said. Till Monday, the 10 'Agriwar' unit and the 10 coordination committees set up at district level have sold 12 tonnes of mango, 25 tonnes of watermelon, 10 tonnes of musk melon, 200 tonnes of grapes, 12 tonnes of pineapple, 12 tonnes of bananas and several tonnes of vegetables.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-farmers-want-direct-sale-system-to-continue-post-lockdown-830666.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: Liqour outlets may remain closed after May 3 in Karnataka||Excise Minister H Nagesh on Monday hinted that liquor outlets in the state might remain closed even after May 3. Speaking to reporters here he said, “During the video conferencing with Chief Ministers of states, Prime Minister Narendra Modi rejected plea of the Punjab to grant permission to reopen liquor outlets in that state. The same may be applicable to Karnataka.” The Excise department did not have funds. He had requested Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to grant permission to open liquor outlets after May 3 as the department needed money to disburse salaries for the staff, he said.  Nagesh said that it was discussed with B S Yediyurappa to grant permission to reopen liquor stores in districts under green zone. Clarity would emerge after May 3. He was committed for any decision taken by the Chief Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-liqour-outlets-may-remain-closed-after-may-3-in-karnataka-830667.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Technical glitches: 2 RTPS units halt power generation||Owing to technical glitches, power generation in the units of the Raichur Thermal Power Station (RTPS), have been halted. The RTPS units, the first and the third, each have a capacity to generate 210 MW of power. The officials have examined the technical issues and have taken up the repair works. The eight units of the RTPS have a capacity to generate total 1,720 MW of power. Presently, 1,200 MW of power is being generated from the 6 units, the RTPS officials have stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/technical-glitches-2-rtps-units-halt-power-generation-830668.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HDK proposes ‘Covid cess’ on ultra-rich||Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Monday proposed imposing a 'Covid cess' on the ultra-rich to make up for the loss of revenue due to the lockdown. Expressing concerns on India’s economy, the JD(S) leader called for “citizen-centric” measures. “According to RBI and international economic assessment agencies, the GDP growth rate of the country is expected to fall to a historic low. Such a dire situation calls for citizen-centric measures like full or partial waivers of EMIs, rents, school fees and other levies,” Kumaraswamy said in a tweet. “The economy won't bounce back within a very short period. It is important to lower the cost of living as the spending power of the consumer has depleted. The government must cut the petrol/diesel prices. The loss of revenue may be offset partially by imposing Covid cess on the ultra rich,” he suggested. It was 'high time' for the government, he said, to announce schemes to “save livelihoods of people, especially those in the unorganized sector.” He demanded 'immediate relief' to farmers, construction workers, cab/auto drivers, garment workers and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hdk-proposes-covid-cess-on-ultra-rich-830672.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KSOU develops video conferencing system||In the wake of the nationwide lockdown due to outbreak of Covid-19, Karnataka State Open University (KSOU), Mysuru, has developed an online video conferencing platform ‘KSOU Connect’ to continue education activities and to help the students. As it has become imperative to make use of Information Communication Technology (ICT) to continue academic activities during the crisis, KSOU has already initiated a couple of digital initiatives, KSOU Registrar Lingaraj Gandhi said. 'KSOU Connect', an alternative to ‘Zoom’ application to conduct online classes, was developed under the guidance of Vice-Chancellor S Vidya Shankar for the benefit of students as well as faculty members. The application was developed as per the direction from the Department of Higher Education, following the orders of the Ministry of Home Affairs. The registrar said the ministry has issued a circular to the university, directing to stop using ‘Zoom’ a platform for video conferencing and online classes, as it is learnt that it is not safe and secure. The government has asked to find an alternative platform to carry on the teaching-learning and other academic, examination and administrative functions online, he said.  The university's online platform is student-, teacher-friendly and has features, such as a personalised meeting or classroom set-up, easy single-click link to join meeting or class. User authentication, multi-device support, provision for recording the meeting, whiteboard option to bring back classroom environment, presentation option to upload PowerPoint Presentation (PPT) instantly, screen sharing, public chat and note sharing, he said. A few days ago, KSOU had launched ‘KSOU-Student App’ for admission and academic purposes. The app has multiple uses, such as online admission, online fee payment and important notifications. Also, the students can download hall ticket and self-learning materials, assignment materials and question bank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ksou-develops-video-conferencing-system-830675.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: H D Kumaraswamy proposes ‘COVID cess’ on ultra-rich||Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Monday proposed imposing a 'Covid cess' on the ultra-rich to make up for the loss of revenue due to the lockdown. Expressing concerns on India’s economy, the JD(S) leader called for “citizen-centric” measures. “According to RBI and international economic assessment agencies, the GDP growth rate of the country is expected to fall to a historic low. Such a dire situation calls for citizen-centric measures like full or partial waivers of EMIs, rents, school fees and other levies,” Kumaraswamy said in a tweet. “The economy won't bounce back within a very short period. It is important to lower the cost of living as the spending power of the consumer has depleted. The government must cut the petrol/diesel prices. The loss of revenue may be offset partially by imposing a Covid cess on the ultra-rich,” he suggested.  It was 'high time' for the government, he said, to announce schemes to “save livelihoods of people, especially those in the unorganized sector.” He demanded 'immediate relief' to farmers, construction workers, cab/auto drivers, garment workers and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-h-d-kumaraswamy-proposes-covid-cess-on-ultra-rich-830690.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt invites students for Covid-19 internship||Here is an opportunity for students, studying postgraduate courses in management, data science and data analytics, health management and related fields, to work with the state government in connection with Covid-19. The Department of Planning Programme Monitoring and Statistics is offering an internship programme in the context of Covid-19. According to officials working with the department and in charge of the internship programme, the candidates will have t o work remotely for this particular project. “The candidates don’t have to visit the field. This internship programme is basically to gather information about the impact of this pandemic on various fields. For example, the candidates, selected for internship have to study the impact of Covid-19 on the agriculture sector, impact on migrant labourers etc,” an official said. The department has recently issued a notification inviting applications from eligible candidates. The candidates, who are interested, can apply online through Seva Sindhu portal of the state government. After the completion of the internship, candidates will get a certificate from the department and there will not be any honorarium for this programme, the officials said. The interested candidates can register om http://sevasindhu.karnataka.gov.in under planning programme monitoring and statistics development. The notification, issued by the department, reads: “Young postgraduates students/research scholars (are required) to work as interns with the government to tackle problems and challenges emerged in Karnataka in the context of Covid-19 by providing support for data analysis and evidence-based policy inputs. This is an opportunity to young minds, research and academic institutions to contribute to the noble cause through CSR in kind and thus achieve Sab Ka Sab KaVikas.” Who can apply Candidates, with a background of Development Studies/ Management/Data Science and Data Analytics/Health Management/Social Statistics/Applied Statistics/Economics and any other relevant disciplines, can apply for this internship programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-invites-students-for-covid-19-internship-830691.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Coronavirus warriors roped in to filter fake news, now fill stomachs of migrant workers during lockdown||Every morning, amid the lockdown, thousands of ordinary men and women across Karnataka gear up to go into the streets. Security personnel ensure that the curfew holds. The vast majority, however, have bigger concerns - helping thousands of starving migrant labourers. Part of an initiative of the Department of Information and Public Relations (DIPR), these volunteers are officially known as ‘Corona Warriors’ (CWs). The group was initially formed to examine and counter fake news on Covid-19, said Pallavi Honnapur, Deputy Director of DIPR. As many as 23,375 people signed up, she explained. The DIPR enrolled about 2,200 in Bengaluru and 2,000 elsewhere. When the nationwide lockdown came into force on March 25, priorities changed. “We started to get reports of migrants suffering due to lack of food and so the focus changed to food delivery,” Honnapur said. “In rural areas, the focus is still on busting fake news. But volunteers here also maintain a delivery service for essential items such as medicine,” she added.  The CWs are between the ages of 21 and 55. Many are IT professionals, small businessmen, medical professionals, civil defence force members and students. Each ward in Bengaluru can have anywhere from nine to 15 CWs. One of them, Ganesh (21), a third-year engineering student, said fieldwork involved not only surveying particular wards for migrants in need of help, but also ensuring that social distancing norms are adhered to.   At Kumaraswamy Layout, where Ganesh operates, there are an estimated 300 migrant labourers. “In recent days, more are turning up and sometimes sourcing food is a challenge,” he said. Most said deliveries of ration packs and packaged cooked food by BBMP were infrequent. Bhavya (28), a civil engineer and CW at Subramanyapura, where there are an estimated 1,000 migrant workers, described the majority of food donations as coming from private donors or from kitchens and restaurants contracted by the Department of Labour.  “Many people from north Karnataka or north India won’t accept rice. They want sorghum flour or wheat to make rotis. Often, we don’t have these items,” Ganesh said. However, the CWs said the work was gratifying. “We usually start at 10 am and finish by 7 pm,” Bhavya said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-coronavirus-warriors-roped-in-to-filter-fake-news-now-fill-stomachs-of-migrant-workers-during-lockdown-830697.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Nagamangala man returns from Mumbai, tests +ve||Nagamangala taluk in the district saw its first Covid-19 case on Monday. A 50-year-old man from Sathenahalli (Patient 505), who returned from Mumbai recently, tested positive for the virus during a random testing. The man’s travel history and his stay at native village is a cause of concern to the district administration as many are exposed to risk of infection. Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh told reporters that Patient 505, a 50-year-old man from Sathenahalli in Nagamangala taluk, was into hotel business in Mumbai for the past 20 years.  “He had started his journey from a market in Mumbai in a canter vehicle, transporting Dates (khajur). He had taken bath at a petrol bunk in Udupi, during the transit. The vehicle reached Channarayapatna in Hassan district, via Mangaluru, on April 22.”  “His brother-in-law ferried him to Sathenahalli in a car. The Health department personnel, who examined him while random checking, found him positive on Monday. He has been shifted to the designated hospital in Mandya,” the DC said. The driver of the canter, a co-passenger from Mumbai, his brother-in-law and wife have been identified as primary contacts of P 505. His children, relatives and other secondary contacts are being traced, the DC informed.   The fact that he travelled from Mumbai to Nagamangala when the nationwide lockdown to mitigate the virus spread is on, is a clear case of violation of lockdown rules, M V Venkatesh added. Sathenahalli village has been sealed after it was declared as containment zone.  Two new cases on Monday has taken the district’s tally to 18 in Mandya district. The number of active cases is 14. Four persons have been discharged from the designated Covid Hospital in Mandya, and are placed under public quarantine in a hostel in the Sugar Town.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nagamangala-man-returns-from-mumbai-tests-ve-830698.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Goa in talks with state over stranded labourers||The Goa government is in touch with governments in neighbouring Karnataka and Maharashtra over taking back the large number of labourers from the two states, who are caught in the lockdown in the coastal state, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday. Speaking to reporters, Sawant said he was looking at reviving economic activity in the state, in view of the relaxations recommended by the Union government. The Chief Minister ruled out opening up of the state’s borders with Karnataka and Maharashtra. “If Karnataka is willing to take its labourers back, it can. We are in touch with Karnataka and Maharashtra. We have begun a conversation at the official level for facilitation of their transfer,” Sawant said. Thousands of labourers from Karnataka, especially districts like Belagavi, Vijayapura, Uttara Kannada and Dharwad, are stuck in Goa, on account of the lockdown.  A large number of the labourers are housed in special camps set up by the Goa government.   “We want the border lockdown to continue because Maharashtra and Karnataka are seeing an increase in the number of cases,” the chief minister said. Goa had seven active Covid-19 cases, all of whom recovered, making it the country’s first Covid-19-free state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/goa-in-talks-with-state-over-stranded-labourers-830700.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt helped 3K int’l tourists return home: Ravi||The government has coordinated with the embassies of 26 countries to safely airlift 3,200 foreign tourists who were on vacation in different destinations across Karnataka, Tourism Minister C T Ravi said in a statement on Monday.  The department officials co-ordinated with the embassies and sent the tourists to Bengaluru, Chennai, Mumbai, Thiruvananthapuram and Goa international airports from where they flew to their respective countries, the statement said. With this, a majority of the foreign tourists who were visiting tourist destinations in Karnataka have been evacuated. A few who were on yoga retreats and the like, and were not staying in hotels, have chosen to stay back, officials in the department said.  On Monday, department officials held a meeting with various industry representatives, including hotels, restaurants, car operators, travel agents, event managers, to hear their grievances pertaining to the impact of the lockdown. A senior official in the department told DH that the respective associations submitted requests, seeking financial relief to tide over the crisis. This included requests for GST relief for a few months, apart from relief on loan repayment installments. Some representatives also sought financial aid for contract staff working in these sectors. The department has taken into consideration all the requests and a decision will be arrived at, after discussing with the Chief Minister, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-helped-3k-int-l-tourists-return-home-ravi-830702.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||2 test positive in Mangaluru for the first time||For the first time, Kulashekar, which is under Mangaluru City Corporation jurisdiction, was declared as a containment zone after an 80-year-old woman and her 45-year-old son, hailing from Kakkabettu in Shaktinagar, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Their throat swabs tested positive for the disease, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said. Both are undergoing treatment at the District Wenlock Hospital. The mother and the son were in primary contacts of Patient (P) Number 432 while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Mangaluru. P432 had succumbed to the disease on April 23. Dakshina Kannada district has so far recorded 21 cases and all previous 19 cases were from outside the Mangaluru City Corporation limits.  The active containment zone is spread over an area of 1 km and the buffer zone spread over a radius of five km, extended from Padavinangady (north) to Bunts hostel (south) and from Vamanjoor junction (east) to Urva market (West).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2-test-positive-in-mangaluru-for-the-first-time-830703.html
27-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown may continue after May 3 in Karnataka red zones||Stringent lockdown measures are likely to continue beyond May 3 in red zones in the state, while relaxations to further boost economic activity will be introduced in green zones in the coming days.  This was discussed at a three-hour-long meeting Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa chaired with deputy commissioners on Monday.  Based on active coronavirus cases, Karnataka has marked six districts as red, which includes Bengaluru Urban. Sources said that lockdown will be lifted in red zones only if no cases are reported for 28 days, according to existing guidelines of the Centre. Earlier in the day, Yediyurappa also attended Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with chief ministers across India. The state government is awaiting directions from the Centre -- they are expected in the next couple of days -- on the way forward.  During the meeting with deputy commissioners, Yediyurappa sought to understand the ‘pulse’ of the people over the lockdown and whether strict social distancing measures were being followed. He also received inputs from district-in-charge ministers on the measures in place to prevent the spread of the pandemic. The government is keen on restarting economic and industrial activity in green districts where no cases have been reported. According to one deputy commissioner, who did not wish to be quoted, the CM sought a status report of COVID-19 from all DCs and measures taken to contain the spread in hotspots. It was noted that the cases were primarily in urban pockets as awareness had helped prevent its spread further. There are 14 districts in the state where there are no active Covid-19 cases, according to data by the State War Room. Code Red Red Districts (over 15 active cases): Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Belagavi, Mysuru and Bengaluru Urban Orange Districts (6-14 active cases): Bidar, Dharwad, Ballari, Dakshina Kannada and Mandya Yellow Districts (1-5 active cases): Gadag, Uttara Kannada, Tumakuru, Chikballapur and Bengaluru Rural Green Districts (no active cases): Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal, Haveri, Davangere, Shivamogga, Chitradurga, Udupi, Chikmagalur, Hassan, Kodagu, Chamarajanagar, Ramanagara and Kolar||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-may-continue-after-may-3-in-karnataka-red-zones-830716.html
27-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: 9 held for clashing over monetary dispute||Nine men were arrested after two groups clashed over a monetary dispute at Kurar area of suburban Malad, a police official said on Sunday. The incident took place on Saturday night in Sanjay Nagar locality, the official said. "One Sarfaraz Baig (34) was on his way to purchase some grocery items when four accused attacked him with iron rods, sharp weapons and tried to kill him for the water connection dues worth Rs 15,000," a senior official said. "Sarfaraz called his friends in his support. Accordingly, Ahmed Baig, Aayyaz Baig, Najamuddin Baig and Javed Baig came to his rescue and clashed with the other group," he added. Based on the complaint lodged by Sarfaraz and his group, four accused, identified as Mayyuddi Ajammiya Sayyed, Injamam alias Ijju Mayyuddin Sayyed, Tabrej Mayyuddin sayyed and Sufiyan Baig were arrested. Another accused, Ejaul Sayyed, is wanted in the case. They were arrested under IPC sections 307 (attempt to murder), 384 (extortion) and other sections related to rioting, he said. However, they filed a counter-complaint against Sarfaraz and his friends, following which five of them were arrested. Two others- Shahmuddin Baig and Jabir Baig- are wanted in the case. They were arrested under section 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapon) and other sections related to rioting, the official said. Senior inspector of Kurar Police Station, Babasaheb Salunkhe, said, "Both the groups filed complaints against each other. We have arrested nine of them, while three are yet to be held."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-9-held-for-clashing-over-monetary-dispute-830341.html
27-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Online course on forts to mark Maharashtra's diamond jubilee ||Maharashtra has over 400 forts and fortifications and no other region in the world has more forts within such an area. "The course intends to take people close to the forts during the lockdown and once the lockdown is over I am sure more and more people would like to take a closer look at the heritage," said Dr Mugdha Karnik, the managing trustee of INSTUCEN Trust.  Even as INSTUCEN Trust is conducting e-certificate courses on human evolution and prehistory with a veteran archaeologist and culinary anthropologist Dr Kurush Dalal being the lead instructor, they have now launched the course on forts and fortifications that would be conducted by Dr Sachin Joshi as the lead instructor. "We have decided to generate some interest among people cutting across ages and profession to join the courses," said Dr Karnik, a sociologist and an educationist with special interests in nature and environment. Researcher and expert Raamesh Gowri Raghavan is on board and the pillar of the INSTUCEN Trust and is taking care of a lot of things. The course on forts and fortifications would deal in history and types of forts, the research that is being carried out, their current status.  There would be a special theme on the forts of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the legendary Maratha warrior.  "We want to keep people engaged and spread knowledge," Raghavan said, adding that e-courses on geology and genetics are also on the offing. "Right from the days of what the world would have been much before the dinosaurs came into what future holds, we have everything," said Dr Dalal. According to Raghavan,  the basic idea is to take the common public to these interesting subjects that majority does not talk about. "Public archaeology, public anthropology, public geology, public astronomy, public wildlife studies can bring in a change in how we look at things in the post-coronavirus scenario," added Raghavan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-online-course-on-forts-to-mark-maharashtras-diamond-jubilee-830364.html
27-04-2020||West||Mumbai mayor turns nurse during coronavirus pandemic||Leading form the front, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Monday donned the uniform of a nurse to boost the morale of healthcare personnel during the worst-ever crisis involving COVID-19 pandemic.  The 56-year-old Pednekar is a former nurse. She had worked as a nurse in a hospital at the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust at Uran in Raigad district. A four-time corporator,  she represents the G/South Ward that covers major parts of Worli. "We all know,  we are passing through a crisis....nurses are on job...second and third year nursing students are also working. I have come to be with them,  boost their morale," said Pednekar as she visited the BYL Nair Charitable Hospital & TN Medical College in Mumbai Central.   "It is the need of the hour that citizens should he at home...we are there to help them," she said. Pednekar also thanked Shiv Sena president and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Born to a mill worker's daughter in Worli Naka, she married Kishor Pednekar and moved to Lower Parel. However,  to make ends meet,  she took up the job of a nurse in 1992. The same year, she joined Shiv Sena inspired by late Bal Thackeray. A few days ago, she played a lead role in organising a COVID-19 testing camp for journalists. However, after some of them tested positive, she went into self quarantine at major's house in Byculla.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-mayor-turns-nurse-during-coronavirus-pandemic-830509.html
27-04-2020||West||COVID-19 burial: No HC relief on plea on Bandra cemetery||The Bombay High Court on Monday refused to grant relief on a plea challenging the BMC's permission to use 'Bandra Kabrastan' (cemetery) to bury bodies of COVID-19 victims. Justice B P Colabwalla was hearing a petition filed by residents living near the Konkani Muslim Kabrastan in suburban Bandra seeking the court to restrict burial of bodies of COVID-19 patients. The petition, filed by resident Pradeep Gandhy and others, claimed that locals were afraid of community spread of the virus if the burial is not done properly. Advocate Pratap Nimbalkar, appearing for the Kabrastan trustees, on Monday opposed the plea and argued that due diligence was being carried out before disposing of the bodies, and that the petitioners had not placed any scientific reasoning to show the virus spreads through dead bodies. Nimbalkar pointed out a notification, dated March 15 issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Affairs on guidelines on COVID-19 dead body management, which stated that transmission of COVID-19 is through droplets. "The notification says there is unlikely to be an increased risk of COVID-19 infection from a dead body to anyone if standard precautions are followed while disposal," Nimbalkar argued. The court accepted the arguments and noted that the petitioners have not submitted any material to show or prove that burial of a body infected with COVID-19 would put at risk residents living in the vicinity.  The court also directed the BMC to to remove, with the help of local police, the three locks put up on the gates of the cemetery ground by local residents.   The locks were put up on April 13 after they held a protest against burial of a dead body at the cemetery ground.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-burial-no-hc-relief-on-plea-on-bandra-cemetery-830515.html
27-04-2020||West||Amravati: Dead man's samples test positive, COVID-19 count 23||The number of COVID-19 deaths in Amravati in Maharashtra touched seven after the report of a 72-year-old man who died on April 24 returned positive on Monday, health officials said. With two men in their 20s also testing positive for novel coronavirus on Monday, the district's count of COVID-19 cases has now gone up to 23. The number of active cases stands at 12 as seven have died of the infection and four have been discharged post recovery, Collector Shailesh Naval said. "A 50-year-old paan vendor from Kanwar Nagar, who was running temperature and had cold and cough for the past five days, was shifted from a private facility to the COVID-19 hospital in the morning where he died. His samples have been sent for testing and reports are awaited," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amravati-dead-mans-samples-test-positive-covid-19-count-23-830544.html
27-04-2020||West||Nizamuddin: Ten Indonesian Tablighis arrested in Mumbai||Ten Indonesians, including six women- who all are members of the Tablighi Jamaat and had attended the religious meet at the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi in March- have been arrested by the Mumbai Police under various sections of the IPC on completion of their quarantine period, an official said on Monday. These ten members were part of a group of 12 Tablighis from Indonesia who were staying at an apartment in Bandra (west) since March 29 after they had returned from Delhi, he said. A large number of COVID-19 cases were attributed to the religious congregation held at the Markaz, as many Tablighis travelled to various parts of the country. The official said the police came to know about the presence of the Indonesians in Bandra only on April 1. "We found that they had came to India in two batches on February 29 and March 3, and later visited the Markaz for the event," he said. The official said while the foreigners reached Mumbai on March 7, they settled down in the apartment only on March 29, implying that they had been roaming around during the 22 days. "During their medical examination, two members of the 12-member group tested positive for coronavirus, following which 10 others were placed under quarantine for a period of 20 days. They were arrested on Wednesday (April 22)," he said.  They have been booked under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease that is dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act.   They were produced before court on April 23, which remanded them in the custody of the Bandra Police, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nizamuddin-ten-indonesian-tablighis-arrested-in-mumbai-830558.html
27-04-2020||West||4 IAS officers to give push to Pune's coronavirus fight||The Maharashtra government on Monday appointed four senior IAS officers in Pune as part of efforts to make the fight against coronavirus more effective and prompt in the second worst-hit city in the state. The four officers - Saurabh Rao, Anil Kawade, Sachindra Pratap Singh and Kaustubh Diwegavkar - were appointed on instruction of Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who is also the Guardian Minister of Pune district, an official release said here. With the appointment of these senior IAS officers, the implementation of preventive measures against the deadly virus will be more efficient and speedy, it said. The step will help contain the spread of the virus in Pune, the city worst affected by the pandemic after Mumbai in the state, the release said. As per government instructions, the experienced bureaucrats will help the Pune divisional commissioner and the municipal commissioner in the anti-COVID-19 fight, while discharging their current responsibilities. While Rao is currently the sugar commissioner in Pune, Kawade is posted as the cooperative commissioner.  Singh heads the animal husbandry commissionerate, while Diwegavkar is posted as director, groundwater surveys, water supply and sanitation department.   The officers will continue to hold their current post while helping the administration in tackling the coronavirus crisis, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/4-ias-officers-to-give-push-to-punes-coronavirus-fight-830570.html
27-04-2020||West||COVID-19 death rate in Ahmedabad higher than national average||With the coronavirus claiming over 100 lives in Ahmedabad, the death rate of such patients in the city stands at 4.71 per cent, higher than some of the country's major cities and the national average. Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra on Monday said to bring down the death rate, people need to take extra care of senior citizens as they are more vulnerable to catch the infection than others. An analysis of the data shows that the COVID-19 death rate in the city is 4.71 per cent, higher than that in New Delhi and Mumbai and the national average.  In Delhi, 54 coronavirus patients out of the total 2,919 cases have died so far, which indicates the death rate of 1.85 per cent. In Mumbai, the death rate is 3.77 per cent, as so far 204 patients out of the total 5,407 cases have succumbed to the disease. Besides, total 26,917 coronavirus cases have been reported in the country. Out of these, 826 patients have died, which indicates the mortality rate of 3.07 per cent. The death rate in Ahmedabad is also higher than that of Gujarat, where out of the total COVID-19 3,301 cases, 151 patients, or 4.57 per cent of the victims, have died. Nehra said the best way to bring down the death rate is to take extra care of senior citizens, as they are more vulnerable to catch the infection than others. "I urge people to take care of senior citizens, especially those suffering from some kind of ailments. This is necessary to bring down the death rate. Such citizens need to maintain distance with family members, wear mask and never step out of their homes until the situation improves," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-death-rate-in-ahmedabad-higher-than-national-average-830576.html
27-04-2020||West||Coronavirus testing labs to be increased to 60 in Maharshtra||As COVID-19 cases continue to mount,  the Maharashtra government has decided to scale up the testing laboratories to 60. "There were only four labs for testing of COVID-19 across the state which has been increased to 40, including private and government labs. Now, the number of labs will be increased to 60," Maharashtra's medical education minister Amit Deshmukh said on Monday. According to him, the  state government has taken immediate steps in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis and started testing and treatment at all medical colleges coming under DMER, Ministry of Medical Education of Maharashtra government. In these 40 labs, 7,000 tests are done every day. More than one lakh tests have already been done in the state which is maximum in the country till date, he said.   Since the number of tests is increasing, there is a need for more test kits which should be provided by the central government. Government hospitals in several districts including Mumbai, Nagpur, Pune, Nashik, Amravati, Yavatmal and Solapur are equipped with all the necessary machinery to fight against COVID-19. There is a sufficient number of PPE kits and masks available to fight the pandemic. However, the state government has already sought additional PPE kits and masks from the central government to meet the growing demand.  Deshmukh refuted allegations made by the opposition that the state government is suppressing patients’ numbers and also termed it baseless.  He also appealed people to be extra cautious as there is no vaccine or medicine available for COVID-19 virus, and contact a doctor immediately if the symptoms seem to be that of coronavirus without any social fear. "We have received several complaints especially from Mumbai and Pune regarding closure dialysis in private hospitals. Many hospitals were taken over by the state for COVID-19 treatment that led to the low availability of dialysis services," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-testing-labs-to-be-increased-to-60-in-maharshtra-830609.html
27-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: Coronavirus claims life of one more Mumbai cop||In what comes as a shocker,  the coronavirus pandemic outbreak has claimed the life of one more policeman in Mumbai. In the last three days,  three policemen died in Mumbai. On Monday, head constable Shivaji Sonawane (56) from Kurla Traffic Division died of COVID-19. "We pray for his soul to rest in peace. Our thoughts and prayers are with the Sonawane family," the Mumbai police said. While head constable Chandrakant Pendhurkar (57) died on Saturday, head constable Sandeep Surve (52) passed away on Sunday. On Sunday, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed sorrow over the death of the policemen.   Pendhurkar, a resident of Worli was posted in the Vakola police station and was admitted to the BYL Nair Hospital. Surve, who was attached to Protection Unit, was a resident of Kamothe in Navi Mumbai and was admitted to the MGM Hospital. More than 50 policemen have been detected positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-coronavirus-claims-life-of-one-more-mumbai-cop-830634.html
27-04-2020||West||Maharashtra records highest 24-hour coronavirus toll of 27||The COVID-19 situation seems to be aggravating in Maharashtra as 27 persons succumbed to the deadly coronavirus pandemic on Monday.  The state's death toll has now shot up to 369, the highest in India.  Monday's jump of 27 is highest so far, the next being 25 recorded on April 9.   Of the 27 deaths in Maharashtra, 15 were reported form the financial capital of Mumbai,  six in Amravati,  four in Pune,  and one each in Jalgaon and Aurangabad.  The total number of COVID-19 patients in Maharashtra is 8,590,  with an addition of 522 in the last 24 hours.  On Monday,  94 patients were treated and allowed to go home taking the total number of discharged patients to 1,282.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-highest-24-hour-coronavirus-toll-of-27-830637.html
27-04-2020||West||Infection in doctors, vegetable vendors, shopkeepers in Pune cause of concern: MHA||An Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) has expressed its concern that doctors, vegetable vendors and shopkeepers, who come in contact with a number of people each day, have been infected with the coronavirus in Maharashtra's Pune, a senior official said on Monday. The team, headed by an additional secretary-rank officer and comprising experts from the healthcare and disaster management verticals, has also found that the doubling rate of COVID-19 in Pune, the second-largest city in Maharasthra after state capital Mumbai, is higher than the country's average and social-distancing norms are not being followed properly in slums, markets and other places in the city. Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) Punya Salila Srivastava told reporters that the IMCT, dispatched to assess the ground situation of the pandemic in the metropolis, has suggested that high-risk people should be identified quickly and surveillance, testing and contact-tracing should be increased. In Pune, the team visited the containment zones of Pimpri-Chinchwad, Kharadwadi and Baramati, apart from shelter camps for migrant labourers, vegetable markets, PDS shops, the municipal corporation control room and hospitals, she said. It found out that in Pune, the COVID-19 doubling rate is seven days, which is slightly higher compared to the rest of the country, Srivastava said. While the country's average is one positive case of coronavirus among 23 samples, in Pune, it is one positive case in nine samples, she added. In slums, markets and other places, where social-distancing norms are not being followed properly, protocols need to be enforced strictly, Srivastava said, citing the IMCT recommendations. Rather than home quarantine, institutional quarantine is essential in slums, she said. Doctors, paramedics, police personnel, vegetable vendors and other essential services-providing shopkeepers have been found to be COVID-19 positive in Pune and it is a matter of concern as they come in contact with many people every day, Srivastava said. The central team suggested that it should be ensured that protocols are followed strictly by these people on the ground so that they do not contract the virus or become its carriers in the course of their duty.  Srivastava said the team also held a video-conference with the chief minister and other senior officials of Maharashtra. She also briefed the press about another IMCT's visit to Rajasthan's capital city Jaipur. The team went to hospitals, quarantine centres, containment zones and relief camps for labourers, she said. The team met the chief secretary of Rajasthan and other officials, and suggested that strict steps should be taken so that the lockdown is not violated in the walled city during the evening hours. The team suggested that ration and other supplies should be more systematic, quarantine camps should be taken away from residential areas and asked state government authorities to increase the speed of test results. It also suggested that non-COVID-19 hospitals be identified so that people can get other healthcare facilities, Srivastava said. "The IMCTs found out that the local administration in both the districts (Pune and Jaipur) is working with dedication and with these suggestions, they will be able to better the situation," she added. Srivastava said the IMCTs were constituted by the MHA under the Disaster Management Act and the aim is to share their expertise so that the Centre and the states can jointly make successful efforts to combat the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/infection-in-doctors-vegetable-vendors-shopkeepers-in-pune-cause-of-concern-mha-830640.html
27-04-2020||West||Increasing labs, need more testing kits: Maharashtra minister||Maharashtra Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh on Monday stressed on the need for extra testing kits as the state has the highest number of COVID-19 patients in the country. Incidentally, the number of cases in the state jumped from 4,666 on April 21 to 8,068 six days later. Responding to a query on the spike, Deshmukh said, "It is true that the numbers are rising steeply. We want more kits to test as many people as possible for coronavirus. There are 40 labs in the state and we are increasing it to 60. Then we can increase the number of tests from the 7,000 we do on an average daily." Speaking on faulty rapid test kits, which has been a bane for many states in the fight against the outbreak, Deshmukh said, "Maharashtra has also received some faulty kits but the numbers are not as high as Gujarat." The Indian Council of Medical Research has said that the rapid antibody blood test kits must be used only for surveillance purpose and also asked states to not use kits provided by two Chinese firms as "results have shown wide variation in sensitivity".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/increasing-labs-need-more-testing-kits-maharashtra-minister-830650.html
27-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: 75% clinics open, permit suspension for rest, says BMC||Seventy-five per cent of nursing homes have resumed operations after they were warned against keeping shutters down in the lockdown for novel coronavirus outbreak, and the remaining 25 per cent will have their permits suspended, said Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation officials on Monday. In a press release issued on Monday, the BMC said 1068 of the total 1,416 nursing homes in Mumbai have reopened after Municipal Commissioner Praveen Pardeshi had, last week, asked his officials to take legal action against such facilities that had downed shutters and were inconveniencing people who needed treatment for non-coronavirus ailments. "Our review on Monday found that 75.42 per cent of private nursing homes and clinics have reopened. Out of the 99 dialysis centres, 89 reopened," an official said. The BMC release said the municipal commissioner had directed the civic health department to cancel permits of nursing homes that are still shut and issue legal notices to those operating them. Action will also be taken against closed private dispensaries under the Epidemic Diseases Act, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-75-clinics-open-permit-suspension-for-rest-says-bmc-830662.html
27-04-2020||West||13 more test positive for coronavirus in Dharavi; tally 288||Thirteen new coronavirus cases were found in Mumbai's Dharavi, taking the tally in the slum- dominated area to 288 on Monday, said a BMC official. This was a drop from 34 new cases - the highest single-day count so far - found in Dharavi on Sunday. Out of the 288 COVID-19 patients detected so far in Dharavi, considered as one of the biggest slums in Asia, 14 have died, he said. The BMC official said the new coronavirus cases were found in Mukund Nagar, Madina Nagar, Muslim Nagar, Vijay Nagar, Prem Nagar, Indira Nagar and Shastri Nagar, among other localities, of the sprawling and densely-packed slum colony. The first coronavirus positive patient was found in Dharavi on April 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/13-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-dharavi-tally-288-830681.html
27-04-2020||West||Anil Deshmukh hints coronavirus lockdown extension, says it will be CM Uddhav Thackeray's call||The coronavirus-induced lockdown in red zones in Maharashtra could be extended beyond May 3 but the final decision will be taken by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Monday. Maharashtra is worst-hit by the coronvirus pandemic. So far on Sunday, the state reported more than 8000 COVID-19 cases with 342 deaths. "Going by the prevalence of the COVID-19 cases in some parts of the state such as in red zones, the lockdown may be extended in those areas. However, the final decision will be announced by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray," Deshmukh said. Deshmukh's statement came hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked states to try to convert the COVID-19 challenge into opportunities through administrative reforms, and form their own policies on relaxing the lockdown based on ground realities. A state government official said on Sunday that a total of 604 containment zones are active in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-hints-coronavirus-lockdown-extension-says-it-will-be-cm-uddhav-thackerays-call-830712.html
