28-04-2020||Comment||Trump's quackery subverting the fight against coronavirus||US President Donald Trump’s suggestion that people should inject themselves with household disinfectants to cure Covid-19 could have been dismissed as one of his usual illogical rants, but for its potentially dangerous implications. Unlike antibiotics and anti-septics, which kill microorganisms within the body and on living tissue respectively, disinfectants are toxic chemicals that are used to clean floors and toilet bowls. They are not for human consumption. Understandably, his advice has triggered a near-universal outcry. The medical fraternity and even disinfectant manufacturers have warned that injesting disinfectants could cause grave harm, even kill. Still, there is a real possibility that some people could be misled into acting on Trump’s terrible suggestion. As the Covid-19 pandemic sweeps the world, anxiety levels have surged and many people are vulnerable and willing to try anything to stay alive.   This isn’t the first time that Trump is imperilling people’s lives with his quackery. He has been advocating the use of hydroxychloroquine to treat Covid-19 patients although there is no evidence that it works. He has also suggested that patients be exposed to “ultraviolet or just very powerful light”. Again, UV light works for disinfecting masks and medical equipment but should not be used on humans as it could cause skin cancer. Trump should leave decisions and advocacy on medical issues to experts. At a time when the world is grappling with a deadly pandemic, countless quacks are peddling ‘cures’ for the disease and jeopardising the lives of millions of people. That Trump is using the presidential pulpit to promote quackery is irresponsible and dangerous. As if this isn’t destructive enough, Trump is subverting lockdowns in the states. While it is true that lockdowns have impoverished many, those at the forefront of the anti-lockdown protests are largely conservatives and privileged Whites and Trump is egging them on with his tweets to “liberate” themselves. Lockdowns were imposed to enforce social distancing to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Pushing for their lifting without careful consideration of the health situation on the ground could prove disastrous. The US President should have been at the forefront, fighting the Covid-19 pandemic amongst his own people and leading a coordinated global response. Instead, not only has Trump failed to lead his own country, he is even subverting the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/trumps-quackery-subverting-the-fight-against-coronavirus-830790.html
28-04-2020||Comment||Coronavirus: Wake up, ward committees||Many parts of the country have endured many calamities in the past -- earthquakes, floods, plague, bomb blasts and more. And the country has coped with the long-drawn processes of rebuilding local lives and livelihoods with aid and empathy flowing in from all over the world. But with the Covid-19 pandemic, the lockdown witnessed a different kind of tragedy. As the disturbing scenes of the catastrophe unfolded with thousands of migrants trying to reach home by foot due to the uncertainty of everything, the stories of those who had walked with old and young, pregnant and disabled, with no money, food or water, and facing police brutalities were heart-breaking. The misfortune of frontline health workers with inadequate or no personal protective equipment and the reports of inadequately equipped healthcare systems have been deeply alarming. The lockdown was imperative to control the spread of Covid-19. But the question remains, how prepared were we for a lockdown? Under the National Disaster Management Act 2005 (under which the current lockdown was declared), the rules and guidelines are explicit in the details of handling such disasters. Besides this, several other laws, both at the national and the state level, provide provisions to manage emergencies and disasters. Environmental laws, pollution laws, municipal laws, the provisions of the 73rd and 74th amendments are a few that address these provisions. Policies, planning, procedures and preparation are critical steps to ensure that our cities, towns, and villages are equipped to deal with an emergency or unforeseen incident under these legal provisions. Ideally, the roles and responsibilities of various agencies are clearly articulated, protocols are written down and drills conducted to be prepared for a disaster. This is to make sure that everyone hears and understands the messages clearly so that people’s activities are well coordinated to minimise the impact of any disaster. Emergency response readiness is established by evolving systems and capabilities before disasters strike. In an ideal world, general lockdown guidelines and rules are reviewed regularly, are easily accessible and are known to the public. Countrywide lockdowns require planned execution, based on severity and the epicentres of the disaster. Lockdowns can be partial, progressive or complete, with the broad objective of ensuring safety and security to all, and need extensive coordination and collaboration. Consultations with state governments, administrative machinery, economists, public health professionals, sociologists, and other expert groups are essential. Lockdowns are best done in stages after ensuring essential and emergency services are available to everyone.  Defining essential and emergency services must be done in consultation with state and district level governments. Essential and emergency services differ from state to state and urban to rural. And within urban and rural areas, it will further differ based on the needs of different sections of society. Broadly, these services will include access to food, healthcare, shelter, mobility, telecommunication, electricity, water, waste management, firefighting services, safety and protection.  A lockdown with no plan in place and lack of proper information amongst the public creates panic, forcing people to adopt a certain behaviour, with some of their basic freedoms and rights taken away. This, especially in the absence of basic facilities such as access to food, water, mobility, and healthcare, leads to anxiety and confusion. In a single stroke, the entire nation was brought to a grinding halt to deal with the Covid-19 virus with an imaginary ‘Lakshman Rekha’ drawn at the threshold of every home in the country -- with no plan in place. And the result was that the people of the country were left to deal with the confusion.  In a few weeks from now, despite all the central and state government efforts to tackle the situation, the challenge to reach out to all the 1.37 billion people of this country will remain. Some of these challenges will be more daunting in the years to come. Unemployment, malnutrition, disease, and distress will strike sooner than later. There will be other challenges such as school dropouts, an increase in crimes, domestic violence, trafficking, homelessness, orphaned children and more, who will be susceptible to human rights abuses, too. Disaster management and rehabilitation work best when local governments are taken into confidence and prepared to be efficient. Cities with all the infrastructure will continue to be centres for rejuvenation of economies. Strengthening ward committees as per the provisions of the 74th Amendment is crucial now. A review and reform of these provisions are fundamentally essential. While it has a list of 18 functions as per the Twelfth Schedule, many more need to be included, along with more power to the mayor.  Once each ward is fully operational in handling local concerns, it will be prepared for emergencies. Raising awareness to guarantee that everyone engages at the ward level and takes responsibility is vital. China, Taiwan and Singapore bounced back to near-normal post-Covid-19 much faster because of efficient local governance. Many other alternative local governance accounts, especially those of the Zapatistas in Chiapas or the Rojava in Kurdistan, are inspiring at these times.  The resilience shown in the early days of the lockdown has begun to fade. People now face an unprecedented amount of anxiety, depression, emotional disturbance, frustration, violence and mental health issues. The pandemic has changed the global economic landscape. There may be little support from International aid, leaving us with little option but to find innovative ways of rebuilding the economy and welfare of the people. Waking up ward committees in the time of a pandemic is the need of the hour. (The writer is an independent researcher and consultant. She works at the intersections of community action with law, policy, planning and governance)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/coronavirus-wake-up-ward-committees-830810.html
28-04-2020||First Edit||Coronavirus Lockdown: Exit plan must be well thought-out||All this might point to a slow and gradual reopening, implemented in different states in different ways. The situation in each state is different from that in another. In some, the spread and infection rates are not high, and some others have been impacted more. The lockdown and mitigation strategies have differed. Even within the states, some regions, districts or cities have done better than others. There is the need for a strategy that takes all this into consideration. A state which is better placed now, may face an increased threat tomorrow, and a green zone may turn into red zone in a matter of days. The situation emerging from increased testing is also an unknown. Therefore, the exit strategy has to be planned and executed with extreme care and caution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/coronavirus-lockdown-exit-plan-must-be-well-thought-out-831206.html
28-04-2020||In Perspective||Private hospitals must be brought into the coronavirus fight||A study conducted by ICMR, whose findings have not been made public, warns about the inevitability of community transmission and the need to set up medical facilities keeping this reality in mind. Daily infection spikes would require an exponential increase in ventilators, intensive care beds and general care beds. On April 23, Ministry of Health officials led by bureaucrat Luv Aggarwal said that India has 3,770 dedicated COVID-19 facilities. These together have 24,644 ICU beds, 12,371 ventilators and 1,66,960 isolation beds. The question is, why are the private health providers not being roped in more actively given the shortage of critical care specialists in the country? During the last four decades, the focus of the government has been on facilitating private healthcare at the cost of the public health system. A survey conducted by FICCI shows that private hospitals and nursing homes comprise 60% of the beds in India at 8.5-9 lakh and 80% of the doctors in India, and cater to 60% of the in-patients. As per the study, this vast network of private nursing homes and hospitals have largely shut shop during the lockdown and are incurring losses to the tune of between Rs 14,000-24,000 crore. By doing so, they have placed the onus of providing medical care on our beleaguered government hospitals which often do not possess the equipment or the staff to handle this medical calamity. Of course, part of the problem, corporate medical officers say, is that the cost of acquiring and maintaining personal protective equipment (PPE) stocks, putting in place separate air conditioning ducts for COVID-19 patients and acquiring ventilators will run into several crores for each hospital. Some corporate hospitals, including Max Healthcare, Sir Ganga Ram and BLK Hospital to name a few in the capital, have set up separate COVID-19 wards.  The cost of a 12-day stay in a private hospital has been calculated at around Rs 6 lakh, which will go up if the patient is shifted to an ICU or put on ventilator support. The state of treatment available in public hospitals for COVID-19 patients leaves much to be desired. This was brought home a few days ago when a teenage resident of Jehangirpuri, Pratibha Gupta, took to social media to highlight the plight of her father who had tested COVID-19-positive and had been admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital in Delhi. During his two-day stay there, he had complained to his daughter that despite running 102 degree temperature, he had not been attended to by any doctor or been given anything to eat for 12 hours. Gupta’s tweet evoked an immediate response from the Minister of Health, Harsh Vardhan, but not every suffering patient is so lucky. The immense focus on COVID-19 seems to have brought a halt to the functioning of other key departments in our hospitals. Even those suffering from health emergencies are being turned down. The recent death of 56-year-old Mumbai lawyer Jaideep Jaywant is one such example. Despite suffering a heart attack, he was turned down by two Mumbai hospitals. His wife finally took him to DY Patel hospital in Nerul, but he died en route.  With general practitioners closed down and OPDs in hospitals not functioning, where do patients suffering from health issues go? Aflatu, a Varanasi-based social activist, cites the example of his own wife, who is suffering from blood cancer. She needs to go twice a week to Sir Sunderlal Hospital in the Benares Hindu University (BHU) campus for dialysis. Aflatu complains that despite the Varanasi District Magistrate’s order stating that the OPD of the hospital must function, this has not been the case. The OPD dealt with a minimum of 5,000 patients every day. A simple procedure for his wife has been delayed, he said. Governments around the world are rapidly expanding their healthcare capacity in response to this pandemic. In India, there is little regulatory control over the private healthcare system. Of course, some states have moved in to use this private pool of hospitals. Uttarakhand has allotted 25% of beds for COVID-19 patients in private hospitals. In the Bhilwara district, the Rajasthan government took over five private hospitals for treatment of patients. In Andhra Pradesh, the state government requisitioned 58 private hospitals. The Agra district authorities have warned of strict action if patients are turned down. But by and large, this large pool has not been utilised. Chhattisgarh ordered the takeover of all private hospitals in the state to fight COVID-19 but rescinded the order a few hours later. The Bihar state government has expressed anger at how private hospitals have simply shut shop, with principal secretary Sanjay Kumar tweeting that regular services available prior to the pandemic are now unavailable. The situation is the same in West Bengal and UP. The city of Mumbai has seen several large hospitals close down because their own doctors and nursing staff tested positive due to shortage of PPE kits and testing equipment. Shutting down of hospitals is no solution. Proper nursing protocols, genuine PPE kits and dependable rapid tests are the urgent need of the hour. Is the Union Health Ministry listening?   (The writer is a New Delhi-based senior journalist and author)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/private-hospitals-must-be-brought-into-the-coronavirus-fight-830792.html
28-04-2020||In Perspective||Reporting on a pandemic or branding social identities?||Given the lockdown and stay-at-home for our own safety and of those around us, there has been an added reason to be glued to the television sets. If not on a ‘non-stop’ basis, many of us have been surfing the channels, and at periodic intervals returning to the news channels. Watching and listening to news has not been a pleasant experience, yet the anxiety over what is the latest score, concern over whether or not our neighbourhood is safe, etc., compels us to return to the news channels.  But instead of the infected or suspected-to-be-infected being described as ‘victims’, the focus became their religious identities. The victims, too, responded in no better manner than to attract such social branding. For there were reports – albeit many of them unverified or later admitted to be false -- of their deliberate spitting on the persona of health workers or defying attempts to track them to be quarantined. These stories were kept on loop, repeating through days, with different dimensions of the sensational story. Eventually, the message received was that a religious sect was responsible for the spread of the deadly virus. They were projected as ‘conspirators’ and villains responsible for the deaths, suffering and the social and economic inconvenience of the lockdown. As though on cue, there was the incident of a labourer in search of treatment, who was later confirmed to be Covid-19-positive. This time, the target of social markers shifted from a clan or a religion to at least three other markers: a ‘Bihari’, a ‘labourer’, and a ‘migrant’.  Unlike many other cases confirmed as ‘positive’ and who had soon acquired a ‘Patient Number,’ this victim continued to be referred to as a ‘labourer’, a ‘migrant’ from ‘Bihar.’ A detailed account of his mischief – of going from one hospital to another, and of his having recently returned from home in Bihar – came to be repeated. We were told of the names of the hospitals to which he went seeking treatment, and of his finally reaching one where he was diagnosed as a positive case of COVID-19. In the course of which he is said to have infected at least nine other persons. Listening to the narration raised a few questions: Given his social and economic background, what other options did he have in seeking medical help? Was it his fault that he went from pillar to post, to different hospitals, to be cured of his ailment? Or, was he expected to practise ‘social distance’ and risk medical consequences? The missing question in the media presentation of news is, on what basis was he turned away by the big, government or private hospitals? Was it because he was not a local person, instead a migrant? Or, was it because there were no beds or facilities available to treat him? Or because he was a labourer and would not have been able to meet the costs of treatment in a private hospital?  Whatever the reasons, why was he not reported to the authorities, officials of the state health department, the task force, or someone who would have addressed the potential infection-threat case? Aren’t people at the different hospitals equally responsible for the secondary infections resulting from this person running around from one hospital to another? Are raising his class identity as a worker, his identity as a person of Bihar origin, and his identity as a migrant, more ‘newsworthy’ than seeking answers to the questions of others’ responsibility for his predicament and actions?  My concern is, will these social identities and their links to the way in which he was reported as having spread infections be erased from our memories once all this is over? Should people be so branded that we will remember them in future, too, but with prejudices and suspicions? We may have forgotten but this was how we created certain castes as ‘untouchables’, or tribes as ‘criminal tribes’ or ‘notified tribes.’ Even after several centuries and legal attempts, those labels haven’t disappeared altogether. Will Padarayanapura, or Bihari migrant workers, acquire the brand of Pavagada or Dandupalya, if not that of the residents of Chambal? It’s time there was some serious introspection over the consequences of such news reporting. (The writer is a Professor of Sociology and formerly headed the Sociology Unit of the Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/reporting-on-a-pandemic-or-branding-social-identities-831205.html
28-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mandya: 1st patient related to Jubilant discharged||L R Vinay Kumar, a resident of Swarnasandra Layout in the city, is the first person in Mandya, to walk out after recovering from Covid-19 on Tuesday. Good treatment and facilities at the Covid hospital helped for speedy recovery, said Vinay (P185). The residents of his locality welcomed him, by clapping. Vinay is an employee of Jubilant Generics, Nanjangud, Mysuru district. He had a contact history with P78. Vinay, a postgraduate in Microbiology, is a Microbiologist in the pharma company. “As I knew about the impact of viruses, I was curious to know about the treatment. The doctors gave medicines to improve my immunity, and I have returned as a healthier person than before,” he said. He thanked the doctors and para medics who treated him, deputy commissioner, district health officer, nurses and house-keeping staff. In all, 18 persons have tested positive for Covid-19 in Mandya district. The number of active cases is 14. Three have recovered and are in hostel quarantine, and one, Vinay, was discharged on Tuesday. Out of 18, two are from Mandya city, connected with Jubilant Generics, one is from Nagamangala, and has a travel history of Mumbai, Maharashtra. The remaining 15 from Malavalli taluk, and has a contact history with Tablighi Jamaatis.  The authorities have collected 1,912 samples so far and 1,720 samples tested negative. The results of 175 samples are awaited, while, 2,665 persons are under home quarantine. Meanwhile, the district administration conducted tests on 67 media persons, as directed by the state government. All the results are negative, according to Deputy Commissioner M V Venkatesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-1st-patient-related-to-jubilant-discharged-831131.html
28-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Help pours in from all possible corners||It is just a few days for the completion of the 40-day lockdown. The lockdown has various effects on various people. Pleasures, sufferings, and lending a helping hand, the people are completing the lockdown successfully. However, the effects of lockdown are bound to extend to a couple of months. K V Ravikanth, a pre-university lecturer, said, "While the rich got a welcome break, to relax and enjoy the pleasures of life, the poor got support of the government and also philanthropists, but only middle-class people were left to fend for themselves." Vijayendra Rao, a retired government employee said that the good and bad among the people came out during the lockdown. “Help came to the needy from all corners. Even those with limited resources offered to help, which was a welcome gesture. However, most of the charity was a photo opportunity for some individuals and members of organisations. Most of the service was to gain publicity in the media or on social media,” he said. Not all those who offered help were satisfied about their service. Nishanth, a volunteer who was busy serving food to the needy, along with a group of his friends, said, there were beneficiaries at some places, who used to grab food packets from all donors, who dropped by. “Some beneficiaries would get up to 10 packets of food for one meal. But, they would consume one or two of the packets and waste the rest. Wastage of food is a crime, at least during a crisis like this,” he said. In a rare gesture, Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda presented Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits and N-95 masks for healthcare professionals in Mysuru. On behalf of Gowda, MLA L Nagendra handed over the safety gear to the district administration at the office of the District Health Officer on Tuesday. Ex-corporator of Mysuru city P Prashanth Gowda reached to the tribal people on the fringes of the forests in Periyapatna taluk, to provide grocery kits on Tuesday. Under his PG Janaspandana Foundation, the ex-corporator handed over the kits to over 100 tribal people at Utenahalli in the presence of PDO Manjula of Panchavalli gram panchayat. In Mandya, members of Human Rights Committee extended help to Banjara people at B T Lalitha Naik Layout. They presented nutrition food items and food supplements to needy residents. To mark Basava Jayanti, they had distributed fruits and vegetables to needy people recently. Mysuru Hotel Owners' Association is raising funds to donate Rs 1,000 worth grocery kits, with 19 essential items, to a minimum of 2,000 families. C Narayana Gowda, president of the association, said, "The members are raising funds by circulating the poster of the appeal to deposit in the bank account."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/help-pours-in-from-all-possible-corners-831133.html
28-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru: Exclusive Covid-19 maternity hosp||The district administration has launched an exclusive Covid-19 maternity hospital in the city recently. The exclusive hospital is to serve Covid patients, who are also pregnant. However, no pregnant woman has been admitted to the hospital yet. Srimathi Lakshmidevamma Shankara Shetty Maternity Hospital in VV Mohalla, here, has been converted as the exclusive Covid maternity hospital. It is a 30-bed hospital and Covid positive or Covid suspects, among pregnant women, would be admitted there. As over a hundred pregnant women admit to Sri Cheluvamba Hospital of the Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute, it is difficult to treat pregnant women, either Covid infected or suspected. As the chances of its spread are vast, the samples of pregnant women who show symptoms of Covid are collected and tested immediately. Then, they are isolated at Srimathi Lakshmidevamma Shankara Shetty Maternity Hospital, said District Health Officer Dr R Venkatesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-exclusive-covid-19-maternity-hosp-831134.html
28-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Farmers’ crisis will be eased soon'||K Rudresh, Deputy Director, Horticulture department, said, “The department will take all measures to solve the problems faced by the farmers during the lockdown.” Participating in the Deccan Herald - Prajavani phone-in programme, here on Tuesday, he assured that the purchase and transportation of fruits, vegetables and horticulture produce, would be improved in phases. There was good response to the programme with farmers from various taluks of Mysuru district, seeking solution to their problems. To a query, Rudresh said that the purchase of vegetables at Horticultural Producers Cooperative Marketing and Processing Society (Hopcoms), which was eight tonne has increased to 23 tonne, for the benefit of small farmers. The district largely produces tomatoes, robusta green bananas, chillies, gourds, cucumbers, capsicum, cabbage, yellow pumpkins and other vegetables and fruits. But, there is a problem to sell them, due to the current situation. Steps are taken to identify platforms and buyers. With the lockdown being relaxed at some places, farmers would get good price for their produce. The farmers can directly sell their produce to the people, he suggested. Rudresh explained that 95% of the vegetables, fruits and horticulture produce are sold to the traders of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, at the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) yard in Bandipalya, Mysuru. The remaining 5% is supplied and utilised in Mysuru, he said. However, with hotels closed, there is no demand for vegetables and fruits. Besides, the authorities have restricted the sales of agriculture produce to Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Thus, the demand for produce has crashed. The district has a stock of 70 tonne of coloured capsicum, he said. Besides the restrictions, hundreds of lorries are transporting goods to the two neigbouring states. More than 300 tonne of vegetables have been transported. The important vegetables sent are tomatoes, yellow pumpkins, watermelons, gourds, cabbage and fruits. Chilles are transported to Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. Now, the department has taken steps to sell fruits and vegetables in the outlets of Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) also, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-crisis-will-be-eased-soon-831135.html
28-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hotel owner in Hubballi takes out parade of 'COVID-19 survivor', booked||An FIR against Metropolis Hotel owner, Ashraf Ali, who had organised the ‘parade’ has been filed at Kamaripet Police Station in Hubballi late in the night. A video of the parade where tens of people are seen clapping and raising slogans to welcome a COVID-19 ‘recovered’ patient has now gone viral on social media. While it is claimed that the person in the video is P-194, a 27-year-old businessman from Mulla Oni who recovered from the COVID-19 and was discharged from Karnataka Institute of Medical Science, Hubbali on April 24, the district administration refuted claims and said that P-194 is still in the government facility and has not been let out.   Of the seven family members of the P-194 who are infected by the virus, six are still recovering at KIMS, the District COVID-19 centre. Eight of the nine COVID-19 cases in Dharwad district have been reported from Old Hubballi, and the parade on Tuesday was taken out in the same area. Speaking to DH, Ali conceded that what he had done was a mistake. “I only wanted to help the youth go back to his home,” he said and added that he took P-194 from his hotel, where he was staying in quarantine, to his home to ensure that it is sanitised before other family members could return. “While walking to home, the residents of the area started cheering and clapping for P-194, ” he said.   Ali also claimed that he had urged people not to gather but they did not oblige.  While Ali said he accompanied P-194 to his house, speaking to DH, Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan claimed that the person in the video is not P-194. “P-194 is very much in our custody and is kept in the government quarantine facility. Strict action would be taken against Ashraf Ali for violating the seal-down norms,” she said.  It can be noted here that Ashraf Ali had volunteered to give all the rooms in the hotel to the district administration to convert it into the government quarantine facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hotel-owner-in-hubballi-takes-out-parade-of-covid-19-survivor-booked-831151.html
28-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Heavy rains destroy horticultural crops in Kolar district||Parts of Bangarpet and KGF taluks in Kolar district received heavy rains on Tuesday. The rains and hailstones destroyed horticultural crops in the region. It rained continuously for over 30 minutes from 3 pm. The gusty winds brought down electricity poles and trees in many villages. Many fields were inundated. It rained heavily at Maragal, Beerandahalli, Mavalli, Aithandahalli, Kavaranahalli and Lakshmipura villages in Bangarpet taluk and at Dasarahosahalli, D K Halli and surrounding villages in KGF taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/heavy-rains-destroy-horticultural-crops-in-kolar-district-831041.html
28-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Karnataka: ‘Kolar contained coronavirus pandemic due to strict measures’||District in-charge secretary Uma Mahadevan on Tuesday said that Kolar district contained pandemic due to strict measures. She was speaking after inspecting the isolation ward at R L Jalappa Hospital and Research Centre (RLJHRC) here. She said, ”Coronavirus cases have been reported from neighbouring Chikkaballapur and Bengaluru Rural districts and states - Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. As the district administration took strong measures, the district has not reported any COVID-19 cases.” She would discuss with the chief secretary the proposal to launch a Covid-19 testing centre. Uma Mahadevan expressed happiness over the way in which the district administration is handling Covid-19 situation in the district. There should not be any negligence in handling the situation. Precautionary measures should be taken till the pandemic is controlled in the state and the country, she said. “The government is extending cooperation to the district administration including technical assistance,” she said. Uma Mahadevan said that Kolar supplied a large quantity of milk and vegetables to Bengaluru. The district has about 8,000 industrial units. There should be more focus on the health of labourers working in the district from other states. “Production has dipped in the industrial units due to lockdown. The entire country is facing a crisis. All departments should make coordinated efforts. Tests of more people should be conducted in the district,” she said. “Preparation has been made to treat Covid-19 patients in the hospital. There are isolation wards having three beds, besides a three-bed intensive care unit. About 15 additional isolation wards have been set up,” said the RLJHRC’s Dr S M Ajeem Mohiyuddin. Deputy commissioner C Satyabhama, ZP CEO H V Darshan, assistant commissioner C Somashekhar, district health and family welfare officer Dr S N Vijay Kumar and district surveillance officer Dr Charini were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/karnataka-kolar-contained-coronavirus-pandemic-due-to-strict-measures-831044.html
28-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Coronavirus Lockdown: Liquor outlets to be closed till May 15 in Karnataka||Excise Minister H Nagesh on Tuesday said that liquor outlets would not reopen in the state till May 15. “It’s now difficult to grant permission to reopen the liquor outlets after May 3 when the lockdown ends. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has denied permission to reopen liquor outlets in districts under green zone. Hence, the outlets will remain closed till May 15,” he told reporters. Alcohol addicts should now receive counseling and treatment from doctors which was good for health, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/coronavirus-lockdown-liquor-outlets-to-be-closed-till-may-15-in-karnataka-831069.html
28-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Lockdown guideline relaxed in Kolar district||Lockdown guidelines in the district have been partially relaxed. The industrial units at Vemagal and Narasapur began operations from Tuesday. There is now permission to open shops under City Municipal Council and Town Municipal Council limits. “Since Kolar is under green zone, permission has been granted to open stores. All types of services are being offered,” deputy commissioner C Satyabhama said. Operations have begun at fruits and vegetables outlets, mobile phone stores and meat stalls. Permission has been granted for the operation of medical, para medical services and food production and processing units. There is no permission for dental clinics and saloons. Provision stores may be opened, but social distancing should be maintained. Parcel has been permitted at hotels and bakeries. One dabha at a distance of every 20 kilometre may resume works. There is permission for movement of goods vehicles. Instructions have been given to open government offices and offer services. There is a ban on gathering of people at the offices. Social distancing is mandatory in social functions. People have been directed to wear masks compulsorily. Ban on movement of vehicles to other districts and states has continued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/lockdown-guideline-relaxed-in-kolar-district-831077.html
28-04-2020||Main Article||China’s growing challenge||The US is also investigating the source of the coronavirus and seems to be examining unverified reports that the coronavirus may have emerged from a laboratory in Wuhan rather than in a market in the city. And in an unprecedented step, the US state of Missouri, along with a few others, is now suing China, claiming that China concealed the coronavirus, which led to deaths and economic losses.  While one can think of the US-China discord as a continuation of their great power rivalry predating Covid-19, the toughening up of the European response is a more interesting development. Senior political leaders in Europe are robustly questioning Chinese behaviour and policies now. Challenging the conventional wisdom that China had handled the coronavirus outbreak better than others, French President Emmanuel Macron has termed the view as “naive,” adding that things “happened that we don't know about.” He made it clear that there can be no comparison between open societies like democracies and those where truth was suppressed. The UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab has also been very critical of China, arguing that the world will “have to ask the hard questions about how [coronavirus] came about and how it couldn't have been stopped earlier” and that there cannot be “business as usual” with China after the present crisis ends. China has been busy not only with using the crisis to enhance its geopolitical influence where it can, but it has also announced its intent to use this crisis to start working on a “Silk Road” of healthcare. China has been reaching out to countries from Europe to Africa with medical supplies and kits and has not been shy of underscoring its own leadership at a time when the West has looked divided and inward-focused. Over the last two decades, Chinese companies have made notable acquisitions and investments in European technology firms. There is a danger that this pandemic and the resulting economic crisis can open up new possibilities for Chinese inroads into Europe. But there is a new resolve in Europe to fend off the threat of a Chinese takeover. In fact, Margrethe Vestager, the European Union’s Competition Commissioner, recently suggested that European countries should consider taking stakes in companies to fend off this threat. As nations across the world take a serious look at their global supply chain and move towards decoupling from China to reduce their dependence on the Chinese economy, it would be important for them to work with like-minded countries not only to create a new global supply chain but also to insulate themselves from the negative externalities of Chinese malevolent behaviour. For all the socio-economic toll on humanity that the Covid-19 pandemic has wreaked, it has exposed the Chinese Communist Party in ways that wasn’t happening before. Hopefully, the debate on the scale and scope of the China threat will end for good now. (The writer is Director, Studies, at Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi and Professor of International Relations, King’s College, London)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/china-s-growing-challenge-831204.html
28-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Opposition questions Tamil Nadu govt over high price paid for test kits||Opposition parties in Tamil Nadu on Monday asked the state government to explain its decision on buying coronavirus rapid test kits at "higher price" from an “intermediary company” rather than directly from the importer who is also based in the city. The parties, including principal Opposition DMK, cited the Delhi High Court order that capped the price of each testing kit at Rs 400, rather than Rs 600 approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). “It is clear from the court order that the price of one such kit is Rs 245 including the freight charges, but the Tamil Nadu government has procured them at Rs 600 each. It has also come into the public domain that the state government did not buy the kits from an ICMR authorised company, but from an intermediary firm,” DMK President M K Stalin said. In a statement, he sought to know why the government went for a “non-transparent” method in procuring these kits even as it battles a shortage of funds. He also said the chief minister cannot avoid answering the questions by terming them “politically motivated” as it involves tax payer’s money. VCK chief Thol. Thirumavalavan’s asked the government to clarify why it chose to buy the kits from an intermediary company rather than procuring them directly from the importer, who is also based in Chennai. “The company, Matrix Labs, that sold the kits to Shan Biotech at Rs 400 per piece is also from Chennai. If the government had inked a pact with Matrix Labs, it could have saved Rs 200 per kit. Why and how did this happen? The government should explain and be transparent about the process,” Thirumavalavan said. AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran demanded a white paper on the procurement process. The Tamil Nadu government had placed an order for 50,000 rapid test kits of which 24,000 have been delivered already at the ICMR approved price of Rs 600 through Shan Biotech, which bought the kits from Matrix Labs, also based out of the city. Efforts to reach P Umanadh, Managing Director of the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC), the procurement agency, on Monday proved futile. Health Minister C Vijayabaskar rubbished all allegations and said the government was returning all test kits to the Chinese firm. He also punched holes in Stalin's allegations that Shan Biotech was not approved by ICMR, saying it was one of the companies that were given dealership to distribute the kits by Matrix Labs. However, the state government has maintained that it paid the price which was agreed to by the ICMR.  Matrix Labs, which imported the kits from China, said it procured them from a Chinese company, Wondfo, for a price of Rs 245 each which includes the freight price. The company sold the kits at Rs 400 each to Rare Metabolics, which fixed the price at Rs 600 per kit for purchase by ICMR and states. The price issue came to the fore after the importer and the distributor went to the Delhi High Court to sort out their pricing dispute. When DH reached out to Shan Biotech, the company tried to shift the blame to Matrix Labs, saying questions should be asked only to the importer or to the buyer, Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC). Likewise, Matrix Labs also tried to wash its hands off the issue saying they were dragged to the court by Rare Metabolics and it is the latter who needs to be questioned not the former.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-opposition-questions-tamil-nadu-govt-over-high-price-paid-for-test-kits-830739.html
28-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: India stares at Lockdown 3.0 in hotspots; 11 states in favour||India's gruelling 40-day lockdown, which is scheduled to end on May 3, could be extended further, but the focus of Lockdown 3.0 would be on continuing curbs in hotspots and easing them in green zones. Four of the nine chief ministers who participated in the video conference interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday to discuss the exit plan spoke in favour of extending the lockdown, while at least 11 states have batted for an extension. The Prime Minister will make a formal announcement on the decision to extend the lockdown on Saturday or Sunday. Observing that the country has seen two lockdowns till now, Modi said "we have to think of the way ahead” and put the onus on the states to formulate an exit strategy.  “As per experts, the impact of coronavirus will remain visible in the coming months,” Modi said and stressed the need for constant vigil and strict enforcement of guidelines in the hotspots. He said the efforts of the states should be directed towards converting the red zones into orange and thereafter to green, amid talk of having separate exit plans for each of the three zones.  The PM also expressed happiness over the fact that nearly 300 districts had no COVID-19 cases and termed these districts “sacred”. Modi emphasised on the need to give importance to the economy while continuing the fight against coronavirus, saying that the country had managed to save thousands of lives due to the lockdown. The PM also assured the states about the robustness of the country’s economy and asked them not to worry about resources. States favour extension Odisha, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Punjab, Delhi, Telangana, Gujarat, Kerala, Meghalaya and Rajasthan want the restrictions to be extended, albeit with some more relaxations in non-hotspot areas. Many of them have sent written responses to the Centre.  On Monday, during the three-hour-long interaction, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik sought an extension for one more month. Kerala, where Idukki and Kottayam have been added as hotspot zones, wants a partial lockdown till May 15, while Mamata Banerjee-ruled West Bengal is in favour of extending the lockdown till May 21. Telangana has already extended the lockdown till May 7. Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, the only Congress Chief Minister who spoke in the meeting, said the general mood in the meeting was that the lockdown should continue with partial relaxations. Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani also wanted the lockdown to be extended. In his opening remarks, Home Minister Amit Shah reaffirmed the need to enforce lockdown guidelines so that maximum lives are saved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-stares-at-lockdown-30-in-hotspots-11-states-in-favour-830745.html
28-04-2020||National||Supreme Court staffer tests positive for coronavirus; admitted to a government hospital||A staffer of the Supreme Court tested positive for coronavirus on Monday, triggering alarm bells in the highest court of the country. The employee, working with the judicial section of the apex court, was on duty on April 16 and had come in contact with two apex court registrars, who have been advised self-quarantine as a precautionary measure, a source said. He suffered fever for two days after coming for work on April 16 and tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. He has been admitted to a government hospital and is undergoing treatment, the source said, adding that as per the standard protocol, contact tracing of the staffer will be done. It is the first such case of a Supreme Court staffer testing positive. The apex court had restricted its functioning since March 23 and is hearing matters involving extreme urgency through video conferencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-staffer-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-admitted-to-a-government-hospital-830756.html
28-04-2020||National||ICMR asks states to stop rapid antibody tests by these two Chinese companies||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday asked states to stop using rapid antibody test kits for coronavirus bought from two Chinese companies after field validation showed a wide variation in results. The decision came on a day when India reported an increase of 1,463 cases, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 28,380. The death toll due to the highly contagious respiratory illness rose to 886, a spike of 60 since Sunday. The ICMR, the apex body for medical research, issued a fresh advisory to states asking them to return the test kits so that they could be sent back to their suppliers. The antibody tests were introduced by the ICMR amid pressure from state governments to ramp up testing, but with clear instructions for their use in surveillance and epidemiological purposes and not for diagnosing the disease. The decision to junk the kits supplied by two Chinese companies — Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics — came amid doubts raised on the efficacy of rapid antibody tests globally. In an advisory to chief secretaries of states and union territories, the ICMR said it had evaluated the kits in field conditions. “The results have shown wide variation in their sensitivity, despite early promise of good performance for surveillance purposes,” it said. “In view of this, states are advised to stop using these kits procured from the above-mentioned companies and return them to be sent back to the suppliers,” it said. Earlier this month, the ICMR had ordered five lakh kits and despatched them to several states for testing in hotspot areas.  The decision to use rapid antibody tests was taken to speed up testing as the “gold standard” RT-PCR tests were slow and time-consuming. Within days of deploying the tests, states such as Rajasthan complained about their efficacy, prompting the ICMR to suspend the tests, pending field validation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icmr-asks-states-to-stop-rapid-antibody-tests-by-these-two-chinese-companies-830765.html
28-04-2020||National||New Delhi, Kuwait play down Twitter posts on targeting Muslims in India||After some posts on social media claiming that the Council of Ministers of Kuwait condemned attacks on Muslims in India, New Delhi and the West Asian nation’s government on Monday scrambled to play it down and stop it from turning into an irritant for bilateral relations.  “The Government of Kuwait has assured us that they are deeply committed to friendly relations with India. They also do not support any interference in the internal affairs of India,” Anurag Srivastava, the official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said. Some Twitter users from Kuwait recently posted on the micro-blogging website that the Council of Ministers of Kuwait condemned attacks on Muslims in India. A Kuwaiti Twitter user also tweeted a March 2 note of Kuwaiti Council of Ministers expressing concerns over alleged targeting of Muslims in India and asking Organisation of Islamic Cooperation to take note of it. The tweets followed similar posts by a section of Twitterati from the United Arab Emirates and other West Asian nations, criticising comments on the social media platforms holding Muslims responsible for much of the spread of COVID-19 virus in India. New Delhi was worried over implications of such posts on Twitter as a large section of Indians live and work in UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain and Oman.   Prime Minister Narendra Modi and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar spoke to their counterparts in several Gulf Arab nations over the past few days – ostensibly to make it sure the social media posts do not cause any strain in bilateral relations. New Delhi also detected attempts by elements in Pakistan to fish in troubled waters and re-launch its propaganda against India, including by creating fake accounts in Twitter.  “India recently deployed a rapid response team there to assist the country in its fight against coronavirus. During its two week stay in Kuwait, the team rendered valuable medical assistance in testing and treatment of afflicted persons and training their personnel,” the MEA spokesperson said, adding, “It is therefore important that friendly and cooperative nature of our relations is accurately recognised and misuse of social media is not given credence.”  Kuwait’s envoy to India, Jassem Al-Najem, too stressed on the principle of non-interference in relations between the two countries. “Kuwait and India share many principles in their foreign policies, like respecting UN Charter, non-interference in other countries’ affairs and respecting the sovereignty of nations,” Kuwaiti news agency KUNA quoted Al-Najem as saying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-delhi-kuwait-play-down-twitter-posts-on-targeting-muslims-in-india-830767.html
28-04-2020||National||Two killed in clash between groups in Mumbai's Govandi||Two people were killed and another was seriously injured in a clash between two groups in suburban Govandi in Mumbai on Monday night, police said. An officer said the trigger behind the incident was installing 'sabils' or traditional water stalls in the month of Ramzan. "Each group wanted to install the stalls to provide water to people observing fast near the municipal ground in Shivaji Nagar area," he said. The two groups have been rivals for quite some time. He said the attack took place in the evening in which Rajjab Ali and Prem Singh were killed due to injuries caused by swords and other sharp-edged weapons. The injured person has been identified as Mohammed Ali. Two people were detained for the attack. Further investigation is underway, said Shivaji Nagar police station senior inspector Sudarshan Paithankar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-killed-in-clash-between-groups-in-mumbais-govandi-830777.html
28-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 28, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Download the e-paper to read today’s edition and beat the lockdown blues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-28-2020-edition-830785.html
28-04-2020||National||BJP member Surendra Poonia falls for ‘oranges banned in Cyberabad’ satire||Twitter handle @theskindoctor13 had earlier tweeted the clipping and tagged Cyberabad police.  Poonia completely missed the glaring clues that pointed to the fact that the clipping is a computer-generated spoof newspaper. The name of the paper is ‘Deccan Cbronicle’ and ‘satire by @theskindoctor13’ is clearly written on the bottom right-hand corner. In his hurry to make a reference to Shariah and ‘sickularism’ Poonia also did not notice the ludicrous text in the clipping that said ‘UNESCO has declared Cyberabad police the most secular police in the world’.      Cyberabad police has registered a case against @theskindoctor13 for manufacturing the satirical newspaper clipping.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-member-surendra-poonia-falls-for-oranges-banned-in-cyberabad-satire-830786.html
28-04-2020||National||Harvesting on track, will ensure food security for country: Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar is at the centre of government efforts to ensure that the farm sector continues to function smoothly during the lockdown. In an interview to Sagar Kulkarni of DH, Tomar spelt out the steps taken by the government to help farmers in these testing times. Government has taken steps to help farmers during the lockdown period. What is the response to those steps? Amidst the uncertainty prevailing today, the one activity giving hope is agricultural activity, which is also providing the reassurance of food security. Throughout India, farmers and agriculture labourers are sweating and toiling against all adversities. Their silent efforts, coupled with timely intervention by the central and state governments, have ensured that there is minimal or no disruption to harvesting activities and the continued sowing of summer crops. We have reached out to the farmers during the lockdown by releasing Rs 17,876.7 crore to 8.938 crore farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) Scheme. This has happened between March 24 and now. We have also issued 88,234.56 MT of pulses to states for distribution under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PM-GKY). How much impact will the lockdown have on agriculture growth? COVID-19 will undoubtedly have a negative impact on economies across the world, including India. However, the response of the department has been very prompt and pro-active. Home ministry exempted agriculture activities from lockdown. As a result, about 70% harvesting of Rabi crops has been completed so far and is likely to be fully achieved by the end of April. This will ensure food security for the country in difficult times. How do you plan to address the crowding at wholesale markets? We have launched two modules under the National Agriculture Market (e-NAM) to decongest wholesale markets and to boost the supply chain. Under the FPO module, which Jharkhand has started using, Farmer Producer Organisations can upload farm produce details from collection centres with picture/quality parameters and avail the bidding facility without physically going to the mandi. Under the Warehouse-based Trading Module, we have integrated e-NAM with e-Negotiable Warehouse Receipt (e-NWR), enabling farmers to sell their produce from WDRA-registered warehouses notified as deemed markets, without physically bringing the produce to the mandi. Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have already implemented this. There have been complaints of non-availability of farm labour, machines for harvesting Rabi crops? The government had already exempted the agriculture sector from the lockdown guidelines. To implement the exemptions on the ground level, the ministry has been coordinating with the state governments to iron out the difficulties they face. So, when Kerala raised the problem of shortage of combine harvesters, we asked Tamil Nadu to extend cooperation. How are harvesting operations going on across the country? About 70-75% harvesting has been completed. Harvesting is at its peak in Haryana, Punjab, UP and is likely to be completed by the end of April. The excess moisture in the field for unharvested crops may, however, delay harvesting by 2-5 days. Have you taken any specific steps for farmers of the southern states where pulses, oilseeds and coarse cereals are major crops? We have approved procurement of pulses and oilseeds under Price Support Scheme (PSS), including tur in Karnataka and Telangana. To ensure remunerative prices to farmers, procurement of chana, masoor and mustard has also been allowed in the states that had not sent proposals for implementation of PSS for these crops. The Centre has also allowed states to decide the start date of procurement of Rabi crops. The recent spell of rains in some parts of the country have damaged the wheat crop. Has the ministry assessed the losses? The states reported a varied degree of impact on standing Rabi crops in about 40 lakh hectares. Wheat is a major rabi crop in these states. However, isolated hailstorms may have impacted some areas. There is no adverse impact on total production of rabi crops, especially wheat. As per second advance estimates, wheat production is estimated at 106.21 million tonnes. In affected areas, states make an assessment for compensating damage to the affected farmers, if any. The government has spoken about doorstep procurement of farm produce. Is it feasible? The procurement of pulses and oilseeds under PSS is done through a three-tier system which includes procurement directly from farmers, though at village-level cooperative societies from its member farmers. Additionally, the e-NAM platform has been linked with various transport aggregators such as Truck Suvidha, Truck Guru, TransIn Logistics, to help traders find transporters available in their vicinity for faster movement of farm produce to mandi and other locations. We have also launched “Kisan Rath”, a farmer friendly mobile application to help farmers and traders search for transport for agriculture and horticulture produce. Any specific advice to states to ensure smooth functioning of mandis? We have issued advisory to state governments and UT administrations to facilitate direct marketing, enabling direct purchase from farmers/FPOs/Cooperatives by limiting regulation under state APMC Acts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harvesting-on-track-will-ensure-food-security-for-country-agriculture-minister-narendra-singh-tomar-830787.html
28-04-2020||National||SC quota ruling reaffirms 50% ceiling for STs||The Supreme Court order last week which quashed a January 2000 order of the erstwhile state of Andhra Pradesh providing 100% reservation to Scheduled Tribe (ST) candidates for the post of teachers in schools in the scheduled areas of the state is a reaffirmation of the 50% ceiling principle laid down by the court for reservations. A five-judge constitution bench held that providing 100% reservation is “unfair’’ and “unreasonable’’, “without rhyme and reason’’ and discriminatory because it denied employment opportunities to other candidates. The Governor of the then undivided state had reserved all teachers’ positions in the scheduled areas for ST candidates under Schedule V of the Constitution. The reasoning was that there was a high level of absenteeism among teachers who did not belong to the area. But the court observed that total reservation for STs denied opportunities to candidates belonging to SCs and OBCs from the same area and ST candidates from other areas. It also violated the 50% norm laid down by the court in the Indra Sawhney case.  Some states have cited special circumstances and extraordinary situations to go beyond the ceiling many times in the past. The court said that there was no extraordinary situation warranting the Governor’s decision. The state government had issued similar orders in 1986 and when they were struck down by the administrative tribunal, it reissued them in 2000. The court observed that the power to modify rules conferred on governments under Schedule V was not relevant in the case because the notification had the effect of creating a new law which went against fundamental rights and accepted provisions on reservations. The court has, however, protected the appointments made under the order till now but has told the government not to take a similar decision again in future.  The judgement has implications that go beyond the Andhra Pradesh appointments and that makes it important. Despite the existing ruling in the Indra Sawhney case, many states and even the Centre have breached the 50% ceiling on various pretexts. The Maharashtra government set apart 16% of governments jobs and seats in educational institutions for the Maratha community, and the Bombay High Court has upheld this, though it reduced the percentage. The matter is before the Supreme Court now. In some other states, the courts have disapproved the tampering of reservation norms. The central government has reserved 10% quota for Economically Weaker Sections. With these and other such orders, reservations have exceeded the 50% ceiling in many states. Demands have been made in other states for grant of reservation for groups which do not enjoy the benefit now. The latest judgement will hopefully bring more clarity to the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-quota-ruling-reaffirms-50-ceiling-for-sts-830789.html
28-04-2020||National||Coronavirus state-wise India update: Total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 28||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 30,334 as of April 28. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 1000 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 6184 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-state-wise-india-update-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-28-830791.html
28-04-2020||National||Harvesting on track, will ensure food security for country: Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar is at the centre of government efforts to ensure that the farm sector continues to function smoothly during the lockdown. In an interview to Sagar Kulkarni of DH, Tomar spelt out the steps taken by the government to help farmers in these testing times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harvesting-on-track-will-ensure-food-security-for-country-agriculture-minister-narendra-singh-tomar-830794.html
28-04-2020||National||Two Kerala students win $10,000 in online hackathon against COVID-19 ||Their winning entry, called iClassroom, involved a modern virtual classroom for the millennial generation. It connects students with teachers through a social media-type interface for uninterrupted learning in the time of the pandemic.  The 72-hour event was hosted by the Silicon Valley-based Motwani Jadeja Family Foundation.  It saw thousands of innovators and developers compete online from the comfort of their homes to create open-source solutions against the coronavirus crisis faced by the nation. The second prize of US $5,000 was claimed by six students of Manipal Institute of Technology for enabling remote diagnosis of COVID-19 patients to reduce the risk of infection for healthcare workers. Their solution, TeleVital, captures a patient’s vital statistics remotely through a Webcam and browser. The third position was divided into three categories, with each of the three winning teams awarded $3,000 as prize money. The winners included SoloCoin which gamifies social distancing by allowing people to earn “solo coins” by staying at home and redeeming them for rewards from various merchants; the COVID-19 Fact Checker, a fake news checker that leverages authentic government, scientific, and public health information to bust misinformation about the COVID-19 pandemic; and Grape Community, an open platform that connects people with their neighbourhood shopkeepers and suppliers. In addition, 10 best innovative solutions were awarded $1,000 each at the hackathon.  A well-known entrepreneur, investor, philanthropist and change agent Asha Jadeja Motwani, the Founder of Motwani Jadeja Family Foundation, said: “We have been overwhelmed by the quality of entries at CODE19 online hackathon and the deep enthusiasm shown by all the participants. A community of hackers and mentors, especially young students from all parts of the country and around the world, came together to enable India’s fight against coronavirus. I believe that the qualitative, open-source projects created at this hackathon would help mitigate the impending Corona-inflicted challenges in India."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-kerala-students-win-10000-in-online-hackathon-against-covid-19-830826.html
28-04-2020||National||COVID-19 battle: Swab collection a high risk job, says doctor||A doctor working at a hospital for treatment of coronavirus patients here in Maharashtra has revealed the tough task and challenges they face in collecting swab samples of the suspected patients. The process of swab sample collection of a person does not take more than 30 to 40 seconds, but it is a "high risk job", Dr Pushkar Dahiwal, who collects 80 to 100 swab samples in a day at the government hospital in Aurangabad, told PTI. "We work for three days and then remain self- quarantined for 14 days," he informed. During the six-hour duty, doctors have to keep wearing the personal protective equipment (PPE) and amidst the fast paced work, they do not even get a chance to drink water, he said. "We need to finish the work in a short time to avoid contact with patients and also with those who come to give their swab samples," the doctor said. A 10 to 12 cm long stick is used to collect sample from a person's throat, while the stick used for collecting sample from nose is comparatively longer and thinner, he said. "Before the person coughs or sneezes, we need to finish sample collection. Being a dentist, I have the practice of handling the patient's mouth area," he said. Dahiwal also said that at times they need to counsel coronavirus suspects as some of them think they dont have the infection, but carry a fear in mind. "Some of the people think the test is something different and dangerous. But, we explain the procedure to them so that there should be no need to collect another sample of the person," Dahiwal said. The nurse and other accompanying staff also need to stay alert as the swab samples are to be sealed immediately and kept in a proper storage facility, he said.  "If the swab sample falls, it would be a problem. All these things have to be completed in a very short span of time. So, there is no scope for mistake," he added. Dahiwal also recalled that he took care of victims of the 26/11 terror attack in 2008 at the Saint George Hospital in Mumbai. "I left the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus in Mumbai just 20 minutes before the attack began. At that time, we had fear the attackers may come from any side. That incident keeps coming to my mind every time when I collect swab samples of suspected coronavirus patients," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-battle-swab-collection-a-high-risk-job-says-doctor-830834.html
28-04-2020||National||JU students develop device which can tell if a coughing person is a COVID-19 carrier||A teacher of Innovation Council of Jadavpur University said on Tuesday that two undergraduate students of the Department of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering have developed the device which will track a coughing person and analyse if the same person is a possible suspect of novel coronavirus. The device can be used as a first-level screening system to identify the COVID-19 carrier with available data and thus help in containing the spread of the disease. The non-contact device, which has embedded image and sound sensors, will work even if the person is away from the device and can even identify multiple coughing persons at the same time. The device can be used in quarantine centres, office- spaces, classrooms or built-up areas with gatherings for monitoring the people present there. The teacher said this device can also be used in drones for identifying COVID-19 suspects in public places in the open. Two students - Annesya Banerjee and Achal Nilhani - both third year undergraduate students in the Department of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering developed the device. They were guided by their Prof P Venkateswaran. The device has got a very positive response from ICMR Kolkata and several doctors treating COVID-19 patients and will soon go for real-time clinical testing with COVID-19 patients, the teacher added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ju-students-develop-device-which-can-tell-if-a-coughing-person-is-a-covid-19-carrier-830838.html
28-04-2020||National||Beijing cries foul after ICMR stops use of rapid test kits imported from China||“It is unfair and irresponsible for certain individuals to label Chinese products as ‘faulty’ and look at issues with preemptive prejudice,” Ji Rong, spokesperson of the Embassy of People’s Republic of China in New Delhi, said early on Tuesday. She was reacting to the ICMR’s decision to stop use of the rapid test kits imported from Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech Company Limited and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics Inc of China.    The ICMR on Monday said that it had evaluated the testing kits imported from China and found “wide variation” insensitivity, “despite the early promise of good performance for surveillance purposes”. It asked the State Governments to return the kits for being sent back to the suppliers. The Chinese Embassy in New Delhi, however, indicated that violation of the guidelines provided by the manufacturing companies regarding storage, transportation and use of the COVID-19 rapid test kits could lead to variation inaccuracy of the results. The council had last week temporarily suspended the use of the rapid test kits imported from Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech Company Limited and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics Inc of China. It had acted after receiving complaints from the State Governments about inaccuracies in the findings of the tests conducted using kits.   “Regarding the current issue”, the spokesperson of the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi said, “We hope the Indian side could respect China’s goodwill and sincerity, strengthen communication timely with relevant Chinese companies based on facts, and resolve it reasonably and properly.” India started importing rapid COVID-19 diagnostic kits from China on April 16. The first consignment to arrive in New Delhi had 300,000 kits from Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech Company Limited and 250,000 from Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics Inc. The kits were later distributed among the States. The second consignment of about 300,000 came on April 18 for Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu. The Chinese Embassy in New Delhi referred to the statements issued by the two companies a few days back.  “They (the two companies) both stressed that their Covid-19 antibody rapid test kits had obtained the certification from China’s National Medical Products Administration (NMPA), meet the quality standards of China and the countries they are exported to, and have also been validated and approved by ICMR through National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune and considered as satisfactory products,” said Ji. “The COVID-19 antibody rapid test kits produced by these two Chinese companies have been exported to and well recognised in many countries in Europe, Asia and Latin America.” The Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech Company Limited and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics Inc of China defended the kits, arguing that the rapid tests to detect presence of Covid-19 antibodies in the blood of a patient was more expected to give accurate results only after the “incubation period” of about seven or eight days following infection by the virus. “We have also learned that there are strict requirements for the storage, transportation and use of COVID-19 antibody rapid test kits. Any operation which is not carried out by professionals in accordance with the product specifications will lead to the testing accuracy variations,” said Ji. She also underlined that the ICMR itself had also made it clear that rapid antibody test kits should only be used for surveillance purposes instead of replacing the RT-PCR ((Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) test to diagnose and confirm the cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/beijing-cries-foul-after-icmr-stops-use-of-rapid-test-kits-imported-from-china-830859.html
28-04-2020||National||Union Health Ministry issues new guidelines for home isolation of people with very mild symptoms of coronavirus||According to a new set of guidelines issued on Monday, the patient should be clinically assigned as a very mild case or pre-symptomatic case by the treating medical officer. The patient should regularly inform his health status to the district surveillance officer for further follow up by the surveillance teams. Also, the care giver and all close contacts of such cases should take Hydroxychloroquine as a preventive medication according to the protocol and as prescribed by the treating medical officer. All suspected (awaiting test results) and confirmed cases of COVID-19 disease are currently being isolated and managed in a hospital setting with the intent to break the chain of transmission, the ministry said. As per existing guidelines, during the containment phase the patients should be clinically assigned as very mild/mild, moderate or severe and accordingly admitted to COVID Care Centre, Dedicated COVID Health Centre or Dedicated COVID Hospital respectively. "However, very mild/pre-symptomatic patients having the requisite facility at his/her residence for self-isolation will have the option for home isolation," the ministry stated. As per the global evidence 80 per cent of COVID cases are mild cases while remaining 20 per cent may develop complications which would require hospitalisation. Out of the hospitalized cases of COVID-19, only 5 per cent may require ICU care. According to experts, the primary treatment for COVID-19 is supportive treatment in more than 80 per cent of the patients and oxygen therapy in around 15 per cent of patients along with other drugs. According to the new guidelines issued by the health ministry, a care giver should be available to provide care on a 24x7 basis.  A communication link between the care giver and hospital is a prerequisite for the entire duration of home isolation. Besides, the guidelines call for downloading the Arogya Setu App on mobile and it should remain active at all times (through bluetooth and Wi-Fi). Immediate medical attention must be sought if serious signs or symptoms including difficulty in breathing, persistent pain or pressure in the chest, mental confusion, developing bluish discolorations of lips/face develop or if is advised by treating medical officer. "Patients under home isolation will end home isolation if symptoms are clinically resolved and the surveillance medical officer certifies him to be free of infection after laboratory testing," the ministry stated. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 934 and the number of cases climbed to 29,435 in the country on Tuesday, according to the ministry. PTI PLB DV DV||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-health-ministry-issues-new-guidelines-for-home-isolation-of-people-with-very-mild-symptoms-of-coronavirus-830870.html
28-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: ITI develops protective device for frontline health professionals||The Government-run Industrial Training Institute (ITI) here has come up with protective devices for the frontline medical professionals fighting the deadly COVID-19 pandemic by developing an aerosol box for intubation process. The aerosol box consists of a transparent plastic cube designed to cover a patient's head, which has two circular paths through which the medical professionals' hands can enter to perform airway procedure. When medical professionals are in the vicinity of COVID-19 patients, they are exposed to the virus directly and become highly vulnerable. The transparent aerosol box, however, significantly reduces the exposure of the virus to the medical professionals, said ITI Principal, Rajat Kumar Panigrahy. A team of ITI-Berhampur led by Panigrahy has planned, designed, and developed the aerosol box. Necessary laser- cutting, drilling and fitting were done after taking feedbacks from senior doctors of the MKCG Medical College and Hospital here, he said. The box was prepared from 4-mm transparent acrylic sheets. The cutting of the sheets is done using laser cutting machines to ensure airtight joints, said Panigrahy.  Ganjam district administration had given suggestion for the development of the aerosol boxes to protect the medical professionals who get directly exposed to the virus. "We have developed two such boxes on a pilot basis. If the administration orders more such boxes, we will manufacture", he said. Commending the job done by the institute, a senior official said the newly developed protective equipment will be examined by health and medical professionals and appropriate steps will be taken. The cost of development of a box is around Rs 3000, he added. Besides the aerosol box, the institute has also developed face shield for the medical professionals treating COVID-19 patients. Named as ITI-face shield, this protective gear has been developed using foam lining and elastic band. "It will completely cover the face, eye and neck. The shield is also very comfortable to wear," he said. Its an essential personal protective equipment for use by the medical staff, police personnel, ambulance drivers and health workers who are at high risk in view of coronavirus pandemic, he added. "As a technical institute, we also have social responsibilities towards the society when the entire country is facing a crisis," he added. Earlier the ITI has developed sanitized cloth masks and hand sanitizer in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Berhampur for frontline COVID-19 warriors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-iti-develops-protective-device-for-frontline-health-professionals-830874.html
28-04-2020||National||Two cases of coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh's Santkabirnagar district||The two of them have been kept in isolation and the area around their homes has been sealed, District Magistrate Ravish Kumar Gupta said. The two include a 28-year-old man from Bakhira village and a 40-year-old woman of Magher town, who is related to a coronavirus-infected family, the DM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-cases-of-coronavirus-in-uttar-pradeshs-santkabirnagar-district-830880.html
28-04-2020||National||Toys, board games, cartoons keep children with COVID-19 busy in hospital isolation wards||At the Jalandhar civil hospital, two sisters who tested positive for COVID-19 have been given toys and a carrom board to keep them busy, while at the PGIMER in Chandigarh, children infected with the virus are kept engaged with cartoons on TV and drawing sessions. Keeping these children busy in isolation wards is proving to be a challenge in itself for the health authorities. "We have given them carrom board and ludo to play in order to make them comfortable," said Jalandhar Senior Medical Officer Kashmiri Lal. A television set has also been installed in the ward, he added. Lal said the two sisters, aged six and seven, tested positive after their grandfather contracted the disease. "Our psychiatrists also counsel them regularly so they feel at ease," he added. Psychiatrists said convincing parents to being their children to the hospital is one of the biggest challenges. "The biggest problem is to convince them to bring the kids here as they are not ready to come," said Assistant Professor, Department of Psychiatry, PGIMER, Swapanjit Sahu. Once they reach the hospital and are admitted to the isolation ward, they often get scared as they have never experienced an environment like that before, Sahu added.  The children see doctors in PPE kits which they have never seen before and then start crying, he further said. "We talk to them through video-conferencing to counsel them so their anxiety level goes down. "We try to tell them that their parents are fine and they will be at the hospital for only some time," Sahu told PTI. Coronavirus positive children the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh have at least one of their family members also infected with the virus admitted for treatment, officials at the facility said. Children are also given digital copies of comics on WhatsApp, said Sahu. "They even watch (cartoons) 'Motu patlu', 'Mowgli' on YouTube. Even crayons are given for drawing. We try to keep them busy," he said, adding that it helps them develop a bond with the children so they do not create any problem during sampling. The children also get to talk to their family members through video-conferencing to make them more comfortable. "We play musical rhymes on Youtube and give them pen and paper to scribble," Sahu added. Currently, four COVID-19 positive children – a one-month-old, a six-month-old, a one-and-a-half-year old and an eight-year-old – are admitted to the PGIMER, Chandigarh. All of them are asymptomatic. On Sunday, an eleven-month-old baby girl, along with her mother, was discharged from the PGIMER after they were fully cured of the infection.  "Though both mother and daughter were stable physically but psychologically, it was a very stressful experience to stay isolated. "The mother reported significant distress during her stay at the ward and was consistently counselled through video-conferencing to address her anxiety and anger. Despite testing negative, she had to stay for a long period of time as her baby had tested positive," said Sahu. PTI CHS VSD IJT||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toys-board-games-cartoons-keep-children-with-covid-19-busy-in-hospital-isolation-wards-830896.html
28-04-2020||National||Tamil Nadu Congress mocks Centre, state over test kits, asks how they will protect people||Targeting the governments here and at the Centre over rapid kits, the usage of which has now been halted, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K S Alagiri claimed that 'profiteering' in the deal was scuttled only due to the court intervention. In an order last week, the Delhi High Court fixed the price of the antibody test kits at Rs 400 each as against Rs 600 approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research. The ruling came on a plea by two companies, Rare Metabolics Life Sciences Pvt Ltd and Aark Pharmaceuticals, which had entered into an agreement with Matrix Labs, for distribution of the kits in India. Matrix Lab is the the importer of the kits. "How the Central and State governments are going to protect the 136 crore people when they could not even buy quality kits after due scrutiny?" Alagiri asked in a statement. A day after his party's ally DMK questioned the rationale behind the 'sky high' rate of Rs 600 per unit by the state government, the Congress leader said the Centre has no answers to the questions being raised over the matter.  The Indian Council of Medical Research on Monday asked the states to stop using COVID-19 rapid testing kits procured from China due to their poor quality even as the government said not a single rupee will be lost in cancelling the orders as payments were not made to the Chinese suppliers. India procured around five lakh rapid antibody test kits from the two Chinese firms, Guongzhou Wondfo Biotech and Livzon Diagnostics, and they were distributed to several states reporting rising cases of the coronavirus infection. The Tamil Nadu government too has announced returning 24,000 rapid test kits imported from China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-congress-mocks-centre-state-over-test-kits-asks-how-they-will-protect-people-830905.html
28-04-2020||National||CBIC asks field offices to conduct virtual hearings in customs, excise, service tax appeals||The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has asked field offices to conduct hearings in customs, excise and service tax appeal cases via video conference with the consent of the appellant or respondent to ensure social distancing amid the COVID-19 outbreak. The CBIC on Monday issued guidelines for conducting personal hearings in virtual mode under Customs Act and said that this would also apply to those cases under Central Excise Act 1944 and Chapter V of Finance Act 1994. While ensuring compliance with guidelines and instructions issued by the government and public health authorities, the board has decided that personal hearing for any proceeding under Customs Act, 1962, given by authorities such as Commissioner (Appeals), Original adjudicating authorities and Compounding authority, may be conducted through video conferencing, the CBIC said. In its instructions to the field offices, the CBIC said in any proceedings before appellate or adjudicating authority, the party, either as appellant or respondent, shall give his consent to avail personal hearings before such authority, through video conferencing facility, at the time of filing his appeal. In case of pending appeals/adjudication matter, the entities will have to give their consent immediately. The entities which are undergoing appeals and adjudication process will also have to submit to the officers their email address for correspondence. “This would also facilitate importers, exporters, passengers, advocates, tax practitioners and authorised representatives to maintain social distancing while performing their work at ease, from a place of their choice,” it added. The guidelines also state that persons participating in video conference should be appropriately dressed and maintain the required decorum. AMRG & Associates Senior Partner Rajat Mohan said CBIC has embraced the use of modern communication technology to create a virtual working environment. “This initiative would permit quick delivery of justice to taxpayers by adjudicating authorities and commissioner (appeals). Detailed guidelines for the conduct of said video conferencing has been specified by board whereby consent of taxpayer is must before any such electronic personal hearing,” Mohan added. EY Tax Partner Abhishek Jain said "This facilitative measure comes as quite a welcome one for businesses who are keen on obtaining a certainty on pending litigations and with it being an optional measure only, it ensures flexibility from a tax payer perspective". PTI JD ANS ANS||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbic-asks-field-offices-to-conduct-virtual-hearings-in-customs-excise-service-tax-appeals-830909.html
28-04-2020||National||NITI Aayog building sealed for 48 hours after staffer tests COVID-19 positive||The NITI Ayog headquarters in Delhi was on Tuesday sealed for two days after a Director-level officer tested positive for COVID-19. The Niti Bhavan, which is just 500 metres away from Parliament House, was sealed in the morning after Niti Ayog was informed about the official testing positive for COVID-19 at around 9 am. "An employee working at NITI Bhavan has been detected positive with COVID-19. It was informed to the authorities at 9 am today. NITI Aayog is following all the due protocols necessary as per the Ministry of Health guidelines," NITI Ayog said in a tweet. "The building has been sealed. Disinfection and sanitisation of the building are underway. Contacts of the single COVID-19 positive person have been asked to go on self-quarantine," it added.  Earlier this month, the Ministry of Civil Aviation headquarters near Safdarjung was sealed for two days after one of its employees who attended office on April 15 tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/niti-aayog-building-sealed-for-48-hours-after-staffer-tests-covid-19-positive-830911.html
28-04-2020||National||Pandemic Podcast: Why ICMR asked states to stop using rapid antibody test kits||Deccan Herald’s Pandemic Podcast focuses on the COVID-19 situation. This episode throws light on why the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) asked states to stop using rapid antibody test kits, and a helpline set up by Score Foundation is helping people with disabilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-podcast-why-icmr-asked-states-to-stop-using-rapid-antibody-test-kits-830912.html
28-04-2020||National||Work from home: Professionals complain of stress, insomnia, anxiety||Insomnia, backaches, restlessness, stress and anxiety are among the side effects people are facing from prolonged work from home as the country entered the fifth week of the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. Many companies and firms shut office operations after the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 25. Initially imposed for 21 days, the lockdown was extended to May 3 as the number of COVID-19 cases increased in the country. Suresh Sharma, a Delhi-based techie, said he spends most of his time either in front of his laptop screen or on his mobile phone, sometimes hours at a stretch. "I was initially enjoying working from home. However, with the passage of time, I realised it had taken a toll on my health. While working in my office space, I would be attending meetings and interacting with people. But, now, absolutely everything is online," he said. Sharma says back problems have cropped up and headaches have become frequent.  For Geeta Malhotra, a techie based in Bengaluru, work from home has not only blurred the line separating her personal and professional life, but has also made her insomniac. "I am eating whenever I want. Sometimes two meals a day, sometimes four times a day. The little walking I used to do has also stopped. I have put on four kgs of weight since the lockdown and I am having trouble sleeping at night so much that I have been sleeping for less than four hours," she said. Like Sharma, she too complained of suffering from headaches frequently. Several large IT companies, according to estimates, has 90 to 95 per cent of its employees working from home. Health experts have advised people to practice meditation and do physical exercises to keep the mind and body fit. People should also use this opportunity to pursue their hobbies to de-stress, they said. Clinical psychologist at the Paras Hospital in Gurgaon, Preeti Singh, said people might be experiencing these issues as they are not getting enough opportunity for physical activity. This is also sometimes due to lack of motivation or anxiety, she said. "Work load has increased along with responsibilities at home, this has left people exhausted. Insomnia might have become a problem as many are tensed over job security," Singh said. Shailaja S, who works in Bengaluru as an architect, said she has been having "anxiety attacks and nightmares". "When at work, I would see my colleagues, go on coffee or lunch breaks, but now I am sitting at home the whole day working," she said. "I am always restless, I keep checking my phone assuming there is a message from office. There is no respite even after working hours are over, as I keep getting work messages," said Shailaja. Rahul Kumar, a consultant with a Gurgaon-based multi-national company, said his body posture has worsened and he is suffering from severe back pain, restlessness and anxiety. "In the first two weeks, I was relaxed but as time passed, I have been restless and anxious. My diet and exercise routine have all been hit. Now all I do is sit in front of the computer and work in my room," Kumar said. Some health experts also said that distressing news on the novel coronavirus pandemic is also taking a toll on the mental health of people. Pankaj Gupta, president, Indian Institute of Health Management Research University, in Jaipur, said distressing information related to the coronavirus is making people scared and worried about their and their family's health. "We know that good mental health promotes good physical health, therefore involve yourself in dancing, yoga, gardening that brings in positive thoughts and happiness," he said. "Practising meditation early in the morning, and devoting time to reading and spiritual activities will generate positive vibes around you and your loved ones. Keeping the house clean and bright with lights, walking on the roof will help them stay mentally healthy during this tough time," Gupta said. Shanu Srivastava, a senior psychologist at Indian Spinal Injuries Centre advised people to limit news consumption on COVID-19. He said frequent updates on the pandemic is creating anxiety and insomnia in many people. The government has launched a toll-free helpline number - 08046110007 -- for people who may face any mental health issue due to the ongoing countrywide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. In a document 'Minding our minds during the COVID-19 pandemic', the Union Health Ministry said staying at home can be quite nice for some time, but can also be boring and restricting. It advised people to stay busy and distract themselves from negative emotions by listening to music, reading, watching an entertaining programme on television, pursuing hobbies and doing simple indoor exercises. The deadly coronavirus disease has claimed 934 lives in the country and currently, there are 21,632 active cases, according to the health ministry. On the bright side, 6868 people have been cured of the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/work-from-home-professionals-complain-of-stress-insomnia-anxiety-830913.html
28-04-2020||National||SC asks Centre to ensure PPE kits are provided to health workers in non­-COVID treatment areas||The Supreme Court has directed the Centre to make suggestions in the guidelines for rational use of personal protective equipment so that the PPE kits are provided to all medical professionals who are working in non-COVID treatment areas in the country. A bench headed by Justice N V Ramana, hearing the matter through video-conferencing, passed the direction after it was informed that asymptomatic COVID-19 patients are reported to be on the rise in India. The bench, also comprising Justices S K Kaul and B R Gavai, was dealing with an application seeking provision for PPE for health workers including doctors, nurses, ward boys, medical and para-medical professionals who are working in non-COVID treatment areas keeping in view that fact that coronavirus infection from asymptomatic patients is reported to be on the rise. "We find substance in the suggestions made by the applicant," the bench noted in its order passed on Monday. "In view of the above, we direct the respondent/ Union of India to examine this issue and make necessary suggestions in the 'Rational Use of Personal Protective Equipment' guidelines so that PPEs are provided to all health officials, as stated above, who are working in non­-COVID treatment areas," the bench said. The bench, which disposed of the plea, made it clear that orders passed by the apex court on April 8 in the matter would continue. On April 8, the apex court had observed that doctors and medical staffs are the "first line of defence of the country" in the combat with COVID-19 pandemic and directed the Centre to ensure that appropriate PPE are made available to them for treating coronavirus patients. While passing a slew of interim directions to ensure safety and security of doctors and healthcare professionals, the top court had directed the Centre, all states and union territories to provide necessary police security to them in hospitals and places where patients, who are either quarantined, suspected or diagnosed with COVID-19, are housed.  The court had directed that "states shall also take necessary action against those persons who obstruct and commit any offence in respect to performance of duties by doctors, medical staff and other government officials deputed to contain COVID-19". The court had passed the order on pleas seeking protective kits, other requisite equipments and safety measure for doctors and healthcare workers amid coronavirus pandemic. It had directed that necessary police security be extended to doctors and other medical staffs, who visit places to conduct screening of people to find out symptoms of disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-ensure-ppe-kits-are-provided-to-health-workers-in-non-covid-treatment-areas-830915.html
28-04-2020||National||India engaged with countries including US for coordinated response to COVID-19: Taranjit Singh Sandhu||India remains engaged with other countries including the US and Israel for a coordinated response to the coronavirus pandemic, the Indian envoy here has said. India's Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu, in a conversation with the influential American Jewish Committee (AJC), said that the Indian leadership is in a close contact with its friends and ready to step forward to help them. “As we battle this pandemic, India remains engaged with other countries including the United States and Israel in an effort to partner towards a coordinated response. “Whether it is the form of ensuring supply of essential medicines or sharing expertise and knowhow or joint scientific collaborations, India stands ready to battle this pandemic shoulder to shoulder with our friends,” Sandhu said in his interaction with the AJC. As a country of 1.3 billion people, India faces unique challenges in combating this common enemy, he said.  India has so far managed to slow the initial spread of the contagion since the first confirmed case in the country on January, 30. India, he said, has taken preemptive measures under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to enforce a total lockdown. Sandhu said that India and the US are global strategic partners with a multifaceted relationship which encompasses almost every aspect of human endeavor. “Our defence and energy partnership has grown over the years as has our scientific collaboration. As democracies with shared values and global strategic partners, we are in a unique position today, walking together to combat the the COVID-19 crisis,” he said. Jason Isaacson, AJC Associate Executive Director for Policy and Managing Director of Government, said that the US is deeply indebted to the Indian healthcare workers who are such an important part of the health system of the country. The Indian medical device industry, the pharmaceutical industry continue to be essential, not only in India, but to the world, he said. The world, he noted, has come to rely on these devices and protective equipment and pharmaceuticals from India, he said. Sandhu said India has assumed the leadership role in “this very, very deadly” crisis. “We took not only proactive measures in India, but we also took active measures in the region and the world at large,” the Indian envoy added. The deadly coronavirus, which originated in China late last year, has so far killed more than two lakh people and infected over three million globally. The largest number of them are in the US: more than 56,000 deaths and over one million infections. In India, mainly because of the early and aggressive preventive measures, the fatalities have remained comparatively low at 934 and infections at 29,435. PTI LKJ CPS||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-engaged-with-countries-including-us-for-coordinated-response-to-covid-19-taranjit-singh-sandhu-830917.html
28-04-2020||National||Supreme Court asks Centre to consider adopting 'one nation, one ration card' during coronavirus lockdown||A bench of Justices N V Raman, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to take appropriate decision in view of the present circumstances. Advocate Reepak Kansal, appearing for himself in a PIL, pointed out that 'one nation, one ration card' scheme, framed by the central government was going to start from June 2020. However, in view of COVID-19 pandemic, the said scheme should be implemented forthwith to ensure no migrant worker remained without food. "We direct the Union government to consider whether it is feasible for it to implement the said scheme at this stage or not and take appropriate decision in this regard keeping in view the present circumstances," the bench said. The court passed its order on Monday, disposing of the PIL.  The plea filed by Kansal had asked the court to ensure food, temporary shelter and medical aid to the migrants labourers or employees or citizens who were locked in their rented premises or were in transit on roads, national highways due to lockdown. He said it was important to ensure that the poor do not go hungry if they did not local ration cards.   Lakhs of migrant workers remained stuck in several states after the countrywide lockdown was announced on March 24 to fight COVID-19 pandemic. The 21-day lockdown was subsequently extended up to May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-asks-centre-to-consider-adopting-one-nation-one-ration-card-during-coronavirus-lockdown-830920.html
28-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: NGT issues instructions on its functioning from May 4||The National Green Tribunal Tuesday issued instructions regarding its functioning from May 4, when the Covid-19 lockdown is slated to be relaxed, stating that the Chairperson, Members and officers (Deputy Registrars and above) will attend the Office with 100 per cent attendance. As for the remaining staff, up to 33 per cent of the strength will physically attend the office as separately notified from time to time, the NGT said. According to the office order issued by the NGT, the section heads/in-charge of all sections shall prepare rosters of staff required to attend office physically by rotation and the staff members not required to present physically at the office. However, they shall always remain available on phone and electronic means of communication, and shall attend office physically as and when required, it said. "Considering the health and safety of lawyers / public / litigants / staff, till the situation of Corona improves, judicial work will be conducted by the Benches of NGT only by Video Conferencing, without physical presence/appearance of parties or their counsel in the NGT complex," the circular said. It said that only online filing (e-filing) of cases will be allowed and no physical filing is permitted. It further said: "The parties/lawyers may request for listing or adjournment of their cases or make urgent mentioning, by sending an email in advance to "mailto:judicialngt@nic.in"judicialngt@nic.in. All communication with NGT qua listing of cases, filing of documents/reports, filing of written submissions / synopsis / audio of oral submissions (if any) etc. shall be done only through this email ID."  The decision has been taken in light of order issued by of the government on the subject of functioning of Government establishments during lockdown period on account of pandemic Covid-19, requiring 100 per cent attendance of the officers of level of Deputy Secretary and above and up to 33 per cent attendance of remaining staff. The office order further said that the lawyers and litigants desirous of participating personally in video conferencing  hearings are required to send request at the above email ID in advance, giving their names, case title, case number, date of hearing, e-mail IDs and mobile numbers. "For VC hearings, NGT shall be using 'Vidyo' App whereby users can join Vidyo room from their mobile phones/laptops/desktops having adequate internet facility. Vidyo App can be downloaded from link given in website "http://ecourtvc.nic.in/"ecourtvc.nic.in as well as Google Play Store (for android) and Apple Store (for iOS). If request for personal hearing through VC is permitted by the Bench, the time and link with one-time password for VC hearing shall be shared with the parties by the Office," the communication said. Entry to NGT complex shall be restricted only to its staff and all the safety and precautionary guidelines issued by the government shall be scrupulously followed by all concerned, the office order said. "Staff shall maintain social distancing norms and protocols, shall wear face masks throughout, shall pass through thermal scanner at entry gate and shall sanitise/wash hands at appropriate intervals. There shall be no crowding at any place / branch in NGT complex and seating of staff shall be arranged accordingly," it said. The office order said, "The NGT complex, including surfaces of furniture and frequently touched objects, shall be sanitised with disinfectants on daily basis. This shall be subject to further modification if and when further instructions are received from the government."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-ngt-issues-instructions-on-its-functioning-from-may-4-830931.html
28-04-2020||National||Woman lodged at Tihar Jail on murder charges commits suicide||A 35-year-old woman, facing murder charges, allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself in a Tihar Jail cell, police said on Tuesday. Praveen alias Kavita was an inmate of the Central Jail-6 at the Tihar prison since April 25. She was arrested for allegedly killing her father-in-law and mother-in-law along with her husband, they said. Doctors at the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital declared the woman brought dead, police said, adding that the reason of death has been stated as hanging. On the intervening night of April 26 and April 27, Praveen was found hanging from an exhaust fan at the Tihar Jail No. 6. She had used her dupatta, Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Deepak Purohit said The officer said that an inquest proceeding in underway. Praveen had also tried to commit suicide after killing her mother-in-law and father-in-law, Purohit said He said a case was registered against the couple at the Chhawla police station under Indian Penal Code sections 302 (murder), 309 (attempt to suicide), 120(B) (criminal conspiracy), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention). Her husband Satish, who was also arrested in the case, was unemployed and financially dependent on his parents. He along with his wife killed his parents over a property dispute, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-lodged-at-tihar-jail-on-murder-charges-commits-suicide-830934.html
28-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Two patients recover in Chhattisgarh; 3 active cases remain||Two more COVID-19 patients were discharged from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Chhattisgarh's Raipur city on Tuesday after recovering from the infection, an official said. At least 34 persons have been discharged from the hospital, which now only has three active cases left, a public relations officer from AIIMS said. "The hospital has discharged two women from Katghora town in Korba district, after they tested negative for the infection in two consecutive tests," he said. As of now, three patients, including a male nursing officer of AIIMS, were recuperating in the hospital's isolation ward, he added. Katghora, located around 200 km from Raipur, has emerged as the COVID-19 hotspot in the state, with 27 confirmed cases reported there till April 16. Chhattisgarh COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 37; New cases 0; Deaths 0; Discharged 34; Active cases 3; People tested so far 14,987.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-two-patients-recover-in-chhattisgarh-3-active-cases-remain-830936.html
28-04-2020||National||Uttarakhand Forest Dept seeks to temporarily transfer Rajaji land for Kumbh facilities||The Uttarakhand Forest Department is preparing to transfer vast stretches of vacant land under the Rajaji Tiger Reserve and the Narendra Nagar Forest division temporarily to the Kumbh Mela Samiti to create facilities for devotees, causing considerable concern among environment and wildlife activists. A proposal has been moved to the Centre, seeking permission to transfer 778 hectares of land to the Kumbh Mela Samiti for nine months to create facilities of temporary nature for devotees, including camps and parking lots, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (APCCF) DJK Sharma told PTI. "Around 10 crore devotees are expected to visit the Kumbh Mela, likely to start in January next year, and creating facilities for them is our responsibility. So, we have moved the proposal to the Ministry of Forest and Environment, seeking its clearance for temporary transfer of the land to the Kumbh Mela Samiti," he said. "Though the existing rules permit competent authorities of the state Forest Department to transfer the land for temporary use for 15 days, the MoEF's permission is needed as we intend to transfer the land to the Mela Samiti for a period of nine months, starting September 1 to May 31,” the official said. However, environment and wildlife activists are vehemently opposing the proposal on the grounds that it is in violation of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972 and the Forest Conservation Act 1980. That apart, the creation of facilities for devotees visiting the vast religious congregation will destroy the natural habitats of wildlife besides causing great noise pollution and dumping of food and plastic waste in the area, they said. "Authorities don't bother about the environment and the animal world. Earning revenue is their only agenda. The damage to the environment caused by the one-month kanwar mela every year is not hidden from anyone. Kumbh is organised on a much bigger scale, hence the damage too is bound to be much bigger," young environmentalist from Rishikesh, Ridhima Pandey, said. Increased human activity will destroy the natural habitats of animals in Rajaji, which has a significant population of tigers, she added. Environmental scientist Ashok Kumar Aggarwal said the transfer of Rajaji land to the Mela Samiti for temporary work will cause irreparable damage to the rich bio-diversity and wildlife wealth at the tiger reserve. On the concerns raised by the activists, the APCCF said only low vegetation areas of the RTR and the Narendra Nagar Forest division are proposed for temporary transfer to the Mela Samiti which will not involve felling of trees or cutting off green cover. "The areas we propose to temporarily transfer to the Mela Samiti are not thickly forested. So there will be no felling of trees and clearing of forests as being feared. The mandatory wildlife mitigation measures will also be taken to address the concerns of environment and wildlife activists," Sharma said. Since the venue of the Kumbh Mela cannot be shifted out of Haridwar, facilities for devotees have to be created in adjoining areas only, he said, adding Kumbh melas have also been held in the past and adjustments have always been made without harming the environment to create facilities for the convenience of the devotees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-forest-dept-seeks-to-temporarily-transfer-rajaji-land-for-kumbh-facilities-830944.html
28-04-2020||National||Excluded from govt schemes during lockdown, transgenders demand special package||Over 2,100 people from the transgender community have written to the government demanding a special package for them, which includes an assured subsistence income of at least Rs. 3,000 per month till Covid-19 is in full control. In an open letter to Ministries of Home, Finance, and Social Justice, they said none of the schemes announced by the government since the lockdown is of their benefit and the community is pushed into further vulnerability. The also demanded uninterrupted supply of all essential medication to transgender persons including ART medicines, tuberculosis care and treatment, hormone therapy, and other gender-affirming procedures and an order mandating that no transgender person shall be forced to pay rent or face eviction by their house owners for non-payment of rent during the period of lockdown. Facing food shortage, the community members also urged the government to universalise the Public Distribution System (PDS) to ensure food security to all needy citizens, including transgender persons, and ensure monthly rations kits. The community was also pained to note that the government has announced schemes for almost all sections of the society but has left out them. It said the financial package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman did not make any reference to the transgender community. "In a welfare state, it is important that vulnerable populations are not seen from the prism of being a ‘numerically influential vote constituency’, but supported by virtue of we being citizens and taxpayers of this country, entitled to equal rights and share in the schemes. We thus seek our rightful share in the Special Financial Package declared due to the lockdown," the letter said. As per the 2011 Census, there are around 4.88 lakh transgenders in the country. A 2015 study says 87% of them survive by begging or sex work.  While demanding that they need an assured income of at least 3,000 per month till the pandemic is in full control, they said the National Institute of Social Defence (NISD) of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment made an interim arrangement of Rs 1,500 to around 4,500 transgender persons from different states. This accounts for just 1% of the community, they said. "A majority of transgender persons live in conditions of abject poverty, social exclusion and eke out our livelihood primarily through begging and sex work, both of which are avenues of work that entail public presence and physical contact. With physical distancing having been mandated (and rightly so to prevent furthering of virus) transgender persons have been weaned away from our only source of work.  With no permanent sources of income, our condition is as vulnerable as daily wage earners," the said in the letter. There is an alarm in the community following the death of a transgender person in Indore, they said adding the practice of community living in poor hygienic conditions exposes many to greater health risk at such times, as most of them are driven away from homes early in life.  Pitching for universalisation of PDS, they said a large number of them do not have basic documentation such as Aadhaar card, ration card, election card and bank accounts their self-identified name and gender, to seek any services from government. "Most of us remain outside the coverage of government social security schemes like rations and pensions; making it impossible to survive in such times of lockdown. The non-availability of suitable ID cards is a systemic gap as pointed out even by the Supreme Court and cannot be used against us to deny welfare benefits," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/excluded-from-govt-schemes-during-lockdown-transgenders-demand-special-package-830945.html
28-04-2020||National||Priyanka Gandhi demands probe into spate of killings in Uttar Pradesh||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday alleged that 100 people have been killed in Uttar Pradesh in the first 15 days of April and demanded a thorough probe in the cases as well as into the "merciless" killing of two priests in Bulandshahr. It is the duty of the government to ascertain the truth behind these murders, which should not be politicised, she said. "100 people have been killed in Uttar Pradesh in the first 15 days of April. Three days ago, bodies of five members of the Pachouri family in Etah were found under mysterious circumstances. No one know what happened to them," she said in tweets in Hindi. "Today, two sadhus sleeping in a temple in Bulandshahr have been killed mercilessly.There should be a thorough probe into such heinous crimes and no one should politicise these incidents at such a time," she said.  Two priests were hacked to death allegedly by a villager in Bulandshahr district. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed senior officials to take strict action against the culprit and submit a detailed report. The Congress leader said it was the responsibility of the UP government to bring out the truth.  "The truth should be brought out before the entire state after holding an impartial probe. This is the responsibility of the government," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-gandhi-demands-probe-into-spate-of-killings-in-uttar-pradesh-830947.html
28-04-2020||National||Cop's mother, wife test positive for COVID-19 in Navi Mumbai||The constable, who is attached to the Mumbai police, had tested positive for the infection earlier, while swab reports of his elderly mother and wife came out positive on Monday, public relations officer of the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation Mahendra Konde said. In another development, a 42-year-old heart patient, who died while being shifted to a hospital in Navi Mumbai, tested positive for coronavirus post death, the official said. A 57-year-old medical personnel of a civic hospital in Mumbai has contracted the infection, and at least 12 civic workers, who came in contact with her, were quarantined, a release from the Palghar district administration stated. As per reports, the number of positive cases in Palghar stood at 146, of which 10 patients have succumbed to the infection. Meanwhile, as many as 41 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Maharashtra's Thane district, taking the tally to 728 in the region and toll to 21, after two more died on Monday, an official from the district administration said.  With 41 patients, Mumbra town has recorded the highest number of cases in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cops-mother-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-navi-mumbai-830958.html
28-04-2020||National||Man's mortal remains from UAE brought to India, last rites performed, HC informed||The Delhi High Court has been informed that the mortal remains of an Indian citizen who died recently in the UAE, and were returned the first time, were brought back and his last rites have been performed by his family in Uttarakhand. The matter reached the high court when his brother submitted that the 24-year-old Kamlesh Bhatt died of heart attack in Abu Dhabi on April 17 and his mortal remains were sent to India by Etihad airport services cargo on April 23, but the body was returned to UAE from Delhi due to immigration issues. During the Monday's hearing, conducted through video conferencing, Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva was informed by the petitioner's counsel that with the intervention of the Centre and the Uttarakhand government as also due to the efforts of social worker Roshan Raturi at UAE, the mortal remains of his brother reached Delhi in the morning. Advocates Rituparn Uniyal and Abhishek Kumar, representing deceased's brother Vimlesh Bhatt, said the mortal remains were transported to Uttarakhand where his last rites were performed. They added that they have instructions to withdraw this petition. Additional Solicitor General Maninder Acharya, appearing for the Centre, submitted that the Standard Operating Procedure has been issued by the government in the form of guidelines for importation of human remains related to COVID-19. The Centre had on April 25 told the court that it will find out from the concerned embassy about the location and condition of the mortal remains of Bhatt. The petitioner, a resident of Tehri Garhwal in Uttarakhand, had sought direction to the authorities to bring back the mortal remains of his brother who was working in Abu Dhabi. On April 17, his family in India received the information regarding his death due to sudden cardiac arrest. The plea said that on April 23, a social worker at UAE shipped the human remains from Etihad Airport to Delhi's International airport and even the petitioner was informed when the cargo had arrived here. However, they were shocked to be informed by the cargo company that they were not allowed to unload the body of the victim due to some immigration issue despite having complete documentation and legal formalities which were required for repatriation of human remains to India as laid down by the Ministry of External Affairs, the advocates had said. “In a most inhumane, insensitive and unexpected conduct of the respondents the human remains of the deceased were sent back to UAE on the same flight without citing any order/notification/circular or furnishing any medical report by a medical officer or giving any explanation or reason to the petitioner who kept praying for handing over of the mortal remains of his 24 years old younger brother,” the plea said. The petition said that when the news about the death came, the family approached the authorities to arrange for transportation of the body from the hospital in UAE to India and on April 22, the Indian Embassy at Abu Dhabi issued a no-objection certificate for carrying the human remains of the victim to Delhi. The next day, the social worker at UAE shipped the human remains to Delhi, the plea said, adding that the petitioner had to take the mortal remains of his brother from Delhi to Rishikesh for his last rights and the family had obtained permission to travel from native village Semal Gaon to Rishikesh from the local administration. It alleged that the authorities did not even make efforts to unload the human remains of the deceased who was a respected citizen of the country and keep it in a mortuary room at the airport. “The inhumane treatment is worse than the treatment given to a terrorist,” the plea alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mans-mortal-remains-from-uae-brought-to-india-last-rites-performed-hc-informed-830964.html
28-04-2020||National||Thackeray dials UP CM, raises concern over killing of priests||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke to his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath over phone on Tuesday and expressed concern over the killing of two priests in Bulandshahr district, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Tuesday. The killing of priests in Uttar Pradesh should not be communalised like the Palghar incident in Maharashtra, Raut said, in an apparent taunt at the BJP. Talking to PTI, Raut said Thackeray spoke to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister and expressed concern over the incident in Bulandshahr. "Uddhavji said when such incidents happen, we should refrain from indulging in politics and unitedly work to punish the culprits," Raut said. Earlier, Raut in a tweet termed the killing of the two priests in Bulandshahr as "inhuman and brutal". Terrible ! killing of two saints , sadhus at a temple in bulandshahar,UP ,but i appeal to all concerned to not make it communal the way they tried to make palghar,maharashtra incidence "Terrible ! killing of two saints, sadhus at a temple in Bulandshahar,UP, but I appeal to all concerned to not make it communal the way they tried to make Palghar, Maharashtra incidence," he tweeted. "Maintain peace. The country is fighting corona and YogiAdityanath will punish the culprits," he said in another tweet. In Palghar, a mob lynched three men - two seers and their driver - on April 16 when they were going from Mumbai in a car towards Surat in Gujarat to attend a funeral. Their vehicle was stopped near a village in Palghar district where the three were dragged out of the car and beaten to death with sticks by a mob on suspicion that they were child-lifters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/thackeray-dials-up-cm-raises-concern-over-killing-of-priests-830965.html
28-04-2020||National||Delhi police launches helpline for family members of its personnel||The helpline number ‘011-27491208’ with STD facility was started on Monday to enable the family members of Delhi Police officials to know about the well-being of the security personnel, officials said on Tuesday. While healthcare workers are fighting the battle against coronavirus inside hospitals, police personnel are manning the roads to enforce the lockdown. A police official said the helpline will serve as an additional source of information for the family members to check on the well-being of their relatives at this hour. The families of many Delhi police personnel reside in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Bihar among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-launches-helpline-for-family-members-of-its-personnel-830967.html
28-04-2020||National||ADB approves $1.5 bn loan to India to fight COVID-19  ||The Asian Development Bank (ADB) on Tuesday said it has approved USD 1.5 billion loan to India to help fund its fight against coronavirus pandemic. The loan has been sanctioned with a view to support immediate priorities such as disease containment and prevention, as well as social protection for the poor and economically vulnerable sections.  It is fully committed to supporting the Indian government in its response to this unprecedented challenge, said ADB President Masatsugu Asakawa. "The quick-disbursing fund is part of a larger package of support that ADB will provide in close coordination with the government and other development partners. "We are determined to support India's COVID-19 response programs and ensure that they provide effective support to the people of India, especially the poor and vulnerable," Asakawa said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adb-approves-15-bn-loan-to-india-to-fight-covid-19-830971.html
28-04-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi discusses coronavirus crisis with Indonesian President||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday discussed the situation arising out of the spread of coronavirus with Indonesian President Joko Widodo. "Discussed COVID-19 pandemic with good friend President @Jokowi," the prime minister tweeted. As close maritime neighbours and comprehensive strategic partners, close cooperation between India and Indonesia will be important to deal with the health and economic challenges posed by this crisis, Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-discusses-coronavirus-crisis-with-indonesian-president-830972.html
28-04-2020||National||Centre assures quick evacuation of stranded seafarers||The Centre on Tuesday assured various seafarers associations that it will take all possible steps for quick evacaution of the stranded seafarers whenever the situation becomes favourable. Union Minister Mansukh L Mandaviya during his  interaction via video conference with ship liners, shipping companies, maritime associations, seafarers unions regarding the change of crew at Indian Ports, also direcred the officials to prepare evacaution plan.   Mandaviya also acknowledged the challenges faced by the seafarers and appreciated their work in this crucial and testing time. The Minister directed the officials of the shipping ministry to ease the process of ''sign-on and sign-off'' for the seafarers at the Indian Ports, said the government. Representatives from Indian National Ship Owners Association, Maritime Association of Nationwide Shipping Agencies India, National Union of Seafarers of India, Indian Maritime Foundation, Maritime Union of India, Maritime Association of Ship Owners Ship managers and Agents, among others participated in the interaction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-assures-quick-evacuation-of-stranded-seafarers-830976.html
28-04-2020||National||Indian missions in UAE to start compiling data to fly back its expats home: Report||Indian missions in the UAE will soon start compiling the data of the expatriates wanting to fly back home after getting stuck amidst the coronavirus pandemic in the Gulf nation, according to a media report. The missions are currently awaiting more clarifications from New Delhi regarding the details that need to be collected and “some more issues” that need to be clarified, the Gulf News reported on Monday. "We hope to start soon," Indian Ambassador to the UAE Pavan Kapoor was quoted as saying to the paper.  In total, there are more than 3.4 million Indians living in the UAE and they have been requesting the government to facilitate their repatriation, the report said. Kapoor did not elaborate on the clarifications sought or the expected date of beginning the registration. The move comes close on the heels of the Indian Embassy in Qatar beginning the registration, the paper reported. The data compilation also follows reports from India which suggested that the central government was making assessment of preparations in states for bringing home stranded Indians, the report said. The coronavirus has so far infected 10,839 people in the UAE with 82 deaths, the paper reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-missions-in-uae-to-start-compiling-data-to-fly-back-its-expats-home-report-830977.html
28-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad among 15 "high case load" places, says Amitabh Kant||NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant has identified 15 places including Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad as "high case load" and said India's success in battling COVID-19 is dependent on them. Out of these 15, seven districts show particularly high case volumes, like Hyderabad (Telangana), Pune (Maharashtra), Jaipur (Rajasthan), Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Ahmedabad (Gujarat), Mumbai (Maharashtra) and Delhi. Other high case load places that are "critical" in the battle against COVID-19 include -- Vadodara (Gujarat), Kurnool (Andhra Pradesh), Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh), Jodhpur (Rajasthan), Agra (Uttar Pradesh), Thane (Maharashtra), Chennai (Tamil Nadu) and Surat (Gujarat). "These 15 districts are critical in our battle against #Covid_19 Of them 7 show particularly high case volumes. India's success in battling COVID-19 is dependent on them. We must aggressively monitor, contain, test, treat in these districts! We must win here," Kant said in a tweet. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to combat the spread of coronavirus, which has infected more than 29,000  people in the country. More than 900 people have died due to the deadly virus. The government had on March 29 constituted 11 empowered groups to suggest measures to ramp up healthcare, put the economy back on track and reduce misery of people as quickly as possible post the 21-day lockdown imposed to contain the coronavirus pandemic. Kant, heads the Empowered Group (EG 6) on coordinating with private sector NGOs and international organisations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-delhi-mumbai-ahmedabad-among-15-high-case-load-places-says-amitabh-kant-830978.html
28-04-2020||National||Killing of priests in UP's Bulandshahr shouldn't be politicised like Palghar incident: Congress||The killing of two priests in Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh should not be politicised like the Palghar incident in Maharashtra, the Congress said on Tuesday, asking the BJP government in the state to tell who is responsible for the crime. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala asked the BJP and the state government to also tell as to how many people have been arrested in the case. Two priests were found murdered at a temple in Bulandshahr district on Tuesday morning, allegedly killed by a local youth. Jagdish (55) and Sher Singh (45) were apparently hit with a lathi at Paguana village’s Shiva temple in Anupshahr police station area, police said. The alleged killer was arrested. "The BJP was trying to give a political twist to the killing of two priests in Palghar. We demand that there should be no politics on the killing of priests in Bulandshahr," he said. "Hope the UP government and the BJP will tell the country as to who is responsible for the killings and how many people have been arrested so far," Surejwala told reporters through video conference. He said BJP national president JP Nadda and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath should come forward and tell who is responsible for these killings in Bulandshar. The Congress leader claimed this is not the first such incident when religious leaders have been attacked and killed in states with BJP governments. Similar attacks have taken place in Haryana in the past, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/killing-of-priests-in-ups-bulandshahr-shouldnt-be-politicised-like-palghar-incident-congress-830985.html
28-04-2020||National||COVID-19 cases in Indore Central Jail rise to 19||Nine more prisoners lodged at the Central Jail in Madhya Pradesh's Indore city have tested positive for coronavirus, an official said on Tuesday. With this, the total number of those who contracted the infection in the jail in last 14 days has gone up to 19, including 17 prisoners and two jail guards, prison superintendent Rakesh Kumar Bhangre said. "Out of the 124 prisoners, who were already kept at a temporary jail located far from the Central Jail campus after they showed symptoms similar to coronavirus, nine have tested positive for the disease," he said.  Prior to this, eight prisoners and two jail guards tested positive for the infection in the last fortnight, the official said. Authorities suspect that the infection spread in the jail from a 58-year-old prisoner, who tested positive for COVID-19 on April 14 after his arrest, the official said. The prisoner and his 25-year-old son allegedly hurled stones at a policeman in Chandan Nagar locality here on April 7. The son was booked under the National Security Act (NSA) and sent to the Jabalpur central jail where he tested positive for coronavirus on April 11, Bhangre said. On getting information about his son, the 58-year-old prisoner was immediately admitted to a hospital in Indore where his test report came out positive for coronavirus on April 14, he added.  Nearly 2,050 prisoners are lodged in the Indore central jail as against its capacity of 1,230, another prison official said. "We are screening all the prisoners daily. Those having flu-like symptoms or fever are being quarantined," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-in-indore-central-jail-rise-to-19-830988.html
28-04-2020||National||With 10 cr in its kitty, coronavirus proves to be milch cow for Bihar Police||The Income Tax department and other central agencies may be worried over the shortfall in revenue collection, including the depleting GST. But the coronavirus has proved to be a milch cow for the cash-strapped Bihar Police. Ever since the lockdown has been announced, the State cops have collected Rs 10.44 crore as fine/penalty from those vehicle-owners who violated lockdown guidelines in the last 35 days. Of these revenue collections from across the State, one of the highest gains for Bihar Police was on April 26 (Sunday) when it collected Rs 39,36,100 as fine from those violating rules in a single day. “Altogether 75 persons were arrested on Sunday and 1,812 vehicles seized after several people were found to be roaming around without any valid reason,” said a police source. “Monday (April 27) was no different, as 29.33 lakh was collected as fine, while 45 persons were arrested and 1449 vehicles seized,” the source said, adding, “Till now, Rs 10,44,11,237 has been collected as penalty from those violating lockdown rules in Bihar in the last 35 days.” “Fines are being imposed as this could serve as a deterrent to those who willfully violate lockdown rules,” said the ADG (Headquarters), Jitendra Kumar. Of late, the Bihar Police have been checking vehicles more aggressively as coronavirus has started showing a dangerous trend with 69 positive cases recorded in a single day in Bihar on April 27. With this, the total positive cases in the State have gone up to 346.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-10-cr-in-its-kitty-coronavirus-proves-to-be-milch-cow-for-bihar-police-830992.html
28-04-2020||National||Ministry of Shipping announces Rs 50 lakh compensation for employee death due to COVID-19||The Ministry of Shipping, on Tuesday, announced compensation of Rs 50 lakh for people working in major ports in the country, in case they die due to COVID-19. The Ministry has decided that major ports may grant Rs 50 lakh compensation ex-gratia in the event of loss of life due to COVID-19 to the dependent members or legal heirs of the port employees, it said. Both direct and contractual employees are covered under the scheme. India has 12 major ports, including Deendayal (erstwhile Kandla), Mumbai, JNPT, Cochin and Mangalore. “Monetary Compensation is declared to cover the risk of life due to COVID-19 contamination while discharging the Port related duty. Port Chairman is the competent authority for the settling claims/ disbursement of the compensation/ Ex-Gratia and verifying authority for the cause of death from COVID-19. This compensation is applicable only for the pandemic of COVID-19 and shall be in force up to September 30, 2020 subject review,” the government said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ministry-of-shipping-announces-rs-50-lakh-compensation-for-employee-death-due-to-covid-19-830993.html
28-04-2020||National||Researchers at Noida university discover molecule with potential to treat coronavirus||Researchers at Shiv Nadar University have discovered a set of chemical molecules that have the potential to cure acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) caused by coronavirus infection, the Noida-based private university claimed on Tuesday. The team of researchers led by Professor Subhabrata Sen from the Department of Chemistry expects to complete the pre-clinical studies by the end of this year and after which the compound will be potentially ready for human trials, the university said in a statement. The new chemical entities (NCEs) hold potential to cure acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) induced by COVID-19 or other severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and middle east respiratory syndrome (MERS), according to the statement. The researchers have filed a provisional patent in India to protect the new chemical entities and the novel molecule in discovery is being moved to the next stage of checking where its efficacy will be tested on animals. According to the researchers, the therapy would not only prevent COVID-19 from affecting a person's lungs but will also address lung injuries already inflicted by the virus, in cases, the ventilators are either not proving effective or are not available altogether that would bring in relief to COVID-19 patients suffering from ARDS. "We hope our therapeutic approach will unravel solutions against maladies associated with acute respiratory distress syndrome. Our aim is to conclude the preclinical studies by the end of this year, post which the new compound will potentially be ready for the next stage of development along with human trials," Sen said. The two-fold strategy devised by the research team involved the application of the NCEs to inhibit attachment, entry and infection of the new coronavirus through a known target on the virus and co-administration of a known drug (that modulates a set of hormonal receptors in human) and these NCEs to attenuate ARDS caused by the novel coronavirus, Sen said. "This particular research holds out the promise for a drug that can combat COVID-19, SARS and MERS – this is highly commendable," Shiv Nadar University vice-chancellor Rupamanjari Ghosh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/researchers-at-noida-university-discover-molecule-with-potential-to-treat-coronavirus-830996.html
28-04-2020||National||No evidence yet to support that plasma therapy can be used for coronavirus treatment: Health Ministry||Centre on Tuesday cautioned on indiscriminate use of convalescent plasma therapy to treat COVID-19 patients amid gushing endorsement of the procedure by political leaders. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) made it clear that convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) was one of the several “emerging therapies” for COVID-19, but there was no “robust evidence” to support it for “routine therapy”. “The ICMR is conducting an experimental study on the efficacy of plasma therapy as a treatment for COVID-19. Till the study is approved, no one should use it, it can be harmful to the patient, it would also be illegal,” Lav Aggarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry told reporters here. The caution from the top medical research body came on a day when the total number of COVID-19 cases rose to 29,974 and the death toll increased by 51 to touch 937. According to the Health Ministry, there were 22,010 active cases of COVID-19 and 7,027 patients had recovered from the illness, taking the recovery rate to 23.44 per cent.  Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and some AAP leaders came out enthusiastically in support of CPT after four patients at the Delhi government-run hospital recovered and similar “success stories” were reported from private hospitals. Kejriwal also issued a public appeal to patients who had recovered from COVID-19 to donate blood to administer CPT on seriously ill patients. There was also a rush for plasma donation in Mumbai.  Tablighi Jamaat members, who were accused as super spreaders of the disease, too came forward to donate blood plasma to treatment of seriously ill Covid-19 patients, following an appeal from their leader. The CPT involves transfusion of blood plasma of a recovered person to a seriously ill patient. Initial experiments of CPT have shown promising results, but the method was yet to be scientifically validated. “We should use this therapy only for trial and study purposes. In fact, if the plasma therapy is not used as per the prescribed guidelines it could cause life-threatening complications,” Aggarwal said. “Currently, there are no approved, definitive therapies for Covid-19. Convalescent plasma is one of the several emerging therapies. However, there is no robust evidence to support it for routine therapy. The US FDA has also viewed it as an experimental therapy,” the ICMR said. “There are also several risks of using this therapy including life-threatening allergic reactions and lung injury,” the ICMR said adding that it had initiated multi-centre clinical trials evaluate safety and efficacy of using the therapy in Covid-19 patients in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-evidence-yet-to-support-that-plasma-therapy-can-be-used-for-coronavirus-treatment-health-ministry-830998.html
28-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Centre relaxes work from home rules till July 31||The Centre on Tuesday permitted techies to work from home till July 31 in view of the lockdown. This will require the Department of Telecom to extend the relaxation of its rules which it had done only temporarily due to the lockdown.  Sources revealed that under normal circumstances, IT and ITES companies wanting to adopt work from home (WFH) will have to make a mandatory deposit worth several lakhs to the DoT. Union Minister for Information Technology and Communications Ravishankar Prasad, who held a video conference with state IT ministers on Tuesday afternoon said the Centre will decide on the future plans after assessing the situation. Taking part in the video conference, Deputy Chief Minister and IT, BT Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan requested the Union minister to extend the WFH facility till March 2021. The Department of Telecom (DoT), following the announcement of lockdown, had given temporary relaxation to BPOs, KPOs and IT companies to allow WFH. . Narayan said, “Work from home requires relaxation of various rules by the telecom department, including taxes on effective bandwidth, WiFi connectivity, setting up security protocols for the secured on-premise environment.” The DoT, during the lockdown, has eased those norms facilitating WFH culture. We only wanted this relaxation of telecom rules and a rebate on taxes to be extended for a year so that techies can safely practice WFH.” Dr Narayan said, “According to Nasscom figures, there are about 10 lakh IT professionals in Bengaluru. If all of them were to come on to the streets to work from tech parks in this scenario, it might further aggravate the situation.” The DCM also requested the Union minister to hold a video conference with IT industry representatives in Bengaluru to which the Union minister responded positively. Stressing on taking Internet connectivity to grass root level, Ravishankar Prasad said, “The Covid-19 lockdown has changed the work culture, especially in the IT sector. About 80% of the workforce is working from home. Facilitating this further, the government will strengthen Internet connectivity through Bharat Net project.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-centre-relaxes-work-from-home-rules-till-july-31-830999.html
28-04-2020||National||Rotary supports India’s fight against COVID-19||In the wake of the unprecedented COVID-19 outbreak, Rotary members across India have contributed Rs. 30 crores to support government in the fight against COVID-19.   Rotary members are responding to the impact of the global COVID-19 crisis by providing comfort and hope to those feeling the effects of isolation and fear. These members are also focusing on supporting the health workers and first responders who are on the front lines of this disease. To date, 1.5 lakh Rotary members across 4,000 Rotary clubs in India have distributed 75,000 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, more than one crore face masks, 6,50,000 packets of food, and grain, and more than 25 lakh meals to those in need across the country.  In a press statement,  Shekhar Mehta, president-nominee, Rotary International 2021-22, said, “The COVID-19 pandemic response requires worldwide solidarity and an urgent global effort. Rotary clubs are working with local governments to provide food, medical equipment, sanitizers, masks, and other items as required. Rotary members aim to do their part to flatten the COVID-19 curve and support those who are most impacted in our communities. We all have a responsibility to help those who are struggling during this time of crisis. We need to work together so that we emerge out of this stronger.” As eliminating polio worldwide is Rotary’s top philanthropic goal, Rotary and its partners in the Global Polio Eradication Initiative will use the infrastructure they built to end polio in India – including its tools, workforce, and extensive surveillance networks – to help prevent the spread of COVID-19 by supporting preparedness and response activities.  "I really value Rotary members’ contributions in our fight against COVID-19,” Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan, was quoted saying in the release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rotary-supports-india-s-fight-against-covid-19-831000.html
28-04-2020||National||COVID-19 effect: Axis Bank Q4 net loss at Rs 1,388 cr||Axis Bank on Tuesday reported a standalone net loss of Rs 1,387.78 crore for March quarter of 2019-20 as provisioning for bad loans and contingencies soared. The private sector lender had reported a net profit of Rs  1,505.06 crore in the same quarter of the previous financial year. Income during the latest quarter stood at Rs 20,219.57 crore. It was Rs 18,324.31 crore in the year-ago period, Axis Bank said in a regulatory filing. Provisions for bad loans and contingencies in the fourth quarter of the last fiscal were at Rs 7,730.02 crore. In the year-ago quarter the provisions stood at Rs 2,711.43 crore.  On consolidated basis also, the lender posted a net loss of Rs 1,250.09 crore during the quarter ended March 2020. There was a net profit of Rs 1,677.90 crore in the year-ago period. Income increased to Rs 20,786.23 crore in the latest quarter from Rs 18,950.85 crore in the same period a year ago. Gross non performing assets (NPAs) fell to 4.86 per cent of the gross advances as on March 31, 2020 from 5.26 per cent by the year- ago same period. Net NPAs or bad loans too came down to 1.56 per cent from 2.06 per cent. The bank said the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will impact the bank's provision on assets will depend on the future developments, which are highly uncertain. Among other things, any new information concerning the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic and any action to contain its spread or mitigate its impact whether government mandated or elected by the bank, will also impact the provisions.  It said the pandemic has affected the world economy including that of India, leading to significant decline and volatility in financial markets and decline in economic activities.  Axis Bank stock closed 6.61 per cent higher at Rs 455.55 on the BSE.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-effect-axis-bank-q4-net-loss-at-rs-1388-cr-831002.html
28-04-2020||National||Facilitate inter-state movement: Nitin Gadkari||Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday urged the states to remove inter-state road blockades to ensure smooth movement of trucks and other vehicles carrying essential commodities. Interacting with state road transport ministers through video conference, Gadkari asked the ministers to intervene in such matters and ensure smooth resolutions through the local/district administrations. This, he said, needs to be given urgent attention by facilitating the truck/lorry movement, to ease up lives of the public in the light of lockdown announced to curb COVID-19 pandemic. The Minister also suggested the states to ensure truck drivers and labourers follow health advisories and other guidelines like social distancing, wearing masks, use of sanitisers, both by the driver and cleaners and also at the dhabaas. The Minister also said his Ministry will start a helpline to resolve the transportation issues. On highway development front, Gadkari said the states should take steps to expedite land acquisition and utilise funds of about Rs 25,000 crore allocated for the purpose to help regain momentum in road construction through land acquisition. Gadkari also suggested the states to explore operationalising of App-based two-wheeler taxis especially in rural areas which will assist farming communities with smoother movement. This will also provide new employment opportunities. They may also try to shift public transport to LNG, e-vehicles which will bring considerable savings on fuel bills and will help the environment in being less or zero polluting fuels, he said. Apart from the Transport & PWD Ministers/Dy CMs, Chief Ministers of Mizoram, Himachal Pradesh and Arunachal Pradesh also attended the conference alongwith Secretary, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, senior officers of the Ministry, NHAI, NHIDCL, etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facilitate-inter-state-movement-nitin-gadkari-831014.html
28-04-2020||National||Managing kidney disease in COVID-19 positive cases becoming a challenge||Managing those with kidney disease among the COVID-19 positive cases is emerging as an additional challenge to doctors battling the pandemic. On April 23, a 70-year-old man died of COVID-19 at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here after he tested positive. Hospital authorities said he had diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease and was on dialysis. Recently, an elderly woman who was admitted for kidney problems at the same hospital tested positive for coronavirus after she was suspected to have contracted the virus from a doctor who was treating her. The doctor, in turn, is suspected to have got the infection from a patient he was treating. "Effect on the kidney is secondary to hypoxia or cytokines released by the COVID-19. It is generally perceived that COVID-19 types of viruses are borne from respiratory systems lungs - but a growing body of evidence shows that the virus also attacks the kidneys either directly or mediated by excessive immune response seen in severe COVID-19 patients and not just the lungs," said Dr Suresh Rao, Intensivist with the city-based MGM Health Care. Citing the reports of SARS and MERS-CoV infections, he says Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) had developed in 5 to 15 per cent cases, but about 60 to 90 per cent of those cases reported mortality. "The preliminary reports of COVID-19 patients suggested a lower incidence (3 to 9 per cent) of AKI, but later reports indicated a higher frequency of abnormalities. A study of 59 patients with COVID-19 revealed that about two- thirds of patients developed a massive leak of protein in urine during their stay in hospital," he said.  A senior state Health official said "chronic kidney disease stage-5 patients on dialysis are also vulnerable group because of their existing co-morbidities, repeated unavoidable exposure to hospital environment and immunosuppressed state." "Due to their health conditions, they also develop severe diseases as compared to general population," the official said. Prior to reporting coronavirus cases in Tamil Nadu, the state health department identified the vulnerable groups including those who require dialysis and ensured their treatment was not affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/managing-kidney-disease-in-covid-19-positive-cases-becoming-a-challenge-831021.html
28-04-2020||National||Death toll due to COVID-19 rises to 937, cases climb to 29,974||Death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 937 and the number of cases climbed to 29,974 in the country on Tuesday, registering an increase of 51 deaths and 1,594 cases since Monday evening, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 22,010, while 7,026 people have recovered, and one patient has migrated, the ministry said. Thus, 23.44 per cent of the infected people have recovered so far, a senior Health Ministry official said. The total number of cases include 111 foreign nationals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-due-to-covid-19-rises-to-937-cases-climb-to-29974-831027.html
28-04-2020||National||5 mn people displaced in India due to disasters in 2019: Monitoring Centre Report||Five million people were displaced in India last year, the highest in the world, due to disasters, including cyclones and monsoon floods, a new report by a monitoring centre said. The displacements were a result of a combination of increasing hazard intensity, high population exposure and high levels of social and economic vulnerability, the report by the Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre (IDMC) released on Tuesday said. South Asia recorded 9.5 million new displacements associated with disasters in 2019, the highest figure since 2012 and the floods triggered by the monsoon in India and Bangladesh and cyclones Fani and Bulbul were among the events that forced most people to flee their homes both in the region and globally. While India reported 50,37,000 displacements, Bangladesh recorded 40,86,520 in the year 2019. Other countries with new displacements are Afghanistan (5,78,000), Nepal (1,21,000) and Pakistan (1,16,000), according to the data provided in the report by the Geneva-based centre. "There were thought to be around 5,90,000 people living in internal displacement as a result of disasters across the country as of 31 December, but the figure is highly conservative given the high number of new displacements and the damages and losses recorded during the year", it said. According to the report, "conflict and violence" triggered about 19,000 new displacements in the country last year. "Political and electoral violence, primarily in Tripura and West Bengal in the first half of the year, accounted for more than 7,600. Lesser unrest and inter-communal violence continued to trigger displacement in the second half of the year," the report said. The year was also the seventh warmest in India since 1901 and the monsoon was the wettest in 25 years. These conditions helped to fuel the destructive power of the eight tropical storms to hit the country during the year. The most severe was cyclone Fani, which tracked across the states of Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal in early May, before moving north to Bangladesh. As it approached the coast of Odisha with maximum sustained wind speeds up to 240 km/h, the government organised the evacuation of more than 1.8 million people, it said. The states disaster management authorities were lauded for their lifesaving operations. Another 2,89,000 people were evacuated in Gujarat in June ahead of cyclone Vayu, which changed track and reduced in intensity before making landfall later than expected. The south-west monsoon triggered more than 2.6 million displacements in the months that followed. The north-west monsoon continued to trigger displacement in October and November, along with cyclone Maha, which hit Kerala and the Lakshwadeep islands on October 31. "Cyclone Bulbul struck Odisha and West Bengal ten days later, triggering 1,86,000 displacements", it said. The report said drought displacement was also recorded in the states of Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. Water shortages in Maharashtra between March and June forced about 50,000 farmers and their families to take refuge in cattle camps, displacement sites run by NGOs where livestock is also fed and watered," the report said. It said conflict and violence also triggered displacements in Afghanistan, India and Pakistan and to a lesser extent in Sri Lanka in 2019 with around 4,98,000 new displacements recorded across the region as a whole. The annual total has fallen over the past decade, mainly because of the "de-escalation" of violence in Pakistan, the report said. Afghanistan's conflict, however, shows little sign of abating, the report said. Around four million people were living in displacement as a result of conflict and violence as of the end of the year, with Afghanistan accounting for 75 per cent of the regional total, it added. IDMC says its global report on in internal displacement (GRID) 2020 is the global reference for internal displacement data and analysis and is widely used by policy-makers, national governments, UN agencies, international NGOs, jounalists and academics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-mn-people-displaced-in-india-due-to-disasters-in-2019-monitoring-centre-report-831028.html
28-04-2020||National||Stringent security audit for Chinese products: IT Minister||The Centre on Tuesday said that products coming from any country, particularly China, should be subject to stringent security audit and verification. "We are not against any country, we are only pro India, we are committed to India and will take measures to create opportunities for India. As regards security initiative are concerned...any product coming from any country particularly China, we expect proper security audit and verification," Telecom and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters after interacting with state ministers for IT. The minister was replying to media person questions on India's stance on Chinese products. The Centre on Monday cancelled orders of China-made antibody testing kits after a spate of complaints from the states over its quality. The Minister also said that  IT ministry along with NIC will come out, in 3-4 days'' time, with an app that will facilitate sharing of best practices. Prasad also urged State IT ministers to move swiftly and promote electronics manufacturing through pro-investment initiatives, in a bid to tap a "great opportunity" that now beckons India. Prasad said States have been highly appreciative of the Aarogya Setu app and he assured them that a similar solution for feature phones is being developed and will be launched soon. The Union Minister for Electronics and IT further said his ministry is constantly monitoring the spread of fake news on social media platforms and that companies have informed the government of the progress they have made in removing content that was aimed at inflaming passion and placing roadblocks in India''s fight against COVID-19. The Minister cautioned that any inaction by companies to clamp down on fake news would be met with consequences at the Centre and State levels, as well as the police action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stringent-security-audit-for-chinese-products-it-minister-831034.html
28-04-2020||National||Malayali farmers in Karanataka border areas in dire straits||Scores of Malayali farmers in Kodagu and nearby border areas of Karnataka are venturing through dense forests and even crossing rivers to reach Kerala during the lockdown days. Even as the authorities are initiating steps to issue passes for the Malayalis stranded in other states to enter Kerala, the farmers are opting the illegal route in order to skip the mandatory quarantining. Many farmers also prefer to stay back at their farms as they would not be able to return until the lockdown was lifted if they cross over to Kerala. Around 60 Malayali farmers who tried to illegally cross through forest areas were detained and kept in Corona care centres in Kerala. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that forest, police and revenue officials would conduct joint operations to curb illegal border crossing. It is roughly estimated that there are over 30,000 Malayali farmers spread across Kodagu, Mysore and Shimoga, mostly engaged in ginger cultivation. An association of ginger farmers alone has a membership of around 18,000. The majority of them are settled in Kerala, especially Wayanad and nearby Kannur districts. They used to frequently travel between their farms in Karnataka and their home in Kerala. Since it was the harvest season, most farmers were at their farms in Karnataka when the lockdown came, and hence they were stranded there. According to a forest department official, even as patrolling in forest areas were enhanced, many parts of Kerala - Karnataka border have dense forest areas on Karnataka's side while it would be either revenue or private plantations on Kerala side. Many illegal border crossings were allegedly taking place through such areas of Kannur. There were also reports that some were even swimming across the Kabani river. Ginger Farmers Association general secretary Mohan N, who was among the score of Malayali farmers held up in Kodagu - Mysore areas told DH that even as there was an option of getting the pass to enter Kerala many farmers were not availing it as they fear of being quarantined on reaching Kerala. Moreover, they would be able to return to their farms in Karnataka only after the lockdown was relaxed. It is harvesting season and time to initiate the next crop. Hence many farmers were reluctant to leave their farms indefinitely as around Rs. 5 lakh is invested per acre of land, he said. Mohan also said that most of the farmers were staying in the makeshift sheds on the farms. Though the farmers were getting adequate food, many were facing an indifferent attitude from the local people of Karnataka as they consider Kerala as COVID 19's hotspot as first COVID case in India was reported in Kerala and there was a spike in the COVID-19 cases in Kasargod district. Many Kannadiga workers were also showing reluctance to work in plantations of Malayalis, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/malayali-farmers-in-karanataka-border-areas-in-dire-straits-831040.html
28-04-2020||National||High Court asks Nagaland to set up COVID-19 testing labs in 10 days||The Kohima bench of Gauhati High Court on Tuesday asked Nagaland government to make at least two COVID-19 testing laboratories within 10-days as the state is yet to have one so far. Acting on a PIL filed by Kikrukhonuo, a resident of Nagaland capital Kohima, the bench also asked the state government to provide Personal Protection Equipments (PPE) of prescribed quality to all healthcare workers assigned to take care of COVID-19 positive person or those who are in the quarantine centres.  The PIL raised questions about Nagaland's preparedness to tackle the spread of COVID-19 and the facilities available in the state's hospitals. The bench issued notices to the state government and other respondents to reply to the concerns raised in the PIL within 10 days. One businessman from Dimapur, the state's commercial hub tested COVID-19 positive in Guwahati Medical College and Hospital. He is still in the hospital. But Nagaland still does not have a laboratory to test the samples for COVID-19. The state now depends on laboratories in neighbouring Assam. More than 600 samples have been tested so far in the laboratories in Assam and all were found negative. DH on April 8 highlighted the absence of a testing laboratory in Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh.  The bench also asked the state government to make sufficient numbers of ICU available in the hospitals identified for COVID-19 positive persons and also increase the number of ventilators. It directed the state government to make sure that the two hospitals, one in Kohima and Dimapur identified for COVID-19 patients are equipped with all facilities to deal with any emergency situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-court-asks-nagaland-to-set-up-covid-19-testing-labs-in-10-days-831046.html
28-04-2020||National||Officials of deemed university covered under anti graft law: SC||The Supreme Court has held that the 'deemed to be university' would be covered under the Prevention of Corruption Act, since such a varsity and its officials performed no less or any different public duty than the one undertaken by regular university and its officials. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Mohan M Shantanagoudar and Ajay Rastogi said that the very object of anti-corruption law was not only to prevent the social evil of bribery and corruption but also to make it applicable to individuals who might conventionally not be considered public servants. The top court termed as "incorrect" the Gujarat HC's judgement of February 2, 2018, wherein it had held "deemed University” is excluded from the ambit of the term “University” under the PC Act. The HC had discharged officials of deemed university 'Sumandeep Vidyapeeth', who were accused of demanding extra money from the daughter of a complainant for filling up examination form for the MBBS course.  The bench interpreted the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act to hold that the officials of the deemed university were public servants as they performed public duties. In its judgement, the bench also noted corruption in India is pervasive and there is no dispute that the education sector, which is a very important service sector in the country, has seen various scandals. In his separate concurring judgement, Justice Rastogi said it is true that the distinction has been pointed out by the Parliament under the provisions of the UGC Act for consideration and determination of standards of education in universities. But in my view, no distinction could be carved out between the university and deemed to be university so far it relates to the term ‘public servant’ under the PC Act, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/officials-of-deemed-university-covered-under-anti-graft-law-sc-831056.html
28-04-2020||National||Kerala HC stays state govt's salary deferment order||In a setback to the CM Pinarayi Vijayan, the Kerala High Court on Tuesday stayed an order of the government to defer six days salary of government employees for five months. The stay was issued for two months considering a batch of petitions challenging the government order. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the government would take further steps after examining the court order. Considering the petitions, Justice Bechu Kurian Thomas maintained that deferment of salary amounted to a denial of property to employees and financial difficulties of the government was not a ground for deferring salary.  One key contention of the petitioners, mainly service organisations, was that even as the government announced that the salary was being deferred, the government order did not mention when the deferred salary would be paid. The government had decided to defer salary for all government employees and teachers as well as all government institutions with a salary above Rs. 20,000 citing financial crisis owing to COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-hc-stays-state-govts-salary-deferment-order-831060.html
28-04-2020||National||COVID-19 test kits: China urges India to step up communication with Chinese firms to resolve issue||China on Tuesday urged India to step up communication to "properly resolve" the issue with the two Chinese firms which supplied the COVID-19 antibody rapid test kits, subsequently found faulty by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The ICMR on Monday asked states and union territories to stop using the test kits procured from the Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics due to the "wide variations" in their performance. India procured around five lakh rapid antibody test kits from the two Chinese firms. Asked whether China would conduct any investigation on this issue, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told a media briefing here that India and China are closely coordinating and cooperating with each other since the coronavirus outbreak surfaced.  "As to the specific incidents you mentioned, we hope the Indian side will step up communication with the Chinese companies to properly solve this issue. Of course, China and India have channels of communication. These are open," Geng said, adding that China stands ready to share more experience and offer assistance as per its capacity. He also mentioned that the two companies have released statements in which they said that the quick test kits they produced were approved by China’s National Medical Products Administration of China (NMPA) and “met the quality standards and they have been verified by the Indian institute of virology attached to the ICMR”. "China and India maintained close communication and cooperation. China shared experience with India and donated medical supplies to it. We hope the Indian side will stick to facts and enhance communication with the Chinese side to properly handle the issue and help promote cooperation between the two sides to fight the virus," Geng said. Indian officials In Beijing said the issue is being dealt with by the concerned agencies in Delhi.  Earlier, the Chinese Embassy in India said in a statement that it was "deeply concerned" over the evaluation result of the COVID-19 rapid testing kits supplied to India by the two Chinese companies and subsequent decision by the ICMR to not use the equipment. China, which has been dealing with such complaints from different countries over COVID-19 medical supplies, has stepped up official controls on the exports in recent weeks and advised the importing countries to procure all such equipment from companies authorised by the government. Both the firms which supplied the kits to India were approved by the Chinese government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-test-kits-china-urges-india-to-step-up-communication-with-chinese-firms-to-resolve-issue-831071.html
28-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: Hospitalise those with 'severe' alcohol withdrawal symptoms, says Centre||The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has issued an advisory to immediately admit and give treatment to people with "severe" alcohol withdrawal symptoms during the COVID-19 lockdown.  In the advisory, the ministry said as liquor shops are shut during the lockdown, it "may be a blessing in disguise for those who may utilise this opportunity to quit drinking altogether". The advisory was prepared in association with the National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre (NDDC) at All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). However, it is also a significant challenge for some people with alcohol dependence who are at risk of experiencing "severe alcohol withdrawal" and its consequences, it said. In the 'severe' category, the affected people might get seizures (convulsions), delirium tremens, comprised of confusion, disturbed level of consciousness, impaired awareness of surroundings, hallucinations and abnormal behaviour, and wernicke-korsakoff syndrome - a variety of neurological and cognitive symptoms, especially common in malnourished patients. Such "severe" patients require emergency medical care and hospitalisation, the advisory stated. The symptoms for 'mild or moderate' affected are classified into 'psychological' and 'psychological and physical' categories. The 'psychological' category patients will have anxiety, irritability, restlessness, craving, and an irresistible urge to consume liquor. Majority of them will get better within a few days with adequate fluids and nutritional supplementation, it said. Those with psychological and physical symptoms may have difficulty in sleeping, tremors, increased sweating, palpitations, headache, stomach upset and poor appetite. Such patients should visit the nearest clinic for prescription of appropriate medicines of benzodiazepine group (such as diazepam or lorazepam) and high doses of vitamin B (particularly thiamine, vitamin B1), the advisory said. People can contact toll-free helpline number 1800110031 for more details and assitance, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-hospitalise-those-with-severe-alcohol-withdrawal-symptoms-says-centre-831073.html
28-04-2020||National||12.91 lakh provident fund claims settled, more than Rs 4,684 Crore disbursed||The government on Tuesday said the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has settled 12.91 lakh claims worth Rs 4,684.52 crore, including Rs 2,367.65 crore claims under the Covid-19 package. Of the 12.91 lakh claims, 7.40 lakh claims were under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana package under which a subscriber was allowed to withdraw 75% of the money in his account. As on April 27, Rs. 875.52 crores have been disbursed to 79,743 PF members as an advance for COVID-19 by the exempted PF Trusts under this scheme, with 222 private sector establishments disbursing Rs.338.23 crores to 54641 beneficiaries, 76 public sector establishments disbursing Rs.524.75 crores to 24178 beneficiaries and 23 cooperative sector establishments disbursing Rs.12.54 crores to 924 claimants. Tata Consultancy Services (Mumbai), HCL Technologies Ltd (Gurugram) and HDFC Bank (Powai, Mumbai) are the top three exempted establishments in the private sector, both in terms of “number of claims settled and “amount disbursed”. In the public sector, ONGC (Dehradun, Neyveli Lignite Corporation ((Neyveli) and BHEL (Trichy) are the top 3 establishments to have settled the maximum number of COVID-19 advance claims. When it comes to disbursement of money, Neyveli Lignite Corporation (Neyveli), ONGC (Dehradun), and Vishakhapatnam Steel Plant are top three establishments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1291-lakh-provident-fund-claims-settled-more-than-rs-4684-crore-disbursed-831090.html
28-04-2020||National||Trainee IAS officers attend virtual classes, doing cleaning themselves at academy||Amid coronavirus lockdown, trainee IAS officers attend virtual classes and do the dishes and other chores all by themselves while maintaining social distancing norms during their stay at a prestigious training academy at Mussoorie, according to an official statement issued on Tuesday. Union Minister Jitendra Singh was briefed about this and other activities being done at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) for the training of bureaucrats on COVID-19 related issues during a video conference with the director and faculty of the premier institution. He was briefed on how SOPs have been formed for different aspects of the functioning of the academy including training of IAS officer Trainees of Phase-I, the statement issued by the Personnel Ministry said. "The classes are being conducted online which are accessed by them in their respective rooms. Similarly, food is being delivered to the hostels and the utensils and room cleaning is done by the officer trainees themselves," it said. COVID-19 related inputs have been given through various mechanisms including showing films, online discussion, assignments and structured inputs, the statement said. All the sections in the academy have made their own SOPs relating to social distancing and hygiene etc., it said. "All staff of the academy including outsourced workers have been trained by faculty of the academy as per the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare guidelines. All protocols of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare are being followed in line with the instructions of district administration as well," the statement said. Director, LBSNAA, Sanjeev Chopra briefed Singh, the minister of state for personnel, about the initiatives taken in the wake of pandemic like the academy's initiatives in documenting best practices for mitigating COVID-19, completion of phase-I training through online mode/assessment/reviews, IT infrastructure and upgradation for COVID 19 medical infrastructure and civil services association to reach to support national disasters (CARUNA) among others. The academy has reinvented its training through innovative use of technology and learning management system and all inputs and assignments by officer trainees are being routed through its own 'gyan portal', the statement said. It has also come up with an internet radio facility to aid these efforts, the statement said. The officer trainees have also been encouraged to take up various activities and competitions through different clubs and societies. The society for social services has been involved in getting face masks made by the self-help groups and distribution to officer trainees and staff and also distribution of ration to indigent families in and around the academy in collaboration with district administration, the Personnel Ministry said. "The Centre for Disaster Management is collecting best practices in COVID-19 management from across the country and different faculty members of the academy are involved in the initiative of the civil services association namely CARUNA," it said. Singh appreciated the steps taken by the academy and expressed the hope that many more such novel efforts would be taken to mitigate the crisis, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trainee-ias-officers-attend-virtual-classes-doing-cleaning-themselves-at-academy-831091.html
28-04-2020||National||CRPF ASI dies in Delhi due to COVID-19||A 55-year-old CRPF Assistant Sub Inspector on Tuesday died due to COVID-19, in the first such case in a paramilitary force in the country. He breathed his last in Safdarjung Hospital here. He was admitted to the hospital a few days ago after he tested positive for coronavirus. He was posted with the 31st battalion of CRPF in the national capital. Officials said 23 personnel from this CRPF battalion has been admitted with COVID-19 after they apparently came in contact with another personnel who was tested positive for coronavirus. Cases of COVID-19 were also reported from BSF and CISF.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-asi-dies-in-delhi-due-to-covid-19-831094.html
28-04-2020||National||Oncologists fear delayed cancer diagnosis, stage migration amid COVID-19 crisis||With people fearing about visits to hospitals amid the coronavirus outbreak, delayed diagnosis of cancer and its stage migration could be a fallout of the current crisis, according to senior oncologists. While many medical treatments can be put off amid the COVID-19 crisis, "cancer does not wait", oncologists feel. Cancer treatment in times of coronavirus has been challenging as the pandemic is impacting both cancer diagnostics and treatment, with doctors having to balance risks versus benefits on a daily basis. Dr Bhawna Sirohi, director of Medical Oncology at Max Healthcare, said cancer is "not going to wait" and the threat from it is "now and real".  "I feel patients, scared because of COVID-19, are not coming to hospitals and that is pushing them from early cancer to late stages," she told PTI. Sirohi urged patients not to be scared to come to hospitals and if they have a warning sign like a lump, they should not delay treatment. She said she recently had a patient who ignored symptoms for three weeks and delayed consulting a doctor, but was later detected with cancer. COVID-19 is here to stay and one just has to get used to the precautions and make it a new normal, she said. "Stage 1 and 2 (of cancer) can become 3 and 4, it can become incurable, if you don't act upon it," Sirohi said. Talking about cancer treatment in times of COVID-19, she said a balance has to be maintained between risks and benefits. "If the benefit is very small then one should avoid chemotherapy. But if you have a patient with lymphoma or blood cancer then the cure rates are very high, so you would want to go for the benefits," she said. Dr Akshay Tiwari, Associate Director and Head, Musculoskeletal Oncology, Max Healthcare, said as a bone cancer surgeon he is facing challenges at multiple levels. Patients are finding it very difficult to travel and even those who have the wherewithal to travel, are scared of coming to the hospital for the fear of contracting coronavirus, he said. This means that patients who should have been seeking treatment are not doing so and that would lead to stage migration of cancer, Tiwari said.  "Some cases may even become incurable because of the delay. We are fearing this as patients are not coming to us. Similar fears have been voiced by cancer specialists across the world," he told PTI. The message should go to the public that cancer does not wait and it is even deadlier than COVID-19, the senior oncologist said. "Diagnosis may also be delayed and that is what is unfortunate. The message needs to go out that we should not ignore symptoms which are remotely linked to cancer for example a lump or swelling," he said. Dr Rajender Kumar, Additional Director and Head of Oncology at Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh, said the COVID-19 crisis is definitely posing a challenge to cancer treatment as many patients with malignancy in the head and neck area or having lung cancer have symptoms similar to COVID-19. "We are using all the precautions and the staff is using PPEs as cancer treatment is essential," he told PTI. Asked whether the COVID-19 pandemic can lead to delayed cancer diagnosis, Kumar said patients are coming to his hospital and their numbers have not decreased, but it is a possibility as most of the routine clinics and hospitals are shut down and people are not going to their doctors. "We don't have data on it, but it can happen," Kumar said. Dr Niranjan Naik, Director, Surgical Oncology, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurgaon, said the COVID-19 crisis is posing a challenge as patients with low immunity are at a higher risk of contracting the virus. He said the key aspect while making decisions is the cancer doubling time which is different for different cancers, with blood cancer being very aggressive as compared with breast cancer. "Whenever any symptoms emerge, one should get proper medical investigations done even in the present times as cancer will not wait," Naik told PTI. The oncologists insisted that technology must be used to reach out for medical advice and any symptom must be reported through a video conference appointment or an online OPD. As the nation fights one of its biggest health battles against COVID-19 pandemic, there are many individual battles being fought by bravehearts, both doctors and patients, to emerge victorious against other life-threatening diseases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oncologists-fear-delayed-cancer-diagnosis-stage-migration-amid-covid-19-crisis-831097.html
28-04-2020||National||Andhra Pradesh is bringing home 5,000 fishermen stuck in Gujarat||Amid the nationwide lockdown, the Andhra Pradesh government is bringing back home about 5000 fishermen stuck in Veraval, Gujarat. Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy, after reviewing their plight, has sanctioned Rs 3 crore from the CM Relief Fund for their safe return, one CMO official said. AP has hired 64 buses to transport these fishermen to their native Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts in north coastal Andhra. 20 of these buses would start from Veraval on Tuesday, officials said. The state government was providing essential goods like food items, blankets in addition to what their Gujarat counterparts were arranging for the migrant labour there. Thousands of fishermen from AP, a state with a vast coastline, are engaged in fishing activities in the Arabian Sea by Gujarati businessmen. Like every year, many of them went to Veraval, a major fishing harbor in Saurashtra, about 3-4 months ago.     Since the announcement of the lockdown in March, these fishermen are stuck there without any income generating activities.   Andhra Pradesh COVID-19 cases at 1259 In a review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy on Tuesday, officials informed that 82 new positive cases have been recorded from the 5783 samples tested in the past 24 hours. A total of 80,334 tests have been conducted in the state so far. While the national average in terms of positive cases recorded is 4.13 percent, the state average is 1.57 percent. The average death rate of the country is 3.19 percent and the state average is 2.46 percent. All these cases are from the containment zones, officials told the Chief Minister. The health machinery is gearing up to set up the virus testing labs in Srikakulam, Prakasam and Nellore districts. Labs would also come up in Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts later. Nine such labs are already operational in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-is-bringing-home-5000-fishermen-stuck-in-gujarat-831115.html
28-04-2020||National||Centre brings Cauvery Water Management Authority under Jal Shakti Ministry||The Centre on Tuesday officially brought Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) under the Union Ministry of Jal Shakthi. As per the Government of India (allocation of business) 1961, all river boards including Cauvery, Godavai River Management Board and Krishna River Management Board brought under the Department of Water Resources River Development and Ganga Rejuvantion in the Ministry of Jal Shakti, the notification issued by President of India stated. The notifications is just an allocation of business rule which means the Authority will have to report to the Jal Shakti Ministry, said an official.  However officials also clarified that the notification has no impact on the independent nature of the functioning of the authority. Acting on the Supreme Court's direction, the Centre in June 2018 constituted Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) to address the dispute over sharing of river water among Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala and Puducherry. In February 2018, the apex court had directed the Union Water Resources Ministry which now renamed as Jal Shakti Ministry to form the CWMA within six weeks in a verdict that marginally increased Karnataka's share of Cauvery water, reduced the allocation for Tamil Nadu and sought to settle the protracted water dispute between the two southern states. The authority would comprise a chairman, eight members besides a secretary. Out of eight members, two each will be full-time and part-time members, while the rest four would be part-time members from states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-brings-cauvery-water-management-authority-under-jal-shakti-ministry-831120.html
28-04-2020||National||Ensure critical health services like dialysis, blood transfusion are not denied: Centre to states||The Centre on Tuesday asked the States to ensure that private hospitals do not deny critical treatments like dialysis, chemotherapy, blood transfusion and institutional deliveries to patients in the wake of receiving several complaints In a letter to the state governments, Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan wrote that the ministry had received reports of private hospitals turning away patients requiring key services primarily due to the fear of contracting Covid-19. In many places patients requiring treatments are first asked to undergo the Covid-19 tests even without any symptoms. There are reports of hospitals forcing the in-patients to be tested for the virus, even though such tests are unnecessary. “For patients who need these critical services, it needs to be ensured that all the health facilities, especially those in the private sector continue to be functional and provide such services so that such patients do not face any hardships,” wrote Sudan, who was given three months of extension in the service to lead the battle against the pandemic. “At this time of crisis when health services are needed the most, the private sector has been missing-in-action and of the few private facilities that remain functional, many are profiteering. Most private hospitals have reduced or completely shut down their out-patient and in-patient services. They are unable to contribute to surveillance. Shutting down hospitals is a violation of Essential Services Maintenance Act and an abdication of their professional responsibility,” alleged public health campaigners from Jan Swasthya Abhiyan and All India Peoples Science Network. In her letter, Sudan cited orders from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs as well as guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research and Union Health Ministry to remind the states that they were duty-bound to convince the private healthcare industry to start functioning and offer the life-critical services. She asked the state governments to “allay the fears, alleviate uncertainty and to ensure that all the health facilities, especially those in the private sector do remain functional.” This would be applicable for both clinics and hospitals. “Anyone needing any essential services including dialysis, blood transfusion, chemotherapy and institutional deliveries is not denied such services,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-critical-health-services-like-dialysis-blood-transfusion-are-not-denied-centre-to-states-831121.html
28-04-2020||National||NITI Aayog building sealed for 48 hrs after staffer tests COVID-19 positive||The NITI Aayog building in the National Capital has been sealed for 48 hours after a director-level officer tested positive for coronavirus, a senior official said on Tuesday. "A director-level officer working at NITI Bhavan has been tested positive for COVID-19. Today at 9 am, he got his report, and then he informed authorities," Alok Kumar, an adviser at NITI Aayog, told PTI. He further said that those who came in contact with the person have been asked to go on self-quarantine.  "We are following necessary protocol and the health ministry has been informed and all the due processes will be followed. So, we are closed for 48 hours," Kumar added. Later, NITI Aayog in a tweet shared the information and said that "disinfection and sanitisation of the building are underway. Contacts of the single COVID-19 positive person have been asked to go on self-quarantine". "All officers of NITI Aayog are functional, available and currently working from home. As per the protocol of the Ministry of Health, the NITI Bhavan will resume normal operations after 48 hours," it added. Recently, the Aviation Ministry headquarters was also sealed after one of its employees who had attended office on April 15, tested positive for COVID-19. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to combat the spread of coronavirus, which has infected more than 29,000 people in the country. More than 900 people have died due to the deadly virus. On March 29, the government had constituted 11 empowered groups to suggest measures to ramp up healthcare, put the economy back on track and reduce the misery of people as quickly as possible post the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Empowered Group on medical equipment and management plan headed by NITI Aayog member V K Paul and the empowered group on coordinating with private sector NGOs and international organisations headed by NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant were functioning from NITI Bhavan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/niti-aayog-building-sealed-for-48-hrs-after-staffer-tests-covid-19-positive-831122.html
28-04-2020||National||India will be self-reliant in producing RT-PCR testing kits by May-end: Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday said the country will be self-reliant in producing RT-PCR and antibody testing kits by May-end that will enable it to conduct one lakh tests a day. Vardhan also reviewed through video conferencing various initiatives undertaken by the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) to tackle the COVID-19 crisis. Out of at least half a dozen candidates (companies) supported for vaccines, four are in an advanced stage and regulatory platform at one place has been constituted for speedy clearances, he was quoted as saying in a statement.  Renu Swarup, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology, informed that her department has evolved a multi-pronged research strategy and action plan for immediate responses as well as for long-term preparedness to tackle COVID-19. These multi-faceted efforts include research towards development of therapeutics and suitable animal testing for coronavirus as well as development of indigenous diagnostics and genomic studies on the host and pathogen. The DBT and its public sector undertakings, Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), has announced a COVID-19 Research Consortium Call to support diagnostics, vaccines, novel therapeutics, repurposing of drugs or any other intervention for control of COVID-19. "The sincere efforts of DBT scientists will enable the country to be self-reliant in production of RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) and antibody testing kits by the end of next month. This will make it possible to meet the target of conducting one lakh tests per day," he said.    Vardhan, who is also Science and Technology minister, exhorted scientists working on developing new vaccines, drugs and medical equipment to speed up their work. Testing is one of the key elements in fighting COVID-19. Last week, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) stopped rapid testing after they showed satisfactory results. Vardhan also released a hand sanitiser developed by another PSU of DBT, Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals Corporation Ltd (BIBCOL), which is engaged in manufacturing of various biological, pharmaceutical and food products. It is currently manufacturing formulations of vitamin C and zinc tablets to contribute towards the solution for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-be-self-reliant-in-producing-rt-pcr-testing-kits-by-may-end-vardhan-831136.html
28-04-2020||National||Covid-19 evolution: One strain overwhelms others||Analysing more than 3,600 strains of Covid-19, two Indian geneticists have found that one particular type of the virus called Type-A2a now sweeps the world replacing even the parental strain found in Wuhan. Like all viruses, the novel coronavirus-2019 too has evolved into new types over time and during its spread to different parts of the world. Currently, there are 11 types of the virus of which type-O is the ancestral type that was originally reported from China in December 2019. One or a few mutations define the signature of each of these types. When Nidhan Biswas and Partha Majumder, two scientists at the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani tracked the virus's evolution, they found in most regions only one type (A2a) of Covid-19 has begun to overtake other types. The scientists collected the genome data from 55 countries up to 6, tapping a global database. Upon closer scrutiny, it showed that Type-O was carried by travelers from China to other parts of the world. Subsequently, it began to evolve inside and outside of China. Astonishingly, in most parts of the world, only one type (A2a) of Covid-19 proliferates overtaking others. By March-end, the A2a type had nearly replaced all other types and became the dominant type of Covid-19 all over the world. A similar pattern was seen in India, which too submitted Covid-19 genetic data to the global repository accessed by the duo. Out of the 3600 samples they studied, 35 were Indians. “The 35 viral sequences belonged to 4 types: the ancestral type-O (5), and derived types A2a (16), A3 (13) and B (1).  Two types – A3 and A2a – predominate.  All persons infected with type A3 coronavirus have travel history to Iran, while most persons with type A2a have no known travel history to countries outside of India.  Therefore, the A2a type is also increasing in its population size within India,” they said in a research paper accepted for publication in the Indian Journal of Medical Research. The study implies that while engaging in a battle to eradicate or control Covid-19 by a vaccine or any alternative method, the overwhelming presence of Type-A2a has to be taken into account. “We need to investigate regional differences within India in respect of viral genomic diversity and frequencies of virus types. This will inform the relationship of coronavirus type with host ethnicity, perhaps mediated through differences in frequencies of variants in genes of the immune system among ethnic groups in India,” suggested the NIBG scientists||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-evolution-one-strain-overwhelms-others-831139.html
28-04-2020||National||Health Ministry issues guidelines for home isolation of very mild and pre-symptomatic coronavirus cases||Patients with very mild symptoms of coronavirus or those who are in a pre-symptomatic phase can stay in isolation at their respective homes, instead of hospital settings, the Health Ministry said. The Ministry issued guidelines for home isolation of very mild and pre-symptomatic COVID-19 cases, that mandates the patient to stay at home but remain in touch constantly with the District Surveillance Officer, and a hospital, after giving an undertaking. An asymptomatic coronavirus patient or someone with mild symptoms would now be allowed home quarantine with the support of a 24×7 caregiver and periodic supervision of a medical officer. According to the guidelines, the patient will have to be assigned as a very mild case/pre-symptomatic case by a treating medical officer. Also, the patient should have a requisite facility at home for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts. The guidelines also make it mandatory that the patient should have a caregiver 24x7 with a direct link to a hospital for the entire duration of the home isolation. The caregiver would be required to download the Aarogya Setu app and keep it on 24×7, all the family members of the patient would be administered hydroxychloroquine as a prophylactic as prescribed by the treating medical officer.  The patient would be required to fill a self-isolation form clearly stating that he would report immediately if his condition deteriorates. The guidelines make it clear that the patient would need to report if he experiences difficulty in breathing, persistent pain in the chest, mental confusion, bluish discolouration of lips and face or if the medical officer advises him to report to a hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-issues-guidelines-for-home-isolation-of-very-mild-and-pre-symptomatic-coronavirus-cases-831141.html
28-04-2020||National||Journalist Unions seek PM's intervention to stop retrenchment in media sector||Journalist Unions have sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi's intervention to stop the retrenchment of news persons amid the coronavirus outbreak. In a letter to Prime Minister Modi, Press Association, Indian Journalists Union, Working News Cameramen's Association and National Union of Journalists-India (NUJ-I) raised the issue of large scale retrenchments and pay cuts in the media sector.  They urged the government to proactively monitor the situation and take corrective steps to save the working journalists. "It will also be helpful if recently announced benefits like insurance cover for health professionals can also be extended to journalists on duty," the letter dated April 27 said. "In these circumstances, we request you to intervene and ensure that journalists are not sacked or their livelihood is not affected at this moment of crisis. We hope for an immediate intervention from your august office," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/journalist-unions-seek-pms-intervention-to-stop-retrenchment-in-media-sector-831150.html
28-04-2020||National||ADGP to probe COVID-19 data leak allegation in Kerala||Kerala state police chief Loknath Behera ordered a probe by ADGP (State Crime Records Bureau), Sudhesh Kumar, into the allegations that contact details of COVID patients were leaked out to a Bengaluru firm. Kerala police official spokesperson said that the ADGP would conduct a preliminary inquiry into the allegations that details of patients of Kasargod, Kannur, and Kozhikode districts were leaked out.  The allegation initially came up from Kasargod as some COVID-19 survivors complained that they received calls from a Bengaluru based firm as well as some private hospitals in Kerala suggesting post-COVID-19 medical care for enhancing immunity. Later similar allegations of data leak came up from Kannur and Kozhikode districts also and hence the high-level probe was initiated. COVID-19 data leak assumed significance in Kerala as the state already witnessed a row over the state government engaging a US-based firm for analysis of data of COVID-19 patients and those on quarantine. The opposition Congress alleged that the state government was compromising the privacy of health data of around two lakh individuals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adgp-to-probe-covid-19-data-leak-allegation-in-kerala-831155.html
28-04-2020||National||Climate technology must be open source, available at affordable cost: Prakash Javadekar||Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on Tuesday said just like the world is unitedly engaged in finding a vaccine for COVID-19, countries should work towards making climate technology an open source which must be available at affordable cost. He was speaking during the first virtual interaction with 30 countries in the 11th session of the Petersberg Climate Dialogue. India along with 30 other countries participated in the dialogue, deliberating over ways and means to tackle the challenge of reinvigorating economies and societies after COVID-19, while enhancing collective resilience and catalysing climate action as well as supporting particularly those that are most vulnerable. "Today, as the world is unitedly engaged in finding a vaccine for novel coronavirus, likewise we should have climate technology as open source which must be available at affordable cost," Javadekar said. Stressing on the issue of climate finance, Javadekar said the world now needs more. "We must plan for 1 trillion USD in grants to developing world immediately," he said. The minister also said the world must think of adopting more sustainable consumption patterns in line with requirement of sustainable lifestyles "as was first mooted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during Paris COP." He mentioned that India's Nationally Determined Contributions spanning a ten-year time frame are ambitious and are also compliant with the temperature goal of the Paris Agreement.  The minister also spoke about the opportunity world has to accelerate renewable energy deployment and creating new green jobs in the renewable energy and energy efficiency sector, said a ministry official.  The first virtual climate dialogue, was the eleventh session of Petersberg Climate Dialogue which has been hosted by Germany since 2010 to provide a forum for informal high-level political discussions, focusing both on international climate negotiations and the advancement of climate action.  The Dialogue was co-chaired by Germany and United Kingdom, the incoming Presidency of 26th Conference of Parties (COP 26) to United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).  The dialogue saw participation from ministers and representatives of about 30 countries.  This year's dialogue came at a crucial juncture when countries are tackling the COVID-19 pandemic to save lives, overcoming social and economic consequences of the outbreak while also preparing to move into the implementation phase of Paris Agreement under UNFCCC in post-2020 period.   The Dialogue is of particular importance this year as COP26, originally scheduled for November, has been postponed to an unknown date in 2021 due to the coronavirus outbreak. The key agenda of the dialogue was to discuss how countries can jointly tackle the challenge of reinvigorating our economies and societies after COVID-19, while enhancing our resilience and catalyzing climate action while also supporting in particular those most vulnerable. The Union Minister also participated in an Indo-German bilateral meeting with Svenja Shulze, Minister, Federal Ministry of Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety, Germany, the ministry said in an official statement.  This bilateral meeting was held via video conference just before the Petersberg Climate Dialogue, it said. "It covered discussions on a range of issues covering climate change, conservation of biodiversity and technical cooperation with Germany in these areas.  "The situation in both countries arising from the COVID 19 pandemic, and recovery efforts, were also discussed," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/climate-technology-must-be-open-source-available-at-affordable-cost-prakash-javadekar-831161.html
28-04-2020||National||Expert appreciate Health Min's remark that there is no proof about efficacy of plasma therapy||Experts on Tuesday appreciated the Union Health Ministry for clarifying that there is no scientific proof about the efficacy of convalescent plasma therapy against COVID-19, saying the mode of treatment has its own risks and one should not give false hope to patients. Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Health at a press briefing on Tuesday said that the ICMR has launched a national-level study to find out the efficacy of plasma therapy in the treatment of coronavirus and till the apex health research body concludes its study and a robust scientific proof is available, plasma therapy should be used only for research or trial purpose.  "If plasma therapy is not used in a proper manner under the proper guidelines, then it can also cause life threatening complications," Agarwal said. AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria stressed on the need to have good and well-conducted research trials before its benefits and the mode of therapy can be recommended for routine use in coronavirus patients.  He said that it is necessary for all institutes to take necessary approvals from the ICMR and Drug Controller General of India and follow proper clinical practice guidelines for this research. "In very limited studies, globally, convalescent plasma as an adjunct to other supportive therapies and treatments has shown some benefit in the management of severe patients of COVID-19," Guleria said. He also underlined that plasma has to be tested for its safety and it should have sufficient antibodies to be useful for giving it to COVID-19 patients.  "Giving plasma from a recovered patient without testing whether it has enough antibody titer or not may cause more harm than good as it can cause transfusion related reactions," he said. Guleria added that AIIMS  is working with ICMR to conduct a clinical trial on the efficacy of convalescent plasma therapy in coronavirus patients. However, Biocon founder Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, said the ministry's statement is inaccurate. "No Evidence To Support Plasma Therapy As COVID-19 Treatment": Government - this is a very inaccurate statement given the amount of global data that is available on its efficacy It is saving lives. Pls don't stop this," she tweeted. "Even USFDA believes this is a worthwhile treatment and has requested convalescent patients to donate plasma. Mayo Climic is doing a trial on@>1000 patients," she said. Vivek Nangia, Director and Head, Pulmonology, Medical Critical Care and Sleep Disorders at the  Fortis hospital here said the ministry has made the "right move to dispel any notion attached to plasma therapy" as far as coronavirus is concerned and added there is no specific treatment for it yet.  "One should not be giving false hope to patients," he stated. "This is a new virus and there is no specific treatment for this disease, whether it is hydroxychloroquine or plasma therapy. These are all conjectural therapies or experimental therapies," he said. Neeraj Nischal, associate professor in the Department of Medicine at AIIMS, said that in the absence of any specific antiviral medications for the treatment of COVID-19, convalescent plasma (plasma from patients who have recovered from the illness) is being seen as a promising therapeutic option.  But for plasma therapy to be effective, plasma must contain sufficient amount of neutralizing antibody against that infection. "This therapy is not foolproof and is associated with risks like inadvertent transfer of blood borne infections and reactions to serum constituents, including immunological reactions such as serum sickness and may worsen the clinical condition," Nischal said. The ICMR, in a series of tweets, said currently, there are no approved, definitive therapies for COVID-19 and convalescent plasma is one of the several emerging therapies. However, there is no robust evidence to support it for routine therapy. Even the US-FDA has viewed it as an experimental therapy, it said. "Despite the threat of the pandemic, there is a need to ensure the ethical integrity and establish the scientific basis of using the convalescent plasma therapy in patients with coronavirus infection," it said in a tweet. "The convalescent plasma therapy comes with its own share of technical challenges, like antibody titre testing. There are also several risks of using this therapy including life-threatening allergic reactions and lung injury," the apex health research body said. The central drug regulator has given its go-ahead to a proposal by the Indian Council of Medical Research for the clinical trial of convalescent plasma in COVID-19 patients, as per the protocol developed by ICMR. The Drug Controller General of India said ICMR has submitted a list of institutes, which have shown an interest in the trial, to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation and they may do so in consultation with the health research body. According to a notice by DCGI, the ICMR has developed a protocol for a controlled clinical trial with convalescent plasma which has been reviewed by the committee and the same may also be considered by the applicants as appropriate. "We have received an approval from DCGI for conducting clinical trials on using plasma therapy for moderate to severe COVID patients admitted at MHC. We got this approval yesterday and so far no patients have been enrolled in this study. Any further adminstration of this in a COVID-positive patient will be under the approved study," a senior official of Max Healthcare said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expert-appreciate-health-mins-remark-that-there-is-no-proof-about-efficacy-of-plasma-therapy-831181.html
28-04-2020||National||Shringla holds interactive session with CII; discusses engagement with G20, B20||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Tuesday interacted via video conferencing with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and discussed its engagement in the industry and business-related aspects of G20 and B20. He also discussed how they could actively engage as India assumes the Chair of G20 in 2022. The Business Twenty (B20) is the official G20 dialogue with the business community. The foreign secretary outlined the role of G20 in addressing the COVID-19 crisis and the outcomes of the extraordinary virtual G20 leaders Summit that took place on March 15, 2020, according to an official statement. He said the G20 represents two-thirds of the global population and has agreed upon a plan of action in tackling public health, economic and livelihood impact of the pandemic. The foreign secretary also outlined the government's initiatives in protecting vulnerable sections of the population, providing relief to MSMEs and ensuring adequate liquidity in the system. He also stressed the role of missions and posts abroad in helping Indian exporters look for opportunities in other countries and facilitate diversification of our imports. Shringla highlighted the efforts of the Ministry of External Affairs in facilitating the export of essential medicines and health supplies to friendly countries to enable them to tackle the pandemic. He also conveyed that at the prime minister's initiative, a video conference of leaders of the SAARC countries was organised.  During the conference, SAARC COVID-19 Emergency Response Fund was announced under which India has supplied hydroxychloroquine and paracetamol and other medical assistance to the SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation) countries, the statement said. The session was attended by CII President Vikram Kirloskar, CII Director General Chandrajit Banerjee and other former CII Presidents, including Venu Srinivasan, Dhruv M Sawhney, Hari S Bhartia, R Seshasayee and Naushad Forbes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shringla-holds-interactive-session-with-cii-discusses-engagement-with-g20-b20-831183.html
28-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: 'Corona cops' do parikrama, cut birthday cakes as India stays indoors||From doing ‘parikrama’ of a Gurudwara to thank Sikhs for distributing langar to masses in Delhi to delivering an oxygen cylinder to a tribal woman in Kerala, cops have been winning hearts amid coronavirus in the last one month, as opposed to the brutal baton-charges by them which make them hit the headlines. The men in uniform enforcing strict COVID-19 guidelines have been praised in many cities in the country, with people showering petals on them from their balconies and roofs, a pleasant deviation from the routine fear regarding cops. The video of a moving gesture of Panchkula cops bringing a cake and a gift hamper to a senior citizen has gone viral on social media. Moved by the approach of the cops, the retired colonel was in tears. An IPS officer from Odisha tweeted the video with a caption “a great heart-touching work by Panchkula police.” In Jalaun in Uttar Pradesh, a cop posted at Kalpi border had given his plate of food and a water bottle to a hungry man in tatters. In his Mann Ki Baat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that the police are ensuring that food and medicines reach the poor and the needy, and common people are connecting with the police at an emotional level. On Monday, the Delhi police adopted a unique method to thank the Sikhs engaged in feeding the poor and carried out a "parikrama" of Sri Bangla Sahib Gurudwara to appreciate the community members running langar to provide free food to the masses. Delhi Shiromani Gurdwara Management Committee has also accommodated the Health Care Workers in various Gurdwaras amid the COVID-19 lockdown. Last week cops led by an Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police in Jalandhar joined the birthday celebrations of 12-year-old Japneet Kaur after her father living in the same city but in a different area sent a message to the Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner requesting for help for celebrating the birthday of his daughter.  Apart from cake and gift hamper by cops, the family also received a congratulatory phone call from Jalandhar police commissioner. Last week, cops in Delhi celebrated the birthday of a four- year girl in a labour camp in Delhi. On April 18, the cops organised the celebration in the community kitchen at the labour camp in Chandan Hulla Village.  The video of pictures of children wearing masks and maintaining social distancing during the lockdown went viral, drawing the Santa Claus tag for cops. In Jalaun in Uttar Pradesh, a cop Ravishnkar Mishra posted at Kalpi border was about to start taking his food when he saw a hungry man in tatters loitering nearing. The cop gave his plate of food and a water bottle to him. Jalaun police uploaded a video clip of this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-corona-cops-do-parikrama-cut-birthday-cakes-as-india-stays-indoors-831195.html
28-04-2020||National||India's pharma capabilities will remain available to world to fight COVID-19: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said India's productive capabilities in the pharmaceutical sector would remain available for assisting the citizens of the world as countries fight the COVID-19 pandemic. He also said partnership between India and Canada is vital to fighting the pandemic. In a tweet, Modi said he spoke to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. "Thanked him for looking after Indian citizens in Canada in these difficult times," he said. "Collaboration and partnership between India and Canada is vital to fighting the pandemic, including through medical research and supply chain management," the prime minister said. A statement later said Prime Minister Modi conveyed the assurance that India's productive capabilities in the pharmaceutical sector would remain available for assisting the citizens of the world, including those of Canada, to the best of New Delhi's abilities. The two leaders agreed that the partnership between India and Canada could contribute meaningfully to the global effort to fight the pandemic, especially through collaboration in research and technology aimed at finding a vaccine or therapeutic solutions to COVID-19.  The two leaders discussed the prevailing global situation regarding the COVID-19 outbreak. They agreed on the importance of global solidarity and coordination, maintenance of supply chains, and collaborative research activities, the statement said. Modi thanked the Canadian prime minister for the assistance and support extended to the Indian citizens, especially students, in Canada.   Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau appreciated the support provided by the Indian government for Canadian citizens in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-pharma-capabilities-will-remain-available-to-world-to-fight-covid-19-pm-831198.html
28-04-2020||National||Techies can work from home till July 31; DoT eases rules||The Centre on Tuesday permitted techies to work from home till July 31 in view of the lockdown. This will require the Department of Telecom to extend the relaxation of its rules which it had done only temporarily due to the lockdown.     Sources revealed that under normal circumstances, IT and ITES companies wanting to adopt work from home (WFH) will have to make a mandatory deposit worth several lakhs to the DoT.  Union Minister for Information Technology and Communications Ravishankar Prasad, who held a video conference with state IT ministers on Tuesday afternoon said the Centre will decide on the future plans after assessing the situation. Taking part in the video conference, Deputy Chief Minister and IT, BT Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan requested the Union minister to extend the WFH facility till March 2021. The Department of Telecom (DoT), following the announcement of lockdown, had given temporary relaxation to BPOs, KPOs and IT companies to allow WFH. Narayan said, “Work from home requires relaxation of various rules by the telecom department, including taxes on effective bandwidth, WiFi connectivity, setting up security protocols for the secured on-premise environment and others."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/techies-can-work-from-home-till-july-31-dot-eases-rules-831202.html
28-04-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: Political row erupts over inflated cost of testing kits||A political row erupted over the pricing of rapid antibody test kits. A legal battle in a court between an importer and a distributor revealed massive profiteering to the tune of 145% over the landed cost of the kits bought from Chinese companies. As the Congress and the DMK targeted the Modi government and the Tamil Nadu government over buying the kits at inflated prices, the Centre claimed that it opted to make the purchases from the Chinese company’s exclusive distributor as it offered better terms. An official statement said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had approached the Chinese company Wondfo directly, but it had insisted on 100% advance payment without any commitment on logistics or timelines. “...it was decided to with Wondfo’s exclusive distributor for India for the kit who quoted an all-inclusive price for FOB (logistics) without any clause for advance,” a Health Ministry statement said. “No payment has been made to the seller of the kits,” Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry told reporters here. He added the kits were being returned after field validation tests showed a wide variation in the results. A controversy erupted as the court battles between the importer – Chennai-based Matrix Labs and distributor Real Metabolics over the payment for the test kits that revealed a massive difference between the procurement price of the kits and its selling price to the government. The importer procured the kit at Rs 245 per piece and sold it to the government at Rs 600 per piece. “When the entire country is fighting against the COVID-19 pandemic, some people are still trying to earn profits using unscrupulous ways. Such a corrupt mindset makes me cringe. The country will never pardon them,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said.  “That any human being would try & profiteer from the immeasurable suffering of millions of his brothers & sisters, is beyond belief & comprehension. This scam is an insult to every Indian. I urge the PM to act swiftly to bring the corrupt to justice,” Rahul said. His remarks came after a trial in Delhi High Court revealed massive profiteering and over-pricing by a firm in the Covid-19 kits supplied to the ICMR. Congress leaders went on the offensive accusing the Modi government of purchasing testing kits for Rs 600 per piece against the landed price of Rs 245.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-political-row-erupts-over-inflated-cost-of-testing-kits-830764.html
28-04-2020||National Politics||Here are views expressed by chief ministers after PM Narendra Modi's meet on COVID-19||Here are some of the views expressed by chief ministers following a meeting the prime minister had with leaders and representatives of states on the fight against the novel coronavirus and the ongoing lockdown: ODISHA Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik sought framing of a national standard operating procedure (SOP) for smooth movement of lakhs of people stranded across the country due to the lockdown imposed to combat COVID-19. He highlighted that a large number of students, workers, pilgrims, patients and professionals were stranded in different parts of the country, far away from their homes. Odisha also urged the Centre to take necessary steps to ensure that the workers grounded in different parts of the country are taken care of and looked after by the respective states in order to mitigate their plight. TAMIL NADU Tamil Nadu sought more RT-PCR kits from the Centre to ramp up its COVID-19 testing capacity to 10,000 a day from against existing 7,500. Chief Minister K Palaniswami also sought the Centre's nod for making payment of wages by cash to workers under the rural employment guarantee scheme MGNREGA during the lockdown. He said GST compensation for December-January may be released now and demanded a relief package to ease burden on the power sector, support to MSMEs, additional allocation of food grains free of cost for all card ration holders. JHARKHAND Jharkhand has decided not to implement till May 3 the Centre's guidelines giving relaxations to some shops due to a sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases. Chief Minister Hemant Soren said the borders of Ranchi would be sealed to contain the spread of the virus. "We have taken some important decisions to stop the pandemic in view of the sudden rise in coronavirus cases in the state. The government will not implement the central guidelines to give relaxation to some shops," Soren told reporters. GUJARAT Gujarat favoured a gradual lifting of the coronavirus-enforced lockdown. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said interests of daily wage labourers, small as well as big shop owners and self-earning people should be kept in mind if the lockdown is extended beyond May 3. GOA Goa suggested extension of the ongoing lockdown beyond May 3. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said he would also write to the prime minister, urging him to extend the shutdown.  UTTARAKHAND Uttarakhand raised the issue of the devastating impact the novel coronavirus has on the tourism sector. "Uttarakhand has been a centre of tourism, especially religious tourism, which has suffered due to the lockdown,” Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said. The state is also working on gradually improving the economy. Pharmaceutical and food-processing industries, besides many others, have resumed operations without compromising on the guidelines issued by the Centre. MADHYA PRADESH After the meeting, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan directed state officials to start preparations for the post-lockdown period. MEGHALAYA Meghalaya wanted the lockdown in the state to continue beyond May 3 to stem the spread of COVID-19. Chief Minister Conrad Sangma said some relaxations will be introduced in green zones and non-COVID-19 affected districts.  BIHAR Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said it would not be possible for the state to bring back students from places like Kota until the directions are suitably amended, as has been done by some other states. PUDUCHERRY Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy said a majority of the CMs wanted the lockdown to continue after May 3 and asked the PM to adopt a cautious approach while opening it. "Most chief ministers told the prime minister that the lockdown should continue and that some economic activity should be started slowly. The chief ministers were unanimous in telling the prime minister that the way the coronavirus is spreading in the country and cases are rising, there should be a cautious approach in opening the lockdown, and the prime minister should take a call on what needs to be done,” he said. HARYANA Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar urged the Centre to take quick steps to remove the uncertainty over the dates for competitive examinations like those for the defence services, the JEE exam for engineering colleges and the NEET for medical courses. WEST BENGAL West Bengal said it is in favour of lockdown. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said, “The Centre is making conflicting statements on lockdown. There is no clarity. We are in favour of lockdown. But the Centre, on one hand, emphasises on enforcement of the lockdown, and on the other hand, it issues an order to open shops. If you open shops, how would you enforce lockdown? I think the Centre should come out with a clarification."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/here-are-views-expressed-by-chief-ministers-after-pm-narendra-modis-meet-on-covid-19-830772.html
28-04-2020||National Politics||Jammu & Kashmir govt orders probe into pilferage of liquor during coronavirus lockdown||The Jammu and Kashmir government has ordered a probe into reports of huge pilferage of liquor during lockdown and constituted teams to conduct an audit of wine shops in the winter capital city. According to the reports, liquor is being sold at exorbitant rates in open markets in Jammu city during the lockdown. "There are reports that during the period of the lockdown, some licensees (wine shops) have resorted to malpractices and the liquor has been taken out in bulk from stores, stocks and shops (in Jammu),” deputy excise commissioner (Executive) Jammu said in an order here. As per the orders issued by excise commissioner on April 6 and April 10, wine shops and traders shall not open their establishments unless they receive specific orders. "In view to verify the stocks, it has been hereby ordered that teams shall immediately initiate the exercise of the verification of the stocks of the vendors and stores,” the deputy excise commissioner (DCE) said. In the first phase, 34 liquor shops and stores will be audited by eight teams constituting 20 officials of excise department, he said. Sources said the LG administration had directed the Commissioner Excise, J&K to constitute teams for the stock verification of wine shops. Several complaints had reached the office of Lieutenant Governor about the pilferage of liquor from many shops and stores during lockdown period and sale of liquor bottles at four to five times higher rate than the actual one. The DCE order added that the verification exercise will be conducted between 12 noon and 4 pm. “The teams shall also verify CCTV footage of shops and establishments during verification,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jammu-kashmir-govt-orders-probe-into-pilferage-of-liquor-during-coronavirus-lockdown-830949.html
28-04-2020||National Politics||Nation awaits clear exit strategy from coronavirus lockdown: Congress to PM Narendra Modi||The Congress on Tuesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to spell out a clear exit strategy for coronavirus lockdown after May 3, saying the nation is waiting for it. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the prime minister is expected to lead the nation in a crisis like these. "We once again appeal to the prime minister to come out with a clear exit strategy for the lockdown, to state the roadmap for economic revival and to deal with the health pandemic post-May 3, as also restrict the lockdown only to hotspot zones," he told reporters at a press conference through video conferencing. He said the chief ministers requested the prime minister to tell the nation what is the exit strategy from the lockdown. "What is the government's strategy on the health front and the economic front in terms of post lockdown period. What is the roadmap for the future course after May 3. "How is the prime minister going to come out with financial action plan 2 as Sonia Gandhi has demanded and so have many experts, be it for starvation, migrant labour, or be it for kickstarting the economy or the small and medium enterprises," the Congress leader said. The appeal comes a day after Modi met chief ministers of various states through video-conferencing and sought their views, while also spelling out the government's strategy on tackling COVID-19. Most of the chief ministers have demanded extension of the lockdown and urged the prime minister to take a call on the exit strategy while asking him to have a cautious approach in opening it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nation-awaits-clear-exit-strategy-from-coronavirus-lockdown-congress-to-pm-narendra-modi-830981.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Himachal CM favours lockdown extension beyond May 3||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday said lockdown should continue beyond May 3 to curb the spread of coronavirus, an official spokesperson said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier held a video conference with chief ministers to discuss the situation arising due to COVID-19 in the country, which is under a 40-day lockdown since March 25 to contain the pandemic. Supporting the lockdown extension, Thakur said the restrictions on movement of people should continue as COVID-19 cases are still emerging. “The lockdown should be extended after May 3 to check the spread of novel coronavirus,” he said. The chief minister, however, said states should be allowed to resume economic activities particularly in the green zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-cm-favours-lockdown-extension-beyond-may-3-830742.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt will follow Centre's guidelines on lockdown, officials say after PM Narendra Modi's conference call||The Delhi government will follow the Centre's guidelines on whether to extend the lockdown or not, officials said on Monday, after Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal attended a meeting held by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Modi held a video conference with chief ministers during the day to discuss the situation arising out of the coronavirus outbreak and measures to deal with it. "We are preparing our submission which will be sent to the Centre soon," a senior government official said here. "The Centre's guidelines on the lockdown will be followed by the Delhi government," he added. The official said nine chief ministers spoke during the meeting with the prime minister in which they discussed a range of issues, including the possibility of extending of the lockdown, amid the rising number of coronavirus cases. Kejriwal had on Sunday said that as the prime minister announced the nationwide lockdown till May 3, there was a need to see what decision the Union government took on it. "We will decide our future course of action and set our direction once the Centre takes decision on whether ongoing lockdown be extended or not," he had said.  "If we follow lockdown rules, we can get rid of coronavirus," Kejriwal had asserted. Last week, Dr S K Sarin, the chairman of the Delhi government panel to combat COVID-19, had suggested extending the lockdown till May 16 for the epidemic curve to flatten.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-will-follow-centres-guidelines-on-lockdown-officials-say-after-pm-narendra-modis-conference-call-830775.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Pakistan army shells forward areas along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||Pakistan troops violated ceasefire on Monday night and resorted to mortar shelling and small firing in forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, a defence spokesperson said. The Pakistani troops initiated unprovoked firing at 7:15 pm in Mankote sector, he said. The spokesperson said the Indian Army retaliated resulting in exchanges, which stopped at 8.00 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-shells-forward-areas-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-830783.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Lockdown: Uttar Pradesh man alleges hospital denied hearse vehicle to carry body of his 7-month-old boy home||The father of a seven-month-old boy who was declared brought dead at the district hospital here on Monday alleged that he was denied a hearse vehicle by the facility to take back the body of his son home, a charge denied by the authorities. Saleem, a resident of Uparpara locality in Badaun, said when the health of his seven-month-old son deteriorated, he along with his wife left for the district hospital. The doctors there declared the baby brought dead. He claimed that no hearse vehicle was provided by the hospital to take back the body home, and that he had to walk over two kilometres back to home carrying the body. Dismissing the charge levelled by Saleem, Chief Medical Superintendent Dr Sukumar Agarwal said, "Hearse vehicles are available at the district hospital. The family members of the child never sought any hearse vehicle. If they had demanded one, it would had been given to them."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-uttar-pradesh-man-alleges-hospital-denied-hearse-vehicle-to-carry-body-of-his-7-month-old-boy-home-830784.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Two sadhus hacked to death in Uttar Pradesh||Two sadhus, who lived at a temple, were allegedly hacked to death in Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahar district, about 450 kilometres from here. According to the police sources here, the sadhus were stabbed to death while they were sleeping inside the temple premises at Pagauna village in the district late on Monday night. One of the alleged accused, identified as Murari, a resident of the same village, was nabbed by the locals after a chase and was handed over to the police, sources said. Sources said that the two sadhus had an altercation with Murari over alleged theft of a pair of 'chimta' (tongs used by the sadhus as a musical instrument while reciting religious songs) a couple of days back. Murari, who had a criminal history and had been released from jail after securing bail in a case of murder a few days back, had threatened the sadhus, identified as Jagan Das and Sevadas, with serious consequences after they accused him of stealing their tongs, sources said.  It was alleged that Murari hacked the two sadhus to death around midnight on Monday.  Sources said that the locals found the bodies of the sadhus lying in a pool of blood on Tuesday morning. They nabbed Murari, who was hiding in the nearby forests, after a chase. They added that Murari was in an inebriated state when apprehended. It was not immediately clear if Murari had an accomplice also.  Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath ordered a probe into the killing, which came close on the heels of the lynching of two sadhus at Palghar in Maharashtra a few days back by a frenzied mob, which took them for child-lifters. The killings triggered a nationwide outrage and the state government had come in for sharp criticism from the saffron outfits and BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-sadhus-hacked-to-death-in-uttar-pradesh-830899.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Pakistan army shells three sectors along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||The Pakistan Army on Tuesday fired mortars along the Line of Control (LoC) in three sectors of Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, a defence spokesman said. Indian troops effectively retaliated. "About 1100 hours on Tuesday, Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along LoC in Shahpur, Kirni and Qasba sectors", the spokesman said. On Monday, the Pakistan Army had targeted Mankote area of Poonch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-shells-three-sectors-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-830906.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Amidst COVID-19 pandemic, new militant outfit surfaces in Kashmir||Sources said the newly formed ‘TRF’ was formed by Pakistani spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) in early March and some militants from Lashkar-e-Taiba, and Hizb-ul-Mujahideen may have joined it. On April 5, in a fierce encounter along the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district, five Army personnel and an equal number of infiltrating militants were killed. The soldiers belonged to the elite 4 Para — the unit which undertook the 2016 cross-LoC ‘surgical strikes’ in Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK). Little known TRF, claimed responsibility for the attack. On April 18, another deadly attack was carried out by the militants in Sopore area of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district killing three para-military CRPF personnel and injuring two. Again TRF claimed responsibility for the attack. The three militants killed in south Kashmir’s Kulgam on Monday reportedly belonged to the TRF. Prior to that, on March 23, J&K police said it busted the outfit’s first-ever module and recovered a consignment of weapons. Recently a purported statement of TRF surfaced on social media asking the Hizbul not to target J&K police personnel as “they are our own people and we cannot fight occupational forces without their support.” The statement claimed that one of the senior-most Hizbul commanders in Kashmir Abass Sheikh has left Hizbul “because he also does not agree with killing Kashmir police and civilians.” “Now Abass bhai is with us and we will fight with anyone who kills or hurts any Kashmiri. This is a final warning to Hizbul. Don’t force us to take the hard route. No warning now onwards, only action,” it added. A senior police officer involved in counter-insurgency-operations told DH that TRF is a joint shadow outfit of the LeT the Hizbul and Jaish-e-Mohammad. “TRF was created by ISI to give their cross-border terrorism in Kashmir more ‘home-grown terror character because of the pressure from Financial Action Task Force (FATF), the global watchdog for terror-funding,” he said. Quoting past examples, the officer said in early 2000s when the LeT would carry out attacks in Kashmir the responsibility would be taken by ‘Save Kashmir Movement’ “which was a shadow outfit.” The past few weeks have not only witnessed an increase in infiltration attempts along LoC, but encounters between militants and security forces, civilian killing and abduction attempts of J&K policemen are also on the rise. The violence had comparatively subdued in Kashmir since last August but April saw a sudden spurt with nearly 50 persons including 29 militants and 13 security forces personnel killed so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amidst-covid-19-pandemic-new-militant-outfit-surfaces-in-kashmir-830922.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||BJP MLA in Uttar Pradesh caught on video telling people not to buy vegetables from Muslim vendors||Prime minister Narendra Modi may have cautioned against communalising the coronavirus pandemic, an Uttar Pradesh MLA of his own party has asked the people not to 'buy' vegetables from the Muslim vendors. Suresh Tewari, a BJP legislator from Barhaj assembly seat in UP's Deoria district, was caught on tape making the controversial remarks while addressing a group of people in his assembly constituency. ''Keep in mind one thing...I am telling you openly....no one will buy vegetables from the miyans (Muslims),'' the lawmaker is heard saying on the tape. As the remarks drew flak from different quarters, Tewari sought to defend the statement saying that it was made during a casual conversation with his supporters in his assembly constituency. ''My supporters told me that Muslim vendors were spitting on the vegetables before selling them so I told them not to buy the same from them,'' he said. The opposition parties demanded arrest of Tewari for ''spreading communal hatred''. ''BJP must expel the MLA...he should be arrested forthwith,'' said a UP Congress leader here on Tuesday.  There had been reports from different parts in the country about people refusing to buy vegetables from the Muslim vendors.  A reputed private hospital in UP's Meerut town had banned admission of Muslim patients unless they furnished COVID-19 negative test reports for them and their attendants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mla-in-uttar-pradesh-caught-on-video-telling-people-not-to-buy-vegetables-from-muslim-vendors-830946.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Arrests in relation to Delhi riots be made in accordance with SC guidelines, says HC||The Delhi High Court has directed that arrests in connection with the recent riots in the national capital, shall be done in accordance with the Supreme Court guidelines related to arrest and detention. The direction was issued by a bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh which also issued notice to the Centre, Delhi government and police seeking their stand on a plea alleging that arrests in connection with the riots were being made during the coronavirus or COVID-19 pandemic. The plea, by an organisation of Islamic scholars called Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind, has contended that when the apex court had said there was a need to decongest jails in wake of coronavirus, the police was arresting people "on the pretext of investigation of offences related to the Delhi riots" earlier this year. The petition, filed through advocate Mohd Taiyab Khan, also contended that if left unchecked, the action of Delhi Police would "frustrate" the top court's order to decongest jails. The Centre, during the hearing conducted via video conferencing, told the bench that all the arrests made so far and those which would be made in future, shall be strictly in accordance with guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court. "Directed accordingly," the court said on Monday after noting the Centre's submission and listed the matter for further hearing on June 24. The bench also said that all the individuals who according to the petition have been arrested so far, "are at liberty to institute appropriate proceedings in accordance with law, including seeking regular bail..". The petitioner organisation has claimed in its plea that police "unilaterally and arbitrarily" arrested persons from their homes during lockdown without informing their families the reasons for arrest. The petition has sought that police officials be restrained from picking up or arresting persons in connection with the 2020 Delhi riots on the pretext of investigation and sending them to jail during the lockdown period. It has also sought that the investigation into the riots be put on hold till another plea moved by the organisation seeking an SIT probe into the violence is decided by the high court. The plea also seeks departmental action and contempt proceedings against concerned police officials who allegedly violated the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court regarding arrest and detention of accused persons||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arrests-in-relation-to-delhi-riots-be-made-in-accordance-with-sc-guidelines-says-hc-830956.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Restrictions tightened in Kashmir following spike in COVID-19 cases  ||Curbs imposed in Kashmir to contain the spread of coronavirus have been further tightened following a spurt in the number of cases over the last few days, officials said here. The restrictions on movement and assembly of people in the Valley entered the 41st day on Tuesday, they said. Security forces have sealed off the main roads in most places and installed barriers at several others to enforce the lockdown, the officials said. The administration has said essential services, including healthcare personnel, are exempted from the restrictions, while otherwise, only people with valid movement passes are allowed passage.  The declared containment or 'red' zones across the Valley have been sealed to ensure strict adherence to the standard operating procedure, the officials said. Markets were shut and public transport was off the roads, with only pharmacies and groceries allowed to open, they said. Educational institutions across Kashmir are closed, while all public places, including gymnasiums, parks, clubs and restaurants, were shut down more than a week before the nationwide lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. While the prime minister announced the countrywide lockdown on the evening of March 24, the Union territory administration here, had on March 22, announced a lockdown across Jammu and Kashmir till 31st March as part of efforts to curb the spread of the coronavirus. However, restrictions were first imposed in many parts of the Valley on March 19 to contain the spread of the infection. The measures were taken after the detection of the first confirmed case of COVID-19 here.  The total number of positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir has reached 546, even as seven patients have died and 164 recovered. More than 66,000 people have been kept under surveillance, including those who are either in government-established quarantine facilities or in home-isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restrictions-tightened-in-kashmir-following-spike-in-covid-19-cases-830959.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath directs officials to encourage use of plasma therapy for coronavirus patients||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directed officials to encourage use of plasma therapy for the treatment of coronavirus infected people and to increase testing capacity. Holding a review meeting with senior officials of the state, the chief minister asked them to make pool testing arrangements in all the labs with proper training as per protocol for those taking samples, an official release said. He also asked them to deliberate on opting for a world- class technology for increasing the testing capacity, the release said. Adityanath asked for geo-tagging shelter homes and making oxygen available in all hospitals while increasing the number of beds for patients. He directed officials to prepare a work plan suggesting ways and means to restart industrial units after May 3 and also a workplan for giving employment to migrant labourers. Stressing on strict implemention of the lockdown, the chief minister said emphasis should be on social distancing and continued patrolling by the police. He said that it needs to be ensured that only those linked to medical, sanitation and home delivery are allowed in the the hotspot areas and all the houses there are sanitized, the release said. Directing for proper medical examination of the students returning to their homes from Allahabad, the chief minister also issued directions for deploying senior officers from administration, police and health department in Varanasi, Hapur , Rampur , Muzaffarnagar and Aligarh districts. He said that arrangements should be made in every district for quarantine centres and shelter homes with a capacity of 15,000 to 25,000 and all those completing 14 days institutional quarantine in shelter homes should be medically examined and sent for home quarantine. He called for pool testing and random testing and asked the district magistrate, chief medical officers to personally inspect L1, L2, L3 COVID hospitals, shelter homes and quarantine centres besides keeping an eye on the food and lodging facilities there. Referring to the problem of feeding stray cattle, the chief minister asked for establishing a 'bhusa bank' (fodder) for them, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-directs-officials-to-encourage-use-of-plasma-therapy-for-coronavirus-patients-830986.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||BJP MLA alleges lapses at hospital in Aligarh, says facility COVID-19 'hub'||The Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital here is not informing authorities about novel coronavirus patients in time and has become a "hub" for COVID-19, a Uttar Pradesh BJP lawmaker alleged on Tuesday, seeking an inquiry from the state government. Expressing shock over the allegations, doctors at the hospital said MLA Dalveer Singh's insinuation has put them "at grave risk of lynching at the hands of ignorant elements". The Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), to which the JLNMCH is affiliated, has also criticized the MLA's remarks. The legislator later said his statement is being "misconstrued and distorted". In his statement, which has gone viral on social media, Singh alleged that the hospital has become a "hub for the coronavirus" and urged the Uttar Pradesh health minister to institute an inquiry into the lapses at the medical facility. Singh also accused the "hospital of not informing district authorities about (COVID-19) patients in a timely manner". The doctors said they are working round-the-clock at grave risk to their lives. These remarks have put "us at a grave risk of lynching at the hands of ignorant elements who could vent their anger on doctors on the basis of the MLA's insinuation and holding doctors responsible for this outbreak", the Resident Doctors' Association (RDA) at the hospital in a letter to the district magistrate said. The doctors said that in case any of them faces any untoward incident, the MLA and district authorities will be held responsible. RDA president Hamza Malik said authorities cannot absolve themselves of their responsibility for this defamatory action. Copies of the letter have been sent to the prime minister and chief minister, he said, adding that the hospital is conducting free coronavirus tests of about 250 patients daily. Following the reaction of doctors, MLA Singh said, "The medical college is a very important health facility not just for this district but for an entire region, and I have approached the Uttar Pradesh government and Union Minister Rajnath Singh to intervene in this matter only because I am aware of the importance of this hospital." If the functioning of this hosptal is hit then it could lead to a bigger crisis. "It was not my idea to defame the hospital", he said. "The virus spread among some doctors at the hospital because it was brought in by a patient," he said, adding that the present crisis arose solely because a coronavirus patient was referred to the hospital by a private doctor without duly informing.  Aligarh has 24 COVID-19 cases and the first case in the city was reported less than a week ago when a coronavirus patient was referred to the JLNMCH by a private facility without allegedly informing hospital authorities of the symptoms of the patient.   Singh said that "my other complaint is that all the work has been left to junior doctors while senior consultants are not playing their due role." "This is impacting the healthcare here. I also want an inquiry into reports that some senior consultants are illegally engaging in private practice," he said. The Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital is the frontline COVID-19 designated hospital for testing patients from more than seven districts of western Uttar Pradesh,  including Gautam Buddh Nagar, Agra, Etah, Hathras, Kasganj, Rampur,  Sambhal, Moradabad and Bulandshahr.        Hamza said the MLA does not seem to be aware that an infected patient who visits the hospital can easily spread the virus which can hang around in the air and no one can be aware of it. AMU authorities have also strongly criticized the MLA's statement.      In a statement, AMU  spokesman Professor Shafay Kidwai said, "The hospital authorities are taking all possible measures to protect patients and doctors . We have provided PPE to all medical staff, and from last week we have made it mandatory for every patient who visits the hospital for any sort of treatment to wear PPE."      Kidwai said the allegation that the hospital was not informing the district authorities in time is totally baseless.  The testing machines are being operated at full capacity round the clock and every day reports are sent to district authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mla-alleges-lapses-at-hospital-in-aligarh-says-facility-covid-19-hub-830987.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||31-year-old research scholar found hanging in IIT-Kharagpur hostel||The body of a 31- year-old research scholar of IIT-Kharagpur was found hanging in his hostel room, police said on Tuesday. The body of Bhavanibhatla Kondal Rao was found in his room on the second floor of the B R Ambedkar Hall around 10 am on Monday, they said. Unable to contact him over the phone, his parents informed other inmates of the hostel. They found Rao's room locked from inside and after repeated knocking when he did not open the door, they informed police, an official said. The police then rushed to the hostel and broke open the door, finding the body hanging, he said. Rao, a resident of Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh, was a research scholar in the Department of Mechanical Engineering. He got married in February at his hometown and after staying there with his family for around two weeks, he returned to the campus before the lockdown began, according to district police sources. His wife is currently in Chennai where she is working, they said. IIT-Kharagpur director V K Tewari, who described Rao as a "bright young scholar", said the institute has got in touch with his family. He said Rao is suspected to have committed suicide and the matter is being investigated. Police said the body has been sent for post-mortem examination and the reason behind the incident is being probed. Very few students are currently on the campus as most of them returned home before the lockdown was imposed. Rao, who joined the Indian Institute of Technology- Kharagpur in 2015, was on the verge of completing his research project, his friends said. They remembered him as a jovial person and popular among students and faculty members. Some of them said that he was under some sort of mental stress but didn't share it with anyone Following Rao's death, the director, in a Facebook post, urged students to connect with friends who need support. "Look beyond the hurdles which at present may seem like the most critical chapter of your life but are mere speed-breakers if you are able to envision your life in the long run," he said. "Try to reach out to us, your faculty supervisors, the counselling centre and your peers. Talk to your friends and family, your seniors, your juniors, they are only a tap away from your phone in this century and at this time," Tewari said in his post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/31-year-old-research-scholar-found-hanging-in-iit-kharagpur-hostel-831001.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||BJP creating hatred against Muslims amid COVID-19 crisis, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday accused the BJP of creating hatred against Muslims over the coronavirus crisis, saying the ruling party members are following their “basic training”. In an interview with PTI, he charged the Bharatiya Janata Party of spreading false reports of Muslims in quarantine centres demanding “biryani”. Yadav also questioned the handling of the crisis by the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh. “The CM is ignoring public representatives and officers are ruling the roost,” he said, suggesting that the state’s ministers should be more involved. The SP leader did not challenge the nation-level decision to impose a lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus but added that the government should keep in mind the economic impact of prolonged restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-creating-hatred-against-muslims-amid-covid-19-crisis-says-akhilesh-yadav-831018.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||100-bedded COVID care center set up in J&K's Bhaderwah||A 100-bed COVID care centre, the first in Doda district, was set up at Bhaderwah University campus here on Tuesday amid the Jammu and Kashmir government having started bringing back Union Territory’s students and migrant workers stuck up elsewhere in the country. Over 6,300 workers and hundreds of students, hailing from Doda district, are stranded outside J&K due to country-wide corona lockdown and are expected to be brought back to their home district in coming days. To meet their mandatory quarantine and ease out the pressure on hospitals, the district administration made the first 100- bed COVID-19 care wellness centre functional at the Institute of Mountain Environment at the University Campus, the officials said. "The stranded labourers have started pouring into the Bhaderwah valley from different places while the administration has also initiated the return of students from Kota in Rajasthan and elsewhere. “So to ease out the pressure on the hospital, we made a 100- bed COVID-19 care center functional at the varsity campus," Bhadarwah‘s Additional District Commissioner Rakesh Kumar said. He said the centre is equipped with all facilities and has been properly sanitized. The sanitization was carried out early in the morning, while a couple of food safety officers have also been deployed at the centre. "We are taking utmost care of SOPs of the quarantined persons since March 28. We are maintaining the nutritional value of the food served and also rotating the menu," Doda‘s Assistant Commissioner (Food Safety) Tariq Ahmed Butt said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/100-bedded-covid-care-center-set-up-in-jks-bhaderwah-831022.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Provide COVID-19 relief scheme benefits to eligible workers: HC to Delhi govt||The Delhi High Court has asked the AAP government to ensure its relief scheme announced for construction workers during COVID-19 lockdown is made available to all eligible labourers. The direction by Justice Navin Chawla came on a plea by four workers claiming they were not getting benefits under the relief scheme announced by the Delhi government. The court also issued notice to the Delhi government and asked it to file its reply on the plea before the next date of hearing on May 20.  One of the petitioners said he and over 200 others like him registered under the Building and Other Construction Workers Act have not been provided benefits of the relief scheme. Another claimed that he was registered under the Act till he turned 60 years old and after that he could not be registered and thus, he had sought pension benefits available under the Act. However, he was neither given the pension nor was he provided the benefits of the relief scheme, the petition claimed. It also said that one of the petitioner-workers was registered till 2019 but thereafter could not renew his registration and another was not registered at all -- both have been denied benefits of the relief scheme. The plea claimed that the workers ought not to be denied the relief scheme benefits as otherwise it would be difficult for them to survive during the lockdown. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain and additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose, appearing for the Delhi government, denied the allegations and said a similar plea has already been filed which is pending before another bench.  They said all the allegations made in the instant petition shall be dealt with in the reply which will be filed in the other matter. The court, thereafter, asked the petitioners to provide to the government names of all those persons who were registered under the Act but not provided the benefits and those denied pension despite being eligible. The Delhi government was directed to "verify the details of such workers (provided by the petitioners) and if they are found to be eligible for any payment under the scheme or pension, the same shall be released to such workers forthwith".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/provide-covid-19-relief-scheme-benefits-to-eligible-workers-hc-to-delhi-govt-831032.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Free cab service from UP's Gautam Buddh Nagar to Delhi for non-emergency patients||The Gautam Buddh Nagar administration has made arrangements of free cab service for people who need to travel to Delhi for special medications like dialysis or cancer treatment amid the lockdown imposed to control the spread of coronavirus, according to officials. The administration has tied up with cab aggregator Uber for the "non-emergency" service which could be availed through the helpline number -- 18004192211, the officials said. Those wanting to avail the service will require to produce documents like prescription and proof of treatment and have been suggested to apply for the service a day in advance to avoid hassle, senior officials said. The development comes amid reports of some patients facing difficulties in obtaining a special pass to cross the Noida-Delhi border, which was sealed on April 21 in a bid to check spread of coronavirus. "For patients who need special treatment like dialysis, cancer treatment etc in Delhi/Noida/GBN, we have started an admin-Uber transport service free of charge. Pls call : 18004192211, opt1 They will verify the medical docs online and send the transport Pls book one day in advance (sic)," District Magistrate Suhas L Y tweeted on Monday. According to district officials, this service is only for "non-emergency" cases, while for the emergencies, the residents can avail ambulances like usual. The Gautam Buddh Nagar administration had banned the movement of people between Noida and Delhi, except for media, doctors working in Noida or Greater Noida, those involved in COVID-19-related services and goods transportation, from the night of April 21. The decision was taken on the basis of a report by the health department here, which stated that several people who tested positive for coronavirus had links to Delhi, an official order stated. "It is clear from the report of the Health Department that there is a possibility of infection from people travelling between Delhi and Gautam Buddh Nagar. Hence, in larger public interest, movement between Delhi and Gautam Buddh Nagar is being completely banned until further orders," DM Suhas had said in an order. Gautam Buddh Nagar in western UP is one of the worst-hit districts in the state and has so far recorded 129 positive cases of coronavirus, even as 71 patients have recovered and have been discharged from hospitals, according to official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/free-cab-service-from-ups-gautam-buddh-nagar-to-delhi-for-non-emergency-patients-831036.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Not feasible now to conduct board exams of classes 10, 12: Sisodia tells HRD minister||It is not feasible now to conduct board exams of classes 10 and 12 which are pending due to the lockdown imposed to curb the COVID-19 spread, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia suggested Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' on Tuesday. He made the recommendations during a meeting of state education ministers chaired by the Human Resource Development (HRD) minister. "Not feasible now to conduct pending board exams for class 10, 12. Students should be promoted on the basis of performance in internal exams like it was done for classes 9, 11," Sisodia said. "Curriculum for the next session be reduced by 30 per cent, exams like JEE, NEET be conducted on the basis of reduced syllabus," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-feasible-now-to-conduct-board-exams-of-classes-10-12-sisodia-tells-hrd-minister-831037.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Haryana’s borders with Delhi ‘sealed’, essential services allowed: Anil Vij||Haryana’s borders with Delhi have been “sealed” with essential services allowed but stricter restrictions imposed on those coming in from the national capital, state Home Minister Anil Vij said on Tuesday. Haryana will be in a “comfortable position” as far as COVID-19 cases are concerned if the borders stay sealed for 15-20 days, Vij, who is also the health minister of Haryana, added. The towns of Gurgaon and Faridabad abut the national capital and form part of the National Capital Region. ”The state’s borders have been sealed… Essential services will be allowed. If all the borders of Haryana stay sealed for 15-20 days, the state will be in comfortable situation (in terms of coronavirus threat),” Vij told PTI. Essential services and people connected with them will be allowed to cross the borders in accordance with the Union Home Ministry guidelines, he explained.  Following the lockdown on March 25, the state government had already put in place restrictions to cross the border with vehicles and people being checked. “The restrictions will be stricter,” he said. “Mostly those people who work in Delhi and stay in Haryana are getting infected, and also those who come into contact with them. And the cases are rising in Haryana because of them,” Vij said. He said the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government should make “proper arrangements” for lodging employees of the Delhi government who work in the national capital but stay in Haryana. “It is the responsibility of the Delhi government to make arrangements for their stay and food and also test them and if they are positive, find a cure for them,” he said. The same holds true for Haryana government employees coming here from the neighbouring state to work, he said. "It is our responsibility to make necessary arrangements for their lodging and food."   Asked whether the lockdown should be lifted on May 3, he said his personal view was that it should be extended. The minister also underscored that the COVID-19 situation in the state is under control in the state, which has the country’s highest recovery rate of more than 71 per cent. Vij who holds the portfolios of health, home and local bodies, which are at frontline in the battle against the pandemic, said, "I salute all the workers of these departments."  Nuh with 57 COVID-19 cases, Gurgaon with 51, Faridabad with 46, Palwal with 34 and Sonipat with 22 are the worst affected districts in Haryana. Of these, Gurgaon, Faridabad and Sonipat border Delhi while the other are two are in its vicinity. According to the Union Health ministry on Tuesday, Haryana has reported 296 cases and three fatalities. Of the 296, 183 have been cured/discharged/migrated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-s-borders-with-delhi-sealed-essential-services-allowed-anil-vij-831039.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||5 new COVID-19 cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar; total count 134||Five more people tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Tuesday, taking the district's tally to 134, officials said. On a brighter note, eight patients were discharged from hospitals in the district after being treated for the disease, they said. "Total 190 reports have been received in the past 24 hours. Five of them have tested positive for COVID-19. The cumulative positive cases of coronavirus in Gautam Buddh Nagar are now 134," District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said. "So far, 79 of the 134 patients have been cured and discharged, leaving 55 active cases in the district," he said. The recovery rate of patients is 58.95 per cent, according to the official statistics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-new-covid-19-cases-in-gautam-buddh-nagar-total-count-134-831043.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||After Aarogya Setu app, similar solution for feature phones in the works; to be launched soon: Ravi Shankar Prasad||IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Tuesday said states have been highly appreciative of Aarogya Setu app, and a similar solution for feature phones is in the works and will be launched shortly. The minister on Tuesday interacted with state IT ministers through video-conferencing to discuss COVID-19 challenges, tech innovations and road map for the IT and electronics sector. "Every state highly appreciated the #AarogyaSetu app and shared their thoughts on it. I have assured them that a similar solution for feature phones is being developed and will be launched very soon," the minister said in a tweet. The government's mobile application Aarogya Setu, developed for tracking coronavirus patients, has recorded 75 million (7.5 crore) downloads, the Ministry of Electronics and IT said on April 24. Aarogya Setu app alerts people if any known or person in their vicinity has tested positive. The district administration has been asking all educational institutions and departments to push downloading of the app. The current version of Aarogya Setu app is primarily compatible for smartphones. Asked about the new solution in the making, sources in the IT ministry said it will work on JioPhone, which supports KaiOS operating system. "Also, 1921 is an IVRS where whatever self test is being done on the app, can be done on phone too. The response will be captured and will go to the health system," the source said. According to some estimates, India has more than 400 million feature phones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-aarogya-setu-app-similar-solution-for-feature-phones-in-the-works-to-be-launched-soon-ravi-shankar-prasad-831059.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi LG Anil Baijal directs implementation of 'micro-containment zone strategy' in sealed areas||Delhi Lt Governor (LG) Anil Baijal on Tuesday directed all district magistrates to implement a "micro-containment zone strategy" in their respective areas to arrest the spread of COVID-19, an official said here. Under this plan, small clusters reporting cases of the dreaded virus will be identified and declared containment zones instead of big ones. The move comes after several cases of the infection were reported in some COVID-19 containment zones, including in Jahangir Puri, where people were seen moving around and meeting each other on streets despite the restrictions. At present, the authorities block the entry and exit points of an area where COVID-19 cases emerge and people are not allowed to step out of their houses. Essential items are delivered at the doorstep. "It was observed that people in some containment zones are roaming on streets and meeting each other. "DMs have been directed to implement 'micro-containment zone strategy', under which small clusters will be formed and declared containment zones so that there is strictly no movement of people," official told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-lg-anil-baijal-directs-implementation-of-micro-containment-zone-strategy-in-sealed-areas-831061.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||No new coronavirus case in Himachal Pradesh in 5 days||Himachal Pradesh has not reported any fresh COVID-19 case in the past five days, a senior health official said on Tuesday. So far, 41 coronavirus cases have been reported in the state and the number of active cases is 10, the official said. Two people have died of COVID-19. The fatalities include a 70-year-old Delhi resident who had stayed at a guest house of a factory in Solan's Baddi and died at the PGIMER, Chandigarh, on April 2. "Of the 282 samples sent for testing on Tuesday, 156 tested negative for the infection while reports of the rest are awaited," Additional Chief Secretary (Health) R D Dhiman said. These tests are being conducted at Tanda's Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC), Palampur's Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology (IHBT) in Kangra, Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in Shimla and Kasauli's Central Research Institute (CRI) in Solan. Four active cases from Una, two cases each from Chamba and Hamirpur and one case each from Kangra and Sirmaur are being treated at Tanda's RPGMC, Bhota Charitable Hospital in Hamirpur and the Katha's ESIC in Baddi. Twelve patients from Una district, five from Solan, four from Chamba, three from Kangra and one from Sirmaur have recovered from the infection so far. Four patients were taken to a private hospital outside Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-new-coronavirus-case-in-himachal-pradesh-in-5-days-831062.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||First 1,000 cases in Delhi in 42 days; last 1,000 cases in 8 days: Data||The first 1,000 coronavirus cases in Delhi were reported over a period of 42 days but the number of COVID-19 patients in the city went up from 2,000 to 3,000 in eight days, according to data shared by authorities. The national capital reported its first coronavirus case on March 1, when a businessman living in east Delhi tested positive for the deadly virus after his return from Italy. On April 11, the number of cases crossed the 1,000-mark, totalling 1,069, while the corresponding figure stood at 903 the previous day. The death toll on April 11 was 19. On April 13, the number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Delhi plummeted to 356, its highest by far on a single day. However, the same was just 17 two days later on April 15, a fluctuation that experts have said points to the pace of contact tracing and a possible indication that the infection has not gone to the community. The erratic numbers also reflect the time taken - four to five days - for results of the RT-PCR test being used in India currently since the rapid antibodies test kits are yet to arrive, the experts said. There was no discernible trajectory around mid-April with the number of cases going up and down erratically. On April 10, the city recorded 183 fresh cases, including 154 from the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin. On April 11, it was 166, April 12 (85), April 13 (356), April 14 (51) and April 15 (17). The cases crossed the 2,000-mark on April 19, when the total cases stood at 2,003 with 45 fatalities, the doubling of cases from the 1,000-mark happening in eight days.  On April 27, the total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital went up by 190 cases to 3,108, according to the Delhi government authorities, crossing the 3,000-mark in the city.   The last 1,000 cases again being recorded in eight-day span. The death toll till Monday was 54, with no fresh fatalities reported on April 26-27. The total number of patients who have recovered till April 27 stands at 877 and active cases at 2,177.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/first-1000-cases-in-delhi-in-42-days-last-1000-cases-in-8-days-data-831080.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Earthquake hits Himachal Pradesh's Chamba district||An earthquake measuring four on the Richter scale shook Himachal Pradesh's Chamba district on Tuesday. No loss of life or property was reported.  "The earthquake was recorded at 12:17 pm today," said Shimla Meteorological Centre director Manmohan Singh.  The epicentre of the earthquake was at the depth of 19 kilometres in the northeast of Chamba, he said, adding that mild tremors were also felt in adjoining areas including Kangra district. Most parts of Himachal Pradesh, including Chamba, fall in a high seismic sensitive zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/earthquake-hits-himachal-pradeshs-chamba-district-831096.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Two more test positive for coronavirus in Ladakh||Two members of a family were tested positive for coronavirus in Ladakh, taking the total number of cases in the union territory to 22, a senior government official said on Tuesday. However, 16 of the patients were already cured and discharged from hospitals. "We have received 32 sample reports from NCDC (National Centre for Disease Control), New Delhi and two of them are positive," Commissioner Secretary (Health) Rigzin Samphel told reporters here. He said both the cases are members of the same family hailing from Sankoo village, which was already declared a containment zone last month. "They had returned to Kargil from Delhi on February 29. We have identified 29 contacts of these people and segregated them in high-risk and low-risk categories, besides taking their samples for testing," he said. Samphel said the 11 people in the high-risk category were shifted to isolation wards, while 18 others in the low-risk category were put under home quarantine. Meanwhile, over 230 stranded passengers left Leh in a fleet of 29 vehicles, including four SRTC buses, for their homes in Zanskar sub-division of Kargil district on Tuesday morning.   With this, a total of over 850 residents of Zanskar who were left stranded in Leh and Kargil due to the lockdown imposed to curb the COVID-19 spread have reached their homes, the officials said, adding that they were directed to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days. Welcoming the evacuation of the stranded passengers, Chairman and Chief Executive Councillor, LAHDC, Kargil Feroz Ahmad Khan appealed to Lieutenant Governor Radha Krishna Mathur for facilitating inter-state movement of stranded people of Kargil in different parts of the country and provision of security for bringing these passengers back home. In a letter to the LG Ladakh, Khan stated that in view of the prevailing situation due to COVID-19 and the problems being faced by the residents of Kargil stranded outside UT Ladakh due to the extended lockdown, subsequent cessation of traffic, besides hot climatic conditions, LAHDC Kargil would like to propose that it will make all necessary arrangements for bringing the residents of Kargil back home via surface transportation.  "LAHDC (Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council) Kargil also plans to utilise the services of stranded taxis, private vehicles as well as SRTC and disaster management resources for ferrying residents back to their homes while strictly adhering to the standard operation procedures and guidelines issued by authorities with regard to COVID-19 mitigation," he said.   Khan has assured the LG Ladakh that due screening of all the returnees would be ensured before their entry into the district at a feasible location.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-ladakh-831102.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||One more COVID-19 case detected in Uttarakhand; tally rises to 52||One more person tested positive for COVID-19 in Uttarakhand on Tuesday, taking the number of cases in the state to 52. The latest case has been reported from Rishikesh, Additional Secretary, Health, Yugal Kishore Pant said. Thirty-four patients have recovered already and the number of active cases stands at 18, he said. A 56-year-old woman, who was admitted to the AIIMS in Rishikesh on April 22, is the latest patient to have contracted the disease, Dean of hospital affairs U B Mishra said.  She is a resident of Nainital and was brought to the hospital after suffering a brain stroke, he said. Efforts are on to quarantine around 90 people who had come in contact with her, Mishra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-more-covid-19-case-detected-in-uttarakhand-tally-rises-to-52-831107.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||BJP issues show-cause notice to UP MLA for remarks allegedly targeting Muslims||The BJP has issued a show-cause notice to its UP MLA Suresh Tiwari for allegedly asking people not to buy vegetables from Muslim vendors, remarks that attracted the party a lot of flak.  Official sources said top party leadership has found his comments "highly irresponsible", and its national president J P Nadda "pulled up" the state brass for not taking quick action.  They said Nadda admonished UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and asked him to take action against Tiwari.  The MLA has been asked to send his reply within a week.  Tiwari, who is from Deoria district, was caught on camera asking people not to buy vegetables from Muslim vendors.  A section of Hindutva elements has targeted Muslims over the spread of the coronavirus, alleging that some members of the community have deliberately abetted the rise in infections.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked people to fight the pandemic unitedly, calling for brotherhood and harmony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-issues-show-cause-notice-to-up-mla-for-remarks-allegedly-targeting-muslims-831124.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police constable who visited Tablighi building tests positive for COVID-19||A Delhi Police constable posted with the Crime Branch who allegedly visited the Nizamuddin headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat in south Delhi tested positive for coronavirus recently, police said on Tuesday. The constable had visited the Markaz building in connection with the probe into the religious congregation held there last month where many people were reported to have contracted the virus, they said. A case has been registered against Maulana Saad of the Nizamuddin headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat under relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and Indian Penal Code for allegedly violating government orders with regard to the management of the centre pertaining to holding social, political or religious gatherings. According to police, around 15 team members of the Crime Branch who came in contact with the constable have been advised home quarantine after he tested positive for the virus. More than 21 Delhi Police personnel have tested positive for the novel coronavirus which include 14 from the central district, six from northwest district and one from the traffic police. The Delhi Police has sanctioned Rs 1 lakh each to its personnel who have tested positive for coronavirus while on duty. The police headquarters will arrange the payment from the Delhi Police Welfare Society for the personnel expeditiously through the DCPs concerned, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-constable-who-visited-tablighi-building-tests-positive-for-covid-19-831128.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||78% COVID-19 patients in Haryana are men, many patients of young age: Health Minister||As many as 78 per cent coronavirus patients in Haryana are male and many of the total cases fall in the young age group bracket. Besides, Tablighi Jamaat members account for 46 per cent of the cases, Health Minister Anil Vij said on Tuesday while sharing data from the state health department. As on April 25, data pertaining to 273 positive cases in the state revealed that 78 per cent per cent patients were male while 22 per cent were female, he said. As many as 74 cases were of people in the 25-34 age group, 53 cases were in the 15-24 age group, 22 in the 65-74 age category while no patient was above 85 years of age. "The Tablighi Jamaat people accounted for 46 per cent of the cases, international travellers 14.5 per cent, health staff 18.7 per cent, domestic travellers 6.2 per cent. Contacts of positive cases accounted for 48.18 per cent cases, while contacts of Tablighis were 20.7 per cent, vendor/shopkeepers etc. accounted for 28.10 per cent," he said. Haryana saw the maximum weekly spike of 86 new cases between April 7-13 when majority of the cases related to attendees of the Tablighi Jamaat congregation were detected. The religious congregation attended by several thousand people was held in Delhi's Nizamuddin last month where a many were reported to have contracted the virus, apparently from foreign delegates.   Meanwhile on Tuesday, seven fresh cases were reported from some of Haryana's districts falling in the National Capital Region and the total number of coronavirus cases rose to 308 in the state. While three fresh cases were reported from Jhajjar district which was coronavirus-free until Sunday, Sonipat reported two and Panipat one case, according to the state health department's daily bulletin. Sonipat has the maximum number of active cases at 20 followed by Gurgaon (15) and Nuh (11). The worst-affected districts of the state with maximum number of positive cases are Nuh (57), Gurgaon (51), Faridabad (46), Palwal (34), Sonipat (24) and Panchkula (18).         The state health minister had on Sunday said many of the coronavirus positive patients in the NCR districts including Sonipat, Gurgaon and Faridabad had been found to have contracted infection from people in the national capital.          There are now a total of 81 active COVID-19 patients in the state while the positive cases discharged after recovery so far are 224. The state has recorded three COVID-19-related deaths, the bulletin said.  As on Tuesday evening, the state further improved its recovery rate from 70.76 per cent to 72.72 per cent. The fatality rate was 0.97 per cent, COVID-19 positive rate (proportion of positive cases to total tests conducted) was 1.34 per cent, rate of doubling of cases was 20 days, while tests per million being conducted were 979, as per the bulletin. Among the 24 foreign nationals who tested positive, 14 were Italian tourists. Later 13 of them were discharged while one elderly woman in the group recently died even though she had recovered from coronavirus. The other ten foreign nationals found positive are from Sri Lanka, Nepal, Thailand, South Africa and Indonesia while 64 patients in the state are from other states, as per the bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/78-covid-19-patients-in-haryana-are-men-many-patients-of-young-age-health-minister-831129.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Timely action by PM Modi saved country: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said timely action by Prime Minister Narendra Modi saved the country from coming into the grip of coronavirus. He said this while interacting with students brought from Rajasthan’s Kota recently in a video conference. The CM told students that over 200 countries are battling with the virus and those considered superpowers are in bad a shape. "We are all fortunate that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken necessary steps at the right time for the betterment of 135 crore people of the country,” he said. “As a result, India has been saved from coming into the grip of that infection, which has today affected many big countries. I thank Prime Minister Modi for this," Adityanath added. Adityanath told students that it was a “big challenge” for the government to bring them back. “We made an action plan and communicated with the Governments of Rajasthan and India. We were successful in sending you back to your homes," he claimed. He said the greatest partner of the person during the calamity is patience. "You all kept patience, and a result you are safe in your homes today," Adityanath said. The chief minister advised students stay in home quarantine for 14 days and also follow social distancing. "It will be good for you and your family. If there is any problem, you can call at CM helpline 1076 or relief line 1070," Adityanath said. "You can stay in your homes and complete your syllabus. For the ease of students, we have also arranged online classes in the state. Our effort is to set up some good educational centres in all districts to help student prepare for competitive examinations," he said. The chief minister also said over four lakh workers from Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and other states had headed to their homes in the initial days of the lockdown, which was a big challenge for the state government. "As soon as we got information about this, we took all necessary steps and sent them to their districts through buses and got them quarantined,” he claimed.  “Even in other states of the country, where there are workers from Uttar Pradesh, we are taking necessary action on a war footing to bring them back after conducting health tests," he said.   The conversation witnessed a light moment when Deeksha Verma, a student from Gorakhpur, thanked the chief minister. On this, the chief minister asked her if she reached her home safely, to which Diksha said yes. The chief minister then said, "But we have not received our fare". Everyone present at the venue of the video conference laughed at the chief minister's reply. Adityanath wished Deeksha a bright future and said serving the nation will be the actual fare paid by her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/timely-action-by-pm-modi-saved-country-yogi-adityanath-831138.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||CRPF man dies due to COVID-19 in Delhi in first such case among CAPFs||A 55-year-old Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel died on Tuesday due to coronavirus infection, officials said. This is the first death due to the pandemic among the about 10 lakh personnel strong Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) or the paramilitary forces that function under the Union Home Ministry for upkeep of internal security and border guarding. The sub-inspector (SI) rank official was admitted to the Safdarjung hospital a few days back after being detected positive for the virus. "The 55-year-old personnel breathed his last on Tuesday at about 4 pm due to COVID-19 infection. He was posted with the 31st battalion of the force based in Delhi," a senior official said. Home Minister Amit Shah condoled the death of the trooper. "I am deeply saddened to learn about the death of brave Sub-Inspector Mohammed Ikram Hussain who was fighting the coronavirus infection." "He fought the disease bravely till the end. His contribution to service and internal security of the country will continue to inspire citizens," Shah tweeted. The minister said he talked to the family of the official day before yesterday over phone to know about his well being. "Losing a brave soldier is an irreparable loss for us.The entire country and the central government are with his family in this moment of grief," he wrote. The trooper, who hailed from Barpeta district in Assam, was suffering from co-morbid conditions like diabetes and hypertension, he said. At least 45 other personnel from this battalion have been admitted with coronavirus infection and they are suspected to have contracted the virus from another colleague who was found positive in their camp. About 400 CRPF personnel and their families have been tested for COVID-19 in connection with this chain in Delhi, officials said. CRPF chief A P Maheshwari and few other senior officials had also gone into quarantine early this month after a doctor of the force was detected positive for the viral disease. They later joined work. There have been a few positive cases in other CAPFs like the Border Security Force and the Central Industrial Security Force. Some among them have been cured. The CRPF is country's largest paramilitary force with about 3.25 lakh personnel in its ranks and it is designated as the lead internal security force apart from the mainstay for anti-Naxal operations and counter-terrorism duties in the Kashmir valley. CRPF Director General (DG) A P Maheshwari said in a tweet that the official "contracted the viral infection in the line of duty". "He faced it valiantly but succumbed. We stand shoulder to shoulder with the family in hour of grief and reiterate our commitment to the people," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-man-dies-due-to-covid-19-in-delhi-in-first-such-case-among-capfs-831159.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt launches one-stop website for coronavirus-related information||The Delhi government on Tuesday launched a dedicated website to provide information on all the COVID-19 related initiatives and updates in a seamless manner. The website -- delhifightscorona.in -- has five broad sections which include containment zones, testing facilities, key locations, e-pass, press release and FAQs. The website has the locations of all the containment zones or the COVID-19 hotspots in Delhi. The locations are updated from time to time as decided by the government, a statement said. It also lists all COVID-19 Testing Centers (CTCs) set up by the Delhi government, private centres, as well as information on how to avail COVID-19 testing. A list and location of all ration shops in Delhi, temporary relief centres and hunger relief centres is also available on the website. In the "e-pass section", any person can apply for travel e-pass or e-coupon for ration through this website. The website also updates important data related to COVID-19 in Delhi, including the number of total cases, number of new cases reported on a day, number of recovered patients and the number of deaths reported on a day. Another section contains testing statistics including the number of tests done in Delhi to detect COVID-19 on a particular day, total number of negative cases, number of tests where results are pending and tests per million.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-launches-one-stop-website-for-coronavirus-related-information-831177.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Rajnath directs DPSUs, OFB to prepare contingency plans for resumption of operations post-lockdown||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday directed the Defence Public Sector Units (DPSUs) and Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) to prepare contingency plans for resumption of operations after the coronavirus lockdown is over. According to a press release by the Defence Ministry, Singh on Tuesday reviewed the contribution as well as future plans of the DPSUs and the OFB, through a video conference, in fighting COVID-19. "Raksha Mantri directed them to prepare contingency plans for resumption of operations after the lifting of lockdown to compensate for the lost working time to the extent possible and ramp up production," the release said. India has been under a lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus, which has infected around 29,800 people and killed more than 900 people in the country till now. Referring to Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi's plans to revive the economy post-lockdown, Singh said, according to the Defence Ministry, the DPSUs along with private defence industry could play a major role in the economic revival. Singh appreciated the innovative skills displayed by the DPSUs in devising manufacture of new products to fight COVID-19 and also their assistance rendered to the local administration in several forms, the press release noted. The ministry stated senior officials of the OFB, the Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL), the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HALD), Bharat Earth Movers Ltd (BEML), Garden Reach Shipbuilders & amp; Engineers Ltd (GRSE), Hindustan Shipyard Ltd. (HSL) and Midhani Mishradhatu Nigam Ltd (MIDHANI) were presented in the video conference meeting. "Several units of the OFB and the DPSUs, which are located in non-red zones, have already started operations. Almost all DPSUs have made contingency plans to ramp up production after the lockdown is lifted by drawing up plans to work in three shifts and extending the work days from five to six days a week," the ministry noted. Work will be carried out by observing social distancing and other relevant health guidelines, the ministry stated. During the video conference, the OFB has reported that there were no COVID-19 positive case in any of its 41 manufacturing locations, the ministry noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajnath-directs-dpsus-ofb-to-prepare-contingency-plans-for-resumption-of-operations-post-lockdown-831180.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt suspends distribution of pulses under over quality issues||The Delhi government has decided to suspend the distribution of pulses under the PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) over quality issues, officials said on Tuesday. An order issued by the Food and Civil Supplies department of the Delhi government said the issue of quality of pulses was taken up with the NAFED (National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd).  "Accordingly, it has been decided to postpone the distribution of pulses under the scheme(PMGKAY) for April 2020 scheduled to be started from April 29 till resolution of the issue," the order stated. A senior Delhi government official said the quality of pulses received under the scheme was "substandard" prompting the decision to put on hold the distribution. According to the scheme, each ration cardholder has to be provided 1 kg of pulses from fair price shops. The Delhi government is already providing 7.5 kg of free ration to cardholders during the lockdown imposed to curb the COVID-19 spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-suspends-distribution-of-pulses-under-over-quality-issues-831184.html
28-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi coronavirus cases rise by 206, no deaths for 3rd day||Delhi on Tuesday had over 200 Covid-19 positive cases but no deaths were reported for the third consecutive day, a medical bulletin said. With 206 cases, the number has now risen to 3,314 while the death toll remained at 54. During the day, 201 people were discharged with number now rising to 1,078 while 2,182 are still undergoing treatment in hospitals. Past three days have witnessed large number of cases -- 296 on Sunday, 193 on Monday and 206 on Tuesday. Delhi had crossed the 3,000-mark on Monday. Last week, the daily numbers had been below 150 mark.   So far, Delhi has conducted samples of 43,370  people out of which, 36,195 were tested negative. Results of 3,295 are still pending. During the past 24 hours, 2,256 samples were tested. Three more localities have been added to the containment zones, taking the total to 101. At least, 4.29 lakh people are living in these zones. Authorities have so far sent samples of 6,972 people till Tuesday. At least 273, according to statistics available till Monday, have tested positive among them During a video conference to review the situation in the capital, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said the number of hotspots in the capital are high and efforts should be taken to bring it down. He said experts had suggestedd that there is a need to increase the periphery of sealed areas to fight Covid-19 better. Vardhan also expressed concern over the high number of healthcare professionals being tested positive for Covid-19. Around 225 healthcare professionals in government and private hospitals have tested positive for Covid-19. Delhi government also launched a portal -- www.delhifightscorona.in --for all Covid-19 related updates and information. The website has the list and geo-locations of containment zones, testing facilities, ration shops, temporary relief centres and hunger relief centres of Delhi. It also features a daily tracker of the number of Covid-19 cases and testing statistics of the national capital. It also offers a single window for people to apply for ration e-coupons and e-passes. The website has videos explaining Covid-19 along with do's and don'ts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-coronavirus-cases-rise-by-206-no-deaths-for-3rd-day-831186.html
28-04-2020||Opinion||Political class undermining its reputation further during COVID-19?||The pandemic presented our politicians a great chance to reinvent themselves as responsible, empathetic leaders dedicated to the service of the people. But how have they made use of this opportunity?  To start with, they failed the millions of migrant labourers and lakhs of others stranded far away from their homes. That the unplanned lockdown has dealt a severe blow to the lives of daily/weekly wage earners goes without saying. But what matters more is what the politicians were doing before the lockdown and during it. In the initial days of COVID-19, it may be recalled that former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje and her parliamentarian son Dushyant Singh were attending parties (after which they had to go for isolation). Then in the middle of the lockdown, a former Prime Minister, H D Deve Gowda, was found busy organising his grandson’s wedding without any regard for the current social reality -- thousands of families have been forced to postpone marriages or making it a truly small affair, not to mention the risks of the event. As far as the norms of physical distancing is concerned, hundreds of videos have emerged showing how politicians are floating them with a sense of impunity. As if all this was not enough, many political figures are now involved in petty spats, like during normal times. Sonia Gandhi's attack against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), claiming the party was focussed more on spreading the 'virus of hate', and the BJP’s reaction to it, claiming she was doing 'cheap politics', is a glaring example of it. Meanwhile, Kapil Sibal has done his best to use the crisis for political advantage by claiming the Citizenship (Amendment) Act-National Register of Citizens (NRC) should now be forgotten as things of the past. At the state level too, there are many such examples. In the worst hit state of India, Maharashtra, the ruling Shiv Sena mocked its arch rival Raj Thackeray (who for his part demanded opening of liquor shops to augment the revenue of the state), claiming that for Raj a rice plate is as important as a peg. What happened in Bengal was also unwanted and unwarranted. The state witnessed a full-fledged political battle between the governor and the chief minister after the state chief secretary’s unusual attempt to precipitate a crisis during the central team’s visit to the state by saying that it will not be allowed to move around. Without going into the details, we may take note of the sharp political content of the letters shot by the governor and the CM, all in the name of combating the situation. After initial criticisms coming regularly from the governor, Mamata Banerjee dashed off a letter that reminded the governor that he was ‘nominated’ while the CM was constitutionally ‘elected’, and also took exception to Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s ‘tone, tenor and language’. Dhankhar reacted by tweeting that the 'state and people cannot be made to suffer at the hands of those who compromise constitutional prescriptions'. Then in his letter to the chief minister, the governor alleged that she was violating Articles 166 and 167 of the Constitution. We will not go into who is right and who is wrong in the case of Bengal, in the case of Maharashtra (where former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis too has attacked the government for lacking in coordination), or at the national level, for this not the time for it. But we need to point out that this kind of bickering must be sounding tragic to the ears of people who are suffering. The attitude and mentality of the political class across party lines is further eroding the prestige of ‘the politician’. It is high time the political class realises that they are committing harakiri. (Diptendra Raychaudhuri is a Kolkata-based journalist and author of books including, A Naxal Story. He is a deputy editor at the Bengali daily, Aajkal)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/political-class-undermining-its-reputation-further-during-covid-19-831042.html
28-04-2020||Panorama||Coronavirus and Ayurveda: We need evidence, not emotion||In unprecedented times that the present pandemic has caused, many Ayurveda practitioners are seeing an opportunity in the midst of the crisis for both the right and wrong reasons. Many with an earnest desire for Ayurveda to be involved as a ‘recognised’ medical practice for prophylaxis, prevention as well as management, have been claiming Ayurveda as an effective remedy for COVID-19. There is a spurt in claims by many Ayurveda practitioners and pharma of having an effective remedy to treat/cure COVID-19. Sadly, these claims seem to be based on emotion rather than science. There is barely any universally acceptable scientific evidence to support most of these claims. Many resorted to the unconventional methods of circulating their views via social media and also approached the state and central governments for endorsements and approvals. A PIL was also filed demanding the apex court to allow the usage of Ayurveda for COVID-19, which was dismissed by the Supreme Court. Ayurveda literature is mostly conceptual and gives a lot of scope for extrapolation. In wrong hands, it can be easily misconstrued and facts distorted in the name of interpretation. While there is an exhaustive description of epidemic/pandemic diseases in classical texts of Ayurveda, they are mostly generic recommendations. It is necessary for the Ayurveda fraternity to acknowledge that COVID-19 is a new disease with facts still obscure. Recently, the Gujarat government seemed excited about having tried Ayurveda and Homoeopathy as recommended by the AYUSH Ministry for improving immunity in 6887 asymptomatic contacts in 98 quarantine centres. They reported that none of them tested positive for COVID-19 post quarantine period. While this certainly is good news, we do need to ponder the probability of a 'contact' testing positive after the quarantine, the extent/degree of their contact, demographic details, etc. which are all vital for arriving at any conclusion. While these are frustrating moments for the Ayurveda fraternity, it is also confusing the general public who are unable to get a single authentic remedial source. For now, the AYUSH Ministry has categorically said that there is no available remedy for COVID-19 and only published guidelines for improving immunity that might help in preventing an infection. The Ministry is also investing in immediate research for establishing scientific validity of Ayurveda medicines as retrovirals, immune boosters etc. which is a welcome move. It will be prudent on the part of Ayurveda physicians and pharma to work with standard scientific guidelines to support the claims.  Few Ayurveda pharmaceutical companies that have been working on simulation studies and it is interesting to know that a few plant molecules have shown the ability to halt the alarming multiplication of the SARS CoV-2 virus in an Artificial Intelligence (AI) modelling. At the same time, one should not limit the strength of Ayurveda to just a few herbal remedies. Ayurveda is a holistic system of medicine that involves herbs, diet, lifestyle and all those measures that not only get the body rid of the infection but also restore the physiology of the body back in order. There is abundant wisdom in this ancient system of medicine and it is has 'contemporary' uses as well.  There is constantly new information emerging in the field of science and medicine. Accepting and understanding new information in the perspective of Ayurveda and building on them will enrich science. Otherwise, it will become redundant and irrelevant sooner rather than later. (The writer is a consultant Ayurveda family physician and a professor)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/coronavirus-and-ayurveda-we-need-evidence-not-emotion-830788.html
28-04-2020||Panorama||The long road to a vaccine, and its mass administration||That prompted the British government to take drastic public health measures. It took tough measures by the end of the 19th century to control, besides cholera, a scourge as deadly as the plague. Those measures included quarantining, isolation camps, travel restrictions and the exclusion of India's traditional medical practices. Overarching powers were vested with Special Plague Committees to impose restrictions on the populations of the coastal cities and enforced by the British military. These were resented by a majority of Indians who considered the measures to be “culturally intrusive and generally repressive.” The Russian bacteriologist Waldemar Mordecai Haffkine, then based in India and who was later appointed Director of the Plague Laboratory (now called Haffkine Institute) in Bombay -- where he tested vaccines against cholera and plague -- was pressed to develop a plague vaccine. He had to work with limited resources, but on January 10, 1897, Haffkine tested it on himself, to be followed by a control test on volunteers at the Byculla jail. By the turn of the century, the number of those inoculated in India alone reached four million. By 1898-99, government strategies of plague control changed tack in view of strong opposition to plague regulations as the plague had spread to rural areas and thus imposed logistical challenges. British health officials began to press for widespread community vaccination using Haffkine’s plague vaccine. Perhaps the colonial administration thought it was required to wage a battle first against its microbial enemies, if it were to administer a place as rich as India. It might explain why several vaccine institutes were established in late Victorian India, well before many European countries, in response to plague, cholera and other diseases. More than half a dozen Indian vaccine institutes conducted research and also produced vaccines and sera against cholera and plague but also against rabies, tetanus, diphtheria, smallpox, typhoid and snakebites. Why, India’s long record of institutional research notwithstanding, colonial research policies failed to lay the foundation for a sustainable path for vaccine development and production in independent India, however, remains open to further analysis. In post-independence India, the BCG campaign against tuberculosis developed into the largest immunisation campaign the world had seen, and the goal was to reach all Indians below the age of 25 (then estimated at 170 million people) by the end of the second five-year plan period in 1961. Facing stiff logistical challenges and powerful opposition, BCG was incorporated into the general immunisation programme in 1978. It is a matter of speculation when all this would come to pass. But the future is uncertain. Even though the eradication of smallpox by vaccination was envisaged by Edward Jenner as early as 1802, it was not until the WHO launched a determined global vaccination programme in 1966 that success was finally achieved. Beginning from the inception of the intensified Smallpox Eradication Programme (SEP) in 1967 in India, home to some 30–40% of all the smallpox cases in the world, the final stage (1973–75) of the South Asia SEP that closed the ledger convinced the world of the need for globally coordinated action for eradicating a number of other diseases and prompted the launch of the WHO’s worldwide Expanded Programme of Immunisation (EPI) in 1974, cited, in turn, to launch the global polio eradication programme in 1988. Until we find a vaccine against the novel coronavirus, should India move to the higher stages of community transmission, we have to either scout for cover (which we actually cannot) or brave the virus because lockdowns, in the long run, are unsustainable. But the road to a vaccine might be long and tortuous and we must learn to brace for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-long-road-to-a-vaccine-and-its-mass-administration-831208.html
28-04-2020||Panorama||Coronavirus Lockdown: For caring and sharing||The challenges faced by the micro-entrepreneurs are manifold--extended shutdown of their enterprises wipes out their income, but they have to continue to pay for business and household expenses-- rent, utilities, interest on loans, wages for workers have to be met even during lockdown. However, as many of them operate on thin margins with very little surplus generated. Microenterprises also face a massive credit gap. With the formal financial institutions accounting only for 16% of the total MSME debt, 84% of the financial needs of MSME are met by informal sources such as money lenders and friends (IFC, 2018). The current crisis may have also shrunk the sources of finance available to them. Further, the demand for the goods and services produced by micro-entrepreneurs is likely to be reduced even when the lockdown eases.   So far, informal micro-entrepreneurs such as petty shop owners, barbers, repair shops, tailors, street vendors, auto-rickshaw drivers, etc. have remained conspicuously absent in the discussions on the effects of lockdown and the relief measures.  Financial stimulus to microenterprises (larger loans to SHGs, emergency credit such as personal loans by public sector banks for SHG members, interest subvention, moratorium on loan repayments, allocating funds to SIDBI for refinancing SME lending etc) benefits only those who have borrowed or are eligible to borrow from the formal sector, thus excluding most microenterprises from the relief package. Many microentrepreneurs, both in rural and urban areas, are out of the purview of many of these schemes. While the current relief measures are a welcome move, they are far from being sufficient. In several cities, humanitarian aid, mostly from the private and non-governmental organisations, have been active to address the immediate ‘essential needs’ of these vulnerable households, often by giving them food packets or cooked meals. However, while food is essential, there are other expenses, especially to sustain their business which need cash. Another gap in the relief programs is that they mostly provide supply-side support to the MSMEs for them to sustain their businesses in the short term. However, the longer-term impact will also be dependent on the demand-side factors of the market, which has not been the mandate of any relief program so far. If the demand side of the market is not stabilised then the sustenance of these enterprises will be difficult in the long run.  With no savings to dip into, no income, no cash assistance and bleak future market demand, the only way out for the households involved in informal microenterprises will be to borrow cash, pushing them into severe indebtedness and a poverty trap. This further compromises their ability to restart their livelihood whenever normalcy returns and may have long-term repercussions on the households’ ability to spend on nutrition, healthcare and education. The ILO report predicts that in India, 400 million people working in the informal economy are at risk of being pushed deeper into poverty due to the shutdown and the resulting loss of livelihoods. There is uncertainty about the endpoint, but not the impact! (The writers are faculty members at Azim Premji University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/coronavirus-lockdown-for-caring-and-sharing-831209.html
28-04-2020||Right in the Middle||Lighter moments of the coronavirus lockdown||Indeed, the majority of us are rooting for this lockdown. However, few seem to be snivelling since their outdoor fun has come to standstill. They condescendingly are complying with rules, as if conferring favours on co-citizens, not realising these stringent norms are for one’s own safety. And that, it is the least one can do for one’s country, which is, with concern for combating the crisis, getting the Covid culprit under control, even at cost of its economy.    Yes, paradoxically, at few places, a profusion of Covid-centric pep-talks itself is kind of producing profound stress among people. But then again, the stress is certainly due to comprehending the cautions in an incorrect way! Besides not realising that just by raking brains, one can’t revoke or resolve the situation. So, instead of being paranoid why not be practical by taking plenty of precautions to pre-empt the pandemic perils?    Now, I, being a super-sanguine person, am looking at some lovely aspects in this lockdown phase. I have no hurry in zipping through chores. Tremendous time saved on not getting togged up and travelling distances to workplaces. Which means extra time to snooze more! Luxury, right? And, no mega social events, like shaadis. So, no frittering time over what-to-wear. By sporting frayed home-wear, non-coloured or streaked hair, no-make-up face … so what if one looks ghastly, even ghostly (and guys look like gypsies in frizzy locks)? Yes, with saved time, why not embark on some eclectic reading, or learn lilting songs to croon? Besides, now, one has time to tackle long-pending piles of jejune chores. Like, discarding junk items, laundering heaps of grubby clothes, sprucing up living space. Thinking of which, I hardly spot even small dust-specks in our home. Thanks to the lack of vehicles plying on the streets. What’s more, with sinking pollution levels, one can feel a soothing breeze at sunset, which is so serene sans ear-splitting sundry sounds. Yes, being a chronic fitness-fiend, I do miss my daily jog. But then again, in lieu of that, I’m into other work-outs like an on-the-spot jog, bhaskis (ut-bait), cycling, et al, which I invariably skipped after a long jog. Yes, one can whittle off wads of waist-flab through these work-outs. Interspersed with these are my teensy charities towards small storekeepers, various vendors who are truckling under financial crunches. Indeed, I’m finding myself in fine fettle, physically and mentally. After all, “As much of heaven is visible as we have eyes to see!”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/lighter-moments-of-the-coronavirus-lockdown-830802.html
28-04-2020||Right in the Middle||Losing their way||I reread some of the essays and anecdotes contained in the book. Gourish Kaikini was a master raconteur and I found one particular anecdote to be very interesting for its simplicity and profundity.  “Once the legendary Shivarama Karanth had been invited to preside over the Anniversary celebrations of a High School in a village neighbouring Gokarna. As one who taught in that school, I was his host and I followed Karanth throughout his stay hanging on his lips to receive the famous Karanth witticisms. After the school program, Karanth desired to spend a while on the nearest beach. Thus Karanth accompanied by me, fellow teacher Sri S R Yekkundi and one more teacher started on foot for the beach a couple of kilometres away. Since there was no well-defined road we had to pick our way through the kitchen garden patches and paddy fields along the way. On reaching the pristine sandy beaches and quietly savouring the grand vision of the ocean and its roar, we got around to discussing the various facets of literature and its developments. Karanth regaled us with his witticisms as was his wont. Absorbed as we were in this activity, we never realised that sun had almost set and darkness was creeping up fast. Since we still had to get back to the village before dark by the same route, we reluctantly got up and began wending our way back. Along the way, we missed a turn and reached a dead end. Perplexed and anxiously looking around for someone to help we noticed a village elder sitting on a makeshift bamboo platform and sought directions. He obliged us by giving necessary directions and we set off on the route suggested by him. Very soon we were back where we began having missed a turn again. The village elder who noticed our predicament gave a shout to a youngster who was finishing up on chores for the day in a neighbouring plot and instructed him to guide us back to the village. For good measure, he also cautioned him to ensure that we would be ion the road to the village before leaving us by saying “These gents are educated and learned. They can easily lose their way”. Momentarily stunned by this statement some of us recovered enough to guffaw in delight. But not so Karanth whose face suddenly grew sombre and he seemed to reflect on the truism of the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/losing-their-way-831210.html
28-04-2020||Second Edit||Donald Trump is subverting fight against COVID-19||US President Donald Trump’s suggestion that people should inject themselves with household disinfectants to cure Covid-19 could have been dismissed as one of his usual illogical rants, but for its potentially dangerous implications. Unlike antibiotics and anti-septics, which kill microorganisms within the body and on living tissue respectively, disinfectants are toxic chemicals that are used to clean floors and toilet bowls. They are not for human consumption. Understandably, his advice has triggered a near-universal outcry. The medical fraternity and even disinfectant manufacturers have warned that injesting disinfectants could cause grave harm, even kill. Still, there is a real possibility that some people could be misled into acting on Trump’s terrible suggestion. As the Covid-19 pandemic sweeps the world, anxiety levels have surged and many people are vulnerable and willing to try anything to stay alive.   This isn’t the first time that Trump is imperilling people’s lives with his quackery. He has been advocating the use of hydroxychloroquine to treat Covid-19 patients although there is no evidence that it works. He has also suggested that patients be exposed to “ultraviolet or just very powerful light”. Again, UV light works for disinfecting masks and medical equipment but should not be used on humans as it could cause skin cancer. Trump should leave decisions and advocacy on medical issues to experts. At a time when the world is grappling with a deadly pandemic, countless quacks are peddling ‘cures’ for the disease and jeopardising the lives of millions of people. That Trump is using the presidential pulpit to promote quackery is irresponsible and dangerous. As if this isn’t destructive enough, Trump is subverting lockdowns in the states. While it is true that lockdowns have impoverished many, those at the forefront of the anti-lockdown protests are largely conservatives and privileged Whites and Trump is egging them on with his tweets to “liberate” themselves. Lockdowns were imposed to enforce social distancing to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Pushing for their lifting without careful consideration of the health situation on the ground could prove disastrous. The US President should have been at the forefront, fighting the Covid-19 pandemic amongst his own people and leading a coordinated global response. Instead, not only has Trump failed to lead his own country, he is even subverting the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/donald-trump-is-subverting-fight-against-covid-19-830807.html
28-04-2020||Second Edit||Facebook-Jio: A big deal to worry about||That possibility has raised concerns about the deal. Both companies are leaders in their sectors and their coming together might lead to the suppression of competition and marginalisation of other players. Such dominance is not healthy business and could hurt consumer interest. There will also be issues related to net neutrality because the collaborating entities can give preference to each other, to the disadvantage of others. The handling of the huge amounts of personal and business data collected by them will also be a matter of concern, especially because the country does not have a strong data protection law. These issues will have to be studied closely by the regulatory authorities before they give their approval for the deal. The coming together of such powerful entities in the business field may even have political consequences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/facebook-jio-a-big-deal-to-worry-about-831207.html
28-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: Kerala moots partial lockdown till May 15||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the state had proposed to the Centre that partial lockdown may continue till May 15. The state was of the opinion that districts with no coronavirus cases for one week shall be allowed relaxations by following social distancing and regulations on gatherings, and no inter-district or inter-state movements should be allowed until May 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-kerala-moots-partial-lockdown-till-may-15-830770.html
28-04-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: Endosulfan victims stage online stir in Kerala's Kasargod||Scores of victims of endosulfan at Kasargod district in Kerala staged a novel protest on Monday by staging a day-long fasting at their houses and spread the pictures through social media. The demonstration was staged to highlight the difficulties being faced by endosulfan victims in getting treatment at the time of lockdown as well as to protest against delay in sanctioning welfare measures to 511 victims below the age of 18 who were recently included in the list of nearly 6,600 endosulfan victims. Ambalathara Kunhikrishnan, leader of an action council of endosulfan victims, said that the demonstration was held during the lockdown days to remind the authorities of the hardships being faced by endosulfan victims who were in a lockdown condition throughout their life. Meanwhile, Kerala Health and Social Welfare Minister K K Shailaja on Monday gave sanction for utilising Rs 2 crore for treatment of endosulfan victims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-endosulfan-victims-stage-online-stir-in-keralas-kasargod-830771.html
28-04-2020||South||BJP criticises Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan for not participating in video conference called by PM Narendra Modi on COVID-19||The Kerala BJP on Monday criticised Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for not participating in the video conference called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the situation arising due to the coronavirus pandemic in the country. BJP state chief K Surendran said while the whole country was fighting the pandemic together, it was "inappropriate" on part of the Kerala chief minister to miss the meeting. "Kerala chief minister said he had attended the last meeting and hence he did not attend today's meeting. However, most of the chief ministers, who attended the last meeting, had attended Monday's meeting. While the whole country is fighting the pandemic together, his absence cannot be justified," Surendran said in a statement However, Vijayan, in his daily COVID-19 evaluation press meet, said the Union cabinet secretary had on Sunday informed that only a few chief ministers will have a chance to speak at the video conference.  "We were asked to share the topics which we would like to share in the video conference. We had informed the cabinet secretary about it on Sunday itself. The cabinet secretary had informed us that only a few chief ministers will get a chance to speak during the conference," Vijayan said. Only nine chief ministers got the chance to speak during the video conference called by the prime minister. Kerala Chief Secretary Tom Jose participated in the conference. The Kerala had informed the cabinet secretary about the concerns of the state government on Sunday itself. Vijayan said the state government had said that the lockdown could be extended partially till May 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-criticises-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-for-not-participating-in-video-conference-called-by-pm-narendra-modi-on-covid-19-830780.html
28-04-2020||South||82 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Andhra Pradesh, tally touches 1,259||For the fourth consecutive day, no COVID-19-related deaths were reported in the state as the toll remained at 31, a government bulletin said. The total number of patients cured and discharged from hospitals increased to 258 as 23 were sent home in the last 24 hours ending 9 am on Tuesday. Kurnool, the worst-affected district in AP recorded 40 fresh cases, taking the overall count to 332. Guntur and Krishna- the second and third in the order registered 17 and 13 new cases to aggregate 254 and 223 respectively. In Kurnool, 12 coronavirus patients were discharged and 10 in Guntur on Tuesday, the bulletin said. The state now has 970 active COVID-19 cases. The bulletin said 5,783 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the aggregate so far to 80,334. Of the total, 79,075 turned negative in the tests. With over 1,400 tests per million population, the state government claimed that it has topped the country in conducting the COVID-19 screening. The Health department officials attribute the spurt in number of cases to the increased testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/82-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-touches-1259-830892.html
28-04-2020||South||Cops turn good Samaritans in Kerala; deliver oxygen cylinder, cakes, even catch snake||Forty nine-year-old Rosamma, from a tribal hamlet in the high range idukki district was taken aback recently seeing the men in khaki at her door stepwithan oxygen cylinder and equally surprised was 60-year-old Jancey from Kaipamangalam in Thrissur whenthey knocked her door and gave her a birthday cake. Rosamma was suffering from lung disease for years and was undergoing treatment sinceover two years years at Kottayam medical college. "She came back to her home last year and the tribal department was taking care of her treatment expenses. But for last four months, a payment of Rs 40,000 was pending from the department," a family source said. As the woman was unable to get an oxygen cylinder due to the lockdown, Adimali police came forward to help her. "We decided to provide her with an oxygen cylinder which she was in badlyin need and also gifted her provisions that can last for more than two weeks," a police officer from Adimalisaid. On April 25 night, the Kaipangalam police received a strange request from 11-year-old Lenna from Qatar, who wanted to know if they would deliver a cake to her grandmother who had turned 60. "Police uncle can you help us? We are in Qatar. It is my grandmnother's 60th birthday on Sunday. Can you send a birthday cake to her?. Its her 60th birthday and the family was supposed to come to Kerala, But due to lockdown we are stuck here", she told the police personnel. The cops also spoke to her parents and promised to deliver the cake the following day. On Sunday monring, Jancey and her husband were shocked on seeing the policemen. "But we told them there was nothing to worry and that we had dropped in to deliver a birthday cake to her", police said. The police personnel also had a video chat with lenna, showed her grandmother with the cake and the child was overjoyed, they said. On the request of the parents, who are stuck in Italy due to the lockdown, cops recently handed over a cake to three-year-old Marya Rose at Mala in Thrissur district. Police sources told PTI they had another unusual request for help from a person who was abroad saying that her elderly parents were living alone in the state capital and had found a serpent. A team was immediately sent with a snake catcher, and the nocturnal visitor was caught and taken off, much to the relief of the elderly couple. Another plea was from a man from Kannur who urgently needed "Marimani Thylam" (an Ayurvedic pain reliever), which was also provided,the sources said. Policemen have also been active in spreading the message of hand-washing and social distancing. PTI RRT UD ROH ROH||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cops-turn-good-samaritans-in-kerala-deliver-oxygen-cylinder-cakes-even-catch-snake-830908.html
28-04-2020||South||3 more including two Chennai cops test positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu||Two city police personnel and a flower vendor at the Koyambedu market here on Tuesday tested positive for the coronavirus, officials said. Authorities have taken up disinfection work and testing of those associated with the trio who become the latest COVID-19 patients, taking the total in the state to 1,940, they said. "A writer and a constable attached to the Nungambakkam police station" here tested positive for the deadly virus, a senior police official said. Already, some police personnel in Coimbatore and other cities in Tamil Nadu have been affected by the virus. A flower vendor in the Koyambedu wholesale market for vegetables, fruits and flowers, which caters to the metropolis, also tested positive, another official said. As on Monday, Tamil Nadu had 809 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/3-more-including-two-chennai-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu-830960.html
28-04-2020||South||COVID-19 in Telangana: Dwindling test numbers and diminishing positive cases||In what appears to be good news, COVID-19 cases reported in Telangana in the last few days are alleviating. There were 13 new cases on Friday, on Saturday seven, on Sunday 11, and on Monday it was only two. Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao sees these dwindling numbers “as an auspicious sign” and “clear indications that the state (Telangana) would be corona-free in a few days”. However, the low positive cases are allegedly proportional to the low testing numbers in Telangana with its 3.5 crore population (2011 census) – less than 19,000 as per Telangana’s COVID-19 website. The total number of cases in Telangana till Monday night was 1003. In comparison, the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, with its five crore population, has conducted 80,334 tests – with 1504 tests per million, the highest average among all the states in the country – and four times the Telangana figure. AP recorded 1259 positive cases till Tuesday morning. AP officials attribute the high figure to their large-scale testing “to detect cases early and prevent them from becoming super-spreaders”. AP’s new cases of the last five days is 82 (out of 5783 samples tested on Monday), 80 (6517 samples tested on Sunday), 81 (6768 samples on Saturday), 61 (6928 on Friday) and 62 (6306 on Thursday). In contrast, on Friday, as per Telangana Health Minister Etela Rajender, they tested 540 samples resulting in 13 positive cases. On Monday, as per the CMO, it was a mere 159 tests, showing only two positives. Speaking to DH, Dr G Srinivasa Rao, Director of Public Health, Telangana, that “each state has its own strategy in dealing with the pandemic”. “We are doing tests where it is required and as per the ICMR guidelines. There is no question of less or more tests. Our strategy is whatever the government of India recommends, which is tests on all symptomatic people, all primary contacts,” Rao said. However, some accusations including that of a symptomatic journalist are COVID-19 characteristic people visiting government hospitals for tests are turned away “as they lack travel history or primary contact with COVID-19 patient”.  Telangana’s approach is thus different from AP, where in addition to RT-PCR and TrueNat TB machine tests, AP is using the Korean rapid antibody-based kits for community surveillance. “They have their own method on which I cannot comment. Earlier, we also did the same during the Markaz episode – about 10,000 tests on returnees, their primary, secondary contacts, as it was a targeted approach. That detection is complete. And now with our containment measures and lockdown, the fresh case number would be definitely less,” the health director, a key official in COVID-19 mitigation, says. However, the official claims that on average over 300 samples are being tested daily in Telangana nowadays “which was over a thousand earlier.”. “With no big targeted group, why do more tests unnecessarily?” Dr Rao questioned. Rebutting some media reports, Rao said Telangana is not attempting to develop herd immunity with lesser tests. “Herd immunity might occur at a later, right time, with vaccine support. As of now, there is no proof of herd immunity anywhere (in the world).”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-in-telangana-dwindling-test-numbers-and-diminishing-positive-cases-830979.html
28-04-2020||South||COVID-19: HC stays Kerala govt order for employees' salary cut||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday stayed for two months the operationalisation of the state government order to deduct the salary of government employees for fighting the COVID-19 pandemic in the state. Justice Bechu Kurian Thomas issued the interim order considering a batch of petitions filed by a section of employees and their organisations challenging the government decision. In its order, the government had said the state government employees' salary for six days every month would be deducted for the next five months.  "This would be applicable to employees of all state-owned Enterprises, Public Sector Undertakings, Quasi-Government organisations, Universities, etc in the state," the order had said. However, it had made it clear that there will be no salary cut for those staff who earn less than Rs 20,000 per month. The order also stated that ministers, MLAs, various Board members, Local body institution members, members of various commissions would receive 30 per cent less salary for one year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-hc-stays-kerala-govt-order-for-employees-salary-cut-830980.html
28-04-2020||South||32 recovered COVID-19 patients ready to donate plasma: Owaisi to T'gana govt||As many as 32 people who successfully recovered from COVID-19 in Telangana have come forward to donate their plasma for treatment of other patients in the state, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi said. In his letter to Telangana Health Minister Etela Rajender, Owaisi furnished the details of the recovered patients and expressed hope that their contribution would go a long way in the government's efforts to treat coronavirus patients. "As you are aware, the donation of convalescent plasma is critical in our collective fight against coronavirus. In furtherance of the same I am attaching herewith the names of 32 recovered patients who are willing to donate their plasma and contribute in helping patients who are currently affected by COVID-19," he said in the letter dated April 27. Plasma treatment is done by taking blood plasma from a cured COVID-19 patient to treat positive cases to effectively strengthen the immune system. The state government has got the Centre's approval to use plasma therapy in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. "I hope that this contribution from recovered patients will go a long way in the government efforts to treat COVID-19 patients in the state," the Hyderabad MP said. The number of COVID-19 positive cases in the state rose to 1,003 while the active patients stood at 646 with the total discharges at 332 and 25 deaths, a government bulletin said on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/32-recovered-covid-19-patients-ready-to-donate-plasma-owaisi-to-tgana-govt-830995.html
28-04-2020||South||Coronavirus lockdown: TSHRC seeks report on death of woman, her new born baby||The Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC) onTuesday sought a report from state health officials on a media report over the death of a woman and her new born baby, after she had to go to six hospitals for consultation amidst the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. The Commission on its own took cognisance of a news report published in a Telugu daily over the matter and called for reports from Special Chief Secretary Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare, District Medical and Health Officer of Mahabubnagar and from Superintendent of Government General Hospital in Mahabubnagar and Superintendent, Government Maternity Hospital at Koti here. The Commission posted the matter to June 16. The media report claimed that the 20-year-old pregnant woman, who belonged to Gadwal district, accompanied by her husband, had to go to six state-run hospitals for the purpose of delivery and other medical problems. The report saidthe woman first consulted a district hospital at Gadwal for delivery on April 24. She, was, however, advised to go to a big hospital in view of her health condition. She was shifted to Mahabubnagar General Hospitalin a vehicle by the authorities. The doctors there said her condition was critical and referred her to a hospital in Hyderabad, according to the media report. As Gadwal is a COVID-19 prevalent district, the doctors at the hospital sent her to another state-run hospital in Hyderabad for testing for the virus infection. After she tested negative, she was sent to a government maternity hospital in the city where she delivered a baby boy on Saturday last. As the baby had a breathing problem, the infant was taken to a state-run children's hospital where the baby died on Sunday, the report said. As the condition of the woman turned critical, she was taken to a different government hospital in the city where she died while undergoing treatment on Monday night, the report claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-tshrc-seeks-report-on-death-of-woman-her-new-born-baby-831017.html
28-04-2020||South||Homeless people paint a school, their home amid lockdown||The corporation primary school in Erode’s Veerapampalayam area sports a fresh coat of paint and is cleared of bushes and thorns that were obstructing the view from the road. The old building got a new lease of life, thanks to a group of homeless people – the school has been their home since the nationwide lockdown began on March 25 – who took up the job on themselves. The inmates did not want to spend their time idle at the school and hence, took up the job of renovation and completed it in about eight days. Eight men held the brush themselves painting the walls, doors, and windows, while more than 50 people took up the broom to clean the premises which look pristine clean today. As many as 64 homeless people in the textile town of Erode are lodged in the school by an NGO Thaimai Trust, which decided to get the school painted to give a “private school feeling” for its students whenever the institution reopens.   The NGO has been providing three-square meals, snacks, and coffee/tea for the inmates since March 25. The inmates agreed to a suggestion by the NGO’s founder P Megala to give back something to the school that gave them a roof above their heads during tough times and painted the building. “All are homeless people who have been living on platforms in Erode. We decided to shift them to the school due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Though we also pitched in, the inmates did the job with utmost dedication. They also spent hours together to clean the ground, clear bushes and thorns, and remove stones that were lying. The ground looks so clean today,” Megala told DH. 25-year-old Karthikeyan, a casual labourer who took refuge at the school after he was chased out of his accommodation by the house owner, told DH that painting the school gave him utmost satisfaction. “After a point of time, all of us felt bored. That is when we heard the idea from the NGO that helped us. Though I had never held a brush in my hand, I took up the job of painting. I feel very happy and content, having used my time in doing something constructive,” he said. 33-year-old Megala has been running the NGO along with her friends Bhuvan and Madhu for the past four years and has been involved in relief activities during Cyclone Gaja in 2018. The NGO spent nearly Rs 50,000 on the painting work and the food for all the inmates is prepared at Megala’s home. With help from a few students, they also drew paintings of personalities like Dr A P J Abdul Kalam – the splendid work by homeless people has also earned the appreciation of Erode Corporation and the district administration with top officials visiting the school. “The windows and the gates are painted in blue which gives a private school look. We have used bright colours and just hope the students like our renovation work when they come after the lockdown ends,” Megala said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/homeless-people-paint-a-school-their-home-amid-lockdown-831029.html
28-04-2020||South||Four more coronavirus cases in North Kerala; 2.75 lakh NRIs register for returning||Four more COVID-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Tuesday, with three in Kannur district and one at Kasargod. Four infected persons got recovered also, two each in Kasargod and Kannur. No fresh cases were reported from Kottayam and Idukki districts that were witnessing a spike in COVID-19 cases over the last couple of days. Meanwhile, the number of Malayali NRIs who registered on an online facility launched by the Kerala government on Sunday reached 2.75 lakh. Malayalis from over 150 countries registered on the portal. The online registration was initiated by the Kerala government for making screening and quarantine facilities for the returnees. Already the government decided the quarantining and observation plans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-more-coronavirus-cases-in-north-kerala-275-lakh-nris-register-for-returning-831065.html
28-04-2020||South||Madras HC issues notice to Centre on plea seeking removal of GST on masks||The Madras High Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Union government on a PIL seeking removal of the 18 per cent GST on sanitisers and 5 per cent GST on masks in these difficult times due to the COVID-19 pandemic or at least for next few months. A division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and M Nirmal Kumar posted the matter for further hearing to May 18. Petitioner S Stalinraja, an advocate, submitted that certain ingredients are taxable. "...still in these difficult times or at least for next few months if GST not levied on sanitisers and masks it would be a big relief for the people in our country." He stated that 23 per cent of the population in India are under poverty line and not in a position to afford essential goods such as masks and sanitisers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-issues-notice-to-centre-on-plea-seeking-removal-of-gst-on-masks-831067.html
28-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: Coronavirus positive patient escapes from hospital, brought back||A man with psychiatric illness, who was being treated at a government hospital for coronavirus, escaped from the isolation ward on Monday night. He was brought back to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on Tuesday morning and was admitted to the isolation ward. Hospital sources said the man went out of the hospital in the night and walked a few kilometers to reach his home in Perambur area. However, police and health department officials landed up at his house after being alerted by neighbours. The man, according to sources, did not want to come to the hospital but was convinced by police and other officials. The sources said he has a history of psychiatric illness and alcohol addiction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-coronavirus-positive-patient-escapes-from-hospital-brought-back-831092.html
28-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: DMK, oppn parties slam freezing of DA, EL for Tamil Nadu govt staff||The DMK and other opposition parties in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday slammed the freezing of Dearness Allowance (DA) and earned leave (EL) for the state government staff, calling it "anti-employee" and regrettable." DMK President M K Stalin slammed the fiscal management of the ruling AIADMK, while Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) leader TTV Dhinakaran said it was not "acceptable" that the government has burdened its employees with such a measure. Citing the severe fiscal crisis due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Tamil Nadu government on Monday announced freezing of additional installment of DA for its employees and pensioners till July 2021 and suspended EL encashment for a year. "The attack by the AIADMK government on its salaried employees through (these) orders is indeed regrettable," Stalin said in a statement. The government staff were working overtime in these times of the spread of the pandemic and lakhs of such personnel from various departments, including Health, Police, Revenue and Municipal Administration were serving with dedication, he added. The AIADMK government's move would "demoralise" the workforce, the Leader of the Opposition added. Contrary to claims by the government and Chief Minister K Palaniswami, the state's fiscal management was not proper, Stalin said and pointed to the Rs 4.56 lakh crore debt. Rather than "squeezing" employees' salaries, the state government should ensure it received from the Centre its dues like GST share, Finance Commission allocations and the sum demanded to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. Dhinakaran, an independent legislator, said it was "not acceptable" to effect such measures during "these times of crisis" when government staff, including COVID-19 frontline workers were serving society with dedication.  "The government could avoid so much unnecessary expenditure...how can it be acceptable to burden those who are the vital cog in the government machinery,?" he asked Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) chief Kamal Haasan also slammed the move. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi insists private firms "should not distrees its employees in this crisis," why have the state and central governments effected DA freeze, he said in a tweet. "This balcony government has to understand that it is their duty to also save our entrepreneurs and our workforce now," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-dmk-oppn-parties-slam-freezing-of-da-el-for-tamil-nadu-govt-staff-831114.html
28-04-2020||South||Telangana woman in dire straits threatens suicide on social media; Police rush to her help||A woman in dire straits due to COVID-19 lockdown received help from police and some public hereafter she made a passionate plea on social media for aid to take care of her four-member family and even threatened to commit suicide. Police said a team rushed to her house on the city outskirts and provided foodgrains and cash assistance after being alerted by the COVID-19 control room while some netizens responded saying they have transferred money through the online facility to her account. In a tweet addressed to ruling TRS Working President and Minister K T Rama Rao, the woman said her family was "facing financial problems" and she was not able to get milk for her children and her husband and she were having health issues. "...no one is coming forward to help us financially so we have deciding (sic) to commit suicide," she said. In a series of tweets, the woman also said "Sir many people have lots of money but what is the use if you don't help people in need. Plz help my children and our family even a small help also is very helpful for us". "Our Dundigal police team visited the house and helped accordingly," a tweet from Cyberabad Police said. Netizens also praised the police and some of them posted messages saying they also transferred some money to the woman. Police said they would take care of the basic needs of the family during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-woman-in-dire-straits-threatens-suicide-on-social-media-police-rush-to-her-help-831116.html
28-04-2020||South||SSC exams to be held two weeks after lockdown ends, says Andhra Pradesh education minister||The postponed SSC examinations would be held two weeks after the lockdown is lifted, Andhra Pradesh’s minister for education Dr Adimulapu Suresh said. AP’s Secondary School Certificate board exams were scheduled to be held from March 31 to April 8 but were postponed indefinitely due to the coronavirus scare. The state has recorded 1259 COVID-19 cases till Tuesday, with an alarming number of cases been added every day.   The 10th exams would be held adhering to all the safety guidelines while implementing the social distancing norms strictly so that students will not be affected by the coronavirus, the minister said.    The State’s 2020-21 academic calendar will be released as per the Human Resource Department (HRD) ministry's ad hoc calendar, the minister added.  In a video conference with the Union Human Resource Development minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Tuesday, Adimulapu has explained about the digital classes, online class work, and classes being broadcast through the Doordarshan Saptagiri channel in Andhra Pradesh. The HRD minister has suggested that the state should make use of digital education, online classes and said that the mid-day meals programme should continue through summer holidays as well. In reply Adimueapu Suresh said that the state government has through its scheme Jagananna Gorumudha is providing mid-day meals to all the classes till 10th, besides providing nutritious items like eggs and chikki in the menu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ssc-exams-to-be-held-two-weeks-after-lockdown-ends-says-andhra-pradesh-education-minister-831132.html
28-04-2020||South||Kerala ready to receive NRIs as and when Centre allows: CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said the state was ready to receive the non-resident Indians as and when the Central government allows operation of aircraft to bring them back. He also informed that till now, 2.76 lakh non-resident Keralites from over 150 countries have registered on the Norka website indicating their desire to come back to Kerala. "As per the initial numbers, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Thrissur districts have the maximum number of returnees. A committee under the District Collector with representatives from Airports Authority of India, Kerala Police and Health Department would oversee the elaborate arrangements at airports to receive the NRKs," Vijayan told media persons after the daily evaluation meet on COVID-19. He said there will be doctors and paramedical staff at the airport for detailed checking of the arriving passengers and a rooster of the passengers would be obtained from the Civil Aviation Ministry and the Ministry of External Affairs well in advance. The Chief Minister also said that after the initial screening, those without symptoms would be sent to their homes for quarantine and there would be regular monitoring by the police and healthcare workers to ensure that they follow the quarantine rules. "Telemedicine facilities and mobile medical units would be set up under panchayats to ensure proper medical care for those under isolation. Those who cannot undergo quarantine at home can opt for the government quarantine centres," Vijayan said. He also said that those with symptoms would be moved straight to the quarantine centres and their luggage would be sent home. He said adequate quarantine and medical facilities near airports have been identified and made ready. "If the Centre decides to bring the expats by ships, we will make similar arrangements at the ports also. There is no shortage of Viral Transport Medium and we have enough stock of PCR and RNA extraction kits. The Kerala Medical Services Corporation has been directed to procure more kits," Vijayan said. The chief minister also informed that the registration for Keralites in other states on the Norka website would begin on April 29. "People from Kerala who are currently stuck or stranded in different parts of the country because of the lockdown and desire to come back to Kerala can register their details on the Norka website," he said. The registration will begin on April 29 evening and priority would be given to those who have gone for medical treatment in other states and residents of other states who have registered for specialist treatment in Kerala. Students, those who have lost jobs, those who went for exams or interviews can also register.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-ready-to-receive-nris-as-and-when-centre-allows-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-831142.html
28-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu’s coronavirus tally crosses 2,000; Chennai emerges on top||Tamil Nadu reported another massive spike in the number of positive Covid-19 patients with swab samples of 121 persons rendering positive on Tuesday alone, making the total tally cross 2,000 mark. The total tally now stands at 2,058, including 25 deaths and 1,128 discharges. Chennai continued to be the hotspot with more than 80 per cent of Tuesday’s patients belonging to the city – 103, including a 7-month-old baby, tested positive for Coronavirus, taking the city’s tally to 673. The growing number of positive cases in this metropolis is a major cause of concern though the Greater Chennai Corporation and the Health Department have intensified their containment activities. Out of the 103, who tested positive in Chennai, at least 13 are primary cases with no contact or travel history so far. Three children under the age of 5 are among the 103 patients in this city. The number of cases in Chennai have been witnessing a massive spike for the past few days – authorities have shifted the retail division of the famous Koyambedu market after two vendors tested positive for Covid-19.   The government had stepped up containment activities by spraying disinfectant in almost all parts of the city, which is under an intensified lockdown since April 26. Officials attribute the density of population in Chennai for the spike in numbers and fear the number could only increase in the coming days. The number of discharges also took a slide on Tuesday with just 21 patients leaving hospitals across the state – the number had been above 50 for the past few days. As on Tuesday, the number of discharges in the state stood at 1,128 with 902 active cases. The state also crossed 1 lakh mark in testing of samples with 1,01,874 samples being sent for testing at 41 labs across the state. “2,058 persons have tested positive till date, while 97,908 samples were tested negative. Testing of 1,908 samples are under process and 8,685 samples are repeat samples,” an update from the Health Department said. The state went in for “aggressive testing” from April 12 after the cases crossed the 1,000 mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-s-coronavirus-tally-crosses-2000-chennai-emerges-on-top-831179.html
28-04-2020||South||Do more COVID-19 tests, work out strategy to tackle economic crisis: Kanimozhi||The central and state governments should immediately increase coronavirus testing and also work out a strategy to tackle the economic crisis caused due to the lockdown, DMK leader Kanimozhi said on Tuesday. Talking to PTI over phone, she said the number of tests presently being done to check the COVID-19 spread is "grossly inadequate". "Both the central and state governments should immediately increase the number of persons being tested," Kanimozhi added. She said many migrant labourers are suffering due to non-payment of wages. Even the relief material promised to them have not reached. As the inter-state movement is also prohibited, they cannot go back to their home towns, she said. The deadly virus has severely affected people's lives, economy, employment and business throughout the country. "The COVID-19 spread might be contained soon but the economic crisis it has created in India will continue for some time and the governments should evolve a clear strategy to overcome the problem," she said. The MP from Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu claimed that many people in the state did not get the free ration supply of essential commodities promised by the government.  She urged the AIADMK government to streamline the distribution process to all those affected. On suggestions to extend the lockdown beyond May 3, Kanimozhi said, "It is for the central and the state governments to take a call on the issue. But they have to ensure that the number of tests for COVID-19 being done are increased like in Kerala."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/do-more-covid-19-tests-work-out-strategy-to-tackle-economic-crisis-kanimozhi-831194.html
28-04-2020||South||Curious case of less testing, diminishing positive coronavirus single-day tally in Telangana||In what appears as good news, fresh coronavirus cases reported in Telangana in the last few days are alleviating into single digits. Thirteen new cases were reported on Friday, seven on Saturday, 11 on Sunday, and only two cases on Monday. On Tuesday evening, Health Minister Etela Rajender announced six new cases. Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao sees these dwindling numbers “as an auspicious sign” and “clear indications that the state would be coronavirus free in a few days.” However, the low positive cases are allegedly linked to low testing, currently 19065. The state’s tally stands at 1,009. In contrast, the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, with five crore population, has conducted 80,334 tests – i.e. 1,504 tests per million, the highest average among all the states in the country – and four times the Telangana figure. Andhra has recorded 1,259 positive cases till Tuesday morning. The state’s officials attribute the high figure to their large-scale testing, “to detect cases early and prevent them from becoming super-spreaders.” Andhra reported 366 new cases in the last five days. Whereas, Telangana tested 540 samples on Friday resulting in 13 positive cases. On Monday, as per CMO, only 159 tests were done resulting in two positive cases. On Tuesday, Etela refuted allegations of deliberate low testing and fudging of COVID-19 numbers. If one has to be tested, we will test him/her, the minister said.    Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, Telangana said that “each state has its own strategy in dealing with the pandemic.” “We are doing tests as per the ICMR guidelines. There is no question of less or more tests. Our strategy is whatever the government of India recommends, which is tests on all symptomatic people, all primary contacts,” Rao told DH.  Telangana’s approach is thus different from AP, where symptomatic people are encouraged to get tested. In addition to RT-PCR and TrueNat TB machine tests, AP is using the Korean rapid antibody-based kits for community surveillance. Telangana has refused to do rapid kit tests.  “They have their own method I cannot comment on that. Earlier we also did the same during the Markaz episode – about 10,000 tests on returnees, their primary, secondary contacts, as it was a targetted approach. That detection is complete. And now with our containment measures and lockdown, the fresh cases would be definitely less,” the health director, a key official in COVID-19 mitigation, says. The official claims that on average over 300 samples are being tested daily in Telangana nowadays, “which was over a thousand earlier.” “With no big targeted group like the Delhi Markaz returnees and their contacts we tested earlier, why test unnecessarily?” Dr Rao questions. Rebutting some media reports, Rao said Telangana is not attempting to develop a herd immunity with lesser tests. “Herd immunity might occur at a later, right time, with vaccine support. As of now, there is no proof of herd immunity anywhere (in the world).”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/curious-case-of-less-testing-diminishing-positive-coronavirus-single-day-tally-in-telangana-831203.html
28-04-2020||State||Coronavirus Lockdown: Fruits, veggies to be sold at Nandini shops, parlours||Deputy Director of Horticulture Raghu B said that the fruits and vegetables grown by farmers of the district will be sold at Nandini parlours with the assistance of the Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF). This ensures the elimination of middlemen and connect farmers to customers directly, he observed. "Due to the lockdown, farmers are not getting a market or the right price for their produce. To ensure both a market and the right price, farm produce will now be sold in front of Nandini outlets where there is one," he added.  He said that farmers can now sell their produce in 35 Bengaluru West, Nelamangala and Tumakuru Nandini shops, parlours and franchisees. For details call: 0816-2275189, 2970310. Farmers may also call 99457 92725 (Tumakuru), 9686056705 (Gubbi), 9538272964 (Chikkanayakanahalli), 9448660766 (Kunigal), 9886896816 (Tiptur), 9880049755 (Turuvekere), 9535781963 (Koratagere), 9448448970 (Madhugiri), 9945735297 (Sira) or 9844042356 (Pavagada)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-fruits-veggies-to-be-sold-at-nandini-shops-parlours-831048.html
28-04-2020||State||Coronavirus Lockdown: Govt concerned about liquor sales, not people's lives, says MP D K Suresh||Karnataka MP D K Suresh flayed the state government for writing to the Centre seeking permission to open liquor shops. He said that the government was more concerned about filling its coffers than saving people's lives. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday, he criticised that the government was playing with people's lives. "We are supporting the government's moves only because we don't want to get into a mud-slinging match with the administration during a crisis. But the government is misusing our patience and ignoring the health risks to people," he added.  He pointed out that the management of Covid-19 in the state was not to expectations. "Only 32,000 sample tests have been done because the government is not providing the necessary infrastructure. Ministers and the chief minister are causing confusion among people," he said.   The prime minister's scheme has transferred only Rs 500 a month to people's accounts during the lockdown. "Is this amount enough for one month? The PM has no concern for people. He participates in video conferences and does nothing afterward to support or build confidence in people," he charged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-govt-concerned-about-liquor-sales-not-peoples-lives-says-mp-d-k-suresh-831049.html
28-04-2020||State||Karnataka: Two safety boxes handed over to Chikkaballapur for doctors collecting throat swabs for coronavirus tests||The safety boxes for doctors collecting throat swabs for coronavirus test were handed over to the district on Tuesday. Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar handed over the two boxes, one for Chikkaballapur and another one for Gauribidanur. “The boxes will be used in two places in the district. Medical tests of 1,270 people have been conducted. Those who feel that they have symptoms may undergo the test,” he said. Sudhakar said that the state government was doing its best to handle Covid-19 situation. There were no patients now suffering seriously for plasma therapy. He said,”Covid-19 is under control in the district. Since Hindupur, the neighbouring town is in red zone, lockdown in the district will continue till May 3.” ZP President M B Chikkanarasimhaiah, ZP CEO Fouiza B Taranum, DC R Latha, SP Mithun Kumar, TP President B M Ramaswamy and APMC President Narayanaswamy were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-two-safety-boxes-handed-over-to-chikkaballapur-for-doctors-collecting-throat-swabs-for-coronavirus-tests-831053.html
28-04-2020||State||Man hooked to mobile while walking, collides with elephant||A man, busy looking at his mobile phone, collided with an elephant while walking on a road. Though the elephant attacked him, he miraculously escaped. Suresh Babu (46) of Balaji village was going on a morning walk at Chennangolli on Gonikoppa-Mysuru Highway on Tuesday when the incident occurred. It was only when the elephant threw him with its trunk, Suresh Babu realised that he rammed a tusker. The elephant also stamped on him and after crossing the road, made its way into a plantation. Though the footprint of the elephant is imprinted on Suresh Babu's trouser, he has not suffered any injury.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/man-hooked-to-mobile-while-walking-collides-with-elephant-831058.html
28-04-2020||State||COVID19: Karnataka hotels to open after 40 days of lock down||After 40 days of lock down, Hotels in Kodagu will resume operations from Wednesday, with certain restrictions. People from the working class were largely dependent on hotels for breakfast and meals. But owing to lock down, the labourers were put to a great difficulty. As Kodagu is now in green zone with respect to COVID-19 status, the district administration has allowed the hotels to provide food to people, only in the form of parcels. The hotels would be open on four days in a week - on Sundays, Mondays, Wednesdays and on Fridays, between 6 am and 4 pm. Hotel owners have provided the information on the same on social networking sites. Some hotels in Madikeri city limits will offer home delivery of food, on prior order. Parota, Biriyani, Kabab and 'Pattar' will be available. Cyber centres can be opened. However, only print outs are permitted. Services which would still have restrictions are : Single or multi-branded malls, shopping complexes, theatres, multiplexes, jims, swimming pools, sports, public meets, functions, temple festivals, shandy and religious centres, tourist destinations, lodges, resorts, home stays, clubs and pubs, all types of liquor outlets, beauty parlours and salons, driving schools, travel agencies, public laundries, dry wash shops, sale of tobacco products, training centres and coaching classes, jewellery showrooms and public transport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid19-karnataka-hotels-to-open-after-40-days-of-lock-down-831125.html
28-04-2020||State||Maintain strict vigilance at Andhra Pradesh border: DC to taluk officials||Deputy Commissioner K Rakesh Kumar visited Pavagada, a border taluk, and took stock of the situation there on Tuesday.  He visited Dommatamari, Virupsandra, Gummaghatta, Channammareddy Halli, Akkammanahalli, Gowdeti, TN Pet, and other villages and interacted with the villagers. He told taluk officials to ensure that people do not sneak into the state from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and told villagers to inform officials in case someone does. He interacted with Asha workers of Venkatapura.  He observed that utmost vigilance is necessary though no cases had been reported in the taluk because Hindupur and Kalyanadurga in AP (bordering Pavagada) have reported coronavirus cases. "We have already relaxed the lockdown norms and allowed MNREGA works to begin and rural industries to start functioning. We will discuss opening other shops soon," he assured.  Superintendent of Police K Vamshi Krishna who was with the DC, said that nearly 500 vehicles had been seized for violating lockdown norms in the taluk and CCTV cameras had been installed at checkpoints.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/maintain-strict-vigilance-at-andhra-pradesh-border-dc-to-taluk-officials-831126.html
28-04-2020||State||Govt employees assured of April salaries, pensions||Amidst uncertainty over payment of salaries and pensions to government employees, the Finance Department issued an order Tuesday ensuring the same. According to the order by Finance Secretary (Budget & Resources) Ekroop Caur, the government has delegated financial powers for the month of April to additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries or secretaries, allowing "upto 1/12th of budget provision presuming concurrence of Finance Department" for payment of salaries. "Salary shall be drawn only for the month of April 2020 – from the amount made available to departments. Treasuries shall ensure that no arrears of salaries shall be without prior concurrence of the Finance department. If salary for the month of March has not been drawn yet Administrative Department (AD) is allowed to draw it," the order said. The order came after the CM held informal discussion with the chief secretary and senior officials of the Finance Department over the issue. While there was a proposal to deduct salaries of government employees, Yediyurappa had reportedly opposed the same. The Finance Department also sought a list of schemes from various ADs of schemes that need to be implemented in public the interest even during the lockdown."The Finance Department would take a call on the implementation of such schemes by issuing separate delegation (of financial powers) order." While delegation of financial power orders are issued quarterly, the lockdown has forced the government to regulate its expenditure and issue such orders on a monthly basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-employees-assured-of-april-salaries-pensions-831158.html
28-04-2020||State||Karnataka reconstitutes Karnataka Science and Technology Academy with Prof S Ayyappan as chairman||The Karnataka government on Tuesday reconstituted the governing council of Karnataka Science and Technology Academy (KSTA) and appointed distinguished scientist Prof S Ayyappan as Chairman. The State government has reconstituted the council and appointed Prof Ayyappan as chairman with 13 members comprising eminent educationists, renowned scientists and senior administrators for a period of three years, an official press release said. Prof Ayyappan is the former Director-General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and Secretary to Government, Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) and Chancellor of Central Agricultural University, Manipur. The KSTA Governing Council is reconstituted once in three years, the release said. The KSTA, an autonomous organisation under the Department of Science and Technology, was established by the Government of Karnataka in July 2005 under the Chairmanship of renowned space scientist and Padma Vibhushan awardee Late Prof U R Rao, who was the former chairman of ISRO. The Academy has been carrying out a large number of dove-tailed programmes to promote science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education and to develop scientific temper among students studying at different levels in an educational pyramid as well as to popularise science among general public across the State for the last 15 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reconstitutes-karnataka-science-and-technology-academy-with-prof-s-ayyappan-as-chairman-831188.html
28-04-2020||State||Coronavirus Lockdown: Karnataka woman grabs CM's attention with Facebook appeal to save her onions||Disproving the state government's claims of on providing market access to vegetables and fruits during the lockdown, a woman from Chitradurga district highlighted the plight of onion farmers by uploading an emotional video on Facebook. The video, which went viral on social media, created a buzz and even caught the attention of Chief Minster B S  Yediyurappa, who appreciated her ingenuity in using social media to catch the attention of the government. Moved by the woman Vasantakumari's appeal, the chief minister immediately ordered horticulture officials to rush to the her farm from Kaatanayakana Halli in Hiriyur taluk of Chitradurga district and arrange for purchase of the rotting onions. He even later called the woman and reassured her saying the crisis will be resolved immediately.    Vasanthakumari, married to Pratap, an employee with an automobile showroom, was working in Bengaluru as a receptionist at a private company. The couple decided to quit their jobs in Bengaluru and decided to settle down in their native place by taking up agriculture and began cultivating tuberose, cotton, onion and chilli. A few months ago, the couple cultivated about seven tonnes of onion on their five-acre farm by investing close to Rs 1 lakh. Middlemen quoted 200 to Rs 300 per bag while they spent Rs 300 to cultivate a bagful of onions besides transportation cost. Unable to take the produce to the market in Bengaluru and with onions beginning to rot, Vasanthakumari uploaded an emotional video highlighting the plight of farming communities to Facebook and sought the intervention of CM Yediyurappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-woman-grabs-cms-attention-with-facebook-appeal-to-save-her-onions-831197.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Padarayanapura violence: Prime accused in police net||The prime accused in the Padarayanapura violence case was arrested from KG Halli on Monday on charges of leading the attack. He was on the run after breaking police barricades and vandalising the area. Irfan (35), a resident of Arafat Nagar and a member of the Islamist Organisation Karnataka Forum for Dignity, is the arrested accused. During interrogation, the police learnt that Irfan had provoked the group to vandalise the premises and break the barricades. After the incident on April 19, the police set up nine special teams to nab Irfan.  The CCTV footage also proved his involvement. Tracking his call detail records, the police arrested him from his relative’s house in KG Halli on Monday. Irfan was brought to the JJ Nagar police station and is being questioned amid tight security. A senior police officer said “the investigation revealed that he wanted to go to his relative’s house and hide, but due to the lockdown, his plan failed and he was arrested. He is a scrap dealer and identified himself as a KFD member.” “Before the incident, Irfan had invited a couple of youths to his house and provoked them to ransack the premises. "He asked them to attack the police, BBMP officials and health staff who had come to the area to quarantine a couple of people, who were primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients, on April 19 evening,” the officer added. The police suspect that more people are involved in the violence and are making all efforts to nab them, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/padarayanapura-violence-prime-accused-in-police-net-830750.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: CM B S Yediyurappa holds review meeting on coronavirus||With fresh guidelines on the COVID-19 lockdown expected soon, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday chaired a meeting with key ministers, officials and Deputy Commissioners of districts and discussed about re-starting economic activities in the state, as he took stock about of the pandemic. "At the video conference with DCs, CM took stock of COVID-19 situation and measures taken to control its spread. Discussions also happened regarding starting of certain economic activities in parts of the state," official sources said. The state government would take any decision in this regard after the Centre issues fresh guidelines or directives, they said, without elaborating. The meeting came hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a video conferencing with Chief Ministers to discuss the situation arising due to COVID-19 in the country, which is under lockdown since March 25 to contain the pandemic. Only nine chief ministers spoke in the virtual meeting with the Prime Minister and Yediyurappa did not get an opportunity. A senior Minister, who attended the meeting told PTI, necessary directions regarding the lockdown after May 3, they were likely to come in a couple of days. "Most of the Chief Ministers wanted the lockdown to continue to contain the spread.... nothing concrete emerged, but we expect the necessary directions will follow in couple of days. This is what we expect after seeing what has happened as a followup to three to four such video conferences in the past," he said.  The Minister said the larger opinion was that the current measures should continue and interstate or inter-district movement should not be allowed. Regarding movement within the districts that are green zone, some decision may be taken soon, he said, adding the Prime Minister also asked states to concentrate on reforms, aimed at attracting investments in the days to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-holds-review-meeting-on-coronavirus-830752.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka finds rapid antibody test kits to have only 47% sensitivity, to return them to ICMR||Karnataka had received 11,400 rapid antibody test kits from the ICMR a few days back, out of which it had sent around 200 of them to NIMHANS for validation. After the ICMR, on Monday, sent a circular to all states to return the test kits to the suppliers, Dr CN Manjunath, Director, Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, and nodal officer for lab testing in the state's COVID-19 task force, said, "We have cancelled the orders we placed to Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics for one lakh rapid antibody test kits. Since the ICMR supplied us with 11,400 kits out of the 6.5 lakh kits it procured, we will be returning the kits to them."  Manjunath told DH that the validation at NIMHANS revealed the kits to have only 47% sensitivity. Sensitivity is the ability of a test to identify the true-positives in a population, i.e., the actual number of people who've been infected with the disease. With the rapid antibody testing kits being shelved, the state's plan to randomly test high risk groups has taken a backseat.  So far, the state has tested 43,791 samples.  Karnataka now has 22 testing facilities -- 14 government and seven private labs. Many private labs have not tested any samples so far because of the lack of test kits (the state has made it clear that it will not provide test kits to private labs). So, getting an ICMR approval for testing has become a moot point.   Agreeing to the setback the state's plans of ramping up testing has taken, Manjunath said, "It is true that RT-PCR test kits are in shortage. Even Pune's Mylabs had a shortage in supplying test kits. But we are relying on institutes like Kidwai, Narayana Health and Biocon's Syngene that have received approval for testing. They're big institutes and we hope that they will test a large number of samples." On reports that the Centre has RT-PCR test kits that will last for only a week, he said, "We have test kits that will last for eight to 10 days. We have ordered for more. We are hoping to receive them before the current kits run out."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-finds-rapid-antibody-test-kits-to-have-only-47-sensitivity-to-return-them-to-icmr-830873.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Chief Secretary orders to test SARI, ILI patients in 10 coronavirus-free districts in Karnataka||According to Minister S Suresh Kumar, in-charge of media briefings, the districts that have no reported cases of COVID-19 are Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Haveri, Kolar, Koppal, Raichur, Ramnagar, Shivamogga and Yadgir.  Till Thursday, 4,631 samples were collected from SARI and ILI patients though there is no break up between the two available. 3,146 people tested negative. Dr Ravi MC, district health officer (DHO), Chamarajanagar, told DH, "After the order came, we were able to collect 100 SARI samples and 118 ILI samples and send it to Mysuru for testing. We did not get 100 samples per day as we did not find those many people suffering from SARI and ILI. While all the SARI samples tested negative, ILI reports are awaited." Dr Umesh SN, the DHO of Chikkamagaluru said apart from hospital-based survey, the accredited social health activists (ASHAs), auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) and Anganwadi workers also went from house to house to motivate people for swab collection but did not reach the target of 100 samples per day. The district has so far tested 415 people, 53 suffering from SARI and 364 suffering from ILI. none have tested positive and the reports of six are awaited. "If Karnataka were to have 20,000 COVID-19 cases, our district has been asked to prepare to treat 306 patients. We have readied all the required infrastructure for that," Umesh said.  Dr Vijaykumar SN, DHO, Kolar said that the SARI and ILI cases they found since Monday in their district were in single digit except on Wednesday when 14 SARI cases were found and one SARI case. In all, samples in 37 SARI and ILI cases have been sent for testing. So far none has returned positive. "Ever since the pandemic began, Kolar has sent 1,233 samples for testing, results of 150 are pending, 18 were rejected and 1,065 have come back negative," he told DH. Dr Rajendra Doddamani, DHO, Haveri, said that they had tested 465 SARI and ILI patients since Sunday and the results of 339 were awaited, but 126 had tested negative. The district was able to find more than 100 patients of SARI and ILI everyday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chief-secretary-orders-to-test-sari-ili-patients-in-10-coronavirus-free-districts-in-karnataka-830879.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Seven under quarantine in Channarayapatna after contact with P 505||The Nagamangala man, who tested positive for COVID-19 (P 505) on Monday, has created panic not only in Mandya district, but also in Channarayapatna in Hassan district. He had come in contact with a number of persons in the taluk. Hassan is in the green zone, with no COVID-19 cases reported so far. Seven people of Channarayapatna taluk, who had come in contact with the patient 505, have been quarantined. Their families too have been kept under home quarantine. The administration had sprayed disinfectants at the four villages where he had moved about. P 505 had travelled in a canter vehicle from Mumbai to Channarayapatna and alighted near Shettihalli, on the outskirts of the town, on April 22. Another passenger who travelled with him had gone to his village in Hirisave Hobli in an autorickshaw. P 505 had visited his friends’ houses at Nuggehalli, before leaving for Nagamangala, where he tested positive on April 24. Only shops selling essential items were open in Channarayapatna on Tuesday. The movement of two-wheelers has been banned, said Tahsildar JB Maruti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/seven-under-quarantine-in-channarayapatna-after-contact-with-p-505-830901.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Three Dakshina Kannada taluks freed from seal down||As no fresh COVID-19 positive cases were reported, Dakshina Kannada DC Sindhu B Rupesh has denitrified three containment zones from the seal down measure. Accordingly, Sajipanadu in Bantwal, Karaya in Belthangady and Ajjavara in Sullia taluks have been freed from the seal down. The DC said that no fresh cases in these three areas were reported in the last 28 days. All primary and secondary contacts of the patients have completed their quarantine period. The positive cases in these three areas too have recovered and were discharged. At present, DK district has eight containment zones – Sampya in Puttur, Uppinangady in Puttur, Kasba, Thumbe and Narimogru in Bantwal, First Neuro Hospital, Thokkottu and Shakthinagara in Mangaluru. In the meantime, the Mangaluru City Corporation carried out disinfectant spraying in Shakthinagara containment zone on Tuesday. In this area, a mother and son were tested positive after coming in contact with P 432 at a private hospital in Padil. DK district has reported 21 positive cases, of which 12 have recovered and discharged from hospitals. Two succumbed to coronavirus and seven are active coronavirus patients undergoing treatment at Wenlock Hospital, the designated hospital to treat COVID-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/three-dakshina-kannada-taluks-freed-from-seal-down-830910.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Probe ordered into CRPF jawan's arrest in Karnataka over lockdown 'violation'||According to the information shared on social media, Sawant was washing his bike when a police team reached the spot and started beating him up for not wearing a mask during the lockdown. Taking a serious view of the 'ill-treatment' meted out to its Cobra Commando, the CRPF has written a letter to the Karnataka police demanding an investigation into the matter. In a letter to the DGP of Karnataka, the additional Director general of police of CRPF Sanjay Arora said Sawant was cleaning his bike when a skirmish happened between him and the police over not wearing the mask. Arora wrote, "Sawant was manhandled and ill-treated, before his family members and paraded to the police station barefoot, where he was kept in chains and handcuff. From the scrutiny of a viral video on social media, it is apparent that the conduct of police personnel was not citizen centric." The CRPF ADGP also said the 'unpleasant' situation could have been avoided if the Karnataka police had taken CRPF hierarchy into confidence before making the arrest. In response, Sood ordered an inquiry into the matter. He tweeted that IGP Belagavi has been asked to conduct a probe into the incident involving CRPF constable. Action will be taken against guilty after receipt of report, he said. According to sources, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has directed the state police chief to conduct a detailed inquiry into the incident. Denouncing the arrest, Karnataka Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has sought the release of the CRPF jawan. "It was wrong on the part of the constables to ill treat CRPF jawan and an inquiry be conducted against the erring policemen," said jarkiholi in a press release. However, Superintendent of Police of Belagavi district, Laxman Nimbargi defended the arrest of Sawant. According to him, the constables of Sadalga police station were on patrol duty on April 23, when they spotted Sawant sitting on a bench in his village in Chikkodi Taluk. While others fled on seeing the policemen, Sawant remained seated. When the constables questioned Sawant why he defied the section 144 of the CrPC imposed in the district, the jawan replied that he was also a policeman. The patrolling party reminded him that he should follow the regulations, Nimbargi said and alleged that this irked the CRPF soldier, who held the constables by their collars and even punched one of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/probe-ordered-into-crpf-jawans-arrest-in-karnataka-over-lockdown-violation-830928.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Karnataka allows conditional economic activities in green zones||Providing respite, Karnataka has decided to ‘conditionally’ allow economic activities to restart in green zones. The green zones of Chamarajanagar, Koppal, Chikkamagaluru, Raichur, Chitradurga, Ramanagara, Hassan, Shivamogga, Haveri, Yadgir, Kolar, Davangere, Udupi and Kodagu will now see shops and industrial activities starting operations, according to an order issued by Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar on Tuesday.  In green zones, all shops that include neighbourhood shops, standalone shops, shops in residential complexes within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities can open with 50 per cent manpower but with masks and social distancing mandatory. Shops in residential and marketing complexes are allowed to open in areas located outside municipal limits, the order states. Multi-brand and single-brand malls will remain shut across Karnataka. Industries operating in rural areas of these green zones (except Ramanagara) have been allowed to start. Also, manufacturing and other industrial establishments with access control in special economic zones and export-oriented units, industrial estates and industrial townships will be allowed to operate. “These establishments shall make arrangements for stay of workers within their premises as far as possible and/ or adjacent buildings. The transportation of workers to workplace shall be arranged by the employers in dedicated transport by ensuring social distancing (sic),” Bhaskar said in the order.  This order comes a day after Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa participated in a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and with all deputy commissioners. No decision on relaxing lockdown restrictions has been taken for Ballari, Mandya, Bengaluru Rural, Gadag, Tumakuru, Chikkaballapur, Uttara Kannada and Dharwad. “The decision regarding opening of shops and industries in taluks where there are no active COVID-19 cases will be taken by the concerned district in-charge minister,” Bhaskar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-allows-conditional-economic-activities-in-green-zones-830939.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sub-registrar offices in Bengaluru, Mysuru to open soon||Property registrations in Bengaluru are expected to resume with the government having decided to allow sub-registrar offices to open in the city starting Wednesday. Sub-registrar offices in Mysuru will also open, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said Tuesday. “Sub-registrar offices are open across the state, except in Bengaluru and Mysuru. In these two cities, sub-registrar offices located in a one-km radius of containment zones will not be open and people cannot visit them. All other sub-registrar offices in Bengaluru and Mysuru will open from Wednesday,” Ashoka said. Property registration is a crucial source of revenue for the government, fetching nearly Rs 11,000 crore in 2019-20 fiscal. The government aims to mop up Rs 12,655 crore in 2020-21 fiscal. This year, the government has decided to reduce the stamp duty from 5% to 2% on first-time registration of new apartments/flats costing less than Rs 20 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sub-registrar-offices-in-bengaluru-mysuru-to-open-soon-830966.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Liquor sale can be allowed in green districts of Karnataka: Siddaramaiah||Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah on Tuesday suggested that the government can allow sale of liquor in green zones.  “Merely because there is an economic slowdown in the state, I don’t recommend that alcohol should be allowed to be sold. But, wherever there are green districts, they can open (liquor sale) with certain restrictions, I think,” Siddaramaiah, the leader of the Opposition, told reporters.  There are 14 districts in the state that are categorised as green because they do not have any active COVID-19 cases. The green districts are: Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal, Haveri, Davangere, Shivamogga, Chitradurga, Udupi, Chikmagalur, Hassan, Kodagu, Chamarajanagar, Ramanagara and Kolar.  There is tremendous pressure on the B S Yediyurappa administration to revive the economy as the lockdown has dried up all revenue sources. Excise, alone, accounts for 18 per cent of Karnataka’s own tax revenue.  The Excise department recently suggested allowing regulated sale of liquor through the state-run MSIL outlets. The government, however, did not approve it fearing crowding and backlash from the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/liquor-sale-can-be-allowed-in-green-districts-of-karnataka-siddaramaiah-831019.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CMC members seek action against health inspector||City Municipal Council (CMC) members on Tuesday submitted a memorandum to deputy commissioner C Satyabhama seeking disciplinary action against CMC health inspector Maria. At a meeting of CMC members here chaired by the deputy commissioner, they alleged that Maria was acting as a dictator. The CMC members are executing various schemes benefiting the public. However, Maria is provoking civic body workers against the members. She is using them to register cases, they charged. CMC member N Ambarish said ,”Cutting across party lines, the members are working for the development of the city. Maria doesn’t even respond to the problems when informed. She doesn’t even attend calls on her mobile phone. She behaves in an irresponsible manner when members meet her in the office.” “Maria does not have respect for elected representatives. The problem of garbage in various wards is severe. She has failed to solve the problem,” Praveen Gowda, CMC member, said. They said that the garbage problem in the wards handled by Maria is serious. She has not taken steps to clear block in underground drainage. They charged that Maria does not visit spots for inspection despite residents lodging complaints. She conducted herself in an objectionable way when Suri, the member of ward-7, went to her office to discuss an official matter. They said that disciplinary action should be taken against her keeping public interest in mind. Satyabhama said that she would direct the CMC commissioner to submit a report and disciplinary action would be taken against her if she was found to have erred. The DC sought cooperation of the members in making Kolar a garbage-free city. They requested them to create awareness among residents about the importance of separating wet and dry garbage. She also advised them to create awareness about the effects of plastic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cmc-members-seek-action-against-health-inspector-831035.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah demands special package for unorganised sector workers||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Tuesday demanded that the Karnataka government announce a "special package" for unorganised sector workers, street vendors and autorickshaw drivers, among others, all daily wagers whose lives are affected by the COVID-19 lockdown. "..a special package needs to be announced to this section of people, this is the demand," Siddaramaiah, who is also Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly, told reporters here. Alleging that the government has failed to control the spread of coronavirus, he said it is the government's responsibility to take care of the basic needs of those from the unorganised sector, whose lives have been impacted by the lockdown. "It is the duty of the government and they should do it immediately. The package should also be announced. I will hold discussions with leaders of other opposition parties like JD(S), CPI, CPI(M) and BSP in this regard and also on trouble faced by farmers," he added. Alleging discrimination in supply of food packets and ration kits, Siddaramaiah said it was being supplied properly only in constituencies represented by BJP legislators. "Politics is being played out in supply of food materials to the needy, keeping corporation elections in mind.... We don't want to do politics at this point in time as there is lockdown. If things continue to be the same after the lockdown ends, we will protest on the streets," he said. Siddaramaiah on Tuesday interacted with representatives of auto rickshaw and cab drivers, street vendors, barbers, unorganised workers organisations, among others, to understand the difficulties faced by them during the lockdown and to know whether help from the government has reached them. He said most of them don't have work and it has become difficult for them to lead their normal lives. They raised several issues like auto and cab drivers being unable to pay road tax and EMI, he said, adding that he would write a detailed letter to the Chief Minister in this regard The former Chief Minister pointed out that there is about 21 lakh registered organised workers, 1.32 crore lakh unorganised workers and also agriculture labourers in the state. "Among organised workers only 12.5 of the 21 lakh are said to be getting Rs 2000, that too from the Employees Welfare Fund, while others could not get any money, citing reasons like they have not renewed it," he said. On the other hand, unorganised sector workers don't get money and were also not getting proper food or ration kits, he alleged Though the labour department claimed that it was supplying one lakh food packets and 1.5 lakh ration kits, as also corporations, there were leakages and it was not reaching the beneficiaries properly, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-demands-special-package-for-unorganised-sector-workers-831047.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||No cut in April salary for Karnataka Govt employees||Amidst apprehension over payment of salaries and pensions to government employees, Finance Department issued an order ensuring the payment will be made. According to the order by Ekroop Caur, secretary to government, Finance Department, delegating financial powers for April to additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries or secretaries to government, allowed "upto 1/12th of budget provision presuming concurrence of Finance Department" for payment of salaries. "Salary shall be drawn only for the Month of April 2020 – from the amount  made available to departments. Treasuries shall ensure that no arrears of  salaries shall be without prior concurrence of Finance Department. If salary for the month of March has not been drawn yet, Administrative Department (AD) is allowed to draw it," the order said.     The order came after CM held informal discussion with chief secretary and senior officials of finance department over the issue. While there was a proposal to deduct salaries of government employees, Yediyurappa had reportedly opposed the same. Finance Department also sought a list of schemes from various ADs of schemes that need to be implemented in public interest even during the lock down."Finance Department would take a call on implementation of such schemes by issuing separate delegation (of financial powers) order." While delegation of financial power orders are issued quarterly, the lockdown has forced the government to regulate its expenditure and issue such orders on a monthly basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-cut-in-april-salary-for-karnataka-govt-employees-831079.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||CRPF commando granted bail by Karnataka court; sent to training school by force||A local court in Karnataka on Tuesday granted bail to a CRPF commando who was arrested by state police officials for alleged assault on them during COVID-19 lockdown duty, a charge contested strongly by the paramilitary. The jawan has been taken to the jungle warfare training school of the paramilitary force in Belagavi district, a senior official said. Constable Sachin Savant of the 207th CoBRA battalion was granted regular bail by a court located in Chikodi taluka of the district, he said. A team of CRPF and CoBRA officials were present in the court during the proceeding during which the state police did not oppose the bail, the official said. The commando was arrested by police on April 23 from Examba village (Belagavi district) when he was washing his bike outside his house without wearing a mask, as required under the coronavirus prevention protocol. An altercation and physical fight took place between the two sides, following which the trooper was taken to the local police station and arrested. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) had on Monday taken up the case with the Karnataka director general of police (DGP), calling the incident "unpleasant". The CRPF letter said commando Savant was "manhandled, ill-treated, paraded to the police station barefooted, kept in chains and handcuffs" by police personnel and sought the intervention of state Director General of Police Praveen Sood. The paramilitary had said that from the scrutiny of a viral video on social media of the incident "it is apparent that the conduct of the police personnel was not citizen-centric". A police report had said the CoBRA commando "started the altercation" with the beat constable and another policeman accompanying him, and "assaulted" them. As per the official Twitter handle of the Karnataka DGP's on Monday evening, "IGP (inspector-general of police) Belagavi has been asked to enquire into the incident involving the CRPF constable and action will be taken against guilty after receipt of the report". The Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) unit of the CRPF specialises in guerrilla tactics and jungle warfare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/crpf-commando-granted-bail-by-karnataka-court-sent-to-training-school-by-force-831081.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka considering taluk-wise containment of coronavirus after May 3 ||The Karnataka state government is expected to revisit its COVID-19 containment and lockdown strategy after May 3 in order to free up unaffected districts and focus only on the virus-hit taluks.  “Till now, we were looking at one district as the centre to assign red, green and orange colours. But after May 3, I think taluks will be identified. So, based on taluks that have cases, we will have taluk-wise red zones. Entire districts will not be considered,” Revenue Minister R Ashoka told reporters.  Based on active COVID-19 cases, the government has classified districts into red (over 15 cases), orange (6-14 cases), yellow (1-5 cases) and green (zero case) zones. As per this, there are six red, five orange, five yellow and 14 green districts.  It is based on this that the government is enforcing lockdown measures.     When the same colour coding is applied on a taluk map, it is seen that a large part of Karnataka is unaffected by COVID-19. Out of 176 taluks, there are active COVID-19 cases in just 36 taluks. Only three taluks in Bengaluru Urban have seen COVID-19 cases.  “An entire district looks red, but it’s generally one taluk that’s contributing all or maximum number of cases in most districts,” State COVID-19 War Room in-charge Munish Moudgil pointed out. Currently, the red districts are Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Belagavi, Mysuru and Bengaluru Urban. The orange districts are Bidar, Dharwad, Ballari, Dakshina Kannada and Mandya. The yellow districts are Gadag, Uttara Kannada, Tumakuru, Chikballapur and Bengaluru Rural. The green districts are Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal, Haveri, Davangere, Shivamogga, Chitradurga, Udupi, Chikmagalur, Hassan, Kodagu, Chamarajanagar, Ramanagara and Kolar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-considering-taluk-wise-containment-of-coronavirus-after-may-3-831111.html
28-04-2020||State||Relief in Ramanagar as 68 test negative for virus||The Covid-19 test samples of 68 people, including jail staff, the municipality staff and the police involved in shifting the accused in the Padarayanapura violence, were on Monday reported to be negative. People in the district heaved a sigh of relief following the reports. With this, the district will continue to remain in the green zone. “It is satisfying that the reports have come out negative. But the people whose samples were tested and their kin will continue to be in quarantine as a precautionary measure. They will be under constant quarantine and their throat swab samples will be tested again for Covid-19 after 10 to 12 days, for final confirmation,” district health and family welfare officer Niranjan told DH. Seal down measures will continue to be in force in and around the jail area here for a few more weeks, the officer said. The area in a radius of 100 metres from the district jail here has been declared a containment zone and all activities have been prohibited in the area. All commercial establishments and offices in the area, except the office of the deputy commissioner, will remain closed. While the area in a radius of 1 km will come under severe zone, that in a radius of 5 km will come under Corona buffer zone. The violence accused had been shifted to the jail here on April 21. With five of the accused testing positive, they were shifted to the Hajj Bhavan in Bengaluru. It is now expected that the district will get exemptions meant for green zone, including for industries, road and building works. A total of 60 people were quarantined, 64 new samples sent for tests in the district on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/relief-in-ramanagar-as-68-test-negative-for-virus-831140.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||11-year-old boy among 11 new cases in state; tally 523 ||The state on Tuesday reported 11 new cases of Covid-19, including six from the hotspot Kalabuargi. The fresh cases have upped the state's tally to 523. The day also witnessed 14 patients walk out of hospitals post-recovery. The state now has 297 active cases while the number of deaths remain 20.  In Kalaburagi, six people, including four women, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. All six are the contacts of Patient 395, a 19-year-old man from Mominpur in the city. The youth is believed to have contracted novel coronavirus from Patient 205, a 55-year-old cloth merchant who died due to Covid-19 on April 14. Six new cases have taken Kalaburagi district's Covid-19 count to 44. The days also saw three new cases from Jamkhandi in Bagalkot district, which include a 11-year-old boy a contact of P-381, and one each from Gadag and Bengaluru.  Education Minister and Karnataka in-charge of Covid-19 briefings, S Suresh Kumar, told reporters, "In Hongasandra and Padarayanapura, we have done a random sampling of 145 and 80 people respectively. All have tested negative. There are now 120 containment zones in the city with 72,611 houses and a population of 4.78 lakh in these zones. In the buffer zones, there are 7.69 lakh houses with a population of 36,39,204," he said.  The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has also issued guidelines for home isolation of very mild/pre-symptomatic Covid-19 cases, Kumar added. The minister said, "An additional incentive of Rs 1,000 per month will be paid to ASHA workers till this June for their Covid-19-related work."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/11-year-old-boy-among-11-new-cases-in-state-tally-523-831143.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: Karnataka govt considering taluk-wise containment after May 3 ||The state government is expected to revisit its COVID-19 containment and coronavirus lockdown strategy after May 3 in order to free up unaffected districts and focus only on the virus-hit taluks.  “Till now, we were looking at one district as the centre to assign red, green and orange colours. But after May 3, I think taluks will be identified. So, based on taluks that have cases, we will have taluk-wise red zones. Entire districts will not be considered,” Revenue Minister R Ashoka told reporters.  Based on active coronavirus cases, the government has classified districts into red (over 15 cases), orange (6-14), yellow (1-5) and green (zero). As per this, there are six red, five orange, five yellow and 14 green districts. It is based on this that the government is enforcing the lockdown measures.  When the same colour coding is applied on a taluk map, it is seen that a large part of Karnataka is unaffected by Covid-19. Out of 176 taluks, there are active coronavirus in just 36 taluks. Sample this: Only three taluks in Bengaluru Urban have seen COVID-19 cases.  “An entire district looks red, but it’s actually generally one taluk that’s contributing all or maximum number of cases in most districts,” State COVID-19 War Room in-charge Munish Moudgil pointed out.  Currently, the red districts are Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Belagavi, Mysuru and Bengaluru Urban. The orange districts are Bidar, Dharwad, Ballari, Dakshina Kannada and Mandya. The yellow districts are Gadag, Uttara Kannada, Tumakuru, Chikballapur and Bengaluru Rural. The green districts are Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal, Haveri, Davangere, Shivamogga, Chitradurga, Udupi, Chikmagalur, Hassan, Kodagu, Chamarajanagar, Ramanagara and Kolar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-govt-considering-taluk-wise-containment-after-may-3-831144.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt transfers Kalaburagi DC, rescinds hours later||In a surprising development, the state government withdrew the transfer orders of Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner Sharat B within hours of issuing it on Tuesday.  The transfer of Sharat, who heads one of the worst-hit Covid-19 districts in Karnataka, raised some eyebrows.  In the order issued on Tuesday, Sharat was transferred as the executive director of the Karnataka Examinations Authority, in place of Suralkar Vikas Kishor. Sharat was to be replaced by Kishor as the Kalaburagi DC.   Questions were raised on Sharat’s transfer, which came during the peak of the pandemic. Kalaburagi has seen 44 Covid-19 cases with five deaths. It was in Kalaburagi that India’s first Covid-19 death was reported.  The Opposition latched on to the issue, criticising it as an attempt to make Sharat, a 2011 batch officer, the "scapegoat." Former Congress minister Priyank Kharge, who represents Chittapur in Kalaburagi, criticised the transfer. "Kalaburagi has become a theatre of the absurd. Government changes DC at the peak of the Corona Pandemic and then withdraws it in a couple of hours. Looks like the government isn’t too serious about the crisis here. Why this flip flop? It affects the morale of the officers at the district/taluk level," Kharge said in a tweet.  Sources told DH that the government decided to rescind the order after learning that Sharat might move the Karnataka/Central Administrative Tribunal challenging the transfer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-transfers-kalaburagi-dc-rescinds-hours-later-831146.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Allow liquor sale in green districts, says Siddaramaiah||Former chief minister Siddaramaiah on Tuesday suggested that the government can allow sale of liquor in green zones.  “Merely because there is an economic slowdown in the state, I don’t recommend that alcohol should be allowed to be sold. But, wherever there are green districts, they can open (liquor sale) with certain restrictions, I think,” Siddaramaiah, the Leader of the Opposition, toldreporters.  Siddaramaiah was speaking after holding talks with representatives of various communities and groups - Savita Samaja, Hadapada Samaja, weavers, Kummaras, Ganigas, Kuruhina Shetty, tribals, Kuluva, tourist taxi owners, drivers, construction labourers and others.  “The government should announce a special package to protect those engaged in community-specific professions because the lockdown has affected their livelihood,” he said. “It’s been more than a month under lockdown and the lives of these people have reached a worrisome stage. Those living in rural areas are struggling to eat even one meal a day,” hesaid. The Congress has convened a meeting of all Opposition parties on Thursday to discuss the lockdown and its impact on farmers, labourers, the middle-class and other sections of the society. Siddaramaiah said leaders from the JD(S), JD(U), CPI, CPI(M), BSP and farmers’ groups will attend the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/allow-liquor-sale-in-green-districts-says-siddaramaiah-831147.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Cauvery Authority comes under Jal Shakti Ministry ||The Centre, on Tuesday, officially brought the Cauvery Water Management Authority under the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti. According to the notification issued by the President of India, as per the Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules, 1961, all river boards, including Cauvery, Godavari and Krishna, have been brought under the Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation in the Ministry of Jal Shakti. The notification is just an allocation of business, which means the Authority will have to report to the Jal Shakti Ministry, said an official. The official clarified that the notification has no impact on the independent nature of the functioning of theAuthority. Acting on the Supreme Court’s direction, the Centre in June 2018 constituted Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) to address the dispute over sharing of river water among Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala and Puducherry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cauvery-authority-comes-under-jal-shakti-ministry-831148.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: Kerala’s ginger farmers in Karnataka districs in dire straits||Scores of Kerala farmers in Kodagu and nearby border areas of Karnataka are venturing through dense forests and even crossing rivers to reach Kerala during the lockdown days. Even as the authorities are initiating steps to issue passes for the Malayalis stranded in other states to enter Kerala, the farmers are opting the illegal route in order to skip the mandatory quarantining. Many farmers also preferred to stay back at their farms itself as they would not be able to return until the lockdown was lifted if they cross over to Kerala. Around 60 farmers from Kerala who tried to cross through forest areas were detained and kept in coronavirus care centres in Kerala.  It is roughly estimated that there are over 30,000 farmers from Kerala in Kodagu, Mysuru and Shivamogga districts, mostly engaged in ginger cultivation. An association of ginger farmers alone has a membership of around 18,000. Majority of them are settled in Kerala, especially Wayanad and nearby Kannur districts. They used to frequently travel between their farms in Karnataka and their home in Kerala. Since it was the harvest season, most farmers were at their farms in Karnataka when the nationwide lockdown was clamped. According to a forest department official, even as patrolling in forest areas was enhanced, many parts of Kerala - Karnataka border have dense forest areas on Karnataka’s side while it would be either revenue or private plantations on Kerala side. Many illegal border crossing were allegedly taking place through such areas of Kannur. There were also reports that some were even swimming across the Kabani river. Ginger Farmers Association, general secretary, Mohan N, who was among the scores of Malayali farmers held up in Kodagu - Mysuru areas, told DH that even as there was an option of getting pass to enter Kerala many farmers were not availing it as they fear of being quarantined on reaching Kerala. Moreover, they would be able to return to their farms in Karnataka only after the lockdown was relaxed. “It is harvesting season and time to initiate next crop. Hence, many farmers are reluctant to leave their farms indefinitely as around Rs 5 lakh is invested per acre of land,” he said. Mohan added, most of the farmers were staying in the makeshift sheds in the farms. Though the farmers were getting adequate food, many were facing an indifferent attitude from the local people as they consider Kerala as Covid-19 hotspot for the first case in India was reported from Kerala. And a spurt in  Covid-19 cases in Kasargod district made matters worse. Many Kannadiga workers were also showing reluctance to work in plantations of Malayalis, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-kerala-s-ginger-farmers-in-karnataka-districs-in-dire-straits-831149.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Liquor outlets in state to be closed till May 15||Excise Minister H Nagesh on Tuesday said that liquor outlets would not reopen in the state till May 15. “It’s now difficult to grant permission to reopen the liquor outlets after May 3 when the lockdown ends. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has denied permission to reopen liquor outlets in districts under green zone. Hence, the outlets will remain closed till May 15,” he told reporters. Liquor addicts should now receive counseling and treatment from doctors and it is good for their health, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/liquor-outlets-in-state-to-be-closed-till-may-15-831152.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lightning claims 3 lives in Kalaburagi||Three people were killed in two separate incidents of lightning strike in the district on Tuesday. A 23-year-old man died of a lightning strike near Allapur lake in Kalagi taluk. The deceased is Anil Chandrakshetty Bhovi, a resident of Kodli village.  He was struck dead by lightning when he took shelter under a tree as it started raining.  In another incident, two farmers died when a tree came crashing down after lightening struck it at Bhuyara village of Kamalapur taluk. The deceased are Satish Subhash Hakakeri (40) and Kuppanna Lakshma Natikar (63). They were among the six farmers who were working in the field when it started raining. They took shelter under a bullock cart parked beneath a tree in the field. While two of them died and one was injured, the others escaped unhurt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lightning-claims-3-lives-in-kalaburagi-831153.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sub-registrar offices in B'luru, Mysuru to open today||Property registrations in Bengaluru and Mysuru are expected to resume as sub-registrar offices will open in these two cities starting Wednesday. Revenue Minister R Ashoka said sub-registrar offices located in areas identified as Covid-19 containment zones will not open. "Sub-registrar offices are open across the state, except in Bengaluru and Mysuru. In these two cities, sub-registrar offices located in a one-km radius of containment zones will not be open and people cannot visit them. All other sub-registrar offices in Bengaluru and Mysuru will open from Wednesday," Ashoka said. Property registration is a crucial source of revenue for the government, fetching nearly Rs 11,000 crore in the 2019-20 fiscal. The government aims to mop up Rs 12,655 crore in the 2020-21 fiscal. Since March 24, when the nationwide lockdown came into effect, Ashoka estimates that the government lost about Rs 1,000 crore by way of stamp duty and registration fees. This year, the government has decided to reduce the stamp duty from 5% to 2% on first-time registration of new apartments/flats costing less than Rs 20 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sub-registrar-offices-in-bluru-mysuru-to-open-today-831156.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||H D Kumaraswamy slams Centre over waiving loan of willful defaulters||Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy hit out at the Centre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, over a decision to waive Rs 68,000 crore dues of wilful defaulters. While exercising silence over demands of various chief ministers to announce an economic package, is it right for the Prime Minister to safeguard the interests of only industrialists, the JD(S) leader questioned. Lashing out at Centre's decision to pump Rs 50,000 crore for the benefit of mutual fund investors, the former chief minister alleged that PM Modi was more concerned about a few willful defaulters than the common man affected by the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/h-d-kumaraswamy-slams-centre-over-waiving-loan-of-willful-defaulters-831157.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Elderly man tests positive in Gadag, district tally up to 5||With a 75-year-old man testing positive, the number of Covid-19 cases in the district has gone up to five. The fresh case has been reported after a gap of eight days.   The elderly person from Basaveshwar Oni was hospitalised after he began suffering from acute respiratory problems. His throat swabs were sent to a laboratory for a report which indicated that he had Covid-19. Following the disclosure, Basaveshwar Oni has been declared as containment area. The Ranganawada area has already been declared as containment area as it reported the first four cases. The health department is now tracing the source that transmitted novel coronavirus to him. He has neither any history of national and international travel nor has he come in contact with any Covid-19 patients, directly or indirectly. Throat swabs of 9 members of his family and 15 others who directly came in contact with him were sent to the laboratory. About 13 of them turned out to be negative, while reports of the 11 others are awaited. As a precautionary measure, they have been kept at isolation wards in the hospital, deputy commissioner M G Hiremath said. The district is in the list of yellow zone districts (between 1 and 5 cases). Movement of vehicles has resumed in most parts of the city except Ranganawad and Basaveshwar Oni. The sub-registrar’s office began operations. Some shops opposite to tahsildar’s office wereopen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/elderly-man-tests-positive-in-gadag-district-tally-up-to-5-831160.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Heavy rains destroy horticultural crops in Kolar district||Parts of Bangarpet and KGF taluks in Kolar district received heavy rains on Tuesday. The rains and hailstones destroyed horticultural crops in the region. It rained continuously for over 30 minutes from 3 pm. The gusty winds brought down electricity poles and trees in many villages. Many fields were inundated. It rained heavily at Maragal, Beerandahalli, Mavalli, Aithandahalli, Kavaranahalli and Lakshmipura villages in Bangarpet taluk and at Dasarahosahalli, D K Halli and surrounding villages in KGF taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/heavy-rains-destroy-horticultural-crops-in-kolar-district-831162.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka rapid antibody test kits have only 47% sensitivity||Karnataka found rapid antibody test kits that the Centre supplied it with to have only 47% sensitivity. The state will be returning the kits to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The state had received 11,400 rapid antibody test kits from the ICMR a few days ago, out of which it had sent around 200 of them to Nimhans for validation. After the ICMR on Monday sent a circular to all states to return the test kits to the suppliers, Dr C N Manjunath, Director, Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, and nodal officer for lab testing in the state’s Covid-19 task force, said, “We have cancelled the orders we placed to Guangzhou Wondfo Biotech and Zhuhai Livzon Diagnostics for one lakh rapid antibody test kits. The ICMR supplied us with 11,400 kits out of the 6.50 lakh kits it procured. We will be returning the kits.” Manjunath told DH that the validation at Nimhans revealed the kits to have only 47% sensitivity. Sensitivity is the ability of a test to identify the true-positives in a population, ie, the actual number of people who’ve been infected with the disease. With the rapid antibody testing kits being shelved, the state’s plan to randomly test high risk groups has taken a hit. So far, the state has tested 43,791 samples.  The state now has 22 testing facilities - 15 government and seven private laboratories. Many private labs have not tested any samples so far due to the lack of test kits. The government has made it clear that it will not provide test kits to private labs.   “It is true that RT-PCR test kits are in shortage. Even Pune’s Mylabs had a shortage. But we are relying on institutions such as Kidwai, Narayana Health and Biocon’s Syngene that have received approval for testing. They’re big institutions and we hope that they will test a large number of samples,” Dr Manjunath said. On reports that the Centre has RT-PCR test kits that will last for only a week, he said, “We have test kits that will last for eight to 10 days. We have ordered for more. We are hoping to receive them before the current kits run out.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-rapid-antibody-test-kits-have-only-47-sensitivity-831164.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Nearly 50% of MBBS students want to opt out midway||A new study of 1,000 medical students from 70 institutions across India has revealed that a large number of them felt like dropping out of the course while a majority of students were physically or mentally affected during the coursework. The survey conducted online by the students of the Koppal Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), recently, had a sample size of 1,001 MBBS (Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery) students from 70 medical colleges around India. “This sample size comprises 13% of total medical colleges of India,” explained Harshendragouda Patil, is a third-year MBBS student and head of the Student Academic Committee. He is one of the authors of the survey report. “To conduct the survey, we contacted a large number of students on various medical student groups across the country and we set up a system whereby only one phone number (for entry registration) could complete the survey once,” Patil said. The survey data, which was shared with DH, comprised a majority of third year MBBS students (38%), followed by final-year students (30.5%) and second-year students (24.3%). It did not include any first year students, but had students on internships and post internships. “The objective was to provide an insight into the lives of students in their first two years of MBBS studies,” Patil said. Reflecting on their first year, 73.9% of students said they had entered medical education voluntarily, without parental influences. Nearly 43% said they felt the urge to drop out of the course. More than 11% of students also said they began drinking and smoking during the initial two years of the study course. “This is interesting because medical students study the risks of drinking and smoking during their course and to take up these habits after class is really surprising, considering that one out of every 10 medicos is doing it,” the authors of the survey said. The surveyors were shocked to see that 69.8% of students said they believed that ‘sensible ragging’ allowed them to build a relationship with seniors. A majority (43%) also confessed to studying anywhere from zero to two hours during much of the academic year, while cramming 10 to 16 hours during final exams. Perhaps predictably, 40.2% of students described their health as being ‘fair’ during examination season, while 8.7% described it as being ‘poor’. However, 51.1% of students described their health as excellent during exam season. By second year, 58.9% described academics as being stressful. Nevertheless, 54.8% of students described their health as ‘good’. At the same time, of those who felt the impulse to drop out, 63.9% said they had joined MBBS voluntarily. Meantime, substance abuse among those in a relationship amounted to 28% of those surveyed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nearly-50-of-mbbs-students-want-to-opt-out-midway-831168.html
28-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Ladles & plates substitute for ball & bat in this charity match||Barred from indulging in their favourite sport during the lockdown, a group of cricket enthusiasts in Karkala taluk of Udupi district, who go by the name of the Padutirupathi Cricketers, have come together to help those affected by the Covid-19 crisis. They are providing food to medicos, paramedics, officials and workers, who are on the front line of fighting Covid-19. The volunteers are also supplying food to patients in hospitals, their attendants, stranded migrant labourers and the underserved.   Though the prevalence of Covid -19 cases is relatively low in Udupi district, no stone is left unturned in diagnosing and nipping the spread of the disease at the outset.  The hardship of the personnel at a check post to get food and water propelled a few members in the group to rise to the occasion. What started as a small gesture of providing the personnel with food on Day 4 of the lockdown, has today grown into an efficient network supplying lunch packs every day to as many as 500 people in and around Karkala. The cricketers also dispatch about 150-200 breakfast packets. The administration gave them the permission after seeing the kitchen hygiene and healthy food.  “The team’s generosity to feed all those who are nowhere to turn to during the ongoing lockdown period is commendable,” says Tahsildar Purandara Hegde.  Nayana Jayanth, a staff nurse at the government hospital, says the team’s service is a “godsend” for the staff, patients and those who accompany them. “Our special requests for toddlers’ needs too have been promptly met without any delay,” she adds. More than 30 members cook, pack and carry them to the respective locations in their own vehicles.  Govindaraya Pai, a member of the troupe, has offered the premises of his home for the purpose. The volunteers abide by the lockdown guidelines by maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and sanitising their hands. The youth volunteers slog from 7 amto 4 pm. “Our purpose is to keep people indoors and stay put at their locations, instead of coming on streets looking for food,” says Prakash Pai, a member.  “The daily expenses of the food may come up to Rs 10,000,” says Vittaladas Shenoy, president of Padutirupathi Cricketers. The labour of each member, of course, is not counted. People are supporting the team with donations, with offers in cash and kind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ladles-plates-substitute-for-ball-bat-in-this-charity-match-831170.html
28-04-2020||West||Gujarat govt bans use of loudspeakers during coronavirus lockdown||The Gujarat government on Monday issued orders banning the use of loudspeakers at religious places and prohibited gathering of all kinds till May 3, the last day of the second phase of lockdown. The government said that these restrictions will be followed strictly in the coming days of festivity and it will not be lifted until further orders from the central government. The circular issued by home department mentions central government's decision prohibiting all activities barring essential services till May 3 in the country that includes all "social/political/sports/entertainment/academic/cultural/religious/function/other gatherings." Gujarat is the second-worst affected state after Maharashtra with 3,548 positive cases and 162 deaths. The circular stated, "All kinds of public religious activities/puja, bandgi (both meaning worship in Hindi and Urdu) or any such activities that lead to the assembly of people is not permitted and use of loudspeakers or any other medium for these purposes is  banned." The new order comes a day after Chief Minister Vijay Rupani claimed in his speech that certain elements were trying to spread misinformation regarding conditional relaxation being extended to small shops to reopen in the state to facilitate Muslims observing Ramzan. The circular also comes days after a group of Muslims leaders from Amreli district was denied use of loudspeakers at the mosque for announcing morning sehri and evening iftari calls. About a dozen mosques in the district were locked a month back following the announcement of lockdown. With the beginning of Ramzan, they approached District Superintendent of Police Nirlipt Rai for permission to use loudspeakers but he denied.  When contacted Rai confirmed to DH, "State government's previous order is very much clear that use of anything that can cause gathering of people is prohibited. The loudspeaker is one of them. And, it is not just about the mosque, the order restricts its use across religion or any activity||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-bans-use-of-loudspeakers-during-coronavirus-lockdown-830766.html
28-04-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Maharashtra to send 100 buses to bring back students stuck in Kota||The Maharashtra government has decided to send about 100 buses to Kota in Rajasthan to bring back nearly 2,000 students stranded there due to the lockdown, Maharashtra Transport Minister Anil Parab has said. Buses of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will be sent to Kota in the next two days, Parab said late Monday night. A number of students from Maharashtra have been staying at Kota to take coaching classes for the preparation of various competitive entrance examinations after Class 12. "The Maharashtra government has decided to bring back the students who had gone to Kota. We will send some 100 buses from Dhule to Kota for the purpose, Parab said. The students will first be brought to Maharashtra's Dhule district, which is located adjoining the Madhya Pradesh border, and then sent to their native places by state transport facilities, the minister said.  Necessary official communication for the same has already been done with the governments of Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, as the buses will be passing through these two states, a senior official of the MSRTC said. On return, the students and their parents will undergo medical checkup followed by the mandatory 14-day home quarantine," a senior official from the Maharashtra disaster management department said. The Maharashtra government decided to bring back the students following indications that the lockdown may be extended in some of the major cities where the coronavirus situation is yet to come under control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-maharashtra-to-send-100-buses-to-bring-back-students-stuck-in-kota-830858.html
28-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Observation home inmates reap benefits of vegetable garden||Amid the lockdown, children lodged at an observation home for juveniles here in Maharashtra are able to get fresh and organic vegetables everyday, thanks to a 'vegetable garden' developed by them in the premises. Besides being a source of fresh produce, the garden at the observation home, located inJawaharlal Nehru Audyogik Kendra in Yerawada area of Pune,is also keeping the juveniles, who are accused of various crimes, engaged in meaningful activities, an official said. The vegetable garden was set up sometime back with the help of NGO Hope For the Children Foundation (HFCF) and the Eco Factory Foundation, a CSR arm of a private company, the observation home's superintendent G N Padghan told PTI. "With the support of these two organisations, we decided to utilise a parcel of land on our premises for organic plantation in December last year," he said. The objective was to produce and provide fresh vegetables to children, engage them in learning new skills, help them connect with the mother earth and support the observation home with food sustainability, he said. "The actual work on the garden began in January. A dry and open plot was prepared for plantation. Some vegetable plants and seeds were sown. We used to drip and sprinkler irrigation techniques. Children and caretakers were trained in preparing organic and natural fertilizers, bio-waste compost and use of pesticides," the official said. Since the lockdown came into force, the garden has started providing the organically grown eggplants, tomatoes, cluster beans, carrots, potatoes, onions, various gourd varieties, ladyfinger, corn, spinach, fenugreek, other green leafy vegetables, green chillies, coriander and curry leaves.  "The daily requirement of vegetables at the observation home is met by the garden," Padghan said. Earlier, there were 35 juveniles at the observation home, but after the coronavirus outbreak, some of them were allowed to go home, he said, adding that as of now, nearly 13 children are staying at the facility. HFCF founder Caroline Audoir de Valter said credit goes to children at the observation home who took forward the activity with love and care and cultivated the garden. She also lauded efforts of the observation home authorities and the Eco Factory Foundation's Anand Chordia for providing technical expertise on organic farming. HCFC is working with the observation home for last five years to support rehabilitation of the children in conflict with law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-observation-home-inmates-reap-benefits-of-vegetable-garden-830863.html
28-04-2020||West||Locals hurl stones at police enforcing coronavirus lockdown; cop injured||A policeman was injured when some locals allegedly threw stones at the security personnel who were trying to enforce lockdown in an area of Gujarat's Surat city on Tuesday morning, an official said. Five persons were detained for the attack on the policemen, Surat's Deputy Commissioner of Police R P Barot said. Some locals got angry after a PCR (police control room) van reached a locality in Dindoli area to enforce the lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, he said. "We a sent a PCR van in the area after coming to know that people were roaming around and not adhering to the lockdown norms. When the police asked locals to stay indoors, some of them got angry and started throwing stones at the policemen," Barot said. A police personnel received injuries in the incident, he said. Five locals were detained, he said, adding that additional force was sent to the area and the situation was brought under control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/locals-hurl-stones-at-police-enforcing-coronavirus-lockdown-cop-injured-830876.html
28-04-2020||West||Coronavirus: Mumbai cops aged above 55 asked to go on leave||The move comes after COVID-19 claimed lives of three Mumbai Police personnel in the last three days. During an analysis, it came to light that the three deceased and the other police personnel currently undergoing treatment for coronavirus disease were above the age of 50, a senior Mumbai Police official said on Tuesday. "In view of this, we have decided to protect our policemen and officers - who are above 55 years of age and having some pre-existing ailment - and asked them to take leave," he said. "Because of their age, these police personnel are at a higher risk. Therefore, we are allowing them to take leave during these days," the official said. So far, at least 107 police personnel, including 20 officers, have tested positive for coronavirus across Maharashtra and most of them are from the Mumbai Police force. On Monday, a 57-year-old head constable of the Mumbai Police died of COVID-19. Besides, a 52-year-old head constable succumbed to the disease on Sunday, while a 57-year-old constable died on Saturday. PTI DC GK GK||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-mumbai-cops-aged-above-55-asked-to-go-on-leave-830904.html
28-04-2020||West||Monsoon preparations in full swing in Maharashtra||In the MMR, monsoon brings in several days of traffic disruption and surge in cases of water-borne and vector-borne diseases like malaria, dengue and leptospirosis. Monsoon also sees cases of flu and influenza.   The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has already held meetings with Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR). Municipal commissioner Praveen Pardeshi spoke with general managers of CR and WR to discuss pre-monsoon work and it has already started. "While we respond and fight COVID-19, we have already started pre-monsoon work which includes cleaning of rivers, streams and nullahs, cleaning of railway tracks and fumigation," a senior BMC official told DH. Similarly,  strategies have been discussed with the Mumbai metropolitan region development authority (MMRDA) and other agencies and utility services BEST,  Mahadiscom,  Adani Power, Tata Power. "The IMD had forecast normal monsoon, besides,  there could be pre-monsoon showers, as well," a senior official said. According to Dr Suhas Pingle, chairman, action committee, Indian Medical Association-Maharashtra State, precautions needs to be taken.  "Over the last couple of years, there has been a reduction in incidents of malaria and dengue in Mumbai city.  However, in suburbs, yes, there are cases." Majority of malaria and dengue cases are reported in the July-August period.   The MMR has nine municipal corporations, nine municipal council and is spread over the three districts of Mumbai City,  Mumbai Suburban, Thane and parts of Palghar and Raigad districts.  Doctors point out that in malaria and dengue blood platelets drop.  "With COVID-19 around, the blood donation has dropped.  We cannot take chances and hence extensive fumigation and spraying of larvicides is needed," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/monsoon-preparations-in-full-swing-in-maharashtra-830916.html
28-04-2020||West||Hazur Sahib Gurudwara on alert as 8 pilgrims contract COVID-19||The Hazur Sahib Gurudwara in Maharashtra's Nanded district is on alert after some pilgrims who went back from there to Punjab tested positive for coronavirus, a gurudwara official said on Tuesday. The shrine administration is sanitising the premises at regular intervals and following the social distancing guidelines, he said. Eight of the Sikh pilgrims who recently returned from Nanded to Punjab tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. Five of the pilgrims belonged to Tarn Taran while three hailed from Kapurthala in Punjab.  "We are taking all care. Spraying of disinfectants and sanitisation of every corner of the premises is being done at regular intervals. Social distancing is being maintained. We also have our own quarantine facility here," the gurudwara superintendent Gurvinder Singh Wadhwa told PTI. Any staff member who goes out of the city is quarantined at the facility available here. After completion of the quarantine period, the person is asked go to the civil hospital and get a check-up done before resuming duty, he said. Three persons are already quarantined at the facility, he added. Nearly 4,000 pilgrims from Punjab, who came to pay obeisance at the Gurdwara Hazur Sahib in Nanded, got stuck because of the coronavirus lockdown. Now, they are being sent to Punjab after the intervention of the Union Home Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hazur-sahib-gurudwara-on-alert-as-8-pilgrims-contract-covid-19-830930.html
28-04-2020||West||Supriya Sule urges Centre, Maharashtra government to ease coronavirus lockdown in phased manner||NCP leader Supriya Sule on Tuesday urged the Centre and the Maharashtra government to initiate together the process of ease the lockdown in a phased manner in areas which are not or less affected by COVID-19, to bring the economy back on track. Sule, the Lok Sabha member from Baramati in Maharashtra's Pune district, also said that it is her personal opinion and such a decision should not be taken in a hurry, but by adhering to social distancing norms with military-like discipline. The current nationwide lockdown, imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus, will be in force till May 3. "To restrict the movement of people is the easy part of the job. The Centre should give some guidelines on how to unlock," Sule said in her address via Facebook. "The Centre and the state should start together the process of unlocking in phased manner to bring the economy back on track slowly. You (people) have to work as well as remain safe, she said.  Shopkeepers, industries, small and big businesses have been hit by the lockdown, the NCP leader said, and called for finding a way out to overcome the present situation. "It is my personal opinion that unlocking begins slowly. Not for entertainment, but to bring the economy back on track by adhering to rules, norms, she said. The country needs us to work...our problems cannot be addressed if we were to sit inside our homes being afraid (of the situation), she said.  Sule said some countries and states witnessed a spike in the number of COVID-19 cases after the lockdown imposed there was lifted, and Maharashtra must not let such a situation arise when it is unlocked. "Therefore, we must follow the unlocking plan Chief Minister (Uddhav Thackeray), Dada (Sule's cousin and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar) will give us with absolute discipline, like military discipline, she added. The NCP leader urged people to observe the current lockdown strictly as a disciplined approach only will help unlock the state sooner. Without naming any opposition party, Sule hit out at them for targeting the government at a time when it is engaged in the fight against coronavirus, and asked them to refrain from playing politics in the face of the common threat. "Like the chief minister says, we should remain focussed...lets not divert attention. Let those who want to criticise, criticise, she said. Sule also cautioned people against circulating rumours/fake news on social media. She suggested the authorities concerned that providing ration kits to the needy is a better option than supplying them cooked meals. Sule also asked students to use the lockdown period for studying ahead of their examinations, which have been postponed due to the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/supriya-sule-urges-centre-maharashtra-government-to-ease-coronavirus-lockdown-in-phased-manner-830951.html
28-04-2020||West||Bulandshahr sadhu killing: Uddhav Thackeray asks Yogi Adityanath to take strict action against culprits||Hours after the brutal murder of two sadhus in a temple in Bulandshahr, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke to his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath and demanded action against the accused.  "What has happened is inhuman,  I spoke to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and expressed my shock and concern over the event," tweeted Thackeray,  who is the Shiv Sena president.  Thackeray also assured that he has spoken to him and demanded strict action against the accused.  "Please take action as per law and also ensure that no one gives a communal colour to it," he said.  Meanwhile,  Shiv Sena spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut described the incident as brutal and inhuman.   "I request all not to do politics over this (Bulandshahr) incident like it was done in case of Palghar... the nation is fighting Corona... please stay calm.... (UP chief minister) Yogi Adityanath will take strict action," he said.  State home minister Anil Deshmukh of the NCP said that it was quite distressing to hear about the murder of sadhus. "The killing of two sadhus in UP's Bulandshahr is quite distressing. We trust Yogi Adityanath  will take action as swiftly as we took in Palghar. We hope those who made inflammatory communal statements after Palghar will curb such tendencies," he tweeted. Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant wanted to know why the BJP leaders are silent over the issue.  "What is the difference between the Bulandshahr and Palghar incident?  After the Palghar incident, Union home minister Amit Shah spoke Maharashtra CM,  has he made a similar call to UP CM?  Why there is no tweet from BJP leaders condemning  the incident?," Sawant  asked in a press statement. Is it not the intelligence failure of the UP government,  he asked,  and why no one is asking for resignation of UP CM now. It may be recalled in the Gadchinchale village in Dahanu in Palghar district, nearly 120 kms from downtown Mumbai, on April 16,  two sadhus and their driver were killed in an incident of mob lynching in the tribal area.  Later it came to light that the two sadhus were from the Shree Panch Dashnam Juna Akhada - and Yogi Adityanath spoke to Thackeray and demanded action.  Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis of BJP also took up the issue and came down heavily on the Maha Vikas Aghadi government.  The Palghar police has arrested 110 persons including nine juveniles. The Maharashtra government later handed over the probe to State-CID and suspended two police officers.  In fact,  Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh had to release the list of accused to deny that there were Muslims among the attackers. The BJP and VHP has also accused the Left wing of spreading terror in tribal areas of Palghar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bulandshahr-sadhu-killing-uddhav-thackeray-asks-yogi-adityanath-to-take-strict-action-against-culprits-830970.html
28-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: 4 employees in secretariat test positive for coronavirus||The Maharashtra secretariat, Mantralaya, will remain shut for the next two days in view of four employees testing positive for coronavirus, an official said on Tuesday. The affected employees of a state government department have been shifted to a state-run hospital for further treatment, he said.  In a circular, Additional Chief Secretary (Services), General Administration, Sitaram Kunte, stated that the Mantralaya would remain closed on April 29 and 30 for sanitisation. The general administration department has announced to undertake sanitisation work in the entire building, the official added. Mantralaya is currently working with thin attendance in view of the coronavirus-enforced lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-4-employees-in-secretariat-test-positive-for-coronavirus-830975.html
28-04-2020||West||Won't tolerate attacks on cops enforcing coronavirus lockdown: Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said attacks on policemen enforcing lockdown will not be tolerated, and warned of strict action against those engaging in such acts. His comments came a day after a police team was pelted with stones when the security personnel went to verify a report about a religious gathering being held at a place of worship in Bidkin village of the states Aurangabad district. A police official sustained minor injuries in the incident following which 15 people were taken into custody. "The police are strictly implementing lockdown and social distancing in view of the coronavirus. The home ministry is keeping close watch on the rising attacks on the police," Deshmukh tweeted. He said 535 people have been arrested in connection with 159 incidents of attacks on policemen in parts of the state so far. "Orders have been issued to take strictest action against such attackers, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wont-tolerate-attacks-on-cops-enforcing-coronavirus-lockdown-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-830989.html
28-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: 13,448 industrial units get permission to restart  ||As many as 13,448 industrial units in Maharashtra have obtained permission to resume operations, Industries Minister Subhash Desai said on Tuesday. The Union government had advised the states to allow resumption of industrial activities, which came to a standstill after lockdown due to coronavirus kicked in, from April 20. The issue was also discussed in the latest video conference between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief ministers of various states, and Modi had asked the states to frame their own policies on relaxation of norms.  "The MIDC (Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation) has been issuing permissions based on self-declared information from the industries," Desai said. "The state industries department has received over 25,000 applications so far, and permissions have been given to 13,448 units," he added. While resuming operations, the industrial units will have to strictly maintain social distancing, arrange temporary accommodation for employees (so that they don't need to travel by pubic transport) and make available sanitisers.  "Workers should get some work and with resumption of industrial activity, there will be some movement in the current situation of stagnation," Desai said. According to local sources, small-scale industrial units have started operations in areas in the state which have not been impacted by the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-13448-industrial-units-get-permission-to-restart-830990.html
28-04-2020||West||Man thrashes wife as he loses in Ludo amid coronavirus lockdown||Persuading her husband to play Ludo with her so as to keep him indoors during the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, left a resident of Vadodara in Gujarat with a spinal injury, as she was allegedly thrashed by him each time he lost, an official said on Tuesday. The incident came to light last weekend when the woman, a resident of Vemali locality, called up Abhyam helpline for victims of domestic violence stating that she was severely assaulted by her husband, the official said. The victim had asked her husband to play Ludo with her on a mobile phone in a bid to keep him indoors, he said. However, the plan backfired when the man started thrashing his wife every time he lost a game to her, forcing her to consult a doctor for spine injuries, the official said. "The woman sustained injuries to her spine and had to go to a doctor. Once she got back, she immediately called up the Abhyam helpline number 181. Our staff counselled the couple and asked the woman if she needed any protection, which she refused," said Chandrakant Makwana, Project Coordinator, Abhyam. The woman instead decided to go to her mother's place in the city, he said. No police complaint was lodged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-thrashes-wife-as-he-loses-in-ludo-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-830991.html
28-04-2020||West||Maharashtra govt harassing journalists, terrorising media: Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday led a party delegation to Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari claiming there was an undeclared emergency in the state and that journalists were being terrorised by the Uddhav Thackeray government. Fadnavis, leader of the opposition in the Assembly and former chief minister, was accompanied by Pravin Darekar, leader of opposition in the council, senior leaders Ashish Shelar and Vinod Tawde, as well as Mumbai party unit chief Mangal Prabhat Lodha. Fadnavis claimed ABP Majha journalist Rahul Kulkarni was arrested in connection with a migrant mob gathering in Bandra during lockdown on April 14 because he had exposed a letter given by a state government official to scam-accused DHFL promoters Wadhawans allowing them to travel from Mumbai to Satara during lockdown. Since the case was filed in Mumbai, the arrested journalist was made to travel through COVID-19 hotspots from Osamanabad to the metropolis, Fadnavis alleged. He said a case had also been filed against a Times Now journalist for a new report. The media can be asked to clarify a negative news report but filing cases and arresting them amounts to terrorising the media, the former CM claimed. Fadnavis further pointed out that journalist Arnab Goswami was grilled for 12 hours by the police in connection with a news programme he hosted. Those speaking out against the state government on social media are also being harassed, adding that even distribution of newspapers was being curtailed in the name of a health threat. The door-to-door delivery of newspapers has been prohibited in containment areas to stop the spread of novel coronavirus. "We urge you to intervene and seek a response from the state government," Fadnavis told the governor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-harassing-journalists-terrorising-media-fadnavis-830997.html
28-04-2020||West||Auto industries started operations in Sanand, Gujarat amid coronavirus lockdown: Ministry of Home Affairs||Automobile units at the Sanand industrial base in Ahmedabad have started functioning again and are working with 50 per cent capacity, the inter-ministerial central team sent to Gujarat has found, a Home Ministry official said on Tuesday.  Addressing a press conference here, MHA Joint Secretary Punya Salila Srivastava said two central teams were sent to Ahmedabad and Surat in Gujarat to assess implementation of the lockdown. Headed by Additional Secretary-level officers, these teams comprise public health specialists and officers of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) whose expertise can be leveraged by the state government for management of the COVID-19 pandemic, she said.  The teams were deputed under the authority conferred on the Central Government under Section 35 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 which states that "..the central government shall take all such measures as it deems necessary or expedient for the purpose of Disaster Management". Giving details of the findings of the teams, Srivastava said the team that has gone to Ahmedabad found that in Sanand industrial base the pharmaceutical industry is functioning.  Auto-industrial units in the base have re-started and are working at 50 per cent capacity, she said. About 30,000 out of the total 50,000 labourers have returned to work, she said citing the findings of the central teams.  Giving further details of the findings in Surat, she said the team held discussions with various stakeholders including textile and diamond industries, who are major employers of labourers.  Srivastava said most labourers have received pay for last month.  A central team has asked the Surat administration to prepare future plans as well, she said. Giving an update of the inter-ministerial central team sent to Ahmedabad, she said it has found that the administration has adequate capacity to shift patients to dedicated COVID-19 hospitals with about 20 patients being shifted to such facilities. Based on feedback from patients' relatives, the team found that hospital facilities are satisfactory in Ahmedabad and that police and medical teams are jointly supervising entry points to quarantine clusters.  In both districts, the teams have found that police administration is using modern technology such as drones to enforce the lockdown.  The Central team visited Kathwada and Naroda shelter homes in Ahmedabad where it suggested that labourers may be accommodated in 33 shelter homes for maintenance of social distancing. Adequate facilities were present in shelter homes, it found. She said the team in Ahmedabad has suggested that the state may set up a multidisciplinary research unit at Sardar Patel Hospital, with the help of the Central government, where COVID-19 testing facilities can be set up. The Ahmedabad administration has taken various steps including house-to-house surveys and use of data sources such as electoral rolls, Project Lifeline and others to conduct surveillance of vulnerable population and perform their testing, she said. The team visiting Surat has found that the district administration there is also using modern techniques for detection and tracking of cases. Data on health systems and surveillance is being plotted using GIS mapping and analysis done accordingly in Surat, she said. The official said the Surat administration has also set up a municipal corporation 'War Room' and a special team of doctors, she said. The Surat administration, NGOs and industries have together made arrangements for distributing food packets to migrant labourers, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/auto-industries-started-operations-in-sanand-gujarat-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-ministry-of-home-affairs-831003.html
28-04-2020||West||COVID-19: 55-plus aged cops withdrawn in Mumbai||After the death of three head constables due to COVID-19, the Mumbai Police announced a compensation of Rs 50 lakh to the coronavirus victims. Besides, all policemen above 55 years of age have been taken off duties and told to remain at home, those above 52 but with serious medical conditions like diabetes, hypertension will also follow suit. In the lockdown period, the local police station staff will operate on 12-hour duty and 24-hour rest system, according to an official spokesperson. HCQ tablets have been given to 12,000 willing personnel with medical supervision and multivitamins and protein supplements have been provided to another 20,000 to boost their immune system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-55-plus-aged-cops-withdrawn-in-mumbai-831016.html
28-04-2020||West||New chief justice of Bombay HC sworn in||Justice Dipankar Dutta  drove nearly 2,000 kms from Kolkata to Mumbai - to take charge of the Bombay High Court. Justice Dutta had to drive down to Mumbai as because of the COVID-19 India lockdown, there are no domestic commercial flights.  On Tuesday evening, Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari administered oath to Justice Dutta at a simple ceremony at Raj Bhavan with full protocol and physical distancing.Justice Datta succeeds Justice Bhushan Pradyumna Dharmadhikari whose term as Chief Justice ended on Monday.  The Supreme Court collegium on April 19 cleared his name and the notification was issued on April 23. Justice Dutta and his son drove via Bhubaneswar, Vishakapatnam, Vijaywada, Solapur and then Mumbai. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, Speaker of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly Nana Patole, Minister of Protocol and Tourism Aaditya Thackeray, family members of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta, judges of the Bombay High Court, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Sanjay Kumar, Advocate General Ashotosh Kumbhakoni, Director General of Police Subodh Jaiswal and Commissioner of Mumbai Police Parambir Singh were prominent among those present. Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta read out the Notification of Appointment of the Chief Justice issued by the President of India. The ceremony began and concluded with the playing of the national anthem by the police band. Born on February 9, 1965, Justice Dipankar Datta   enrolled as an Advocate on November 16, 1989 and practiced in the Calcutta High Court, Gauhati High Court, Jharkhand High Court and also occasionally in Supreme Court of India for about 16 years in Civil, Constitutional, Labour, Service, Education and Transport and has specialised in Constitutional, Labour and Service matters. He worked as Junior Standing Counsel, State of West Bengal from 16th May, 2002 to 16 January, 2004.  He was a Central Government Counsel and held the office of Lawyer-in-charge of the University of West Bengal and the West Bengal School Service Commission. He was appointed as a permanent Judge of the Calcutta High Court on 22 June,  2006.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/new-chief-justice-of-bombay-hc-sworn-in-831023.html
28-04-2020||West||Man held for inciting April 14 Mumbai migrant mob gets bail||A court in Mumbai on Tuesday granted bail to a man accused of inciting migrants to assemble outside Bandra railway station on April 14 in violation of lockdown norms in place for the novel coronavirus outbreak. Vinay Dubey was granted bail on a cash surety of Rs 15,000 by metropolitan magistrate JY Ghule, his lawyer Deepak Mishra said. On April 14, the last day of the first phase of the lockdown, several hundred migrants had assembled on the west side of Bandra suburban station demanding trains to take them to their native places, just hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced an extension of the lockdown till May 3. Police claimed Dubey's video and Facebook post incited the migrants, as he was heard in a video stating that the government must run trains by April 18 for migrant labourers or he would have to start an agitation or rally to get them home. Dubey was charged under sections 117, 153 A, 188, 269, 270 and 505 (2) of Indian Penal Code on charges of promoting enmity among different groups, abetting the commission of an offence by members of the public, and for negligence that could spread infections disease etc. He was also charged under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Advocate Mishra claimed the police was wrong in slapping these charges on Dubey. "Dubey had said in the video that an agitation would start on April 18. However, migrants gathered on April 14 itself. So how can my client be blamed for that?" he said.  He also told the court that the migrants had been able to gather at the station in such large numbers despite the lockdown because of the failure of the police and the state. "They (migrants) were locals, who had gathered for money. How else could so many people have defied police and lockdown restrictions?" Mishra said. In his bail plea, Dubey also said police erred in booking him under section 153 (A) of IPC on charges of promoting enmity, since invoking this section needs the prior sanction of the Union government, which he claimed the Mumbai police did not secure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-held-for-inciting-april-14-mumbai-migrant-mob-gets-bail-831045.html
28-04-2020||West||Why Maha BJP keeping mum on Bulandshahr killings? asks Congress||Maharashtra Congress on Tuesday questioned the `silence' of state BJP leaders over the killing of two priests in Bulandshahr district of Uttar Pradesh. The incident also showed that the law and order situation in the BJP-ruled state had collapsed, said Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant. "In the case of lynching of three persons including two sadhus in Palghar, the Maharashtra government arrested 110 persons and a high-level inquiry has been ordered," he said. It came to light later that the incident took place due to rumours about thieves roaming in the area, but "still the opposition communalised the incidentto malign the Maharashtra government," Sawant said. "The same BJP is now silent over the Bulandshahr incident. This shows the BJP's double standard and attempts to play politics during the coronavirus crisis, which is condemnable," he said. The Congress spokesperson also wondered if Union home minister Amit Shah called Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanathafter the Monday's incident, just as Shah called Maharashtra CM after the Palghar incident. "What is the difference between Palghar and Bulandshahr murders? The accused in Bulandshahr incident had an altercation with the sadhus. Were the sadhus provided protection? Why were the accused not apprehended early? Isn't this a failure of the state intelligence....failure of state government?" Sawant said. "Will the BJP demand CBI probe? Will state BJP leaders demand resignation of UP chief minister just like they demanded theresignation of Maharashtra home minister?" the Congress spokesperson asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/why-maha-bjp-keeping-mum-on-bulandshahr-killings-asks-congress-831050.html
28-04-2020||West||Over 80,000 lockdown offences registered in Maharashtra: Deshmukh||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said 81,063 lockdown-related offences were registered in the state and at least 16,548 people were arrested in these cases. According to an official release, 81,063 offences were registered from March 22 till date. As many as 159 incidents of attacks on policemen were reported in the state, in which 535 persons were arrested for their involvement, the Home Minister said.  In the release, Deshmukh reiterated that stricter action will be taken against those involved in attacks on policemen and health workers, who are at the forefront of the fight against coronavirus. Fines worth over Rs 2.85 crore were imposed in various cases during this period, while the police received 79,901 calls on the helpline number '100' during the lockdown, he said. The police traced and isolated 618 persons, who were stamped for home quarantine, he said, adding that at present, 1,55,076 have been quarantined. At least 49,113 vehicles were seized for flouting the lockdown norms, he said.  Meanwhile, Deshmukh condoled the death of three policemen, who succumbed to COVID-19 and said 14 officials and 85 personnel have tested positive for the infection. The government has reserved two hospitals in the city for policemen who have contracted the infection, he said. A total of 4,97,256 people were put up at 4,785 relief camps in the state, the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-80000-lockdown-offences-registered-in-maharashtra-deshmukh-831084.html
28-04-2020||West||Dharavi records biggest spike in coronavirus cases||The COVID-19 hotbed of Dharavi in Mumbai recorded the biggest spike of 42 new coronavirus cases and four deaths on Tuesday.  The first COVID-19 positive case and death in Dharavi was recorded on April 1.     On Tuesday, the total positive cases stood at 330 and 19 deaths, according to figures released by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).  Dharavi, spread across 2.1 sq kms, is home to seven to 10 lakh people, is sandwiched between the Central and Western suburban railway lines of Mumbai.  The COVID-19 hotspot of Dharavi falls between the Sion, Matunga, Mahim and Bandra areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dharavi-records-biggest-spike-in-coronavirus-cases-831089.html
28-04-2020||West||FIRs against 13 Tablighi members for defying lockdown in Gujarat||The Gujarat police have lodged two seperate FIRs against 13 members of the Tablighi Jamaat for allegedly violating lockdown imposed over a month ago to contain the coronavirus spread, the DGP said on Tuesday. In both the cases, Tablighi Jamaat members had entered Bharuch district from other parts of Gujarat in private buses secretly in violation of the lockdown norms, said Director General of Police (DGP) Shivanand Jha. While one complaint against half a dozen members was lodged with the Palej police of Bharuch district, the other, against seven men of the Delhi-headquartered Islamic group, was filed at the Amod police station of the same district on Monday, he said. "Before the lockdown was imposed (on March 25), some members of the Tablighi Jamaat went to Bhavnagar from Bharuch through Ro-Ro ferry service on March 17. "Later, six of them recently came back to a village in Bharuch in a private bus. "When it came to our notice, we lodged an FIR against them at the Palej police station for violating the lockdown," Jha said in a video message. Similarly, seven members of the Islamic sect defied the police notification banning movement of people and vehicles during the lockdown and entered Bharuch in a bus from another districtrecently, said the DGP. On learning about their arrival in the district, a case was lodged against them at the Amod police station, Jha added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/firs-against-13-tablighi-members-for-defying-lockdown-in-gujarat-831145.html
28-04-2020||West||Fear of mega coronavirus spike in Maharashtra coming true, tally rises to 5982||The fears of a mega spike seem to be coming true for Maharashtra, as the state recorded the biggest jump in coronavirus death toll on Tuesday. The state recorded 31 deaths and 729 positive cases on Tuesday. This took the death toll to 409 and cases of infected people to  9,318. Mumbai recorded 393 fresh cases and 25 deaths, taking the total cases to 5982 and death toll to 244. Dharavi recorded 42 fresh cases and 4 deaths taking the tally to 330 and 18, respectively. Out of the 31 deaths today, 16 were men and 15 women. Twenty of them aged over 60 years, while 10 were between 40 to 59 years of age group and 1 was under 40 years of age. Twenty out of 31 patients (65%) had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma, heart disease, TB. Out of 1,29,931 laboratory samples, 1,20,136 were negative and 9318 tested positive for coronavirus till Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fear-of-mega-coronavirus-spike-in-maharashtra-coming-true-tally-rises-to-5982-831167.html
28-04-2020||West||90-year-old woman defeats coronavirus, negative after 10 tests in Gujarat||While pattern of the coronavirus spread and its potential killing power might have baffled experts and policy-makers, a 90-year-old man from Bhavnagar and an elderly woman from Kutch in Gujarat have recovered from the COVID-19 disease after spending weeks in hospitals, a senior official said on Tuesday. They are among 40 people in the state who were discharged after recovering from COVID-19, taking their total number to 434 so far, said Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi. Notably, the nonagenarian was admitted in a hospital in Bhavnagar on April 5 and was on oxygen support. The case of the woman from Kutch is perhaps more baffling. "The woman remained hospitalised for nearly 36 days. She tested positive for coronavirus repeatedly for ten times before finally testing negative," Ravi said. She said two coronavirus positive women gave birth on Tuesday in Rajkot and Bhavnagar. "Though the babies have tested negative for coronavirus, their mothers will have to take extra care while feeding them," Ravi added. Another development underlining diabolical nature of coronavirus and power of human immunity was reported from Ahmedabad on Tuesday.  While the biggest city in Gujarat reported 19 deaths due to COVID-19 in a day, its highest tally so far, 29 people have recovered after treatment. Ahmedabad is the worst-affected city with a higher mortality rate. Ahmedabad reported 164 new coronavirus positive cases in the last 24 hours ending Tuesday, taking the total number of cases from the district to 2,543 with 128 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/90-year-old-woman-defeats-coronavirus-negative-after-10-tests-in-gujarat-831171.html
