29-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Activities pick up in Hassan, Chamarajanagar||Mysureans, who were happy that there were no fresh cases in the last four days, were disappointed as one more person tested positive in the evening, on Wednesday. The 26-year-old man (P534) is from Nanjangud, and has a contact history with P346. Though the number of active cases have declined to 32, with seven people discharged on Wednesday, Mysuru is still categorised, and will be identified under red zone, for a few more days. If there are no fresh cases in the next 14 days, the district will come under orange zone and then to green zone. The total positive cases is 90. There is still a long way for normalcy to return in Mysuru. However, Mysuru region comprises all zones. While Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts have earned the credit of green zone, with no Covid-19 cases identified so far, Mandya, which has 18 positive cases has been identified under orange zone. Mysuru, which remains in the second place, the Covid-19 tally in the state with 90 cases, thanks to its Nanjangud connection, will have to stay in red zone for a few more days. Intially, it was Chamarajanagar, which was considered the high risk region, as it shares borders with Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Hundreds of vehicles and people enter the state through Chamarajanagar, every day. It was a challenge for Chamarajanagar district administration. The officials, led by Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi, were on their toes, immediately after Kerala reported the first Covid-19 case. All checkposts were strengthened, Health department personnel were stationed on the spot, all vehicles were checked. However, after the Union government announced the nationwide lockdown, things became easier for them. Though, several persons from the district were employees of Jubilant Generics in Nanjangud, no one was tested positive. Their primary and secondary contacts too were quarantined. With the government permitting →opening of small shops and financial activities in the green zone, all shops like provision stores, book stalls, hardware, plywood, cement, steel, paint shops were opened in Hassan and Chamarajanagar on Wednesday. People were seen moving around in the city, to purchase things. With coffee and tea shops opened, people were seen in groups before them. However, hotels and restaurants are limited for parcel service. Permission is given for movement of trucks, goods vehicles and tractors. Road and construction works are being started, using local workers. Factories have started functioning with minimum number of employees. However, borders and interior roads have been sealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/activities-pick-up-in-hassan-chamarajanagar-831544.html
29-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Minister collects Rs 73.16L, donates to zoo||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar has collected Rs 73.16 lakh, which he donated to the city-based Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens (Mysuru Zoo), on Wednesday. The minister urged his supporters to contribute funds to the zoo, after he learnt about its financial condition during his visit on April 22. Due to the outbreak of Covid-19, the zoo is closed for tourists and there is no income since the lockdown. Thus, the minister had given a call to his supporters to raise funds. The minister handed over a cheque to Mysuru Zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulakarni in the presence of MLAs S A Ramdas and L Nagendra, Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar and Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde. Thanking the minister, the director of the zoo said that the zoo is a self-sustained organisation as it is not receiving any funds from the state government since 2002. “But, this time, we need funds from the government, as there is no income. The funds from selling tickets and funds from animal adoption scheme are the major source of income for the zoo,” he said. The zoo has 152 species of birds and houses more than 1,450 specimens belonging to 168 species, representing more than 30 countries. The director said, “The people interested to adopt animals under the adoption scheme, can do it online. All the details are available on the zoo website. The people can pay charges online.”      It has to be noted that the minister adopted a female elephant Chamundi for a period of one year, by paying Rs 1.75 lakh recently. He also had paid Rs 25,000 to feed tigers at Mysuru Zoo for a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-collects-rs-7316l-donates-to-zoo-831545.html
29-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Actor Irrfan Khan's link with Karnataka's Mysuru||Bollywood actor Irrfan Khan, who passed away on Wednesday, had participated in the Badanavalu movement in Nanjangud, and had visited Mysuru a couple of times, in the recent past. In 2015, the actor had visited Badanavalu, a village near Nanjangud, to support theatre personality and social activist Prasanna, who launched a movement to promote sustainable living. Khan, along with his wife Sutapa Sikdar, had stayed overnight in the village along with Prasanna. He advocated to boycott China products and promoted to use ‘swadesi’ products. He also had urged the villagers not to migrate to cities from the villages. Badanavalu village is known for its khadi unit that was established by Dalit women in 1927. Mahatma Gandhi had visited this village in 1932 and Gandhi wanted to promote the village industries. Khan also had participated in ‘Chinnara Mela’ a summer camp for children, hosted by Rangayana in Mysuru and spent time with children. In 2016, Irrfan Khan had participated in ‘Bahuroopi 2016’, a national theatre festival at Kalamandira in Mysuru. Khan had expressed his views on Indian diversity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/actor-irrfan-khans-link-with-karnatakas-mysuru-831546.html
29-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Coronavirus Lockdown: Former MP K H Muniyappa for lockdown extension in Kolar district||Former MP K H Muniyappa on Wednesday said that it would be a wise move to continue lockdown for some more days in Kolar district as relaxation might lead to spreading of the coronavirus. He was speaking after distributing masks and soap to public. “The police, Asha workers, Anganawadi workers, health department staff and others have done excellent job to contain the spread of novel coronavirus due to which the government has declared Kolar as a green zone district,” he said. Muniyappa appreciated that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi was handling the Covid-19 situation effectively in the country. “Though Modi woke up a little late, he is ably handling the situation. Had China woken up to the situation when novel coronavirus began spreading situation would have been far more better,” he said The Covid-19  has been successfully contained in India compared to other nations. Containing novel coronavirus completely was like world war three. All political parties were extending support to the Centre, he said. Muniyappa said that the Congress party was distributing masks, soaps, ration and hand sanitiser to over 20,000 people in all 35 wards in Kolar and 23 gram panchayats. “I am in touch with deputy commissioner for latest updates. I am also making certain suggestions. I have requested to deduct 30% of my pension for relief works,” he said. The state has about 40% labourers who were poor. They were facing distress due to lockdown. Food and economic assistance should be given to them, Muniyappa said. The former MP said that he had brought to the notice of the government decline in the prices of agricultural and horticultural produces due to ban on movement of vehicles. The government should announce support price for the produces. District Congress unit vice-president L A Manjunath, CMC members B M Mubaraq, Narayanamma, Kolar Urban Development Authority former president Atawullah Khan were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/coronavirus-lockdown-former-mp-k-h-muniyappa-for-lockdown-extension-in-kolar-district-831436.html
29-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Coronavirus Lockdown: Industrial operations may resume in Kolar, says DC||Deputy Commissioner C Satyabhama on Wednesday said that industrial operations in the district might resume, but it was mandatory to follow the safety guidelines issued by the government to contain the spread of Covid-19. She chaired a meeting with members and representatives of unions of industries at her office here. “The industrial operations may be carried out by following the standards of operation issued by the state and the central governments in the wake of Covid-19. Only about 50% of the workforce may be used for the operations. The workers should wear masks, gloves and frequently use hand sanitiser. Those residing in the district may be used for the works. There is ban on employing labourers from other states for the works,” she said. The deputy commissioner clarified that it was mandatory to obtain permission from the deputy commissioner if the situation demanded employment of labourers from other states. Such labourers should undergo medical tests. Vehicles ferrying them should also be tested. They should be quarantined till the situation came under control. Satyabhama said, ”The government has declared Kolar as a green zone district. Situation could be handled effectively due to support from the police, Asha workers, Anganawadi workers, health department staff and others. Efforts should be made to contain the spread of novel coronavirus.” “Managements of the industries in the district should spend funds under corporate social responsibility to desilt tanks,” she suggested. Additional deputy commissioner B Shivaswamy, Commerce and Industries Department deputy director Ravichandra and assistant director Venkataramana were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/coronavirus-lockdown-industrial-operations-may-resume-in-kolar-says-dc-831440.html
29-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Coronavirus Lockdown: Provide facilities to construction workers and rehabilitated people, says C H Gangadhar||Kolar district Legal Services Authority member secretary C H Gangadhar on Wednesday directed the City Municipal Council officials to provide basic amenities to construction workers and others who have been rehabilitated at Antaragange residential school for mentally challenged children.  He was speaking after an inspection here. “Food should be offered to them. They should be subjected for medical examination. There should be transparency in extending facilities. Precautionary measures should be taken considering COVID-19 cases in neighbouring districts and states,” he said. Gangadhar said that people should ensure social distancing in public places and give top priority for cleanliness. CMC commissioner Srikanth said that the CMC has extended all benefits to the rehabilitated people as per guidelines. They have been directed to use masks and hand sanitiser. There are 12 women, 4 men and 13 construction workers at the residential school. Antaragange institute secretary K S Shankar, advocate  K R Dhanaraj were present. Caption: District Legal Services Authority member secretary C H Gangadhar inspects situation at Antaragange residential school for mentally challenged children where construction workers and others have been rehabilitated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/coronavirus-lockdown-provide-facilities-to-construction-workers-and-rehabilitated-people-says-c-h-gangadhar-831511.html
29-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Heavy rains: Farmer incur Rs 2.14 crore losses||Heavy rains on Tuesday damaged horticultural crops worth Rs 2.14 crore in the district. Malur received 19.6 mm rainfall, while Malur taluk  recorded 38.1 mm rainfall. Srinivaspur recorded 15.1 mm rainfall, while Bangarpet, Kolar and Mulbagal 11.6 mm, 17.1 mm and 16 mm rainfall respectively. The rains in Bangarpet, Kolar, Mulbagal and Malur taluks damaged crops in 490 hectares of land. Tomatoes in 236 hectares and mangos in 187 hectares have been damaged. Beans, cauliflower, capsicum, carrot, cucumber and papaya have also been damaged. Produces at fields at Sakkanahalli, Maragal, Beerandahalli, Mavalli, Aithandahalli, Kavaranahalli, Lakshmipur in Bangarpet taluk, Uttanur, Hanumanahalli, Mudiyanur, Shivaranahalli and Kenchanahalli Mulbagal taluk, Kembodi, Huttur, Hollamballahalli, Holali and Tambihalli in Kolar have been destroyed. Most farmers had used water from tankers and farm ponds to carry out farming activity. The dream of better yield this time has been shattered. The officials from Revenue and Horticulture departments conducted a survey on Wednesday to submit a report about the losses.  “The Revenue and Horticulture departments have jointly conducted a survey. About Rs 2.14 crore losses have been estimated. A report will be submitted to deputy commissioner,” Gayatri, deputy director, Horticulture Department, said. “I had spent Rs one lakh for water from tankers alone. The mango trees were in good condition. My dream of making some profit has been shattered,” Krishnappa, a farmer from Tambihalli said. “Mango trees in my field have been damaged. I had borrowed loans from the farming activity. I don’t know what to do now,” a farmer from Huttanur said. In Numbers Taluk             crops (in hectares)                approximate losses (in lakhs) Bangarpet:         34.5                                          16.20Kolar:                 381.8                                         162.5 Malur:                 10.2                                            4.30 Mulbagal:           63.8                                            31.90||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/heavy-rains-farmer-incur-rs-214-crore-losses-831574.html
29-04-2020||Mysuru||Coronavirus lockdown: S T Somashekar hands over Rs 73.16 lakh cheque to Mysuru Zoo authorities||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar handed over Rs 73.16 lakh cheque to Mysuru Zoo authorities on Wednesday.  It has to be noted that the Minister adopted a female Chamundi under animal adopting scheme for a period of one year by paying Rs 1.75 lakh recently. He also had paid Rs 25,000 to feed tigers at Mysuru Zoo.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/coronavirus-lockdown-s-t-somashekar-hands-over-rs-7316-lakh-cheque-to-mysuru-zoo-authorities-831303.html
29-04-2020||National||AIIMS planning to conduct clinical trial of plasma therapy in coronavirus treatment||The All India Institute Of Medical Sciences is planning to conduct a clinical trial of the convalescent plasma therapy in the treatment of COVID-19 and modalities of taking approvals from the Drug Controller General of India are being worked out. AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria said the mode of treatment in COVID-19 is still at an "experimental stage" and there is a need for good and well conducted research trials before its benefit and this mode of therapy can be recommended for routine use in coronavirus patients. "AIIMS is working with the ICMR to conduct a clinical trial on the efficacy of convalescent plasma therapy in COVID-19 patients," he said. The doctor said it is necessary for all institutes to take necessary approvals from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Drug Controller General of India and follow proper clinical practice guidelines for this research. "In very limited studies, globally, convalescent plasma as an adjunct to other supportive therapies and treatments has shown some benefit in the management of severe patients of COVID-19," Guleria said. He also underlined that plasma has to be tested for its safety and it should have sufficient antibodies to be useful for giving it to COVID-19 patients. "Giving plasma from a recovered patient without testing whether it has enough antibody titer or not may cause more harm than good as it can cause transfusion-related reactions," he said.  Dr Vivek Nangia, Director and Head, Pulmonology, Medical Critical Care and Sleep Disorders at Fortis hospital here, said the health ministry has made the "right move to dispel any notion attached to plasma therapy" as far as COVID-19 is concerned, and added there is no specific treatment for the disease as of now. "One should not be giving false hope to patients," he stated. "This is a new virus and no specific treatment for this disease, whether it is hydroxychloroquine or plasma therapy. These are all conjectural therapies or experimental therapies," he said. Dr Neeraj Nischal, Associate Professor in the department of medicine at AIIMS, said that in the absence of any specific antiviral medications for the treatment of COVID-19, convalescent plasma (plasma from patients who have recovered from the illness) is being seen as a promising therapeutic option. But for plasma therapy to be effective, plasma must contain sufficient amount of neutralising antibody against that infection. "This therapy is not foolproof and is associated with risks like inadvertent transfer of blood-borne infections and reactions to serum constituents, including immunological reactions such as serum sickness, and may worsen the clinical condition," Dr Nischal said. Plasma constitutes about 55 per cent of the total blood component and has high concentration of neutralising antibodies. When transfused, it acts as a passive immunisation and provides immediate immunity to susceptible or infected persons by neutralising the virus or by dampening the cytokine storm, he said.  Plasma therapy has a history going back to 1890s and was the only means of treating certain infectious diseases like diphtheria, pertussis and tetanus prior to the development of effective antimicrobial therapy, Dr Nishchal explained. "The convalescent plasma has also been tried in Spanish flu of 1918 and in more recent SARS and H1NI epidemics. It has also been used in the deadly Ebola disease, which affected the African countries," he said. The health ministry on Tuesday said currently plasma therapy is at an experimental stage and there is no evidence yet to support that it can be used as a treatment for COVID-19. It further said the ICMR has launched a national-level study to learn efficacy of plasma therapy in treatment of COVID-19 and till the apex health research body concludes its study and a robust scientific proof is available, plasma therapy should be used only for research or trial purpose. "If plasma therapy is not used in a proper manner under proper guidelines, then it can also cause life threatening complications," Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the Ministry of Health, said at a press briefing on Tuesday. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,007 and the number of cases climbed to 31,332 in the country on Wednesday, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-planning-to-conduct-clinical-trial-of-plasma-therapy-in-coronavirus-treatment-831238.html
29-04-2020||National||India rejects USCIRF reports; calls it 'biased and tendentious'||India on Tuesday rejected its criticism by a US commission on religious freedom, terming its observations on the condition of minorities and religious freedom as "biased and tendentious". In the 2020 edition of its annual report on International Religious Freedom, the US Commission for International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) alleged that religious freedom in India witnessed a drastic downward turn. It also alleged that the religious minorities were under increasing assault in India "We reject the observations on India in the USCIRF annual report. Its biased and tendentious comments against India are not new. But on this occasion, its misrepresentation has reached new levels," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. "It has not been able to carry its own commissioners in its endeavour. We regard it as an organisation of particular concern and will treat it accordingly," he said, responding to a query on observations by the USCIRF. The USCIRF asked the State Department to designate 14 nations, including India, as "countries of particular concern", alleging that religious minorities are under increasing assault in these nations. These include nine countries that the State Department designated as CPCs in December 2019 - Myanmar, China, Eritrea, Iran, North Korea, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan - as well as five others - India, Nigeria, Russia, Syria, and Vietnam, the USCIRF said. In its report, the watchdog alleged that in 2019, the national government in India used its strengthened parliamentary majority to institute national-level policies violating religious freedom across the country, especially for Muslims. "Most notably, it enacted the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which provides a fast track to Indian citizenship for non-Muslim migrants from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Pakistan already residing in India," it alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-rejects-uscirf-reports-calls-it-biased-and-tendentious-831241.html
29-04-2020||National||Lockdown: BJP issues show-cause notices to 2 Uttar Pradesh MLAs for asking people not to buy vegetables from Muslim vendors||The BJP on Tuesday issued show-cause notices to two of its Uttar Pradesh MLAs -- Suresh Tiwari, who allegedly asked people not to buy vegetables from Muslim vendors, and Shyam Prakash for levelling corruption charges against Hardoi health authorities in the purchase of medical equipment. The conduct of both the MLAs is against the party's policy, BJP's Uttar Pradesh media in-charge Manish Dixit said in a statement, adding that they have been asked to give their replies within a week. Party sources said its central leadership found Tiwari's remarks "highly irresponsible", and its national president J P Nadda "pulled up" the state brass for not taking quick action. Expressing his displeasure over the comments, Nadda stated that the BJP will not "tolerate" such remarks and said party leaders should not make statements like this. The sources said Nadda admonished Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and asked him to take action against Tiwari. Both Tiwari and Prakash are from Hardoi district and have left the party red-faced with their statements. Tiwari, who represents Barhaj constituency in Deoria district in the state assembly, was seen in a video clip purportedly telling people: "I am saying this openly: don't purchase vegetables from Muslims (Ek cheez dhayan mein rakhiyega, main bol raha hoon openly, koi bhi miyan ke hathon sabzi nahi lega)." When asked about his remark, Tewari said, "On April 17th or 18th, I was distributing masks and sanitizers among the people. When I reached the boundary of the nagar palika, around 17-18 people came to me and started complaining against Tablighi Jamaat members creating chaos and spreading coronavirus and also contaminating vegetables with their saliva." "I told them not to fight with them or take law into their own hands, but simply to stop purchasing from them," he said. "There are many Muslim vendors in Barhaj too and I only advised people not to purchase from them to be saved from the deadly virus," the MLA added. On Monday, Gopamau MLA Shyam Prakash had alleged corruption in the purchase of medical equipment. In a letter dated April 25 to the Hardoi chief development officer, he had sought details about Rs 24.99 lakh given from his MLA fund on April 16. Alleging corruption, he said the amount be "immediately returned" so that the money could be used for other works in public interest. Reacting to the allegations, District Magistrate Pulkit Khare said, "The chief development officer has been directed to initiate a departmental action against the chief medical officer while orders have been issued to suspend pharmacist JN Tiwari." A section of right wing elements has targeted Muslims over the spread of the coronavirus, alleging that some members of the community have deliberately abetted the rise in infections. The BJP-led governments at the Centre and in the state have sought to dispel the impression that Muslims are being targeted by a section of people in the fight against the pandemic.   Prime Minister Narendra Modi had recently asked people to fight the pandemic unitedly, calling for brotherhood and harmony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-bjp-issues-show-cause-notices-to-2-uttar-pradesh-mlas-for-asking-people-not-to-buy-vegetables-from-muslim-vendors-831242.html
29-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 29, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Download the e-paper to read today’s edition and beat the lockdown blues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-29-2020-edition-831253.html
29-04-2020||National||Coronavirus state-wise India update: Total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 29||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 32,774 as of April 29. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 1,066       Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 7797 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-state-wise-india-update-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-29-831254.html
29-04-2020||National||Modi vs states: Alcohol tussle shows states battling for money to fight the coronavirus crisis||By Archana Chaudhary A well-known teetotaler, Modi banned alcohol sales during the country’s national lockdown to contain the virus, blocking a crucial source of direct tax income for states already struggling to ramp up health infrastructure and provide food to millions left jobless. The loss of liquor tax revenues -- an estimated 7 billion rupees ($92 million) a day -- have prompted calls from states like Punjab to lift the ban. “Liquor is a major source of revenue for all states,” Amarinder Singh, Punjab’s chief minister from the federal opposition Congress party, said in a television interview last week. “How will I make up for that? Will the people in Delhi give it to me? They don’t even give 1 rupee.” The fight over alcohol is among a series of recent moves in which the federal government has eroded the ability of states to raise the cash needed to handle the coronavirus, which has now led to 29,451 infections and 939 deaths across the country. India’s constitution gives states the responsibility of delivering health care and ramping up its often decrepit hospital system to cope with a surge in demand. Modi, a former chief minister of the state of Gujarat, had long championed the idea of “cooperative federalism” and in his first term worked with states to roll out a nationwide sales tax. But his second term has seen greater conflict with state governments, particularly those led by opposition parties who have resisted his Hindu nationalist party’s backing of moves that discriminate against the Muslim minority. “It is the local governments that are fighting on the ground,” said Thomas Isaac, finance minister of the southern state of Kerala, which has yet to receive its share of April taxes. “All funds have dried up. And there’s no way to really raise funds.” States Hobbled Apart from taxes on alcohol, the other sources of state governments’ revenue -- duties on fuel and real estate transactions -- have also dried up with the economy in shutdown mode. India’s tax shortfall could be as high as 2.9 trillion rupees this fiscal year, said M Govinda Rao, economist and former government adviser. State leaders have also criticized plans to centralize the purchase of coronavirus medical and protective kits, as well as a special virus relief fund that falls outside the remit of the federal auditor. The Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund, or PMCARES, raised 65 billion rupees ($848 million) in its first week, according to a report in The Print. “What’s happening is not in the spirit of cooperative federalism,” Isaac said. “There’s no clarity on how the funds collected will be used.” The prime minister’s office didn’t respond to an email seeking comments on how the fund would be utilized or audited. In announcing the creation of the fund, Modi said it was in response to requests from people to donate and said it would “strengthen disaster management capacities and encourage research on protecting citizens.” It is my appeal to my fellow Indians, The new fund includes attractive benefits not legally available to relief funds run by chief ministers: overseas contributions are allowed and large companies’ donations can count as part of the mandatory requirement to spend 2% of annual profit on public causes. Russia’s state-owned defense exports company Rosoboronexport committed $2 million to the fund, which is managed by a trust with federal ministers of home affairs, finance and defense as its members, The Hindu reported. India’s Reliance Industries Ltd. contributed $66 million to PMCARES and $65,626 each to the states of Gujarat and Maharashtra. Groups including Vedanta, Aditya Birla and Adani announced contributions of more than $13 million to the federal fund. The companies didn’t immediately respond to emails seeking comment. Modi has positioned himself as the decision maker in this crisis and is using it as an opportunity to strengthen his hand, said Rahul Verma, a researcher at the Delhi-based Centre for Policy Research who has written a book about ideology in Indian politics. “His federal government is emerging stronger than before while states seem weaker,” Verma said. “But his future will depend on how the crisis unfolds in the future, how many deaths it causes and whether his decisions stand the test of time.” Lockdown Criticisms Modi drew criticism from some chief ministers for announcing a nationwide lockdown on television on March 24 with just four hours’ notice and without consulting state leaders. As work and wages dried up overnight, millions of migrant workers set off on foot from cities like Delhi and Mumbai for their homes hundreds of miles away. The financial burden of this unprecedented migration, amid the already high costs of ramping up medical infrastructure, fell on unprepared states, which had to make arrangements to house and feed millions at a very short notice. States are also facing delays in receiving their share of national sales tax. Punjab, home to 28 million people, says it’s received only $9.3 million -- or $3 per person -- in federal disaster funds to fight Covid-19 and is still waiting for its share of sales taxes to help run state government machinery and pay salaries. State governments in Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh have also expressed concern about the call to route purchases through the federal government given the delays by state-run HLL Lifecare Ltd. in ramping up supplies in time. According to the Modi administration, HLL was asked to ramp up production after it found it tough to import the needed PPEs. While the states say they would back plans to centralize procurement of medical equipment if it helps cut costs, they also want to be able to buy protective equipment through the open market where available. “Both states and the Modi government need to set aside politics at this point in time,” said Ravindra Waikar, the minister coordinating relief efforts in Maharashtra. Hamstrung Lawmakers Modi’s government has also pulled away discretionary funds available to members of Parliament to spend on their constituencies for the next two years, upsetting opposition legislators. The move, announced along with a one-third salary cut for all lawmakers, was made to manage the ‘adverse impact’ of Covid-19, Prakash Javadekar, minister for information and broadcasting, told reporters on April 6. The total amount is relatively small -- 78.4 billion rupees, or roughly equal to half a week’s open market borrowings by his federal government. But it hobbles lawmakers’ ability to respond to both the virus and the economic troubles in their constituencies. Shashi Tharoor, a federal lawmaker from the Congress party has asked the government to take back its order. Still, voters so far aren’t blaming Modi for gaining greater control over the flow of money and medical supplies. Even amid an economic slowdown that’s expected to worsen during the 40-day lockdown that ends May 4, Modi topped a global opinion poll of world leaders that rated their handling of the coronavirus pandemic. “At the end of this crisis, Modi will personally emerge stronger than he is. Even despite the strain of the push and pull with states,” said Abhay Pethe, an economist and former adviser to the Maharashtra state government. “No one can speak against him easily given the delicate situation. History has, at least for the moment, placed him in such a position.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-vs-states-alcohol-tussle-shows-states-battling-for-money-to-fight-the-coronavirus-crisis-831258.html
29-04-2020||National||Two militants killed in overnight operation in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian district||Two militants were killed in an overnight operation by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian district, with one of them being gunned down on Wednesday morning, officials said. The first militant was killed On Tuesday when an encounter broke out between the ultras and the forces at Melhora in the district's Zainapora area, they said. The militants had fired on a search party and security personnel retaliated, the officials said. Searches are going on and the operation is in progress, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-militants-killed-in-overnight-operation-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-shopian-district-831294.html
29-04-2020||National||US panel wants India on religious freedom blacklist||A US government panel on Tuesday called for India to be put on a religious freedom blacklist over a "drastic" downturn under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, triggering a sharp rebuttal from New Delhi. The US Commission on International Religious Freedom recommends but does not set policy, and there is virtually no chance the State Department will follow its lead on India, an increasingly close US ally. In an annual report, the bipartisan panel narrowly agreed that India should join the ranks of "countries of particular concern" that would be subject to sanctions if they do not improve their records. "In 2019, religious freedom conditions in India experienced a drastic turn downward, with religious minorities under increasing assault," the report said. It called on the United States to impose punitive measures, including visa bans, on Indian officials believed responsible and grant funding to civil society groups that monitor hate speech. The commission said that Modi's Hindu nationalist government, which won a convincing election victory last year, "allowed violence against minorities and their houses of worship to continue with impunity, and also engaged in and tolerated hate speech and incitement to violence." It pointed to comments by Home Minister Amit Shah, who notoriously referred to mostly Muslim migrants as "termites," and to a citizenship law that has triggered nationwide protests. It also highlighted the revocation of the autonomy of Kashmir, which was India's only Muslim-majority state, and allegations that Delhi police turned a blind eye to mobs who attacked Muslim neighborhoods in February this year. The Indian government, long irritated by the commission's comments, quickly rejected the report. "Its biased and tendentious comments against India are not new. But on this occasion, its misrepresentation has reached new levels," foreign ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava said. "We regard it as an organization of particular concern and will treat it accordingly," he said in a statement. The State Department designates nine "countries of particular concern" on religious freedom -- China, Eritrea, Iran, Myanmar, North Korea, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan. The commission asked that all nine countries remain on the list. In addition to India, it sought the inclusion of four more -- Nigeria, Russia, Syria and Vietnam.     Pakistan, India's historic rival, was added by the State Department in 2018 after years of appeals by the commission. In its latest report, the commission said that Pakistan "continued to trend negatively," voicing alarm at forced conversions of Hindus and other minorities, abuse of blasphemy prosecutions and a ban on the Ahmadi sect calling itself Muslim. India's citizenship law fast-tracks naturalization for minorities from neighbouring countries -- but not if they are Muslim. Modi's government says it is not targeting Muslims but rather providing refuge to persecuted people and should be commended. But critics consider it a watershed move by Modi to define the world's largest democracy as a Hindu nation and chip away at independent India's founding principle of secularism. Tony Perkins, the commission's chair, called the law a "tipping point" and voiced concern about a registry in the northeastern state of Assam, under which 1.9 million people failed to produce documentation to prove that they were Indian citizens before 1971 when mostly Muslim migrants flowed in during Bangladesh's bloody war of independence. "The intentions of the national leaders are to bring this about throughout the entire country," Perkins told an online news conference. "You could potentially have 100 million people, mostly Muslims, left stateless because of their religion. That would be, obviously, an international issue," said Perkins, a Christian activist known for his opposition to gay rights who is close to President Donald Trump's administration. Three of the nine commissioners dissented -- including another prominent Christian conservative, Gary Bauer, who voiced alarm about India's direction but said the ally could not be likened to non-democracies such as China. "I am deeply concerned that this public denunciation risks exactly the opposite outcome than the one we all desire," Bauer said. Trump, who called for a ban on Muslim immigration to the US when he ran for president, hailed Modi on a February visit to New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-panel-wants-india-on-religious-freedom-blacklist-831315.html
29-04-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: India Post mobile app helps deliver masks, medicines||The conventional mail at your door service, India Post, is not only delivering letters during the COVID-19 lockdown, but also the much-needed masks and medicines. The android mobile application of Department of Posts, "Post Info," has been helpful in delivering medicines and masks to the people at their doorsteps during the ongoing lockdown, a senior official said. "There has been no let-up in our services due to the lockdown. Our employees have been working in these stressful conditions. Apart from the regular services, we have delivered medicines and masks too, to people based on their request," the official added. Customers can avail all postal services viz mails, Post Bank, Savings Bank, Insurance, Financial Services, uninterruptedly. "After successful submission of the request, a unique reference number will be generated to enable him or her to track the status of the request," the department said in a release. The app can be downloaded from Google Playstore for Android users.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-india-post-mobile-app-helps-deliver-masks-medicines-831318.html
29-04-2020||National||Breather for anti-CAA vandals: Recovery notices put on hold due to coronavirus lockdown||Violent protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) broke out in the Uttar Pradesh capital on December 19 last year and government properties were damaged in Khadra, Parivartan Chowk, Thakurganj and Kaiserbagh areas. There was brick-batting and several vehicles were also vandalised. Taking strong note of this, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had asked officials to analyse the damages and realise penalty from those involved in the acts. "The process to recover damages and of attaching properties of those involved in the state capital is on hold as only essential activities are going on. Once, the lockdown is over, action will certainly be taken," Lucknow District Magistrate Abhishek Prakash told PTI. The administration had served notices to 53 persons on the basis of police reports and the deadline for recovery was first week of April, after which the process of attachment of properties was to start. However, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, a nationwide lockdown was imposed for 21 days from March 25 to prevent the spread of the disease. It was extended to May 3 by the central government. As per details, in the Khadra area 13 protesters were identified and loss of property was estimated at Rs 21,76,000, while in Parivartan Chowk, 24 persons were identified and loss was estimated at Rs 69,65,000. In the Thakurganj area, 10 persons were identified and the loss was Rs 47,85,800, while in Kaiserbagh six protesters were identified and the loss there was Rs 1,75,000. All these 53 persons were served recovery notices by the administration and were asked to deposit the amount or face further action. The administration had put up several hoardings across Lucknow identifying those accused of violence during the protests. The Allahabad High Court, however,  ordered the removal of posters put up by the Uttar Pradesh government in Lucknow which have information and photographs of alleged 'vandals' and directed the district magistrate and divisional commissioner to get the posters and hoardings removed. It had observed that putting up the posters was "unwarranted interference in privacy of people". The Supreme Court too had questioned the powers of the Uttar Pradesh government to put up roadside posters of those accused of vandalism, and refused to interfere with the high court's order to take them down. The apex court had told the state government that there was no law as of now to let it put up hoardings of those accused of vandalism. The top court was hearing an appeal filed by the Uttar Pradesh government challenging the March 9 order of the Allahabad High Court that directed the state administration to remove the posters. The hoardings can still be seen on the streets of the city making the intentions of the government clear that it will stand by it's decision of recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/breather-for-anti-caa-vandals-recovery-notices-put-on-hold-due-to-coronavirus-lockdown-831327.html
29-04-2020||National||Evaluation for Class 10, 12 exams to begin: HRD||The HRD Ministry is prepared to conduct the pending board examinations for classes 10 and 12 for 29 crucial subjects at the first possibility, officials said. The ministry has also directed states to start the evaluation process for the exams already conducted and facilitate the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) in the evaluation of answer sheets. "We are prepared to conduct board exams for class 10 and 12 pending due to lockdown in the wake of the COVID-19 situation in the country. The exams will be conducted for 29 subjects crucial for promotion and admissions to undergraduate courses, at the first possibility. The students will be given at least 10-days notice before exams are conducted," a senior ministry official said. "States have been asked to start the evaluation process for the exams already conducted and have been advised to facilitate the evaluation of answer sheets. CBSE will also issue instructions for marking or assessment of non-important subjects not included in the list of 29 subjects," the official said. HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' had on Tuesday interacted with education ministers of states. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had suggested that students be marked on the basis of internal assessment as it is not feasible to conduct the pending exams now. Sisodia, who is also the education minister, said students of Delhi will be more affected due to delay in the conduct of exams as different states have their own boards, while the national capital only follows CBSE.  Education ministers from different states also put forward deliberations being made about their respective state boards. The Bihar board has already announced results for three streams of class 12 and is in the process of evaluation of class 12 exams. The Uttar Pradesh board is yet to begin the evaluation and will take a call in this regard soon. “Recently there has been lot of speculation regarding CBSE board exams. It is reiterated that board’s decision to take board exams for 29 subjects of class 10, 12 stands the same as announced earlier,” the CBSE clarified in a tweet on Wednesday. According to the HRD ministry officials, as of now there are plans to conduct competitive exams including JEE and NEET in June for admission to engineering and medical colleges. For other undergraduate admissions, the University Grants Commission (UGC) is working on an alternative calendar for the new academic session which will notify the timeline within a week. A seven-member panel set up to study the issue has recommended that the undergraduate admission process be started in July-August and the new session for freshers be started from September. However, no final decision has been taken in this regard yet. The CBSE has already announced that it will not be conducting any exams for students in foreign countries. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. Later, a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which has now been extended till May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/evaluation-for-class-10-12-exams-to-begin-hrd-831333.html
29-04-2020||National||80,000 govt employees, ministers' salaries deferred in Meghalaya||The Meghalaya government has decided to defer the payment of a part of the salaries of cabinet ministers, bureaucrats, and its 80,000 employees as the hill state battle the COVID-19 pandemic, according to a notification. Half of the salaries of Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma, his cabinet colleagues and all ranks of IAS, IPS and IFS will get deferred, Chief Secretary M S Rao said in the notification issued on Tuesday. A part of the gross salaries of All India Services officers on deputation to the state will also be deferred, he said. The decision was taken in view of the unprecedented situation arising due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Further, the consequent lockdown is likely to slow down the national and the state economies, the chief secretary said. It was, therefore, necessary to put in place expenditure control and cash management systems so that resources are available for effective management of the COVID-19 situation, he said. Accordingly, the measures were taken with regard to the salaries for April, which will be paid in May, and May, which will be paid in June, Rao said.  The government said there will be a deferment of 35 per cent in the gross salaries of Group A and B officers, and 25 per cent in respect of Group C staff of all departments, except the officers and staff of the Department of Health and Family Welfare and the Group C employees of the departments of Home (Police) and Home (Civil Defence and Home Guards). "The proportion of the deferment in salaries for Group A, B and C employees indicated above will also be applicable to all the institutions being provided Grant-in-aid (Salary) by the State Government except for Group C employees of the Municipal Boards," the notification said. The government has decided that there will be no deferment in payment of salaries to Group D employees and payment of pensions. Meghalaya has reported 12 cases of COVID-19 so far and of them, one person has died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/80000-govt-employees-ministers-salaries-deferred-in-meghalaya-831337.html
29-04-2020||National||70 buses leave from Maha to bring back students stuck in Kota||At least 70 state transport buses left from Maharashtra on Wednesday morning to bring back students stranded at Kota in Rajasthan due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, an official said. The vehicles left from Maharashtra's Dhule district around 10.30 am and will reach Rajasthan by Wednesday night, he said. "The buses will leave from Kota on Thursday morning," the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) official said, adding that only 20 students will be allowed in each bus and the vehicles will halt at two to three places for food breaks. A number of students from Maharashtra have been staying at Kota to take coaching classes for the preparation of various competitive entrance examinations after Class 12. The MSRTC official said due to the long-distance journey of 11 to 12 hours, each bus has been provided two drivers, and a van will go along with the fleet to help in case of a breakdown and ensure a smooth journey.  "On the return journey from Kota, the buses will ferry students to their respective districts," he said. Maharashtra Transport Minister Anil Parab in a tweet late Tuesday night said, "1780 students from Maharashtra are stuck in Kota, Rajasthan due to lockdown for precaution against Covid-19. As directed by Hon'ble CM Shri. @OfficeOfUt, 92 buses of MSRTC fleet will Leave on 29th April 2020from Dhule to rescue the students & Bring them back home." When asked about it, the MSRTC official said earlier they were to send 92 buses, but the number was reduced as some districts like Raigad and Beed sent private buses to bring back students from Kota. On return, the students and their parents will undergo medical checkup followed by the mandatory 14-day home quarantine, a senior official from the Maharashtra disaster management department said on Tuesday. The Maharashtra government decided to bring back the students following indications that the lockdown may be extended in some of the major cities where the coronavirus situation is yet to come under control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/70-buses-leave-from-maha-to-bring-back-students-stuck-in-kota-831344.html
29-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Check Aarogya Setu App before you start for office, Centre tells staff||The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) sent an office memorandum saying the direction should be "strictly followed" to improve the safety of all government officials. The officials must review their health status on the App before starting for office and commute only when the App shows 'safe' or 'low risk' status.  "The officers/ staff are advised that in case the App shows a message that he/ she has a 'moderate' or 'high risk' calculated on the basis of Bluetooth proximity (recent contact with infected person), he/ she should not come to office and self-isolate for 14 days or till the status becomes 'safe' or 'low risk'," it said. It said the Joint Secretary (Administration) should ensure that these directions are strictly followed in ministries and departments. Also, similar directions should also be given to autonomous and statutory bodies and public sector units working under respective ministries in this regard, it said. According to the government, the mobile App is aimed to at connecting health services and the people in the combined fight against COVID-19. The App, currently available in 11 different languages, will augment the GoI’s initiatives in proactively reaching out to and informing the users about the potential risk of infection, best practices and relevant medical advisories pertaining to the containment of the pandemic. The App helps a user stay informed whether he or she has crossed paths with someone who has tested positive. This is done through Bluetooth and location-generated social graph.  It will also alert a user when someone who came in close proximity tests positive. As on April 24, the Ministry of Information Technology and Electronics said, around 7.5 crore people have downloaded the App.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-check-aarogya-setu-app-before-you-start-for-office-centre-tells-staff-831345.html
29-04-2020||National||Rising COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan no cause for worry: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan’s count of more than 2,000 COVID-19 cases is not a cause of worry because the state government’s objective is to ensure not a single case goes undetected, says Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot.   Rajasthan’s virus tally on Wednesday was 2,364 with 51 fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry.   “There is no need to worry if the total number of cases go up. The state wants that nobody with the disease should go unnoticed,” Gehlot told PTI in an interview. The chief minister talked extensively about the various steps taken by the state government to control the spread of the disease, mitigate the problems of those severely affected by the lockdown and the impact of the pandemic outbreak on Rajasthan’s economy. He said the state’s revenue was dwindling in the wake of the nationwide lockdown, adding that the Centre is yet to act constructively on Rajasthan’s demand to release outstanding GST arrears. The senior Congress leader also called for special trains to take migrant workers stranded at different places in the country to their homes. Gehlot said he has discussed the issue with the Central government.     “I urged the Centre to put in place necessary mechanisms to take the migrant workers home. The Centre should run special trains to transport them to their native places.” On earning praise for effectively controlling the disease in Bhilwara, Gehlot said the containment model was successful in the textile town as it is not densely populated and the administration acted swiftly.   He said the containment strategy in other regions of the state, where a large number of COVID-19 cases have been reported, is taking time due to the dense population. Bhilwara became a hotspot after three doctors and nine nursing staffers of a private hospital tested positive. “We introduced strict containment strategies in hotspot areas. The ‘Bhilwara model’ was adopted in Jaipur, Kota and other hotspot areas of the state. “It becomes more difficult to control the spread of a disease in densely populated areas,” he said  The chief minister cited the example of the Jaipur’s Parkota area (Ramganj locality) where the population is higher than Bhilwara. “In this region, many families reside in one house. So we divided the region into 30 clusters and conducted testing… a reason why there are more number of cases there,” Gehlot explained. The chief minister also dismissed the opposition’s allegations that the government relaxed restrictions in areas populated by the Muslim community. “These are baseless allegations. When some (COVID-19) cases were reported in Jaipur Parkota, action was taken immediately,” he said. Gehlot did not name any opposition leader but said disease does not differentiate between religion, caste or nationality. He agreed with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s view that a lockdown is not a permanent solution to the pandemic, and added that more factors should be looked into to find a way out of the crisis. The three-time chief minister and long-time Congress leader also urged the Centre to provide quality rapid testing kits and and other essential equipment. Many states, he said, are battling the problem of not having enough safety paraphernalia.   “We had got rapid testing kits from the ICMR, but stopped using them after they turned out to be faulty. The state has increased the number of PCR tests,” he said. On the revenue loss to the state due to the COVID-19 situation, Gehlot said Rajasthan registered Rs 18,000 crore loss in 2019-20. “The state lost Rs 3,500 crore in March end when the lockdown was imposed for the first time. There will be more losses in coming months,” he said.   “The states have demanded Rs 1 lakh crore from the Centre to tide over the COVID-19 crisis. They have also called for relaxation in interest payments of loans for at least six months,” he said. The chief minister also said the state received praise for its containment strategy in the recent meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief ministers via video conferencing. He, however, refused to comment on the recent visit of Central teams to certain states to check their COVID-19 preparedness.   Gehlot said he has discussed the issue of stranded migrant workers in various parts of the country with the Central government.     “I urged the Centre to put in place necessary mechanisms to take the migrant workers home. The Centre should run special trains to transport them to their native places,” he commented. The chief minister added that Rajasthan was one of the first states to announce a relief package for the poor hit by the lockdown. He said the state announced a package of around Rs 3,000 crore for poor, migrants and other disadvantaged sections of the society amid the lockdown. “Apart from it, 78 lakh social security pensioners were given two months of pension in advance. The state also released aid of Rs 2,500 each to 33 lakh people. These include daily wage earners, construction labourers, street vendors, waste pickers, rickshaw drivers among others,” the chief minister said. He added that the state government had recently decided to give 10 kg of wheat for free to 60 lakh people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rising-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-no-cause-for-worry-ashok-gehlot-831351.html
29-04-2020||National||Govt must protect salaries, wages of workers: P Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday urged the government to announce a scheme to protect the salaries and wages of 12 crore people as employers are facing financial crunch in the wake of the COVID-19-induced lockdown. He also called upon the government to announce a financial package for the MSME sector, as proposed by his party and provide financial assistance to states to fight the novel coronavirus pandemic. The former finance minister asked the government to prepare an exit strategy in view of the lockdown and look into the issue of migrants stranded in a different place due to it. "Time is of the essence. In the absence of a clear signal of assistance from the government during these extremely difficult times, the private sector will be forced to resort to large scale retrenchments and layoffs, which will devastate livelihoods of hundreds of millions of people," he said. Chidambaram also proposed a 'paycheque protection program' for workers.  "We urge the prime minister to step in urgently and announce an assistance package to protect the wages/salaries and paycheques that are due in the next few days," he said at a press conference through video conferencing. The April salaries of 12 crore employees working in the MSME and non-MSME sector must be protected and the government should do something about this, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-must-protect-salaries-wages-of-workers-p-chidambaram-831352.html
29-04-2020||National||Rahul Gandhi should take tuition from P Chidambaram: BJP||Taking a swipe at Rahul Gandhi, the BJP on Wednesday said the Congress leader should take "tuition" from his party colleague and former finance minister P Chidambaram to understand the difference between "write-off and waive-off", and asserted that the Modi government has not waived any loan.  "Rahul Gandhi should take tuition from P Chidambaram on the difference between " 'write-off' and 'waive-off'. The Narendra Modi government has not waived off any loan. 'Write off' is a normal accounting process. It doesn't stop recovery or action against defaults," senior BJP leader and Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said.  Citing a list of top wilful bank loan defaulters given by the RBI in response to an RTI query, Gandhi had on Tuesday taken on the government, saying he was not given the answer when he had asked the same question in Parliament.  Taking a dig at the government, he said that the list includes fugitive economic offenders like Mehul Choksi and Nirav Modi and many of BJP's "friends". Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said that wilful defaulters were beneficiaries of 'phone banking' under the Congress-less UPA regime and the Modi government is chasing them to recover the dues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-should-take-tuition-from-p-chidambaram-bjp-831353.html
29-04-2020||National||Indore:Coronavirus cases rise despite curfew; death rate declines||Though the steady rise in cases has raised questions over enforcement of preventive measures as well as the very nature of the viral spread, a government data also suggested a drop in the COVID-19 mortality rate in the district over the last 20 days. With 94 new coronavirus positive cases in the last 24 hours, the number of COVID-19 patients in Indore district has mounted to 1,466, officials said on Wednesday. Chunk of these cases have been reported from urban areas of the district, where the curfew was clamped on March 25 after detection of the first coronavirus positive case. "Two patients tested positive for coronavirus after their deaths, as per the reports received in the last 24 hours," officials said, adding that both the deceased had comorbidites. While one of them, a 70-year-old man, was suffering from diabetes and died on April 17 in a private hospital, another man (45), battling kidney disease, succumbed on April 23. Factoring in these two deaths, the number of COVID-19 fatalities in the district has risen to 65. When asked about the increasing numbers of COVID-19 cases amidst the curfew, Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) Praveen Jadia told PTI, "Most of the new positive cases of COVID-19 are relatives or acquaintances of old patients. All such people were already isolated as a precaution. "Most of the new patients of COVID-19 in Indore are found in same areas which have been sealed and declared as containment zones several days back," he said.  However, sources associated with the state government's efforts to prevent the coronavirus spread in Indore, acknowledged a delay in getting reports of samples from laboratories. Local officials, however, said they were making every possible effort to speed up testing of samples. "At present, more than 400 samples of COVID-19 are being tested every day in a government laboratory of the city. Some automated testing machines will become operational in this laboratory soon, which will boost its sample testing capacity from 650 to 800," said Indore Divisional Commissioner Aakash Tripathi. Apart from government laboratories, samples are also being tested in some recognised private facilities to speed up testing.  Meanwhile, a major decline has been registered in the death rate of the COVID-19 patients in Indore district over the last 20 days. As per government data, as on the morning of April 9, the death rate of COVID-19 patients in Indore district stood at 10.33 per cent. However, analysis of the latest data, as on the morning of April 29, shows that the death rate has declined to 4.43 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indorecoronavirus-cases-rise-despite-curfew-death-rate-declines-831357.html
29-04-2020||National||Central teams find coronavirus control practices not duly followed in high case load districts||Six high-level multi-disciplinary teams were constituted by the Union Health Ministry to assist and review state health departments for proper implementation of cluster containment plans for large outbreaks and check hospital preparedness for COVID-19. Teams comprising experts from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), AIIMS and ICMR among others visited states including Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu which have high case load districts.   They visited the stated between second and third week of April. "They have observed that infection prevention control practices were not being followed properly during sample collection and treatment of confirmed cases raising concerns over the possibility of healthcare workers getting infected and leading to further transmission," the sources said. They have recommended that such infection prevention control guidelines should be strictly followed in hospital settings. Several healthcare workers including doctors and nurses have been infected by COVID-19 across the country. Asked about the number of infected healthcare personnel, an official said no such centralised data has been maintained.  The Central teams have also advised the states to follow laid down procedures of sample collection and transfer to testing labs maintaining the cold chain. "It was observed that the cold chain was not being followed at some cases which may lead to incorrect test results," the sources said. Explaining the cold chain, the sources said samples and specimens and even certain drugs and reagents are needed to be stored at a particular temperature. Even when they are transported, that temperature level has to be maintained so that they do not degrade. The teams have also recommended the need for deploying more field staff for house-to-house survey in containment zones as well as strengthening of passive surveillance in buffer zones so that asymptomatic cases are not missed out. The teams have also recommended maintaining of a separate triage area in hospitals for segregation of the mild, moderate and severe patients of coronavirus infection, which they said, were not followed in many places. They have also recommended training of healthcare workers in IPC practices and clinical management of mild, moderate and severe as per the national clinical guidelines. Interaction with many of them revealed that they are unaware of the guidelines to be followed while handling a COVID-19 patient and this is a "serious concern," the sources said. As many as 15 places including Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad have been identified as "high case load" by the government. Out of these 15, seven districts show particularly high case volumes, like Hyderabad (Telangana), Pune (Maharashtra), Jaipur (Rajasthan), Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Ahmedabad (Gujarat), Mumbai (Maharashtra) and Delhi. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,007 and the number of cases climbed to 31,332 in the country on Wednesday, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-teams-find-coronavirus-control-practices-not-duly-followed-in-high-case-load-districts-831360.html
29-04-2020||National||Kerala govt to issue ordinance for cutting salary of its staff for COVID-19 battle||The Kerala government has decided to bring in an ordinance to defer 30 days salary of government employees as the Kerala High Court stayed a government order in this regard. The plan is to defer six days salary for five months. The state Cabinet that met on Wednesday decided to bring in the ordinance citing the financial crunches caused by coronavirus outbreak. Thirty per cent of the salary, allowances and honorarium of ministers and MLAs would be deducted for one year. The government has not made it clear when the deferred salaries would be paid. The move comes a day after the High Court had stayed an order of the Left government for salary cut of its employees, observing that it lacked legal backing. The G.O had said the state government employees' salary for six days every month would be deducted for the next five months as part of raising funds for fighting the COVID-19 pandemic in the state. "As per this ordinance, the state government has been empowered to defer 25 per cent of the salary of the government employees, in case of a disaster. The state government can take a decision on giving back the deferred amount within six months. These are the two operative provisions," Finance Minister T M Thomas Isaac told reporters. "The state government has taken the decision on the ordinance as per the Kerala High Court order. We could have gone for an appeal. But, the court said that the government order on deducting salary does not have a legal backing. So, we have decided to make it legal," he said. He also pointed out that while other states have cut more than 30 per cent salary of it employees salary, Kerala's ordinance allows to deduct six days' pay. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-govt-to-issue-ordinance-for-cutting-salary-of-its-staff-for-covid-19-battle-831361.html
29-04-2020||National||Hydroxychloroquine to be given to health workers treating COVID-19 patients in Maharashtra||State health secretary Pradeep Vyas in a recent circular said the medicine will be given to doctors, nurses and medical staff involved in the treatment of COVID-19 patients and suspects, as well as contacts of those testing positive for the disease. Members of the survey squads moving in the coronavirus containment zones and medical workers at hospitals in areas whereCOVID-19 cases are found will also be given the medicine. The medical workers will have to take the medicine for seven weeks while contacts of COVID-19 patients will have to take it for three weeks, the circular said, adding that the drug should be given to medical workers with their consent.  The medicine should not be given to people below the age of 15, it said. Those having heart ailments, high blood pressure and diabetes should be given the medicine after expert medical advise, it added. The circular also said that hydroxychloroquine should not be given to those having retinopathy (an eye ailment) or hypersensitivity. Those with blood-related ailments should be given the drug after medical checkup, it said, adding that care should be taken for any side-effects.  As per the protocol, there will be no change in the precautions and care to be taken while in institutional or home quarantine. Medical workers will continue to wear personal protective equipment (PPE), N-95 masks and triple layer masks while being on the medication, the circular added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hydroxychloroquine-to-be-given-to-health-workers-treating-covid-19-patients-in-maharashtra-831364.html
29-04-2020||National||Tamil Nadu parties oppose bringing Cauvery Authority under Jal Shakthi Ministry||Union Government’s decision to bring the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) under the Ministry of Jal Shakthi has led to a political storm in Tamil Nadu. Opposition parties upped their ante against the Narendra Modi-led NDA (National Democratic Alliance) government, accusing it of "tilting towards” Karnataka and decried the move as one aimed at “diluting” the powers of the independent body formed after the 2018 Supreme Court judgement. Farmers’ association also took objection to the “unilateral” move by the Centre to bring the CWMA under the Ministry of Jal Shakthi saying it was aimed at “helping Karnataka” which was opposing such a body for sharing of Cauvery water from the beginning. However, the Tamil Nadu government said in a statement on Wednesday night it was just an “administrative move” and will have no effect of farmers’ welfare. The CWMA was formed in June 2018 after the Supreme Court in its February 16, 2018 order asked the Centre to frame a Cauvery Management Scheme for release of water from Karnataka to Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry. DMK President M K Stalin accused the Tamil Nadu government of being a “mute spectator” to the activities of the Centre that is attempting to snatch the autonomy of the CWMA. “The Chief Minister (Edappadi K Palaniswami) should convene a cabinet meeting immediately and pass a resolution against the Centre’s notification bringing the CWMA under the Ministry of Jal Shakthi,” Stalin said in a statement here. He also added that the DMK will lead a massive protest by rallying political parties and farmers’ association if the Centre does not withdraw the notification dated April 20, 2020. Stalin also pointed out that the AIADMK government did not exert enough pressure on the Centre for not appointing a full-time chairman for the CWMA since it came into existence two years ago. AMMK chief T T V Dhinakaran also spoke on similar lines, asking the ruling AIADMK and Opposition DMK, who have more than 50 MPs in both houses of Parliament, to exert pressure on the Centre against the move. “Bringing the CWMA under a ministry is tantamount to taking the problem to the place where it began. The Centre should take back the decision,” Dhinakaran said in a statement. P R Pandian, President of Tamil Nadu All Farmers Organisations Committee, said the Centre’s decision was shocking and seems aimed at helping the Karnataka Government. “The Centre did not appoint a full-time chairman for the CWMA since its existence and due to the retirement of Water Resources Secretary Masood Hussain, the authority did not function for long. And now to bring the CWMA under the Ministry of Jal Shakthi is nothing but taking away the rights of farmers in Tamil Nadu,” he said in a statement. As per the notification issued by President of India, as per the Government of India (allocation of business) 1961, all river boards including Cauvery, Godavari River Management Board and Krishna River Management Board brought under the Department of Water Resources River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation in the Ministry of Jal Shakti. Officials clarified that the notification has no impact on the independent nature of the functioning of the Authority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-parties-oppose-bringing-cauvery-authority-under-jal-shakthi-ministry-831376.html
29-04-2020||National||Decision on Class 10 and 12 exams after lockdown ends: CBSE||The Central Board of Secondary Education, on Wednesday, said all the remaining board exams for Class 10 and 12 will be conducted after assessing the situation once the nationwide anti-COVID-19 lockdown ends on May 3. Examinations for 29 subjects of Class 10 and 12 were affected due to the riots in north-east Delhi and the COVID-19 outbreak across the country. The Board said adequate time of 10 days will be given to all stakeholders before starting the examinations. The Board examinations for Class 10 will be conducted only in the schools affected by the riots in north-east Delhi in February. For Class 12, examinations would be held for 12 subjects in the entire country and 11 subjects in north-east Delhi. “It is also informed examinations of all subjects of Class 10 and 12, as mentioned in Press Release, will be conducted after assessing the situation after the lockdown is over,” a CBSE statement issued by Sanyam Bhardwaj, Controller of Examinations, said. Among the subjects for which exams for Class 12 are set to be conducted across India are Business Studies, Geography, Computer Science (old and new), Hindi (elective and core), Home Science, Sociology Information Practice (old and new), Information Technology and Biotechnology. In north-east Delhi, Class 12 examinations will be held for English Elective (N&C), English Core, Mathematics, Economics, Biology, Political Science, History, Physics, Accountancy and Chemistry. Class 10 students in north-east Delhi will appear for six subjects – Hindi Course (A&B) English Comms, English Language and Literature, Science, Social Science. On Tuesday, HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ appealed to states to start the evaluation process of answer sheets of board exams and facilitate CBSE to evaluate answer sheets of students in their respective states. The CBSE statement on board exams came a day after the Delhi government urged the Centre to promote Class 10 and Class 12 students based on internal exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/decision-on-class-10-and-12-exams-after-lockdown-ends-cbse-831378.html
29-04-2020||National||Fight against COVID-19 appears to be demonstration of 'one-upmanship' between Centre-states: Moily||Senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily on Wednesday said the battle against the coronavirus is turning out to be more of a demonstration of "one-upmanship" between the Centre and states, leading to loss of focus in dealing with the pandemic. Imposition of the lockdown is only a "default measure" and not a constructive step to prevent, contain or eradicate COVID-19, the former Union minister said in a statement. The fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in India appears to be a "demonstration of one-upmanship" between states and the Centre, Moily said. It is shocking to see that the total focus in this fight has been lost, he added. There are fundamental questions on which there has been no assurance through any of the actions of states or the Centre, Moily said. He called for universal testing to fight the pandemic. Moily also posed questions for Prime Minister Narendra Modi like whether the capacity of testing has been properly assessed state-wise or any action has been taken to enhance the testing facilities. He also asked whether any concrete measures have been worked out to meet the serious question of hunger arising out of the present crisis and whether appropriate livelihood programmes have been worked out for migrant and unorganised labourers. Moily said the government should make clear what measures have been planned for mobilising scientists and researchers to invent vaccines for the infection. He also asked whether post-COVID-19 rehabilitation and restoration measures have been worked out to resolve the problem of employment, hunger or economic revival. Moily urged Prime Minister Modi to answer the key questions in the battle against COVID-19. The former Union minister is part of the Congress task force set up last month to intensify efforts to deal with the COVID-19 situation in states in which it is the ruling party. Besides Moily, the task force also includes P Chidambaram, Jairam Ramesh and Tamradhwaj Sahu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fight-against-covid-19-appears-to-be-demonstration-of-one-upmanship-between-centre-states-moily-831379.html
29-04-2020||National||Centre to form strategy group to address IT sector problems||With analysts anticipating that COVID-19 pandemic is likely to hit the IT sector severely,  the Centre has decided to constitute a strategy group to work out a roadmap for the sector and address the problems faced by it. Union Telecom and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who held a video conference with state Information Technology Ministers and officers on Tuesday, assured them that a strategy group comprising representatives from Central Government, State Governments and private sector would be formed to work out a roadmap for the Indian IT sector. The same group can also give a road map to make the Indian electronics sector more robust, Minister said. Around $97 billion worth Indian IT sector is one of the largest service exporters and helps the economy also by supporting over 40 lakh jobs if the IT-enabled services are also included. However, the COVID-19 pandemic is likely to hit the sector hard as it is staring at a revenue growth sliding to a decadal low of up to 2%  and an impact on profitability due to the narrowing of margins.  The IT companies will lose out on new deals, which will compromise future revenues, and also face reverses on the exiting ones, which may be renegotiated as their overseas clients face difficulties due to the lockdowns, domestic rating agency Crisil said in the report. Ravi Shankar Prasad also informed that India stands a good opportunity to promote electronics manufacturing and urged the states to work towards attracting investments in their states.  He also shared that three schemes namely Production Linked Incentive 2.0, Electronics Manufacturing Clusters, and Scheme for Promotion of Manufacturing of Electronic Components and Semiconductors (SPECS) with a project outlay of Rs 50,000 crore have been notified by the Centre in order to attract investments in the electronics manufacturing sector. He appealed to States to supplement these with their schemes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-form-strategy-group-to-address-it-sector-problems-831381.html
29-04-2020||National||Delhi govt seeks 3 hrs daily air time on DD, AIR to broadcast classes for school students||All central government employees were on Wednesday asked to immediately download the 'Aarogya Setu' mobile application and to come to office when the application shows "safe" status for commuting, an order issued by the Personnel Ministry said. "Before starting for office, they must review their status on 'Aarogya Setu' and commute only when the app shows 'safe' or 'low risk' status," it said. The officers and staff are advised that in case the app shows a message that he/she has a 'moderate' or 'high risk' calculated on the basis of Bluetooth proximity ("recent contact with infected person"), he/she should not come to office and self isolate for 14 days or till the status becomes 'safe' or 'low risk', the Personnel Ministry said. In a communiqué issued to all departments, it said all the officers, staff (including outsourced staff) working in central government should download 'Aarogya Setu' application on their mobile phones, immediately. The Aarogya Setu application developed by the government helps people to assess themselves on the risk of their catching the coronavirus infection. A senior officer -- Joint Secretary (administration) -- in all the departments would ensure strict compliance of the instructions, the order said.  "Ministries/departments may issue similar instructions to all autonomous, statutory bodies, PSUs etc attached to them," it added. Officers of the level of deputy secretary and above have already joined the offices following the government's instructions. All central government departments have been asked to call only one-third of the staff below deputy secretary level on rotation basis to the offices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-seeks-3-hrs-daily-air-time-on-dd-air-to-broadcast-classes-for-school-students-831385.html
29-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Tablighi Jamaat asks its cured members to donate plasma and shed 'villain' tag||Tablighi Jamaat members, who got cured of COVID-19, have been asked by their organisation to donate their plasma for treatment of other coronavirus-infected patients, a move that the outfit thinks will help it shed its “villain” tag. "Maulana Saad, in an open letter on April 21 to all Jamaatis who have recovered from the coronavirus (infection), has appealed them to donate their plasma to help others. The message has reached all the members," Maulana Anees Ahmad Nadvi, the manager of Tablighi Jamaat’s Lucknow branch, told PTI PTI on Wednesday.  "As per the Health Department data, over 50 per cent of corona patients are Jamaatis. Among them those who have recovered are being contacted and all of them are ready to donate their plasma," claimed Nadvi. "We have till now contacted 400 Jamaatis. In the entire country, those who have recovered are also giving their plasma. Markaz has given instructions that no one should be left from donating plasma," he said. "Jamaatis are not doing any favour to anyone by giving their plasma. This is a humanitarian step. This is true that Jamaatis are being presented as villains after coronavirus spread, but Maulana Saad has asked us to forgive those doing this," he said. Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi is on the run after an FIR was registered against him by the Delhi police for organising a religious gathering in March this year despite restrictions to combat the coronavirus spread. With some plasma therapy trial results rekindling hopes of it being a likely cure for COVID-19, the Uttar Pradesh government too had begun contracting patients cured of it for plasma donation, but the move was suspended after the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday said the therapy was only at an experimental stage and there was no evidence yet to support that it can be used as treatment for COVID-19. Uttar Pradesh Surveillance Officer, Dr Vikasendu Agarwal, said all those who have recovered from coronavirus, including Jamaatis, were being contacted for plasma donation, but the move has been suspended after the Centre’s statement on the issue.  Refusing to divulge the number of cured Jamaatis, he said "We were contacting them. They are not different from us. We were contacting all our patients and asking them that they could donate if they find it appropriate, as it would help other patients." "All of those contacted by us are ready for giving plasma," he said. Chief Medical Officer, Lucknow, Dr Narendra Agarwal said all 28 Jamaatis, who were admitted in KGMU were contacted to donate their plasma and all of them agreed. "A proposal in this regard has been sent to the government. After approval, their plasma will be taken," he said. With the plasma therapy gaining a lot of traction as a possible cure for coronavirus, the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday clarified that it is at an experimental stage and there is no evidence yet to support that it can be used as treatment for COVID-19. Till the effectiveness of this mode of treatment is scientifically proven, its application except for research and clinical trial is illegal, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Health Lav Agarwal said. Dr Vikasendu said after the Centre's clarification contacting people for plasma donation has been put on hold. A further step will be taken on decision of KGMU which is working on plasma therapy here, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-tablighi-jamaat-asks-its-cured-members-to-donate-plasma-and-shed-villain-tag-831388.html
29-04-2020||National||Centre urges industry players to buy vegetables from farmers to reduce crop loss||Expressing concern over the loss of harvested crops in different parts of the country, the Centre on Wednesday asked industry players to buy perishable vegetables and fruits besides foodgrains to reduce wastage and benefit farmers amid COVID-19-induced lockdown. Union Food Processing Industries Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal pointed out this issue in a meeting with members of industry chamber FICCI via video conference called to ascertain the requirement of food processing sector for the post-lockdown scenario, an official statement said. "Badal pointed at the major concern of losing the harvested crops and perishables in different parts of the country. During the conference, the Union Minister requested all members to come forward to procure this harvested wheat, paddy, fruits and vegetables and other perishables so that wastage can be minimized and the farmers are benefited," the statement added. FICCI Secretary General Dilip Chenoy, FICCI Food Processing Committee Chair and CEO-ITC Foods Division Hemant Malik, Amul Managing Director R S Sodhi, Coca Cola India President T Krishnakumar, Cargill India President Simon Geroge, Kellogg India Managing Director Mohit Anand, Mondelez International President India Deepak Iyer, MTR Foods CEO Sanjay Sharma and Zydus Wellness CEO Tarun Arora were among many others present in the conference.  In the meeting, the Union Minister emphasised on the revival of industry operations at full capacity without compromising the safety measures. She also informed that the task force of the ministry is assisting companies in resolving the challenges faced across the country during the lockdown. For the revival of the industry, Badal agreed to the industry's demand on the requirement of detailed guidelines for food companies to operate in containment zones as well as with the idea of 60-75 per cent workers being allowed to operate in facilities if the industry was able to ensure necessary measures to protect their workers. The industry demanded a Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) for operating facilities in different containment zones, dedicated nodal officials for the food processing industry at state levels to address challenges, standardized protocol for issuing worker passes to operate facilities and maintain supply chain besides reevaluating the process of identifying COVID clusters or region, the statement said. FICCI members mentioned that the food industry was expected to witness growth due to in-home increase in demand of larger value food packs and also shared the industry would start reviving as soon as the supply chain got reestablished. Food Processing Industries Secretary Pushpa Subrahmanyam asked the companies to share specific issues with the grievance cell. The food processing industry has been asked to send a working model to the government for considering allowing greater workforce to join the facilities. Suggestions have also been invited to frame a scheme to support the food industry, the ministry said. The secretary said that the government has already issued required advisories to address the challenges related to logistics, warehouse operations, movement of workers and vehicles etc. She also thanked the industry players for their support in maintaining the supply of food products in this critical time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-urges-industry-players-to-buy-vegetables-from-farmers-to-reduce-crop-loss-831393.html
29-04-2020||National||NEET does not violate rights of minorities: SC||In an important judgment, the Supreme Court, on Wednesday, held that the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test, a single entrance exam for admission to medical and dental courses, would not violate the rights of minorities to run their own institutions and impart education. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Vineet Saran and MR Shah said the NEET has been prescribed by the legislature in the larger public interest. The prescription of NEET is definitely in order to improve the medical education, co-related to the improvement of public health, the Court said. "NEET intends to weed out evils from the system and various malpractices which decayed it. The regulatory measures in no way interfere with the rights to administer the institution by the religious or linguistic minorities," the bench said.  The top court rejected a plea by minority-run Christian Medical College (Vellore) and others to conduct their own test for admission to under-graduate and post-graduate medical courses. In its ruling, the bench said, "We hold that there is no violation of the rights of the unaided/ aided minority to administer institutions under Articles 19(1) (g) (right to practice profession) and 30 (right minorities to establish and administer institution) read with Articles 25 (freedom to practice religion), 26 (freedom to manage religious affairs) and 29(1) (right to conserve distinct language and culture) of the Constitution by prescribing the uniform examination of NEET for admissions in the graduate and postgraduate professional courses of medical as well as dental science." The Court said provisions of the Medical Council of India (MCI) Act and regulation cannot be said to be ultra vires or taking away the rights guaranteed under the Constitution. The MCI amended its regulation on March 10, 2017, providing for common counselling for admission to MBBS and post-graduate medicine courses on the basis of NEET. The unaided minority institutions contended that State has no power to compel them to admit students through a single centralised national examination such as NEET. The unaided minority professional colleges have the fundamental rights to choose the method and manner in which to admit its students, subject to satisfying the triple test of having a fair, transparent and non-exploitative process.  They claimed the system of examination of some of the institutions is wider on an all-India basis, and they test general ability also, whereas, in NEET, evaluation is based on three subjects, namely, Physics, Biology and Chemistry. They have an elaborate procedure of the assessment, and they do not admit students only based on their theoretical knowledge.   With the introduction of NEET in 2016-17, institutions have been compelled to admit students through NEET instead of their method. Some of them have the All India Entrance Test. They have their unique procedure of admission for MBBS as well as post-graduation. The top court rejected all these contentions, saying NEET has been made applicable to such premier institution like All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and so many others. "The decision has been taken considering the overall national scenario, there cannot be any exemption, otherwise, there would be no end to such claims and multiple examinations," the bench said.  The bench made it clear that we cannot restore the overall derogatory situation which prevailed before introduction of NEET. "Still, there are several loopholes which are to be plugged in the admission procedure. Unscrupulous practices are being adopted by private colleges of not admitting students sponsored by centralised counselling committee. The minority and private institutions have to admit students based on merit in the permissible category, based on NEET as per procedure prescribed under the Act and Regulations," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/neet-does-not-violate-rights-of-minorities-sc-831394.html
29-04-2020||National||29 fresh COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan, total stands at 2,393||Rajasthan recorded 29 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases to 2,393 in the state, an official said. The state has so far witnessed 52 deaths due to the virus, with Jaipur accounting for 27 deaths. "As many as 29 fresh cases have been reported in five districts of the state, including 11 in Ajmer," Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said. Singh said besides Ajmer, eight in Jaipur, five in Chittorgarh and one case each in Banswara, Dholpur, Tonk, Jodhpur and Udaipur has been recorded.   A total of 2,393 cases of the virus have been reported in the state so far. He said so far 781 patients have tested negative for the infection after treatment, of which 584 have been discharged from hospitals. Jaipur has reported the highest 867 positive cases followed by 401 in Jodhpur. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran, who have been put up in Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/29-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-total-stands-at-2393-831402.html
29-04-2020||National||India adds 7.3 GW solar energy capacity in 2019: Report||India added 7.3 GW of solar energy generation capacity in 2019 and holds a strong pipeline of 23.7 GW under construction projects, said a report. Mercom Communications India, a subsidiary of global clean energy communications and consulting firm Mercom Capital Group, has released its report 'India Solar Market Leaderboard 2020' on Wednesday. The report covers market share and shipment rankings across the Indian solar supply chain in 2019.  During the calendar year (CY) 2019, India installed 7.3 GW of solar power across the country, consolidating its position as the third-largest solar market in the world, it said. India also had a robust pipeline of utility-scale projects under development of 23.7 GW at the end of 2019, with another 31.5 GW of tenders pending auction, it added.  “The solar market leaders have changed in almost every category compared with last year. With a tough year ahead, we expect strong, resilient, and innovative companies continue to do well,” said Raj Prabhu, CEO of Mercom Capital Group, in the statement. The report reveals that the top ten large-scale project developers account for 68 per cent market share in 2019. ReNew Power was the top utility-scale developer during 2019, while Azure Power owns the largest project pipeline, the report said. There are around 29 large-scale solar developers with a project pipeline of 100 MW or more in India. Large-scale solar installations in 2019 accounted for 85 per cent with 6.2 GW. Also, solar accounted for 41 per cent of new power capacity additions in 2019 behind coal which accounted for 44 per cent. Companies offering engineering, procurement, construction (EPC) services saw a lot of projects moved to 2020 due to delays caused by general elections, land, and evacuation issues, among others, the report said.   Mahindra Susten was the top EPC player for utility-scale solar installations in 2019, followed by L&T, it added. Tata Power Solar had the largest cumulative rooftop portfolio, followed by CleanMax Solar, the report said. At the end of 2019, the top ten rooftop solar installers represented 34 per cent of the total rooftop solar market share. In 2019, the rooftop solar market growth came down by 33 per cent compared to CY (calendar year) 2018. Huawei led the solar inverter market in India in 2019, followed by Sungrow. Other top string inverter suppliers included Growatt, Solis Inverters, and Delta Power Solutions. At the end of December 2019, Trina Solar was the leading module supplier to India in terms of cumulative shipments, while Waaree Energies, Adani, and Risen Energy held the top spot in CY 2019. The top ten module suppliers accounted for over 62 per cent of the market in 2019. Ganges Internationale was the top supplier of solar mounting structures in 2019, followed by Purshotam Profiles and Strolar. Scorpius Trackers was the top supplier of solar trackers in 2019. Rays Power Experts and CleanMax Solar were the top open access developers as of December 2019. Ecoppia was the top supplier of solar robotic cleaning systems as of December 2019, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-adds-73-gw-solar-energy-capacity-in-2019-report-831406.html
29-04-2020||National||Now BJP MLA threatens Muslim vegetable seller in Uttar Pradesh||A day after BJP lawmaker Suresh Tewari was show-caused for asking people not to 'buy' vegetables from Muslim vendors, another saffron party legislator allegedly 'harassed' a Muslim vegetable seller and threatened to thrash him if he (vegetable seller) was seen in his locality again. Brijbhushan Rajput, BJP MLA from Charkhari assembly seat in Uttar Pradesh's Mahoba district, was caught on video harassing the Muslim vegetable seller in the state capital of Lucknow. The MLA said that the vegetable seller appeared to be Muslim but, on being asked, said that his name was 'Raj Kumar'. ''Sahi naam bataon nahin maar maar ke theek kar doonga'' (tell me your correct name else I will beat you black and blue), Rajput was heard telling the seller. The minor son of the vegetable seller, when asked by the MLA, said that he was a Muslim. An angry MLA then threatened to beat the vegetable seller if the latter was seen in the locality again. Rajput later suspected a 'conspiracy' by the Pak spy agency ISI behind what he alleged Muslim vegetable vendors selling vegetables and other items pretending to be Hindus. ''It is a very serious matter and must be investigated...Hindus are scared,'' the lawmaker said. BJP leadership had on Tuesday issued a show cause notice to Suresh Tewari after he was caught on tape asking the people not to buy vegetables from the 'miyans' (Muslims).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-bjp-mla-threatens-muslim-vegetable-seller-in-uttar-pradesh-831407.html
29-04-2020||National||No move to do away with pending class 10, 12 board exams; to be conducted at first possibility: CBSE||The board exams for class 10 and 12 pending due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown will be conducted at the first possibility and there is no move to do away with the remaining exams, CBSE officials said on Wednesday. The board is prepared to conduct the exams for class 10 and 12 for crucial 29 subjects, while the HRD Ministry has directed states to start the evaluation process for the exams already conducted and facilitate the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) in evaluation of answer sheets. "Recently, there has been a lot of speculation regarding CBSE Board exams. The board's decision to take exams for 29 subjects of class 10 and 12, stands the same. There is no change in position of conducting board exams. Therefore, exams will be conducted," Sanyam Bhardwaj, CBSE's Controller of Examinations said. The clarification by the CBSE officials came amid uncertainty over when the exams will be conducted leading to speculations that the exams will be done away with in a one-time arrangement. "We are prepared to conduct board exams for class 10 and 12 pending due to the lockdown in wake of the COVID-19 situation in the country. The exams will be conducted for 29 subjects crucial for promotion and admissions to undergraduate courses, at the first possibility. The students will be given at least a 10-day notice before exams are conducted," a senior HRD ministry official said. "States have been asked to start the evaluation process for the exams already conducted and have been advised to facilitate evaluation of answer sheets. The CBSE will also issue instructions for marking or assessment of non-important subjects not included in the list of 29 subjects," the official said. Universities and schools across the country have been closed and exams postponed since March 16 when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. Later, a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which has now been extended till May 3. The board was not able to conduct class 10 and 12 exams on eight examination days due to the coronavirus outbreak. Further, due to the law and order situation in northeast Delhi, the board was not able to conduct exams on four examination days, while a very small number of students from and around this district were not able to appear in exams on six days. "Considering the extraordinary circumstances, the board had decided to conduct exams only for 29 crucial subjects as against over 40 remaining subjects. For the rest of the subjects, the board will not hold examinations and instructions for marking and assessment in all such cases shall be separately issued,” the official said. HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' on Tuesday had interacted with education ministers of states. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had suggested that students be marked on the basis of internal assessment as it is not feasible to conduct the pending exams now. Sisodia, who is also the education minister, said students of Delhi will be more affected due to delay in conduct of exams as different states have their own boards, while the national capital only follows CBSE. Education ministers from different states also put forward deliberations being made about their respective state boards. The Bihar board has already announced results for three streams of class 12 and is in the process of evaluation of class 10 exams.  The Uttar Pradesh board is yet to begin the evaluation and will take a call in this regard soon.   The CBSE has already announced that it will not be conducting any exams for students in foreign countries. "There are several CBSE schools located in 25 countries. Each of these countries are also under lockdown and have decided to close down the schools for various and differential lengths of time. Under such circumstances, it is felt that the board will not be in a position to hold differential sets of exams for each of these countries,” the official said. "Also, in the present situation, it will be difficult to bring the answer books to India for evaluation purposes. Therefore, the Board has decided to not hold any more exams for the students of class 10 and 12 schools located outside India,” he said. According to the HRD ministry officials, as of now there are plans to conduct competitive exams, including JEE and NEET, in June for admission to engineering and medical colleges. For other undergraduate admissions, the University Grants Commission (UGC) is working on an alternative calendar for the new academic session which will notify the timeline within a week. A seven-member panel, set up to study the issue, has recommended that the undergraduate admission process be started in July-August and the new session for freshers be started from September. However, no final decision has been taken in this regard yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-move-to-do-away-with-pending-class-10-12-board-exams-to-be-conducted-at-first-possibility-cbse-831411.html
29-04-2020||National||Timely treatment may reduce COVID-19 deaths in Ahmedabad: AMC||A day after 19 people died of COVID-19 in Gujarat's Ahmedabad city, the civic body here on Wednesday said it was important for patients to get admitted to hospitals as soon as they experience symptoms. With 2,543 coronavirus cases and 128 deaths, Ahmedabad has six wards in the red zone and 42 in the orange zone. "It is unfortunate that the city reported 19 deaths in a day. If a person experiences any symptoms of COVID-19, he or she should immediately rush to a civic hospital. It is important to seek timely treatment if lives are to be saved," municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said on Wednesday. The senior civic official had earlier said the high COVID-19 mortality rate in Ahmedabad was due to late admission of patients at hospitals. At five per cent, Ahmedabad's COVID-19 mortality rate is higher than the country's, which is three per cent. Of 181 coronavirus deaths in Gujarat, Ahmedabad alone has recorded 70 per cent, while of 3,774 cases in the state, the city accounts for 67 per cent. Meanwhile, in a bid to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the city, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation will cancel licences of shops whose owners and employees are found without masks from May 1.  Fines ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000 will be imposed on owners or employees of establishments who are found without masks, while employees of super markets who flout the rule will be fined Rs 50,000, Nehra said. Licences of vendors and shops will be suspended for three months if they continue to violate the rule, he said. Nehra termed vegetable vendors, shop owners, employees of petrol pumps and medical stores as "super spreaders", as they come in contact with several people and can infect thousands if they have COVID-19. "We have identified 7,793 people who fall in the category of super spreaders in 48 wards of the city. We have tested 2,098 persons, of which 115 have contracted the deadly infection," he said, adding that the drive to identify super spreaders will continue. The civic body will distribute masks and sanitisers to vendors and shop owners who supply essential items, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/timely-treatment-may-reduce-covid-19-deaths-in-ahmedabad-amc-831415.html
29-04-2020||National||In a fortnight, number of COVID-19 hotspot districts decreases to 129 from 170||The number of COVID-19 hotspot districts in India as on Wednesday morning has come down to 129 from 170 a fortnight ago, but in the same period the number of infection-free districts or green zones too decreased from 325 to 307, according to official sources. During this time, the number of non-hotspot districts, also known as orange zones, increased from 207 to 297, they said. The Centre had on April 15 classified districts into three categories. Those with high load of COVID-19 cases or which have a high growth rate of the disease are marked as hotspots or red zones, while those with considerably fewer cases of the respiratory infection fall in orange zone or non-hotspots. Districts with no COVID-19 cases are categorised as green zones. However, a red zone or orange zone district can be demarcated as green zone if no new coronavirus case is reported from those places for 28 and 14 days respectively. On April 15, the Centre had declared 170 districts across 25 states and Union Territories as coronavirus hotspots. Of these, 123 were hotspot districts with large outbreaks and 47 with clusters. It had also said 325 districts had not reported any coronavirus case because of actions initiated at field level. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday said that 80 districts in the country have not reported any new case of COVID-19 in last seven days while 47 districts have not registered any fresh case in the last 14 days.  Also, 39 districts have not reported any instance of the infection in the last 21 days and 17 districts have not registered any new case for the last 28 days, he had said. The government has already identified 15 districts in nine states, including Delhi, Maharashtra and Gujarat, as having "high case load". Of these, seven -- Hyderabad (Telangana), Pune (Maharashtra), Jaipur (Rajasthan), Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Ahmedabad (Gujarat), Mumbai (Maharashtra) and Delhi show particularly high case volumes. Other high caseload places that are "critical" in the battle against COVID-19 include -- Vadodara (Gujarat), Kurnool (Andhra Pradesh), Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh), Jodhpur (Rajasthan), Agra (Uttar Pradesh), Thane (Maharashtra), Chennai (Tamil Nadu) and Surat (Gujarat). "These 15 districts are critical in our battle against COVID-19. Of them, 7 show particularly high case volumes. India's success in battling COVID-19 is dependent on them. We must aggressively monitor, contain, test, treat in these districts! We must win here," Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant tweeted on Monday. A senior health ministry said the doubling time of coronavirus cases in India was three to 3.25 days before the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 and now it is 10.2 to 10.9 days. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,007 and the number of cases climbed to 31,332 in the country on Wednesday, according to the Union Health Ministry. The highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 9,318, followed by Gujarat at 3,744, Delhi 3,314, Madhya Pradesh 2,387, Rajasthan 2,364, Tamil Nadu 2,058 and Uttar Pradesh 2,053. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 1,259 in Andhra Pradesh and 1,004 in Telangana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-a-fortnight-number-of-covid-19-hotspot-districts-decreases-to-129-from-170-831416.html
29-04-2020||National||Next session of Parliament depends on ground situation: VP Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday told members of Rajya Sabha that the next session of Parliament depends on the situation on the ground and hoped for a normal schedule saying efforts to contain coronavirus were showing results, according to sources. The Rajya Sabha chairman was interacting with the MPs as part of his 'Mission Connect' during which he has been talking to a large number of parliamentarians as well as former presidents and prime ministers, present and former chief justices of India, governors and chief ministers, besides leaders of political parties.  Sources said when some members of Rajya Sabha asked Naidu about the next session, he told them that it "depends on the situation on the ground". He further said that with intensive virus containment efforts being mounted across the country and results showing on ground, one may hope for normal schedule, the sources add.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/next-session-of-parliament-depends-on-ground-situation-vp-venkaiah-naidu-831417.html
29-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: 'Yamraj', 'Gabbar' stalk Kolkata streets, issue dire warnings and amuse||"Sabdhane thak noile ami eshe niye jabo" (Stay safe or I will come and take you away), hollers 'Yamaraj', the lord of death, his handlebar moustache twitching and bloodshot eyes popping out menacingly. "Ghar chala ja nahin toh Gabbar aa jayega" (Go home or else Gabbar will come), yells another man in olive-green military uniform at a milling crowd in a Dumdum market, before breaking into a wicked smile. Men dressed like 'Yamraj' and 'Gabbar Singh', the darling devil character of iconic Hindi film 'Sholay', are striding the streets of Kolkata issuing dire warnings to lockdown violators and those not following the social distancing norm. Several community clubs in Kolkata and North 24 Parganas districts have hired burly men to dress and act like mythical and fictional characters to spread awareness about the necessity to remain indoors and, at the same time, lift the spirits of the people under lockdown. Donning the role of 'Yamraj', 23-year-old Abhijit Sadhukhan visits markets in Bon Hooghly area every morning. Besides explaining to people the hazards of aimlessly loitering during the coronavirus outbreak, he also hands over masks to those moving around without covering their faces. Sadhukhan, an out-of-job bouncer at a bar, makes Rs 600 for a two-hour performance. He has to feed a family of six.  "I became jobless after the bar I was employed at shut due to the lockdown. It was my only source of income. I was looking for another job when a local man offered me the role of Yamraj. "I readily agreed as I could earn some money and also serve the society," Sadhukhan, a resident of Khardah in North 24 Parganas district told PTI. In the last one month, Sadhukhan, with his beefed-up body and baritone voice, has been hired by quite a few clubs in Kolkata and North 24 Parganas for playing the role of 'Yamraj'. "Before becoming a bouncer, I had acted like a demon in several plays in my neighbourhood and now the experience has stood me in good stead," he said. Babu, a member of a club that has hired Sadhukhan, said, "I knew him for a long time and pitched the idea to my club in Bon Hooghly which readily agreed to my proposal. This was part of our initiative to create awareness among people, but with a touch of humour." Thirty-eight-year-old Ashok Dey, who has donned the role of Gabbar Singh, is a part-time artist and acts in local plays. For him, too, his new role has opened up an avenue for earning money in these troubled times. "Ever since the lockdown was imposed, I was looking for an alternative source of income as staging plays stopped completely. I was contacted by a local club to dress like Lord Hanuman and Gabbar Singh to enact scenes from movies and TV soaps outside apartments in the locality to create awareness and lift people's spirits at the same time," Dey said. The character of Gabbar Singh and his dialogues became an instant hit, he said.  "I get Rs 500 for a one-hour trip in the morning. I am hired once or twice a week," Dey said. With a cartridge belt hanging on his shoulder, 'Gabbar Singh' stands atop a vehicle and delivers frightful dialogues over the public address system usually around 10 am when the shops are open in the locality. On other days, Dey also plays 'Mogambo', the fictional character made famous by Amrish Puri in 'Mr India'. "I tell people to maintain social distancing while shopping as it makes Mogambo happy," he said, laughing heartily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-yamraj-gabbar-stalk-kolkata-streets-issue-dire-warnings-and-amuse-831424.html
29-04-2020||National||COVID-19: UP govt to make provision for 52,000 more beds in various hospitals||The Uttar Pradesh government will make provision for additional 52,000 beds in various hospitals to effectively deal with the COVID-19 situation in the state, an official said on Wednesday. As many as 17,000 beds will be arranged by the Medical Health Department, while 35,000 will be arranged by the Medical Education Department. Briefing reporters here, Additional Chief Secretary (Home and Information) Awanish Awasthi said, "Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the Medical Health Department and Medical Education Department to arrange additional beds so that patients do not face any problems." The Medical Health Department will arrange 10,000 beds in L-1 hospitals (mainly the community health centres), 5,000 beds in the L-2 hospitals (where oxygen facility is attached with the bed) and 2,000 in L-3 hospitals (where ventilators are available), he said.  Similarly, the Medical Education Department will arrange 20,000 beds in L-1 hospitals, 10,000 beds in L-2 hospitals and 5,000 beds in L-3 hospitals, Awasthi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-up-govt-to-make-provision-for-52000-more-beds-in-various-hospitals-831426.html
29-04-2020||National||Yes Bank: Wadhawan brothers' CBI custody extended till May 1||A special court here on Wednesday extended till May 1 the CBI custody of businessmen-brothers Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan of DHFL group in connection with the Yes Bank scam. Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, promoter of Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL) and RKW Developers, respectively, were arrested on Sunday from a quarantine facility in Mahabaleshwar in Satara district, nearly 50 days after they booked in a case of bribery against former Yes Bank CEO Rana Kapoor. On Wednesday, they were produced before a special court here as their earlier remand ended. The CBI sought their further remand saying that the accused were not co-operating in the investigation. The agency said that it needs to probe them further to unearth the conspiracy and their links with Kapoor. Defence lawyer Subodh Desai submitted that the nature of offence was such that their custody was not required. However, the court extended their CBI custody till May 1. Wadhawan brothers are named as accused in the CBI FIR pertaining to swindling of money by Kapoor and others, the officials said. The agency has alleged that Kapoor, 62, entered into a criminal conspiracy with Kapil Wadhawan for extending the financial assistance to DHFL through Yes Bank in return for substantial undue benefits to himself and his family members through companies held by them. According to the CBI FIR, the scam started taking shape between April to June, 2018 when Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of the scam-hit DHFL. In return, Wadhawan allegedly "paid kickback of Rs 600 crore" to Kapoor and family members in the form of loans to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd held by the wife and daughters of Kapoor. Besides the CBI, the duo was also being probed by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the Yes Bank scam. PTI AVI ABS RDM Yes Bank: Wadhawan brothers' CBI custody extended till May 1 (Eds: Adding details) Mumbai, Apr 29 (PTI) A special court here on Wednesday extended till May 1 the CBI custody of businessmen-brothers Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan of DHFL group in connection with the Yes Bank scam. Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, promoter of Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL) and RKW Developers, respectively, were arrested on Sunday from a quarantine facility in Mahabaleshwar in Satara district, nearly 50 days after they booked in a case of bribery against former Yes Bank CEO Rana Kapoor. On Wednesday, they were produced before a special court here as their earlier remand ended. The CBI sought their further remand saying that the accused were not co-operating in the investigation. The agency said that it needs to probe them further to unearth the conspiracy and their links with Kapoor. Defence lawyer Subodh Desai submitted that the nature of offence was such that their custody was not required. However, the court extended their CBI custody till May 1. Wadhawan brothers are named as accused in the CBI FIR pertaining to swindling of money by Kapoor and others, the officials said. The agency has alleged that Kapoor, 62, entered into a criminal conspiracy with Kapil Wadhawan for extending the financial assistance to DHFL through Yes Bank in return for substantial undue benefits to himself and his family members through companies held by them. According to the CBI FIR, the scam started taking shape between April to June, 2018 when Yes Bank invested Rs 3,700 crore in short-term debentures of the scam-hit DHFL. In return, Wadhawan allegedly "paid kickback of Rs 600 crore" to Kapoor and family members in the form of loans to DoIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd held by the wife and daughters of Kapoor. Besides the CBI, the duo was also being probed by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the Yes Bank scam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yes-bank-wadhawan-brothers-cbi-custody-extended-till-may-1-831427.html
29-04-2020||National||Aggressive testing only way to identify COVID-19 cases: Cong||Chandigarh Congress president Pardeep Chhabra on Wednesday said "aggressive" testing is the only way to detect COVID-19 cases. "Till now the Chandigarh administration has not been able to devise any concrete strategy to ramp up community testing and that is why we have seen 20 cases coming up in last two days in the city," Chhabra said here. "Aggressive testing for coronavirus is the only way to identify, isolate and treat the patients of COVID-19," he added. Chhabra said he is ready to get tested for COVID-19 to put all speculations to rest after someone tested positive for coronavirus at a food and ration distribution event where he was present along with the Chandigarh SSP recently. He said that all precautions and instructions for social distancing and hygiene are maintained at places where Chandigarh Congress is getting food prepared or distributed among the needy. Chhabra said that Chandigarh Congress has been running the ‘Chandigarh Congress Ki Rasoi - Bhookha Soye Na Koi’ campaign where food for more than 1500 people is made every day.  The campaign has been running since the start of lockdown on March 23 and will continue to provide packed food packets to all the residents of city up to May 3 who need help and support. Chandigarh has witnessed a spike in coronavirus cases in the last two days with the tally of positive patients touching 60. So far, no death has taken place in the city due to the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aggressive-testing-only-way-to-identify-covid-19-cases-cong-831428.html
29-04-2020||National||How Kasargod's 'weak health system' effectively resisted COVID-19 spike||Even as Kasargod district in Kerala bordering Karnataka often laments of a weak health care system, it has shown its mettle in the fight against COVID-19. Out of the 176 persons tested COVID-19 positive in the district till Tuesday, 162 already recovered and fatality is nil.  It can be noted that the district's lone general hospital had treated 89 patients, which is the highest number of COVID patients treated by any hospital in Kerala. All the 89 got recovered, the latest being on Tuesday (April 28). However, health officials of the district still keep their fingers crossed as they feel that it would require one or two more weeks to draw a conclusion that the district was free from a community spread. District Medical Officer A V Ramdas told DH that even as the district handled patients from the age of two to around 70, the majority of the patients were of young age. Hence luckily no one went to a critical condition.  While the first COVID-19 case in the district was reported on February 3 on a student from Wuhan, the district remained relatively safe for more than one month as only a few cases were reported during the second-phase of coronavirus spread from March 9. But the district witnessed a spike in the numbers from March 20 and the total reached the hundred mark in just one week. The district was on tenterhooks of a community spread. The majority of the infected persons had come from Dubai.  The district had no specialist doctors and the number of physicians at the general hospital was just three and the hospital could accommodate only around 120 COVID-19 patients. With Karnataka closing the borders for patients from Kasargod, the district hospital could not be entirely converted to a COVID-19 care centre as patients with other diseases also needed to be catered to. Even with these constraints as many as 135 patients got treated at the general hospital and district hospital alone. COVID-19 nodal officer of the district Dr Manoj A T said that the district administration and the higher-ups of the health department immediately swung into action and took over some private hospitals and some defunct hospital blocks in the district and made it ready for keeping up to 1,000 patients and doctors from other hospitals.  As the situations in the district became alarming, the government initiated steps on a war-footing to make the administrative block of the upcoming medical college hospital, which has been progressing on a snail's pace, into a 100 bedded COVID-19 hospital and deployed doctors from other government medical colleges by the first week of April. All fresh COVID-19 cases that came up afterwards were treated there. A COVID-19 care facility was also set up at the Central University campus in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-kasargods-weak-health-system-effectively-resisted-covid-19-spike-831431.html
29-04-2020||National||Over 10,400 booked in Mumbai for violating lockdown orders||Cases have been registered against more than 10,400 persons in Mumbai for alleged violation of prohibitory orders during the lockdown, an official said on Wednesday. As many as 5,456 offences were registered in the city in this connection, he said. "With an aim to contain the spread of coronavirus, police have been taking action under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and other relevant sections since March 22," the official said. "So far, police have registered offences against 10,408 people for violation of the prohibitory orders during the lockdown. Of them 6,513 people were arrested and later released on bail," he said. At least 2,661 accused were allowed to go after notices were served to them, whereas 1,234 persons are absconding, he said.  The city police have registered cases against 1,812 persons for not wearing masks while stepping out of them homes, he said. Of the total number of cases, 3,646 were registered for unlawful assembly at public places. Most of these cases were in Central Mumbai, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-10400-booked-in-mumbai-for-violating-lockdown-orders-831432.html
29-04-2020||National||Govt should allow micro-finance institutions to resume operations in green zones: Official  ||The government should allow micro-finance institutions to resume operations in the areas identified as green zones in strict adherence to social distancing and other safety norms, a top official of the sector said on Wednesday. The move will be of help as MFIs need to personally meet the borrowers, he said. MFIs have been hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic, with many finding it difficult to meet the operating costs and pay salaries during the ongoing lockdown.  "We are looking for credit guarantee for loans, and also urge the government to pick up equity in small and medium companies. We are going to make a representation to the finance ministry in this regard," CEO of Micro-finance Institutions Network (MFIN) Harsh Srivastava said. P Satish, executive director of 'Sa-dhan', a self regulatory body of MFIs, said the sector is worried about restart of operations, and if the situation does not improve by mid-May, many small units will have to shut shop. "We have urged the government to pay salaries and meet the operating costs of small MFIs during the lockdown period," Satish said. A small MFI is one with an asset base of less than Rs 200 crore.  Since the middle of March, all operations of MFIs have come to a halt. Satish said the MFI industry has urged the RBI to make the three-month moratorium on loan repayment applicable to the sector, too "It is sad that the RBI moratorium extended to borrowers of the banks has not been passed on to the MFI industry," he said. "We are given to understand that the finance ministry has asked SIDBI to extend the moratorium to MFIs," Satish added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-should-allow-micro-finance-institutions-to-resume-operations-in-green-zones-official-831434.html
29-04-2020||National||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu on 'Mission Connect' mode||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has expressed hope that the next Parliament Session will be held on schedule, as the country is witnessing an intensive effort to contain COVID-19. His comments came during his interactions with Rajya Sabha MPs during the past couple of days, which he called 'Mission Connect' during which he interacts with lawmakers as well as former Presidents and Prime Ministers, Governors and Chief Ministers as well as leaders of political parties to check out their well-being. Sources said some MPs asked him about the next session of Parliament to which Naidu said that it would depend on the situation on the ground. "With the intensive virus containment efforts being mounted across the country and results showing on ground, one may hope for normal schedule," he was quoted as saying. Usually, the Monsoon Session of Parliament is held in July-August while Budget session is held between January-April with a break. Winter Session is held normally during November-December. As the COVID-19 situation worsened, the Budget Session of Parliament was abruptly adjourned on March 23 while it was scheduled to end on April 3. Since March 25, the country is in a lockdown and new Rajya Sabha MPs who were to be sworn in after April 2 could not take oath so far due to the restrictions in travel. During his 'Mission Connect', Naidu has spoken to 241 MPs and former MPs, who retired recently, besides former Presidents Pranab Mukherjee and Pratibha Patil and former Prime Ministers Manmohan Singh and H D Deve Gowda. He could not speak to a few MPs who could not be reached over phone due to network issues. He asked them about the safety of those leaders and of their kith and kin, their assessment of corona situation on ground in respective areas and the mode of their engagement and activities since the lockdown imposed on March 25. He also interacted with Governors and Chief Ministers to assess the situation in states due to Covid-19. He also contacted Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, former Chief Justices Deepak Mishra and Ranjan Gogoi, who is now a nominated Rajya Sabha. Among others, he also spoke Leader of the House and Union Minister Tawar Chand Gehlot, Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, BJP president J P Nadda, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and other floor leaders. Naidu also contacted senior Congress leaders Mallikarjun Kharge and Adhiranjan Choudhury (Congress), TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu (TDP), CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury and CPI General Secretary D Raja.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-on-mission-connect-mode-831437.html
29-04-2020||National||Irrfan Khan cared for migrants in his last days||Even as he was putting up the final battle against cancer, actor Irrfan Khan was caring for the migrants who were stranded across India during the COVID-19 lockdown. One of his last tweets was on it - and he posted it on the microblogging site on April 9. Tagging Gram Seva Sangh, Irrfan wrote that he will be supporting the ‘Friday Fast’ on April 10 – a 12-hour fast from 6 am to 6 pm – for the cause of the migrant labourers. "I support this because I believe we need to change from the roots #gramsevasangha #oneworld," the late actor had said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irrfan-khan-cared-for-migrants-in-his-last-days-831445.html
29-04-2020||National||Centre allows stranded people to be transported to their home states amid lockdown||Amid rising demands for allowing stranded workers and students to be transported to their native places, the Centre on Wednesday allowed their inter-state travel by road by putting in place a mechanism for all those who are holed up in different parts of the country after a mandatory screening that confirms they are asymptomatic before the journey. No individual will be allowed to travel on his own, as only states are allowed to make arrangements for the journey by buses following which measures should be taken for their quarantine in homes or institutional centres. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued an order amending the April 15 revised guidelines on the COVID-19 lockdown in this regard to allow migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and others stranded at different places. This comes just four days ahead of the end of current phase of lockdown on May 3 and amid demands from a section of states to extend the restrictions for at least a fortnight. Migrant workers had risen in protest in Gujarat's Surat, Maharashtra's Bandra and Telangana's Hyderabad in recent times demanding that they be sent back home. Some states like Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and West Bengal have also transported stranded students and pilgrims from other states while Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had expressed concern over such moves earlier.  Former Finance Minister P Chidambaram welcomed the move by the Centre to allow stranded people to be transported to their homes, saying this has been his party's demand since mid-April. However, he said buses alone will not be sufficient and suggested that "it is better to run sanitised trains point-to-point to move the large numbers who desire to migrate back to their home states". CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury, who had earlier raised a similar demand for running special trains to transport migrant workers, told DH, “finally after a month of imposing agony, hunger and deprivation on crores of migrant workers, the Narendra Modi government has now permitted their return to their homes. Once again it has passed the buck to the states instead of liberally financing them.” According to the order, in case a group of stranded person wish to move between states, both the states must consult each other and mutually agree to the movement by road. The states falling on the transit route will allow the passage of such persons. Those who want to travel should be screened and those found asymptomatic would be allowed to proceed in buses, which will be sanitised. Safe social distancing norms should be followed in buses, the order said. On arrival at the destination, such people would be assessed by the local health authorities and keep in home quarantine, unless the assessment requires keeping them in institutional quarantine. "They would be kept under watch with periodic health check-ups. For this purpose, such persons may be encouraged to use Aarogya Setu App through which their health status can be monitored," the order said. Yechury said the crisis was due to the manner in which Modi announced the lockdown giving no time for the states or the workers to prepare themselves. “The Centre is passing the buck. Now, the states have to arrange for the buses and fund entirely the responsibility of providing health facilities while the Modi government does not help the states, which are actually on the battle front,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-allows-stranded-people-to-be-transported-to-their-home-states-amid-lockdown-831447.html
29-04-2020||National||Odisha students stranded in Kota appeal to state govt to bring them back||A large number of students from Odisha, who are stranded at Kota in Rajasthan, due to the lockdown have appealed to Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik to ensure their safe return to the state. Parents of six students have brought the matter to our notice that 13 students from the district are stranded in Kota, said Rayagada Collector Pramod Behera. "We will seek Odisha governments permission as there is restriction on inter-state movement. We will take appropriate measures in this regard," the district collector said.  When contacted by PTI, a senior IPS officer in-charge of coordinating with other states in regard to stranded Odia persons, said: "Something is in the offing." He indicated that a decision in this regard will be taken soon. Meanwhile, Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra also urged the chief minister to take immediate measures to bring back the students in Kota. "Urge @CMO_Odisha to take immediate step to bring back the stranded students at Kota," Mishra said in his twitter post. One of the stranded students, Monica in a video message said: "It is a humble request from all students of Odisha to the state government for our safe return. We have already registered on the dedicated COVID-19 portal, but we have not got any response." Monica said they are staying in Kota since nine month for study purpose. She said that the students are not feeling safe in Kota as COVID-19 cases are fast increasing in Kota. She also said that the states like UP, Maharashtra and Assam already taken measures to bring back students of their respective states.  Gayatri Sahu, one of the stranded students in Kota in a tweet to Chief Ministers Office said: "Hon'ble Chief Minister, we are students from Odisha stuck in Kota due to COVID-19. Kota becomes Rajasthans next hotspot. UP govt has arranged buses for their students. We request you to plz make arrangement to #SendUsBackHome." "At least 2500 Odia students are stuck in Kota and need help. UP and other governments are already in action. Kindly help students from Odisha," tweeted another student. Earlier, students from Rourkela, Puri and Sonepur had made a similar appeal to the Odisha government. One of the guardians of a stranded student, Pratap Batra said that 12 girl students from Rayagada are stranded in Kota.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-students-stranded-in-kota-appeal-to-state-govt-to-bring-them-back-831448.html
29-04-2020||National||'Exams for higher education and technical courses unlikely by May 31'  ||Under-graduate and post-graduate exams for higher and technical education courses in Maharashtra are unlikely to be held before May 31 in view of the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, state minister Uday Samant said on Wednesday. Speaking to a Marathi news channel, the Higher and Technical Education Minister said the lockdown has severly affected the schedule of the exams which were postponed on March 24.  "The Higher and Technical Education ministry is unlikely to hold the exams for under-graduate and post graduate courses by May 31," he said. He said about 30-35 lakh students were expected to appear for the exams. "Generally, it takes 90 days for the entire period from the announcement of an exam to its organisation and paper assessment. Going by it, we need to understand that it would take next 2-3 months for completion of the procedure," the minister said.  He said the state government was awaiting report of the University Grants Commission (UGC) while a report of the committee of vice chancellors in Maharashtra on how to go ahead with the examinations is ready. "We want to try our best to ensure that students do not suffer," the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exams-for-higher-education-and-technical-courses-unlikely-by-may-31-831452.html
29-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Indian doctor in UAE overwhelmed as policeman salutes her for her service||An Indian doctor in the UAE was moved to tears after her car was stopped during curfew hours and a policeman, instead of checking her documents, gave a salute, acknowledging her service during the coronavirus pandemic, according to media reports. Ayesha Sultana, who is from Hyderabad, was returning home on Tuesday night after completing her shift at the Al Ahli Screening centre in Dubai when she was stopped by a policeman at the Dubai-Sharjah highway, the Khaleej Times reported. Sultana said that she did panic initially but was focused on showing her work permit and other documents to prove that she was a doctor. According to a report in the Gulf News, Sultana said she was pulling her ID and papers to show to the policeman but "he saluted me, saying I don't need to show him anything." "I was speechless and cried. Despite (the fact that) I was tired (after) work but this salute was my reward and waived my tiredness," she said. “I was full of emotions at that moment and didn't know what to do. I wish I knew his name or face as he was wearing (a) mask. I just want to thank him," she was quoted as saying in the Gulf News report. The doctor later tweeted: "As a UAE resident, this is the biggest day of my life THANKYOU." "Had tears in my eyes. I'm blessed to be in the UAE and serve the people here," she tweeted. Sultana, who was born and brought up in the UAE, said she did not expect she would be dealing with a pandemic when she passed out of the Dubai Medical College in February, the Khaleej Times reported. "This is my home and I want to do my best in helping UAE fight the pandemic. We see around 200 to 300 people every day - both with and without symptoms. It is very rewarding and I am all the more committed to continue doing my job," she said. According to the Johns Hopkins University data, the UAE has over 11,000 COVID-19 cases with 89 deaths. UAE had been under an overnight curfew since March 26 to stem the spread of the deadly disease. Dubai had on April 4 imposed a two-week lockdown to contain the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indian-doctor-in-uae-overwhelmed-as-policeman-salutes-her-for-her-service-831453.html
29-04-2020||National||CRPF man's death sparks row over different COVID-19 guidelines in force; MHA takes note||The death of a 55-year-old CRPF officer due to COVID-19 and about 50 other troops of his battalion being infected with the disease have rung alarm bells in the establishment after it was found that "dichotomous" orders were issued to the country's largest paramilitary force to check the spread of the pandemic. CRPF Director General (DG) A P Maheshwari has again issued fresh directives that all suspected coronavirus cases will have to undertake a "mandatory" quarantine of 14 days after it recently came to light that the medical wing of the paramilitary issued a separate order sometime in April stating that asymptomatic staffers can join work after a five-day quarantine. Maheshwari told PTI that after multiple positive cases were reported from the Delhi-based 31st battalion of the force, contact tracing led them to the source -- a nursing assistant jawan, who had joined duty at this unit upon returning from leave after undergoing "only five days quarantine". The nursing assistant, who himself is admitted to a Delhi hospital after he was detected positive for the virus, worked at the unit hospital for some days after spending five days in quarantine and it is suspected that the infection travelled from him to other troops of the 31st battalion.  "Our general order was 14 days quarantine for any person who came back to the unit after leave or had exposure to COVID-19 infected person. Then we found there was another order by the medical wing that said medical staff who undergo five days quarantine and have no symptoms can be taken off quarantine. "These were dichotomous orders. I have sought a written explanation from the Director Medical of the force on April 26 and have also referred the case to the ADG (Medical)," the CRPF chief told PTI.  The office of Additional DG (Medical) functions under the Union home ministry and has operational control over the medical wings of all Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) like the CRPF, BSF and CISF among others. "I have asked the ADG (Medical) to take appropriate action on the directive issued by our medical director," the DG said. H L Raskaran, CRPF's medical director, declined to comment stating he was "not authorised to speak to the media".  A senior official said the Union home ministry has taken note of this "serious" incident where a soldier has lost his life and about 50 others were infected with the pandemic in a single battalion. The CRPF, on its part, has already submitted a report to the ministry of home affairs (MHA). The ministry has sought details of the entire sequence of events, also the first case of COVID-19 death in CAPFs, from the force by this month-end. The official said the CRPF DG has now issued fresh directives that all suspected cases will have to undergo mandatory 14-day quarantine as stipulated under the central government and global health bodies like WHO for COVID-19 containment. The Sub-Inspector who hailed from Assam had tested positive for the virus a few days back and he breathed his last on Tuesday at the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi. As the official suffered from co-morbid conditions like hypertension and diabetes he was admitted to the premier central government hospital while the rest of his positive colleagues have been admitted to a state government quarantine facility in Mandoli, a CRPF officer said.  The last rites of the deceased will take place in Delhi as per medical procedures decided for COVID-19 linked deaths, the official said. While the entire premises of the 31st battalion based in Mayur Vihar has been sealed, about a thousand personnel and their families have been put on different levels of quarantine. At least 45 personnel from this battalion have already tested positive for the coronavirus and are admitted in various hospitals in the national capital. Over 400 samples from this unit have already been collected, officials said. A jawan of the Rapid Action Force (RAF) and a doctor of the CRPF were earlier detected positive for COVID-19. The 3.25 lakh personnel-strong CRPF is designated as the lead internal security force of the country apart from being the mainstay for anti-Naxal operations and counter-terrorist duties in the Kashmir valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-mans-death-sparks-row-over-different-covid-19-guidelines-in-force-mha-takes-note-831454.html
29-04-2020||National||Death toll due to COVID-19 rises to 1,008, cases climb 31,787: Health Ministry||Death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,008 and the number of cases climbed to 31,787 in the country on Wednesday, registering a record jump of 71 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry. There has been a spike of 1,813 cases since Tuesday evening. The number of active COVID-19 cases stand at 22,982, while 7,796 people have recovered, and one patient has migrated, the ministry said. "Thus, around 24.52 per cent of the patients have recovered so far," a Health Ministry official said. The total number of cases include 111 foreign nationals. A total of 71 deaths were reported since Tuesday evening of which 31 fatalities were from Maharashtra, 19 from Gujarat, six from Madhya Pradesh, five each from Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, two from West Bengal and one each from Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab and Tamil Nadu. Of the 1,008 deaths, Maharashtra tops the tally with 400 fatalities, followed by Gujarat at 181, Madhya Pradesh at 119, Delhi at 54, Rajasthan at 51, Uttar Pradesh at 36 and Andhra Pradesh at 31||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-due-to-covid-19-rises-to-1008-cases-climb-31787-health-ministry-831457.html
29-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: India readies mega plan to bring back its nationals stranded abroad||The government is working on a mega plan to deploy a raft of naval ships as well as military and commercial aircraft to evacuate thousands of Indians stranded in the Gulf and other regions after the nationwide lockdown ends, official sources said on Wednesday. The government has already reached out to several states asking them to make necessary arrangements for the Indians when they are brought back home under the multi-agency operation. The Civil Aviation Ministry has conveyed to the core group planning the operation that it is ready to make an available majority of the nearly 650 commercial planes including freighters for the mission, the sources said. They said the Navy and the Indian Air Force have also been told to keep some of their platforms on stand-by for the evacuation which is likely to be the biggest after 'Operation Raahat' when India brought back over 6,700 people, including citizens from 41 countries, from strife-torn Yemen in 2015. The Navy has identified the INS Jalashwa, an amphibious ship, and two other landing ship tanks for the operation. The INS Jalashwa, capable of carrying out amphibious operations as well as search and rescue missions, can transport over 1,000 people. Indian Naval ships Mumbai, Tarkash and Sumitra were part of 'Operation Raahat'. The sources said the Indian Air Force is also keeping a number of its transport aircraft ready for the operation.  The operation will begin after the lockdown is lifted. The current phase of the lockdown ends on May 3. It is not immediately clear whether the government will further extend the drastic measure. The sources said that priority will be to evacuate the Indians from the Gulf nations following which the government will try to bring back those stranded in Europe and other parts of the globe. It is not immediately clear how many Indians the government plans to bring back home. As a matter of policy, India decided not to bring back the stranded Indians from abroad till the nationwide lockdown ends. Around eight million Indians are living in the Gulf countries and there has been growing anxiety among them over their livelihood in view of the pandemic as it has majorly impacted the oil-driven economy of the region. It is learnt that Indian missions in the region have been told to identify people who want to return home. Almost all Gulf countries have taken a series of drastic measures including imposing total lockdown, travel restrictions and even closing borders to stem the spread of the coronavirus infection. In a video-conference with chief ministers on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the evacuation of Indians has to be done keeping in mind the fact that they don't get inconvenienced and their families are not under any risk. Over the last few weeks, Prime Minister Modi has been holding consultations with leaders of several Gulf nations, including Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman with whom he spoke on March 17 to discuss the COVID-19 situation. Modi has also spoken to Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Qatar Emir Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad al Thani, Kuwaiti Prime Minister Sheikh Sabah Al-Khaled Al-Hamad Al-Sabah and Bahraini King Hamad Bin Isa Al Khalifa. During the discussions, one of the primary issues raised by Prime Minister Modi was the well-being of the Indian diaspora in these nations, officials said. The prime minister personally requested the leaders to ensure the wellbeing of the Indian community there, and each of these leaders gave strong assurances that the Indian diaspora will be taken care of in these tough times, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-readies-mega-plan-to-bring-back-its-nationals-stranded-abroad-831459.html
29-04-2020||National||10 arrested in attack on police in Bengal’s Howrah||A day after police personnel were chased and allegedly assaulted by a large mob while enforcing lockdown in a red zone area of West Bengal’s Howrah district 10 persons have been arrested in the case. The incident took place in the Tikiapara area in Howrah which is a red zone district. According to sources in the Howrah Police Comissionerate, the situation in the area has been peaceful so far and large police contingents are patrolling the area. “We have ensured that there are no loop wholes in enforcing lockdown in the area,” said a senior official of the Howrah Police Comissionerate. He also said two police personnel were injured during the assault. The incident took place when police patrol reached the Belirius Road in Tikiapara upon receiving information that a large crowd has gathered at the local market violating the lockdown. When the police personnel tried to send these people back home an altercation started and soon things came to blows. According to locals soon a large mob rushed at the police personnel pelting stones at them. Two police vehicles were vandalized. The outnumbered police personnel had no option but to back down. Soon after a large police contingent along with RAF reached the spot and baton-charged the crowd to disperse them. Since the area is minority-dominated BJP has accused the Trinamool Congress government of resorting to “appeasement politics” and not enforcing the lockdown properly in such areas. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee alleged that some were trying to malign the West Bengal government by using the Tikiapara incident. However, she condemned the attack on police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-arrested-in-attack-on-police-in-bengal-s-howrah-831461.html
29-04-2020||National||COVID-19: India's death toll crosses 1,000 but expert says no exponential rise||India has recorded its 1,000th novel coronavirus death, but the head of a government think-tank NITI Aayog said on Wednesday that its 1.3 billion people, strained from weeks of lockdown, were not experiencing the feared exponential surge in infections. India has now reported 31,331 cases, including 1,007 deaths, according to figures from the Health Ministry.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi must decide soon whether to extend the world's biggest lockdown, now 40 days old, beyond May 3. Health officials say the shutdown has prevented an explosive surge of infections that would have crippled India's modest health care system.  "Our analysis finds that the rate of growth in positive cases and fatalities has been consistently lower - linear but non-exponential," said Amitabh Kant, chief executive of the government think-tank Niti Aayog. Aayog urged a phased exit from the shutdown, but the government has a difficult decision ahead. The big cities of Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad - which are also economic growth engines - top the list of cases and there are no signs of the pandemic abating there, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said.  "When I see Delhi's COVID-19 map, I see only red and orange colours which is extremely worrying." Red zones indicate infection hotspots, orange denotes some infection, while green indicates an area with no infections. Wednesday's daily increase in cases, 1,897, was the highest in weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indias-death-toll-crosses-1000-but-expert-says-no-exponential-rise-831465.html
29-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Haryana gets Centre's nod to conduct rapid tests using kits of South Korean company||The Haryana government has got the Centre's nod to use testing kits manufactured by a South Korean company to conduct COVID-19 rapid tests, state minister Anil Vij said on Wednesday. The state government had received its first lot of 25,000 rapid test kits from SD Biosensor, a South Korean bio-diagnostic company, a week ago. Last week, India had procured 5 lakh rapid antibody test kits from two Chinese firms and they were distributed to several states reporting a rise in the number of coronavirus cases. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), however, advised states to stop using these kits until it examined their quality in the wake of complaints that they were not fully effective. Vij had earlier brought to the Union health ministry's notice that Haryana had procured 25,000 rapid test kits from a South Korean company and it was not using the Chinese ones, but the state was asked to put these also on hold for the time being. “However, now we have been given permission by the Centre to go ahead and conduct the tests using the kits which we had procured from the South Korean company,” the Haryana health minister said on Wednesday. He said the rapid test kits will be first used to test health and sanitation workers as well as police personnel who are at the frontline of the coronavirus battle. Hawkers, ration depot holders, vegetable sellers, milk sellers and others who come into contact with several people daily will also be tested, the minister said, adding besides the tests will be conducted in containment zones.  Some of the coronavirus positive patients, who are admitted in hospitals will also be re-tested using these kits, “which will give some idea about the accuracy of these tests”. Besides, rapid tests will be conducted on nearly 11,000 people who have shown symptoms of the disease during the ongoing door-to-door screening by health workers, Vij said. “We had already procured 25,000 kits from the South Korean company, which has a presence in Manesar in Gurgaon, and have placed an order for 75,000 more kits,” he said. The minister added that four samples from Ambala district and seven from Gurgaon, which were tested by a private laboratory and in which discrepancy was found, “have been sent to AIIMS in Delhi for re-testing.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-haryana-gets-centres-nod-to-conduct-rapid-tests-using-kits-of-south-korean-company-831468.html
29-04-2020||National||11 family members of corona-positive, LNJP dietician, infected||Eleven family members of an LNJP Hospital dietician, who was tested positive for coronavirus earlier, have been found infected, officials said on Wednesday. None of the hospital employees, who came in contact with the dietician, however, have tested positive, they said, Their second test reports, however, are awaited, they added. The report is expected by Wednesday night or Thursday morning, following which the hospital’s kitchen will be started, officials said. The hospital’s kitchen was closed after the dietician associated with the mess had tested positive. The LNJP Hospital is a dedicated Covid-19 facility in Delhi. At present, the food at the hospital is being provided by two in-house canteens. Food has also been sponsored by a private company, they said. Delhi recorded a total of 3, 314 cases till Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/11-family-members-of-corona-positive-lnjp-dietician-infected-831472.html
29-04-2020||National||Assam seeks Centre's nod to airlift 850 patients stuck in metros||Assam government has sought civil aviation ministry's permission to airlift over 850 patients and their attendants who are stuck in Bengaluru, Chennai, Vellore, Delhi and Mumbai, in the COVID-19 lockdown. Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Wednesday said the state government was willing to bring them in flights as most of them are suffering from critical diseases like cancer, heart ailment, kidney problems and it was not possible to bring them in buses or train. "Most of them have completed treatment and are willing to come back to their homes soon. But it will not be good for their health to bring them in buses the way we brought some students from Kota in Rajasthan recently. So we have sought the civil aviation ministry's permission to bring them in flights. We have also talked to some airline operators too," Sarma said. The state health department had earlier provided financial assistance of Rs. 25,000 to each of them.   A total of 391 students from doing coaching in Kota in Rajasthan, a COVID-19 'Red Zone' were brought on Monday (April 27) after more than 2000-km travel in 17 buses. Parents of the students paid the bus fare (Rs. 7,000 per head) but the state government sent a team of police personnel by a chartered flight to Rajasthan to accompany them. All of them are now in institutional quarantine in Guwahati. Assam government is also planning to bring those stuck in other states in the Northeast.   Assam reported 37 COVID-19 positive cases so far of which 29 have been discharged after recovery. Two of them were released from hospitals on Wednesday (April 29). Sarma said 10 persons from Assam including seven CPRF personnel tested positive in New Delhi in the past 24-hours. A sub-inspector of CPRF, hailing from Assam's Barpeta district succumbed to COVID-19 in Delhi on Tuesday (April 28).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-seeks-centres-nod-to-airlift-850-patients-stuck-in-metros-831478.html
29-04-2020||National||Farm growth not to be impacted much this fiscal due to COVID-19 lockdown: Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar||The country's farm sector is functioning smoothly despite COVID-19 lockdown and there will not be much impact on its growth in the current fiscal unlike other sectors, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Wednesday. Agriculture and allied sector's growth stood at 3.7 per cent during the 2019-20 fiscal. Meanwhile, government think tank Niti Aayog pegged the farm sector growth at 3 per cent in the current fiscal in hopes of a good monsoon amid prevailing COVID-19 situation. Addressing the media, Tomar said: "In the current lockdown situation, the agriculture sector is functioning smoothly as there has been no shortage of foodgrains, vegetables and dairy products. But, many other sectors are impacted. We are proud of our farmers. We thank our farmers". The impact of lockdown on the overall agriculture GDP will not be much this year on hopes of good rains. And the government has exempted farm activities from the lockdown rules, he said. "Agriculture GDP was at 3.7 per cent during last year. I am confident that this growth in future will not be impacted much," Tomar added. Sharing the same views, Niti Aayog member Ramesh Chand said farm sector growth is estimated to be 3 per cent in the 2020-21 fiscal despite prevailing adverse circumstances. The forecast of good southwest monsoon, sufficient water level in reservoirs, increase in kharif sown areas, rise in offtake of fertilizer and seeds -- all these factors are in favour of farm sector growth, he said. The agriculture sector will rise to the occasion and play an important role in giving normal growth to Indian economy, he added. "If you look at growth rate of 3.7 per cent in current price level, then growth rate comes to 11.3 per cent, which is 60 per cent more than the growth rate of the non-agriculture sector," the Niti Aayog member said. Agriculture accounts for 15 per cent of India's gross domestic and a source of livelihood for more than half of the country's 1.3 billion population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-growth-not-to-be-impacted-much-this-fiscal-due-to-covid-19-lockdown-agriculture-minister-narendra-singh-tomar-831480.html
29-04-2020||National||Big-hearted Hyderabad sanitation worker donates salary to fight COVID-19||A sanitation worker in Hyderabad who earns Rs 12,000 per month has donated Rs 10,000 for COVID-19 relief. The selfless act from the frontline worker helping the government fight off the COVID-19 pandemic has earned the admiration of the citizens and Telangana municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao (KTR) to whom she handed the amount on Tuesday. Yedumekala Alivelu has been with the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation as a sweeper for about six years, operating in the Nanal Nagar area and residing in Jiyaguda of old Hyderabad.  “The plight of those rendered jobless, homeless was heart-wrenching. Since the Chandrasekhar Rao government gave us a bonus of Rs 7500, we added Rs 2500 of our savings and contributed the amount to help those affected by the virus,” Alivelu told DH. Earlier this month, chief minister Rao had announced that unlike the part pay deferment for other government staff due to the COVID-19 affected revenue crisis, health, sanitation and police departments would be paid complete salaries. In addition, the CM declared “a gift” of Rs 7500 for GHMC and Rs 5000 for other municipality workers.   Alivelu’s husband Yedumekala Srisailam, who rears sheep working in a local market, and their two children – a boy doing diploma and girl studying in junior college - were supportive of her decision. Suggested by his son, Srisailam sent a tweet to KTR’s office on Sunday in order to reach KTR.  On Tuesday, after meeting the couple, KTR shared the pictures and experience on twitter. “Received a tweet couple of days ago from a GHMC worker called Alivelu saying she wants to contribute one month’s salary to CMRF. Intrigued, I asked my office to arrange a meeting. She came in today with the cheque and insisted that I accept it,” KTR tweeted. “She did not want anything from my side.” KTR’s tweet received nearly 5900 likes. “Salary is small, but her heart is big. God bless you,” said one Ramaraju SVH, in one of the replies. While appreciating the measures taken by the government, the Yedumekala couple believes the state would become novel Coronavirus free very soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/big-hearted-hyderabad-sanitation-worker-donates-salary-to-fight-covid-19-831483.html
29-04-2020||National||Only 0.33% COVID-19 patients are on ventilators: Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday said of the total active COVID-19 cases in the country, only 0.33 per cent patients are on ventilators, 1.5 per cent are on oxygen support and 2.34 per cent are in ICU. Active COVID-19 patients are those who have been diagnosed with the disease and are currently undergoing treatment in hospitals or are lodged in quarantine facilities. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,008 and the number of cases climbed to 31,787 in the country on Wednesday, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active COVID-19 cases stand at 22,982 in the country, according to the data updated on Wednesday evening. Oxygen therapy is given to supplement the oxygen deficiency usually through masks or nasal prongs while ventilator is a mechanical respiratory device which does the work of the lungs when the body is unable to do the required breathing. Vardhan, who interacted with the Lions Club International members across the country through video conference, said the doubling rate of coronavirus cases is 11.3 days in the country for the last three days. The Union minister said the mortality rate in COVID-19 patients in India is three per cent as compared to seven per cent globally and around 86 per cent of the fatalities have been reported among those with co-morbiditie like diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney and heart related issues. "Only 0.33 per cent patients are on ventilators, 1.5 per cent patients are on oxygen support and 2.34 per cent patients are in ICU, which reflects the quality of care being provided across the country," Vardhan said. In case of any further eventuality, the country is well equipped with isolation beds, ventilators, personal protection equipment and masks among others, he said. Vardhan also informed that 288 government laboratories are working along with 97 private laboratory chains with around 16,000 sample collection centres and testing around 60,000 tests per day. The government is working to increase the testing capacity to one lakh tests per day within the next few days, he added. Since the development of a vaccine is going to take a longer time, lockdown and social distancing are serving as effective 'social vaccine', Vardhan said. "The Ministry of Science and Technology, under my charge, has also been working on innovations and have been funding certain projects which are going to make the testing procedure quite fast," he said. Maintaining a continuous situation awareness, pre-emptive and proactive approach, graded response as per continuously evolving scenario, inter-sectoral coordination at all levels and creating a people's movement to combat this disease has been India's approach in combating COVID-19, the minister highlighted. Commenting on the country's strength in tackling the disease, he said, "India has successfully tackled public health emergencies of international concern and pandemics in the past as well. "Our nation has the requisite national core capacities stipulated in the International Health Regulations to manage public health emergencies."  The Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), which is a nation-wide surveillance system for epidemic prone diseases, has been activated towards COVID response, and is being further strengthened with substantive digital inputs," Vardhan said, he said. "I value Lions Club members having made appreciable contribution in our fight against COVID-19, especially through PM-CARES contribution, equipments, sanitizers food, PPE kits and N95 masks for hospitals," Vardhan said. Vardhan expressed his gratitude to the Lions Club members for contributing an amount of Rs 9.1 Crores in the PM CARES fund and of Rs 12.5 Crores to the various Chief Ministers Relief Funds. Meanwhile, Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan chaired a meeting through video conference with representatives from states and districts to discuss on health infrastructure and other aspects related to COVID-19 management on Wednesday.     The functioning of GIS Dashboard, COVID-19 portal and dedicated RT-PCR referral App was discussed during the meeting. She urged states to promote the Arogya Setu App which is a self assessment tool helpful in the prevention efforts of the government. She emphasised that non-COVID essential medical care should not be neglected. It was reiterated during the meeting that patients needing care like dialysis, cancer treatment, diabetics, pregnant women and those suffering from cardiac ailments must be given adequate care. Speaking on management of COVID-19 cases, Dr Balram Bhargava, Secretary (DHR) and DG, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) emphasized on the importance of the meticulousness in collection of samples and filling up of the accompanying forms. States were informed that the RT-PCR app has been made functional and needs to be put to use immediately. It's an App used for collection centres to fill data at the point of sample collection, to ensure real time data to cut time delay and avoid duplication in efforts of filling in same data at multiple points.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-033-covid-19-patients-are-on-ventilators-vardhan-831487.html
29-04-2020||National||CPI(M) in support of IRS officers, asks govt to take transparent measures to revive economy||The CPI(M) on Wednesday asked the government to initiate a "free and transparent discourse" on the revival of the economy following the Covid-19 situation, as it condemned the move to take disciplinary action against 50 IRS officers for recommending to enhance tax rates for the super-rich. In a statement, the CPI(M) Polit Bureau demanded that the government rescind disciplinary actions against the IRS officers on charges of for publicising their proposal to enhance tax rates for the super-rich to 40% and impose a 4% Covid-19 Cess. Reportedly, it said, these recommendations came in response to the government’s proposal of seeking inputs for drawing up a fiscal roadmap in rebuilding the economy in the midst of the Covid-19 impact.     "The Polit Bureau also unambiguously expresses its resolve to resist moves to unilaterally burden the poor and the working people for shouldering the Covid-19 impact, while the super-rich continues to loot and amass greater wealth," it said. The CPI(M) said the government’s "class approach of being pro-rich, anti-poor and anti-working people" is evident with its "unilateral decision to freeze" the dearness allowance for its employees and pensioners, retrospectively and prospectively, which by some calculation will fetch a stupendous amount. "The paper prepared by the officers' FORCE, an acronym for Fiscal Options and Responses to Covid-19 Epidemic has obviously angered the Government to act viciously, betraying their brazen intention to protect the rich. The government has formally stated that these proposals will trigger uncertainties in the ‘market’, clearly suggesting that the super-rich are ‘holy cows’ for the ruling dispensation," the statement said. "The government’s effort to stonewall queries on write off for wilful defaulters and absconders in Parliament has now come to nought with authenticated RTI replies exposing the government-corporate nexus, which is looting the country and the people," it added. On Tuesday, Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in support of the IRS officers, saying the action against them was "thoroughly unjust and autocratic". CPI(M) MP A M Ariff also wrote to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman demanding that the government take the recommendations "positively" and withdraw the disciplinary actions against the officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpim-in-support-of-irs-officers-asks-govt-to-take-transparent-measures-to-revive-economy-831491.html
29-04-2020||National||Take bold steps to protect salaries of MSME workers: Chidambaram||Questioning the “silence” of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on the second financial assistance package to kick-start the economy, Congress on Wednesday urged the Modi government to take bold steps to save the MSMEs which are in distress. Former Finance Minister P Chidambaram cited the Paycheck Protection Program of the US and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce a package to protect the wages, salaries, and paycheques of about 11 crore people working in the MSME sector. “What has the government done? The last I heard the Finance Minister was on March 25. There has been no word on the financial assistance package-II for 37 days,” Chidambaram told reporters through a video link. He said the businesses have not witnessed any sales this month and their payments to their vendors were also stuck, leaving the vendors also in distress. “There is palpable tension and rising uncertainty among the working people of India and their families,” the senior Congress leader said. “The time to make bold decisions to save the MSMEs is now. If businesses do not see hope, they will decide to close,” Chidambaram cautioned. The former Finance Minister said that according to the income-tax department, there were roughly one crore people with a salary income of less than Rs 3,50,000 a year or Rs 30,000 a month. “Assuming an average salary of Rs 15,000 a month for these one crore people, the total cost comes to Rs 15,000 crore for the month of April. This is not a large sum to protect the livelihood of one crore people who have filed tax returns and paid taxes in the past, and can be easily found,” Chidambaram said. He also suggested a waiver of employers’ contributions to the Employees' Provident Fund (EPF) and Employees State Insurance (ESI), on a temporary basis, for the next three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/take-bold-steps-to-protect-salaries-of-msme-workers-chidambaram-831497.html
29-04-2020||National||Govt must protect salaries, wages of workers: P Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday urged the government to announce a scheme to protect salaries and wages of 12 crore workers as their employers are facing a financial crunch in the wake of COVID-19-induced lockdown. The former finance minister also said the government should do everything to avoid a financial emergency and hoped the country is not pushed into that. He also called upon the government to provide generous financial assistance to states to fight the novel coronavirus pandemic and urged it to announce a financial package for the MSME sector, as proposed by his party.  Chidambaram asked the government to also announce an exit strategy in view of the lockdown and look into the issue of migrants stranded at different place due to it. "Time is of the essence. In the absence of a clear signal of assistance from the government during these extremely difficult times, the private sector will be forced to resort to large scale retrenchments and layoffs, which will devastate livelihoods of hundreds of millions of people," he said. Chidambaram also proposed a 'paycheque protection programme' for workers in the non-MSME sector, on the lines of that announced in the United States. "We urge the prime minister to step in urgently and announce an assistance package to protect the wages/salaries and pay cheques that are due in the next few days," he said at a press conference through video conferencing. The April salaries of 12 crore employees working in the MSME and non-MSME sector must be protected and the government should do something about this, he said. Asked whether the country was headed towards financial emergency in the wake of lockdown due to COVID-19, he said, "Even to utter those words at this point of time would be inappropriate. I hope we are not pushed into that." "If the government acts promptly, wisely and boldly by taking into account the advice of eminent economists, I think we can avoid a financial emergency. We should do everything to avoid a financial emergency. Because, financial emergency would mean that whatever little financial powers are there with the state governments would be taken away," he said. He said the Congress party also suggests a waiver of employers' contributions to the employees provident fund (EPF) and employees state insurance (ESI), on a temporary basis, for the next three months.  "This will assist in reducing the payroll costs of employers and retaining the workforce," he said. Stressing that the the centre is non-committal on giving financial assistance to states, Chidambaram asked: "How can we have a non-committed centre in this time of grave crisis?". Talking about the plight of workers in the MSME and non-MSME sector, he said Thursday is the last working day of the month and more than 12 crore people of India are waiting with bated breath. "They want to know if they will be paid their salaries/wages for the month of April," he said noting that there is palpable tension and rising uncertainty among them. Chidambaram said around 11 crore people are engaged in 6.3 crore MSMEs and since most of them have not worked a single day in April due to lockdown, how will these people feed themselves and their families without an income. These 11 crore people's livelihoods are in danger now because most employers are unable to pay wages/salaries, he said, adding that businesses have had no sales and payments to their vendors are stuck while large swathes of private sector are faced with what economists call an extreme liquidity shock. These businesses, he said, are unsure about their future and don't know if they can continue their businesses or will be forced to shut down permanently. "The time to make bold decisions to save the MSMEs is now. If businesses do not see hope, they will decide to close," he said. The Union government has to step in today to protect 11 crore Indians and give hope to MSMEs, he said noting that it is bewildering that there has been absolutely no financial package or assistance announced for businesses since the onset of COVID-19. The government may have the luxury of time but the MSMEs do not. They need to know whether they will be helped to stay afloat and thereby pay salaries/wages to those dependent on these businesses, he said. The Congress party has submitted a proposal with concrete suggestions for MSMEs, he said, urging Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately announce Rs 1 lakh crore wage protection assistance to help MSMEs pay wages and salaries for the month of April and a Rs 1 lakh crore credit guarantee fund for MSME. For the non-MSME sector, he said, we urge the government to announce a paycheque protection programme, similar to the one announced in the United States, which is not a legislation but a financial assistance package. Chidambaram said this would entail a total cost of Rs 15,000 crore for April month, which is not a large sum to protect livelihoods of 1 crore people who filed tax returns and paid taxes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-must-protect-salaries-wages-of-workers-p-chidambaram-831502.html
29-04-2020||National||'Shoot us if infected with coronavirus but let us go' begs Uttar Pradesh migrant worker||"UP border pe goli maar do saheb agar corona hua hai humko...lekin ghar pahucha do. Yahan bhookh se nahi marna (Sir, shoot us if we are infected with coronavirus at Uttar Pradesh border but send us home. We don't want to die here of hunger," said 24-year-old Ajay Kumar Vishwakarma, requesting to tell senior officials to let him go back to Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh, his home. Ajay along with 150 migrant workers had embarked on a 1500-km journey on their motorcycles from Ahmedabad to Ayodhya on April 27. Little did they know that their journey will not just abruptly end, they would also be left in the lurch. As soon as the group reached the Gujarat-Madhya Pradesh (MP) border on Tuesday evening, their bikes were impounded by MP police and they had to return to Ahmedabad hitchhiking and walking for hours from Tuesday late in the night to Wednesday evening without food and water.     "Papa ne gehun bech ke paise bheje the uska petrol bharwaya motorcycle mein aur nikal gaye hum log (My father had sent me money by selling wheat from which I bought petrol and set off for home on motorcycles)," Ajay told DH over the phone from an unknown place near Godhra in central Gujarat that is nearly 100 km from Ahmedabad on Wednesday morning. He said that all his co-travellers are carpenters and work as casual workers in Ahmedabad for the past six to seven years. They all planned their journey on two-wheelers, many of them riding with their wives and children. They loaded their essentials on motorcycles and set off on the long journey to Ayodhya on April 27 early morning. Sharing high ordeal, Ajay further said, "We all belong to nearby villages in Ayodhya and hence know each other well. This was the reason we planned the trip on our bikes since there is no other way to travel. We reached MP-Gujarat border after many difficulties. We had to abandon a bike my brother Digvijay was riding since the mechanic was charging Rs 5000 to repair it and we didn’t have any money. My brother and the pillion rider then adjusted on other bikes, riding triples. Another worker Jitendra Vishwakarma said that after reaching the border, Jhabua police (MP), stopped them. "The policemen told us that if Yogiji (UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath) would pass an order only then we would be allowed to travel any further. The police impounded our motorcycles and forced us to sit inside a bus belonging to the Gujarat government after hours of wait. This bus dropped us somewhere in Godhra on Tuesday night and left. We started walking on the road without food and water." He said that there were 80 to 90 motorcycles that were seized. Jhabua Superintendent of Police Vineet Jain confirmed their narrative to DH and said, "Every day, we stop about 300 to 400 persons trying to enter MP from Gujarat illegally. They are mostly from Surat and Ahmedabad. We can't allow them since traveling without the government’s permission is prohibited." He said the bikes were seized "so that they don't try to enter the state again.” The group after being dropped somewhere in Godhra started walking back to Ahmedabad without food and water. After hours of walking in the scorching sun, they said that at one place local police gave them "khichdi" and water and then dropped them at Kathwada, in the outskirts of Ahmedabad. From here, they again walked for nearly 30 kms to reach their rented accommodation in Chandlodiya and other localities. The lockdown is taking a toll on migrant workers in the state who desperately want to go back home. In Surat, three violent protests have already been reported in which hundreds of workers have been booked to rioting and arson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shoot-us-if-infected-with-coronavirus-but-let-us-go-begs-uttar-pradesh-migrant-worker-831505.html
29-04-2020||National||White House unfollows President Kovind, PM Modi||The White House has unfollowed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Twitter just weeks after following him. The official Twitter account of the office and residence of the United States President Donald Trump has dropped the official and personal accounts of the Prime Minister of India from the list of the ones it follows on the social media platform. The White House also unfollowed the official account of President Ram Nath Kovind.   That the White House un-followed Kovind and Modi were noticed just a day after United States Commission for International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) recommended the Trump Administration to designate India as a “Country of Particular Concern” in view of “systematic, ongoing, egregious” violations of religious freedom in the South Asian nation.   The White House apparently started following the President and Prime Minister of India and a few other accounts related to the Government of India earlier this month, when a controversy broke out over New Delhi’s decision to supply Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) tablets to the US. Trump had on April 5 called Modi and requested him to relax the ban so that the US could procure the drug from India. He later subtly stepped up pressure on New Delhi and warned of “retaliation” if the US was not allowed to import the drug from India. Just hours after Trump talked tough on New Delhi’s ban on the export of the HCQ, the Modi Government announced that India would allow export of the drug to its neighbours in South Asia as well as some other worst Covid-19 affected countries. It later did allow the export of the HCQ tablets to the US. When the White House started following the President and Prime Minister of India, they were the only foreign leaders to be followed by it on Twitter. The number of the followers of the White House went up to 19 around April 10 with the additions of Kovind and Modi and a few other accounts related to the Government of India. But, just weeks later, the White House seems to have dropped not only the President and Prime Minister of India, but also the other accounts related to India from the list of the ones it followed. It now follows only 13 accounts on Twitter – all related to the US Government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/white-house-unfollows-president-kovind-pm-modi-831512.html
29-04-2020||National||Facing fund crunch over COVID-19, Assam govt goes on austerity drive||Assam government announced several austerity measures on Wednesday including restriction on functions in five-star hotels, purchase of vehicles, and executive class air travel, in order to tackle the impact of COVID-19 lockdown on the state's economy. The state finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said unlike decisions to cut salaries of government employees in Maharastra, Telangana, Rajasthan, or Odisha, Assam decided to pay full salary to its employees for April. "Normally we release the salaries on the first day of every month. But April month's salaries will be paid on May 8," he told reporters. The state requires Rs. 3,600 crore every month to pay salaries, pensions, and interest against loans. Sarma said the state Cabinet on Tuesday decided that no department will be allowed to take up new schemes (except central or externally aided) without the approval of the finance department. "We will also not pay the reimbursement of taxes to the industrial units for the next four months. The purchase of new vehicles will not be allowed without the Chief Minister's approval. It was also decided not to organise any more seminars, workshops, fairs and no programmes in five-star hotels. Also except Chief Minister, Governor, Chief Justice and judges of Gauhati High Court and chief secretary, air travel in executive class will not be allowed at this juncture," Sarma said. It was earlier decided to cut 30% salary of Chief Minister, Governor, ministers, and MLAs. The Cabinet on Tuesday decided to cut 25% salaries of chairman and vice-chairmen of various corporations and boards under the government. "It was also decided to keep the MLA local area development funds on hold till July," he said. Sarma said Coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown had resulted in an 80% decrease in the state's GST and cess collection in April--from 932.36 crores in March to Rs. 193 crores.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facing-fund-crunch-over-covid-19-assam-govt-goes-on-austerity-drive-831523.html
29-04-2020||National||Airports prepare for life after coronavirus lockdown||Two of India’s busiest airports – Delhi and Mumbai – have drawn up plans for life after lockdown with an aggressive push for self-service and encouraging travelers to opt for online check-in to ensure limited contact with personnel at airports. The Airports Authority of India (AAI), which manages 100 airports across the country, has also issued guidelines with directions to use single terminal at airports with multiple terminals and restrictions on retail outlets selling food and beverages. According to the AAI, initially the airline operations would resume in Tier-1 cities, some state capitals and major Tier-II cities.    The government is yet to take a decision on re-starting air travel, which was suspended late last month as India stepped up measures to arrest the spread of COVID-19. International commercial flights were halted from March 22 and domestic operations were suspended from March 24 till May 3 when the lockdown is expected to end. “Passengers will be encouraged to check-in at home or use self-service facilities such as self check-in facility, self bag tag facility, scan & fly,” a Delhi airport official said. The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport at Mumbai has also urged passengers to carry minimum luggage while traveling and use contact-less payment to the optimal level within the airport premises. “To enable safety precautions at the airport, CSMIA plans to maintain social distancing through distinctive markings at both the terminals, maintaining 1.5 meters distance between each passenger,” a Mumbai airport statement said. The special markings will be spread across the entry gate, check-in counters, self-check-in kiosks, security checkpoints, food courts, lounge area and the boarding area amongst others, the CSMIA said. The Delhi Airport also plans to deploy additional queue managers to avoid crowding and maintaining social distancing as passengers make their way to the aircraft. “The Delhi Airport is also conducting training and assessments of key service personnel, run checks on major facilities, and performing risk evaluations to prepare for resuming operations,” Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO of the Delhi International Airport Limited said. Airlines were also encouraging passengers to wear face masks throughout the entire journey as well as at airports. The Lufthansa Group of airlines have asked all passengers to wear a mouth-nose cover on board their flights. “The obligation to wear the mask will preliminarily apply until 31.08.2020,” a Lufthansa spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/airports-prepare-for-life-after-coronavirus-lockdown-831531.html
29-04-2020||National||Explain why technical loan write-off route applied to fugitives: Chidambaram to govt||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday asked the government to explain why it had taken the technical loan write-off route for fugitives like Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya. His remarks came after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that wilful defaulters were beneficiaries of 'phone banking' under the UPA regime and the Modi government is chasing them to recover the dues.  She was responding to the opposition party's allegations of loan waiver worth Rs 68,607 crore in the form of write-offs to the top 50 wilful defaulters till September 2019. Chidambaram said one cannot deny the rule that banks can write-off loans technically and recoveries can continue against wilful defaulters, but why was the rule applied to fugitives, who fled the country, after committing frauds.   "One is not denying such a rule that can be applied to a wilful defaulter. But, we are asking these are fugitives and they have left the country and are absconding. Why are you applying this rule to Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi and Vijay Mallya," he said at press conference conducted through video conferencing.   The former finance minister said "when they are fugitives, the technical rule in the book should not be applied to them. That is my view". "This rule can be applied to other categories of defaulters, but why is it being applied to fugitives," he asked. "Why does she take shelter behind the technical rule," he said hitting out at Sitharaman. One can technically write off loans of defaulters, willful defaulters and willful defaulters who stay back and try to face an enquiry, but why do they have to apply that rule to a willful defaulter who has fled India and the government has declared him a fugitive, he said. "Why does this rule apply to Nirav Modis, Vijaya Mallyas and Mehul Choksis? They have been declared fugitives. That's why we questioned the bonafides of this government," he said. Asked whether these loans were recoverable, the Congress leader said he did not know whether they were recoverable or not as it would depend on whether these fugitives have assets in India or abroad.  "Those are questions which the government must answer," he said. Attacking the finance minister, Chidambaram said, "Why was she silent for the last 37 days and has now suddenly sprung to life and sprung to the defence of these fugitives. Is it not a little surprising and ironic." Earlier, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala accused Sitharaman of "misleading and mis-stating facts". "To mislead or mistate facts while holding the august office of FM is most unfair @nsitharaman ji! You tweeted that ₹2,780.50 cr have been recovered from Modi-Choksi-Mallya. On 16th March, 2020; Parliament was told that ED has recovered only ₹96.93 CR in 5 yrs under PMLA-FEMA," he tweeted. He attacked the government over the issue of bad loans, accusing it of weakening the entire banking architecture fiscally and imprudently in the name of cleaning the system. " Mr @PrakashJavdekar & @nsitharaman ji, Listen to Sh @PChidambaram_IN ,take tuition & answer- Why did Modi govt waive off loans of defaulters & fugitives like Mehul Choksi+Nirav Modi (₹8,048Cr), Jatin Mehta (₹6,038 cr), Mallya (₹1,943 cr) & others? Why defend the fugitives,"Surjewala tweeted. The party was responding to Sitharaman's tweet on Tuesday night in which she accused the Congress and its leaders of "misleading" people on loan write-offs. "Nirmala Sitharaman ji, cleaning the banks of people's money by writing off loans of absconders and fraudsters is not called 'cleaning the system'," Surjewala said in a tweet. "It's called weakening the entire bank architecture fiscally and imprudently, if not maliciously," he said.  In a tweet, the finance minister had accused Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Surjewala of attempting to mislead people in a brazen manner. "Typical to Congress, they resort to sensationalising facts by taking them out of context," she had said. Hitting back, Surjewala demanded answers from Sitharaman instead of "twisting facts". "Simple answer that FM, Smt @nsitharaman needs to give instead of twisting facts-:Why has Modi govt written off bank loans worth 6,66,000 cr between 2014-15 & 2019-20? Is RBI's RTI reply dated 24th April, 2020 of bank loans write off of Rs 68,607 crore wrong or right," he asked. "Why is Modi govt writing off bank loans of absconders & fraudsters like Nirav Modi+Mehul Choksi (Rs 8,048 CR), Jatin Mehta (Rs 6,038 cr), Mallya (Rs 1,943 cr) & others as per RBI's RTI reply of 24/4/2020? "Who permitted such huge write offs of bank loans of defaulters and why," Surjewala asked the finance minister. The RBI released a list of 50 top bank loan defaulters in the country in an RTI reply. Sitharaman had also said "Congress and Rahul Gandhi should introspect why they fail to play a constructive role in cleaning up the system. Neither while in power, nor while in the opposition has the Congress shown any commitment or inclination to stop corruption and cronyism."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explain-why-technical-loan-write-off-route-applied-to-fugitives-chidambaram-to-govt-831540.html
29-04-2020||National||Considerable relaxation from lockdown for many districts from May 4: MHA||The COVID-19 lockdown will continue mainly in the country's hotspots beyond May 3 when the extended period of the restrictions end but "many" districts will get "considerable relaxations". The clear indications about districts that have managed to tackle COVID-19 considerably well getting relaxations came after a review meeting held by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on the lockdown situation on Wednesday. The MHA was of the view that there has been "tremendous gains and improvement" in the COVID-19 situation due to the lockdown till now and to ensure these are "not squandered away", the existing guidelines should be "strictly" observed till May 3. "The new guidelines to fight COVID-19 will come into effect from May 4, which shall give considerable relaxations to many districts. Details regarding this shall be communicated in the days to come," an MHA spokesperson tweeted after the review meeting. Sources said the possibilities are there that there could be substantial relaxations in 307 districts, which are at present in the green zone with practically not a single case. There are 297 districts in the orange zone where no cases has been detected in the past 14 days. There are 128 districts in the country, which are in red zone, with high number of cases where the stringent lockdown measures are likely to continue. While all the 11 districts in Delhi are in red zone, 15 of the 31 districts in Karnataka at present are in red zone, while three are in orange and the rest 13 in green zones. India has been in a lockdown since March 25 and was extended till this Sunday on April 14. During a video conference by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, several Chief Ministers had demanded that the lockdown ending on May 3 should be extended for at least a fortnight even as some states like Punjab and Telangana has already extended the lockdown beyond May 3. From April 20, the Centre had allowed the resumption of economic activities with limited exemptions, especially to boost rural economy. While some of the states went ahead with these permitted activities, states like Delhi, Telangana and Punjab did not open up the states for such activities. Earlier in the day, the MHA had allowed the inter-state shifting of stranded migrants, students, pilgrims, tourists and others to their native places by road after states conduct their screening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/considerable-relaxation-from-lockdown-for-many-districts-from-may-4-mha-831542.html
29-04-2020||National||COVID-19: ITBP jawan sings for frontline workers||A jawan of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) has composed and sung a Hindi song paying tributes to the countless frontline workers battling the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. The 3.31-minute audiovisual song, titled 'Teri mitti mein..', was released by the force on its official social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook on Wednesday. "The song narrates the contribution of 'corona warriors' especially doctors, police, CAPFs, armed forces personnel and all others in ensuring that citizens of the country are safe from the pandemic," an ITBP spokesperson said.  "The song plays out the emotions, initiative and commitment of the agencies in the fight against coronavirus in the country," he said. It also talks about hope and trust that the country will win this battle against the virus that has infected lakhs across the globe and claimed thousands of lives. The spokesperson said the song has been sung by head constable Arjun Kheriyal, 35, who is a "singing talent of the force". He has earlier dedicated a similar creation on the occasion of International Women's on March 8. The jawan joined the ITBP in 2002 and is posted in Delhi at present.  The about 90,000 personnel Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) force, primarily tasked to guard the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China, has produced the song and provided logistical support for it to be shot and edited. The force is at the forefront of the COVID-19 battle as it is operating one of the country's largest quarantine centre in Delhi, with about 1,000 beds, and has launched a face masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) making unit at Sonipat near here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-itbp-jawan-sings-for-frontline-workers-831547.html
29-04-2020||National||PM Modi discusses coronavirus with Bangladeshi PM Sheikh Hasina||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday greeted his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina on the occasion of the holy month of Ramzan and discussed with her the COVID-19 situation and how the two neighbours can collaborate in the fight against the deadly virus. "Spoke to PM Sheikh Hasina to greet her and the people of Bangladesh on the holy month of Ramzan. We discussed COVID-19 situation and ways India and Bangladesh can collaborate in the fight against it," Modi tweeted. Spoke to PM Sheikh Hasina to greet her & the people of Bangladesh on the Holy Month of Ramzan. We discussed COVID-19 situation & ways India and Bangladesh can collaborate in the fight against it. Our relationship with Bangladesh will continue to be one of our highest priorities. "Our relationship with Bangladesh will continue to be one of our highest priorities," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-discusses-coronavirus-with-bangladeshi-pm-sheikh-hasina-831557.html
29-04-2020||National||Man travels 3,345 km to help friend rest in peace at his home town||Vivian Remsanga, a 28-year-old hotel management graduate, is finally buried in his home town, Aizwal, Mizoram after a four-day arduous journey covering 3,345 kilometres from Chennai in an ambulance. “Hope my friend will rest in peace now that he is buried in the place where he was born and grew up. This is the least I could do for my friend in his death,” 23-year-old Raphael Malchhanhima tells DH from a quarantine Centre in Mizoram’s capital Aizwal. Raphael accompanied the mortal remains of his friend Vivian in the ambulance which was driven alternatively by two drivers from Chennai – S Chinnathambi and P Jayendran travelling through half-a-dozen states over four days for the deceased’s parents to see him for one last time. The journey which began on the night of April 24 ended at around 4.30 pm on April 28. Vivian was buried on Tuesday and the two drivers began their return journey within two hours – they were given Rs 2,000 each by Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga as a token of appreciation. “We did not face any major problems during the journey as we had necessary documents to pass through several states. We drove through day and night and the longest period of rest was two hours near Siliguri in West Bengal. We were two and we alternated between us to cover the distance. When I used to sleep, Jayendran would drive and when he was resting, I took the wheels from him,” Chinnathambi told DH. Chinnathambi spoke as Jayendran was at the wheels and the duo are on their return journey to Chennai from Aizwal. “Guwahati is 150 kms away from the place where we are now. We hope to reach Chennai in the next three days,” he said on Wednesday evening. Vivian passed away in Chennai, which was his home for a few years now, on April 23. Since flights were not operating, his friends decided to bury him in this metropolis, but Raphael would not agree. “He is my best friend and anyone who dies would want to be rested in his own place. We began looking for alternative options and that is when we zeroed in on an ambulance service which arranged two beautiful human beings to take my friend’s mortal remains,” Raphael said. The ambulance was arranged by the Chennai Mizo Welfare Association. “When we decided to send the body via ambulance, Raphael volunteered to accompany his friend’s mortal remains. Now Vivian is resting at a grave in Aizwal. We want to thank the Tamil Nadu government for all its help,” IAS officer R Lalvena, also president of the Chennai Mizo Welfare Association, said. Chinnathambi said they managed with whatever food they got – some state government had arranged food for them since they knew the ambulance would pass by. “When we transport a body, we think the person who died is from our family. We think of their family members who would be waiting to take the last look. By god’s grace, Vivian’s body reached home,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-travels-3345-km-to-help-friend-rest-in-peace-at-his-home-town-831558.html
29-04-2020||National||Opposition welcomes Centre's inter-state travel policy, but has questions||As the Centre put in place a mechanism for the inter-state travel of stranded people to their homes, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday said transporting them on buses may not be sufficient and sanitised trains should be used to move large numbers while CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury found fault with the Narendra Modi government for passing the buck to states. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, a ruling BJP ally who has earlier criticised the Uttar Pradesh government move to transport students in Rajasthan's Kota, also welcomed the decision. Chidambaram, also a Rajya Sabha MP and former Finance Minister, welcomed the order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), saying this has been his party's demand since mid-April. However, he said buses alone will not be sufficient and suggested that "it is better to run sanitised trains point-to-point to move the large numbers who desire to migrate back to their home states". Yechury said as it has been the practice, the Modi government has once again passed the buck to the state, making it solely responsible for the well-being of people. "Finally after a month of imposing agony, hunger and deprivation on crores of migrant workers, the Narendra Modi government has now permitted their return to their homes. Once again it has passed the buck to the states instead of liberally financing them. Now, the states have to arrange for the buses and fund entirely the responsibility of providing health facilities while the Modi government does not help the states, which are actually on the battle front," he told DH. He said the crisis was due to the manner in which Modi announced the lockdown giving no time for the states or the workers to prepare themselves. "The Modi government has to liberally finance the states," he said. CPI General Secretary D Raja said the Centre was abdicating the responsibility and shifting the whole burden on the states. "Is this cooperative federalism?" he said. He also asked the Centre to ensure that the states also accept returning migrant workers as some have earlier expressed reservations. The Bihar Chief Minister said it was Bihar government's wish that these people return to the state and the Centre has now taken a decision in its favour. "This is a huge relief for stranded people," Kumar was quoted as saying in a statement. He said the decision is in people's interest and all should adhere to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-welcomes-centres-inter-state-travel-policy-but-has-questions-831559.html
29-04-2020||National||India's COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 24.56%: NITI Aayog CEO||India's COVID-19 recovery rate has improved from 15 per cent on April 19 to 24.56 per cent as of Wednesday, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said. He also stressed on the need to keep working tirelessly on states and districts with high load of cases to further improve the recovery rate. "Happy to note that with 7700 + recoveries, our COVID-19 recovery rate has improved. It was 15% on 19 April, 19.2% on 26 April and 24.56% today. We must keep working tirelessly on high case load states and districts to further improve our recovery rate," Kant said in a tweet. Death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,008 and the number of cases climbed to 31,787 in the country on Wednesday, registering a record jump of 71 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the health ministry.       There has been a spike of 1,813 cases since Tuesday evening.         Active COVID-19 cases stand at 22,982, while 7,796 people have recovered, and one patient has migrated, the ministry said.         "Thus, around 24.52 per cent of the patients have recovered so far," a health ministry official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-recovery-rate-has-improved-to-2456-niti-aayog-ceo-831561.html
29-04-2020||National||Delhi govt in touch with other states on MHA order on migrant workers: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the Delhi government is in touch with other states on the Home Ministry's order concerning migrant workers and they would come out with a proper plan in the next one-two days. Taking to Twitter, Kejriwal asked migrant workers to stay home and follow lockdown till the time the plan is executed. According to the order issued by Ministry of Home Affairs, migrant workers, tourists, students and other people stranded in different parts of the country were allowed to move to their respective destinations with certain conditions.  In an order, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said buses shall be used for transport of such groups of stranded people and these vehicles will be sanitised and will have to follow safe social distancing norms in seating. In Delhi, there are currently thousands of migrant workers staying at government-run shelters following the coronavirus-induced lockdown. "The Union Home Ministry has issued an order concerning migrant workers today. We are in talks with other state governments on this issue. "We will inform you (migrant workers) in next one or two days once planning is executed and till then, stay home and follow the lockdown," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown in wake of COVID-19 outbreak last month, thousands of migrant workers started leaving for their native places in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. However, many were stopped by authorities which made arrangements for their accommodation at several centres.  "Due to lockdown, migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons are stranded at different places. They would be allowed to move," Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said in an order issued to all states and union territories. Listing the conditions, the Ministry of Home Affairs said all states and union territories should designate nodal authorities and develop standard protocols for receiving and sending such stranded persons. The nodal authorities shall also register the stranded persons within their states and union territories, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-in-touch-with-other-states-on-mha-order-on-migrant-workers-kejriwal-831562.html
29-04-2020||National||India marks 1,008 Covid-19 deaths; total cases touch 31,787||The death toll due to Covid-19 witnessed a spike on Wednesday with 71 persons succumbing to the viral infection in a single day, taking the total casualties to 1008. However, the Centre pointed out that the death rate due to the respiratory infection was at 3.17% as against the global mortality rate of 7%. About 86% of those Covid-19 patients who have succumbed to Covid-19 so far also had co-morbid conditions such as acute diabetes and hypertension, Health Minister Harshvardhan said here. The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases increased by 1,813 in a single day to 31,787 of which 7,797 have been cured and discharged. The minister noted that the doubling rate number of cases too had slowed down to 11.3 days over the past three days. “Only 0.33% Covid-19 patients are on ventilators, 1.5 % patients are on oxygen support and 2.34 % patients are in the ICU, which reflects the quality of care being provided across the country,” Harshvardhan said. At least 288 government laboratories are working along with 97 private lab chains with around 16,000 sample collection centres which are testing around 60,000 samples per day, according to health ministry data. “The government is working hard to increase the testing capacity to 1 lakh tests per day within the next few days,” the health minister said. For a better collection of data on testing, the Centre also launched an RT-PCR App for those conducting the tests in laboratories across the country. Indian Council of Medical Research Director General Balram Bhargava emphasised on the importance of the meticulousness in the collection of samples and filling up of the accompanying forms. He also asked state governments to start using the RT-PCR App immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-marks-1008-covid-19-deaths-total-cases-touch-31787-831565.html
29-04-2020||National||Congress attacks Centre on loan write-off for fugitive businessmen||A war of words broke out between the Congress and the Modi government over the “writing off” of bad loans over 50 wilful defaulters, including fugitive businessmen Mehul Choksi and Nirav Modi. While Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman accused the Congress of misleading the people in a “brazen manner” over wilful defaulters, bad loans and loan write-offs and asked Rahul Gandhi, who had targeted the government, to take tutorials in finance from former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Former Finance Minister P Chidambaram hit back at Sitharaman saying that he very well understood the difference between writing off loans and waivers, and sought to know why fugitive businessmen such as Mehul Choksi, Nirav Modi and Vijay Mallya were given these concessions. “Why does that technical rule apply in these three cases and the cases of others, who have been declared fugitives,” asked Chidambaram and demanded to know who was applying these rules. “The Finance Minister was silent for the last 37 days. Suddenly sprung to life and sprung to the defence of these fugitives. Is it not a little surprising and ironic,” Chidambaram said. Congress chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala said till April 24, Rs 68,607 crore have been written off by the government. “The Prime Minister cannot evade this question by keeping silent,” Surjewala said. The Congress said Rahul Gandhi had asked this question in Parliament, but the government did not respond. “But now an RTI has revealed the magnitude of the waiver,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-attacks-centre-on-loan-write-off-for-fugitive-businessmen-831566.html
29-04-2020||National||Higher 4G internet speed could be used to incite violence: J&K admin||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has opposed a plea for providing 4G Internet speed over there, asserting that the right to the internet was not a fundamental right, and the freedom of speech and carry on business and trade can be curtailed to protect sovereignty, integrity, and security of the State. In an affidavit, it maintained that the current discourse of social media indicated that Pakistan was aiming to incite violence amongst college and university students. It also contended that the increase in internet speed will lead to swift uploading and posting of provocative videos and other heavy data files. It said if the internet speed was not limited to 2G, the high speed would enable the faster spread of fake news and uploading of such videos by terror groups for incitement and planning of attacks. The J&K administration also maintained that it was making available health and education services through additional means of communications like satellite and cable TVs, radio and video recorded programmes. The top court had asked the administration to respond to a PIL, filed by 'Foundation for Media Professionals' through its president and noted journalist Paranjoy Guna Thakurta, earlier this month. The petitioner contended the people in Jammu and Kashmir were unable to access the latest information, guidelines, advisories, daily updates and restrictions on Covid-19 pandemic. Two other petitions --- by Soayib Qureshi and Private Schools Association J and K -- were also filed for the same purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/higher-4g-internet-speed-could-be-used-to-incite-violence-jk-admin-831569.html
29-04-2020||National||Gujarat's coronavirus count crosses 4000 mark, 197 dead||The coronarivus positive cases crossed 4000-mark on Wednesday evening in Gujarat after it reported 308 new cases, while the death toll also increased to 197, following death of 16 patients in the past 24 hours, Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi said. She said that the state also reported recovery of 93 patients who were discharged, taking the total number of recovered persons to 527.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarats-coronavirus-count-crosses-4000-mark-197-dead-831581.html
29-04-2020||National||New academic session of universities from September: UGC||The new academic session of universities across the country will start in September, a delay of two months due to the lockdown, the University Grants Commission guidelines on Examinations and Academic Calender said on Wednesday. The guidelines were issued by HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank in the presence of Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare. According to the guidelines issued by the Commission, intermediate semester students will be graded based on internal assessment of the present and the previous semester. In states where the COVID-19 situation has normalised, there will be exams in the month of July, the guidelines said. For the terminal semester, the examinations will be held in July. The Commission said the universities may adopt alternative and simplified modes and methods of examinations to complete the process in shorter period of time. It also said the universities may adopt efficient and innovative modes of examinations by reducing the time from 3 hours to 2 hours. “Universities may conduct Terminal / Intermediate Semester / Year examinations in offline / online mode, as per their Ordinances/Rules and Regulations, Scheme of Examinations, observing the guidelines of "social distancing" and keeping in view the support system available with them and ensuring fair opportunity to all students,” it added. A HRD Ministry statement said the UGC guidelines were advisory in nature and the university may chart out its own plan taking into account the issues pertaining to the Covid-19 pandemic. The UGC had constituted a special committee for when and how to start a new session in universities. This seven-member committee constituted by the UGC had submitted its report on exam-related issues and academic calendar last week. The Commission recommended a six month extension for M.Phil and PhD students and suggested use of video conferencing using mutually convenient technologies for conduct of viva-voce and practical examinations. “While the new academic session for first-year students starts from September 1, for second- and third-year students this academic session can be started from August 1,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-academic-session-of-universities-from-september-ugc-831583.html
29-04-2020||National||Officer among four security personnel injured in Srinagar grenade attack||Three SSB personnel, including an officer, and a policeman were injured after militants hurled a grenade at a security forces party in Nowhatta area of Old City in Srinagar on Wednesday evening. Reports said the militants hurled the grenade on a jointparty of SSB and police at Nowhatta Chowk at around 9:10 pm, injuring three jawans and a policeman. The injured are from 55 Battalion SSB and includes an officer of inspector rank and a constable Abdul Majeed. The injured SSB personnel were identified as Inspector Anurag Roa, Head Constable Sananta Kumar and Constable Durgesh. Soon after the attack, the joint team of forces launched searches in the area, reports added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/officer-among-four-security-personnel-injured-in-srinagar-grenade-attack-831585.html
29-04-2020||National||Kerala govt allots Rs 3,000 cr to revive agriculture sector||In a bid to ensure food security and employment generation, the Kerala government on Wednesday announced a Rs 3,000-crore package for revival of the agriculture sector in the pandemic-hit state. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters after the daily COVID-19 evaluation meet that the state government plans to spend Rs 3,000 crore in the next one year to boost food production and revive agriculture. "Out of this, Rs. 1,500 crore will be raised from the plan allocation of local self-government institutions and various departments and the remaining Rs 1,500 crore will be provided as loans from NABARD and the Co-operative sector," he said.  The Chief Minister said the agriculture department has come up with a massive programme to use the fallow land for farming from next month. He said the project would be implemented in all local self-government bodies by using the wasteland in their areas. "The aim of the Agriculture Department is to revitalise agriculture, increase the revenue of farmers, attract youth to farming, and also as a rehabilitation project for expatriates who have lost their jobs," he said. The Agriculture Department has prepared a draft plan and once it was finalised, its implementation would begin soon. The Chief Minister said the plan also envisages increasing livestock, milk and egg production, and aquaculture development and all local bodies would make necessary changes to the annual plan before May 15 for the implementation.  If the owner of the land wants to cultivate the land, the government will support the owner. Otherwise, self-help groups or Kudumbasree or Panchayat-led committee can use the land for cultivation. Various departments like Animal Husbandry, Irrigation, Cooperation, Fisheries, Industries, SC & ST Welfare will be involved in this project to be coordinated by the Agriculture Department, the Chief Minister added. According to the Agriculture Department, there are 1.09 lakh hectares of wasteland in the state and it is estimated that 1.4 lakh hectares can be used for inter-cropping. The state government expects that as farming spreads and production increases, new agricultural markets would be opened in villages and towns and would also explore digital marketing systems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-govt-allots-rs-3000-cr-to-revive-agriculture-sector-831590.html
29-04-2020||National||45-day-old COVID-19 positive baby stages full recovery, discharged from hospital||A 45-day-old baby boy, who tested positive for COVID-19 when he was 20-days-old, was discharged from a state-run hospital here on Wednesday after his full recovery. The baby from Mahabubnagar, who contracted the infection from his father, was 20-days-old at the time of admission (on April 4), a COVID-19 bulletin said.  He was discharged after being cured, it said. The baby, probably the youngest to contract the infection in the country, was treated at the state-run Gandhi hospital in the city. State Health Minister E Rajender expressed happiness over the baby being discharged after recovery. An official release said 35 people were discharged today and 13 of them were children.  Those who were discharged thanked the doctors and medical personnel of the hospital and the minister has lauded the doctors and other medical staff for their efforts, it said. Among those undergoing treatment at the hospital, 10 are being treated in the ICU.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/45-day-old-covid-19-positive-baby-stages-full-recovery-discharged-from-hospital-831592.html
29-04-2020||National||Modi govt taking initiatives to attract companies getting disenchanted with China: Nadda||Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India has been taking initiatives and preparing policies to attract companies which are getting "disenchanted" with China and want to shift base, BJP president J P Nadda said on Wednesday. Interacting with former diplomats via video link, he said policies are being made to create a favourable environment in the country for those companies who want to come to India from China. The BJP in a statement said the former diplomats, during their talks with Nadda, hailed India's move to help other countries in this time of coronavirus crisis and termed it a step that will make its foreign policy more effective and strengthen relations with these nations. During the video conference, the BJP president sought their suggestions and cooperation in the fight against COVID-19. "Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India is taking initiatives to bring those companies here which are getting disenchanted with China and policies are also being made to create a favourable environment for this," Nadda said. The diplomats applauded Prime Minister Modi's leadership and said India's foreign policy has not only become politically, economically and culturally clear and strong but he has also shown the world a way forward in the fight against COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-taking-initiatives-to-attract-companies-getting-disenchanted-with-china-nadda-831604.html
29-04-2020||National Politics||Bulandshahar incident: Two sadhus killed in Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray pokes CM Yogi Adityanath||Two sadhus were allegedly hacked to death at a temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahar district on Monday night.  According to sources, the temple priests were murdered by a local criminal who was accused by the sadhus of stealing a pair of tongs used by them. Murari, the accused, who was released from jail on bail in a murder case a few days ago, was nabbed by the villagers and handed over to the police. The locals found the bodies of the sadhus lying in a pool of blood on Tuesday morning.   UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath ordered a probe into the killing, which comes close on the heels of the lynching of two sadhus at Palghar in Maharashtra. Adityanath had spoken to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray after the incident. On Tuesday, Thackeray made a similar phone call to Adityanath and sought strict action against the culprits. “Please take action as per law and also ensure that no one gives a communal colour to it,” he said.  In an apparent taunt at the BJP, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut also said the Bulandshahar incident should not be turned communal “the way they tried to make Palghar”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bulandshahar-incident-two-sadhus-killed-in-uttar-pradesh-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-pokes-cm-yogi-adityanath-831219.html
29-04-2020||National Politics||Congress accuses govt of weakening banking architecture||The Congress on Wednesday attacked the government over the issue of bad loans, accusing it of weakening the entire banking architecture fiscally and imprudently in the name of cleaning the system. The party was responding to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's tweet on Tuesday night in which she accused the Congress and its leaders of "misleading" people on loan write-offs. "Nirmala Sitharaman ji, Cleaning the Banks of people's money by righting off loans of absconders and fraudsters is not called 'cleaning the system', Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said in a tweet. "It's called weakening the entire Bank architecture fiscally and imprudently, if not maliciously," he said  In a tweet, the finance minister had accused Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Surjewala of attempting to mislead people in a brazen manner. "Typical to congress, they resort to sensationalising facts by taking them out of context," she had said. Hitting back, Surjewala demanded simple answers from Sitharaman instead of "twisting facts". "Simple answer that FM, Smt @nsitharaman needs to give instead of twisting facts-:Why has Modi Govt written off Bank Loans worth ₹6,66,000 Cr between 2014-15 & 2019-20? Is RBI's RTI reply dated 24th April, 2020 of Bank loans write off of Rs 68,607 Crore wrong or right," he asked. "Why is Modi Govt righting off Bank Loans of absconders & fraudsters like Nirav Modi+Mehul Choksi(Rs 8,048 CR), Jatin Mehta(Rs 6,038 CR), Mallya(Rs 1,943 CR) & others as per RBI's RTI reply of 24/4/2020? "Who permitted such huge write offs of Bank loans of defaulters & why" Surjewala asked the finance minister.  The RBI released a list of 50 top bank loan defaulters in the country in an RTI reply.  Sitharaman had also said "Congress and Shri.Rahul Gandhi should introspect why they fail to play a constructive role in cleaning up the system. Neither while in power, nor while in the opposition has the Congress shown any commitment or inclination to stop corruption and cronyism." The finance minister also claimed that "Earlier, on 18.11.2019, in the Lok Sabha for an unstarred Question no:52, a list of “Borrowers flagged as wilful defaulter by Public Sector Banks under CRILIC reporting as on 30.09.2019 (For borrowers with exposure of Rs. 5 crore and above, Global operations) was provided."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-accuses-govt-of-weakening-banking-architecture-831350.html
29-04-2020||National Politics||Huge public health crisis stares at Bengal due to Mamata's vote bank politics: BJP||Accusing West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of playing "vote bank politics", the BJP on Wednesday claimed that a huge public health crisis is staring at the state because of her "abject" failure to impose an effective lockdown to fight the coronavirus pandemic. In a hard-hitting letter to the Trinamool Congress president, BJP general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya alleged that members of Muslim community have "disdainfully violated the lockdown throwing caution to the wind" because of her "shameful appeasement politics". Vijayvargiya, who is his party's in-charge of the state affairs, accused Banerjee of "political retribution" against BJP leaders in West Bengal and said that instead of fighting the pandemic, she has taken a "confrontationist" stand against the prime minister and the state's governor due to her "dirty politics".  He also claimed that the testing for the coronavirus has been "grossly and shamefully inadequate" in the state and cited the high infection rate to claim that the real situation could be grave and lead to a huge public health crisis. Her government has been "manipulating" coronavirus death figures, he alleged. The BJP and the TMC have been engaged in a bitter war of words over the coronavirus situation in the state, with the saffron party accusing the state government of under-reporting the number of cases and deaths caused by it. Banerjee has, in turn, accused the central authorities of working at the behest of the BJP and rejected charges levelled against her dispensation. The assembly polls are due in the state in the first half of the next year, heightening the political battle between the TMC, in power for nine years, and its main challenger which fancies its chances against Banerjee after putting up a strong fight against her party in the last year's Lok Sabha elections. In his six-page letter Vijayvargiya said, "Mamata ji, there will be a time to fight the BJP. That time will be forthcoming local body elections and next year assembly elections.... This is the time to fight coronavirus." Accusing her of pursuing "vote bank politics", the BJP leader cited the alleged attack on police personnel in Howrah by a group of Muslims. "On April 28, the nation saw how the Muslim community went berserk attacking the police force in Tikiyapara in Howrah, which was just doing its job trying to enforce the lockdown. This shameful incident has caused grievous and irreparable harm to the morale of state police.  "As of now, there is not even a whimper of hope that the government will act against those who attacked the police force. It is high time that you stop the vote bank politics and immediately act against those who attacked the police force," the BJP leader said. Quoting figures from various states, he said in neighbouring Jharkhand and Assam, the number of cases is not high and they also have a very good ratio of recovering patients. Even accounting for your attempts to "massage" the real data from Bengal, the state does not boast of such good recovery rates, he said. "Is human death mere statistic to you? The day when you announced 18 deaths in West Bengal, your officers admitted in front of the Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) sent by the central government that the real number was 57," he added. He also cited several incidents to claim that her government has been targeting BJP leaders, including MPs and MLAs, by lodging FIRs and taking other coercive actions so as not to allow them to undertake relief works. "On the other hand, your party workers are looting ration meant for poor citizens," he alleged and slammed her for playing "dirty politics" while people were suffering due to the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/huge-public-health-crisis-stares-at-bengal-due-to-mamatas-vote-bank-politics-bjp-831467.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||I was kept next to bodies at Delhi's LNJP hospital, claims coronavirus patient, charge refuted||A video has surfaced on social media in which a coronavirus patient has alleged that he was kept on a bed "next to dead bodies" at a hospital here, a charge refuted by authorities at the facility. The video circulating on WhatsApp and other networking platforms shows a man, wearing a mask, who apparently shot the video inside the ward of LNJP Hospital where he is admitted. In the video, he alleges that he was kept on a bed in a ward that had "dead bodies next to his bed" and that he was not getting food on time. LNJP authorities refuted the allegations, saying, this patient "required psychotherapy and counselling that was arranged for him. He is currently being attended to by specialists in the field". There was no problem of food or water in that particular ward or any other ward of the hospital, a senior official of the hospital said. "The issue of him being in the midst of dead bodies also appears to be incorrect as there has been no death reported from ward 27 on that day or the day prior to that," the official said. The LNJP is a dedicated COVID-19 facility in Delhi, run by the city government. No coronavirus death has been reported in Delhi in the last three days.  In response to reports that nurses at the neighbouring GB Pant Hospital were not getting adequate facilities, and health kit was not being provided to a staff who came in contact with a COVID-19 patient, authorities said, the issue of the nursing staff of GB Pant Hospital has been resolved. "Immediate contacts of the COVID-positive patient have been provided suitable accommodation at GB Pant Hospital's nursing home and upgraded food facility has also been arranged for them," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/i-was-kept-next-to-bodies-at-delhis-lnjp-hospital-claims-coronavirus-patient-charge-refuted-831237.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Consider providing PPEs to all health workers, SC tells Centre||A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai passed this direction on April 27 on a PIL by a Nagpur-based doctor Jerryl Banait.  Led by advocate Astha Sharma, the petitioner sought a direction for providing PPEs to all health workers, including doctors, nurses, ward boys, other medical and paramedical professionals due to rise of COVID-19 infection from asymptomatic patients. "We find substance in the suggestions made by the applicant," the bench said. The court directed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to examine the issue and make necessary changes in the "Rational Use of Personal Protective Equipment" guidelines so that PPEs were provided to all health officials, who were working in non-COVID-19 treatment areas. Acting on a batch of PILs including this one, the top court had on April 8 directed the Centre to ensure full protection to doctors and health workers, who were acting as "warriors" and "first line of defence in the country" in the fight against coronavirus. Observing that the pandemic, engulfing the entire country, is a national calamity, the top court said all citizens of the country have to act in a responsible manner to extend helping hand to the government and medical staff to perform their duties to contain and combat the COVID-19, it noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-consider-providing-ppes-to-all-health-workers-sc-tells-centre-831271.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Woman Naxal killed, two cops injured in encounter||A woman Naxal was killed and two police personnel were injured in an encounter in Chhattisgarh's insurgency-hit Narayanpur district on Wednesday morning, an official said. The exchange of fire broke out in a forest under Chhotedongar police station limits around 8 am, when a joint team of the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and Chhattisgarh Armed Force (CAF) was out on a counter-insurgency operation, Narayanpur Superintendent of Police Mohit Garg told PTI. When the patrolling team was cordoning off the forest close to a hillock near Kademeta police camp, the ultras, who had laid an ambush, detonated IEDs (improvised explosive devices) and opened fire at the security personnel, leading to the gun-battle, he said. "Two security personnel, one belonging to the DRG and another from CAF, sustained injuries in the incident," he said, adding that they were being shifted to a local hospital. After guns fell silent, body of a woman Naxal and two rifles were recovered from the spot, the official said. Search operation was still underway in the area, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-woman-naxal-killed-two-cops-injured-in-encounter-831302.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||UP government planning ordinance to punish those flouting COVID-19 lockdown, misbehaving with frontline COVID-19 workers||The Uttar Pradesh government is contemplating to bring an ordinance with provisions for stringent punishment against those flouting lockdown orders and misbehaving with frontline COVID-19 workers, sources said. The state government is mulling over bringing an ordinance called the 'Uttar Pradesh Epidemic Disease Control Ordinance, 2020', they said. It will also have provisions for strict punishment against those running away from quarantine centres, besides for people caught violating lockdown orders, the government sources said. Provisions for punishment for those attacking frontline COVID-19 workers like medical and sanitation workers, and police personnel will also be there in the ordinance, they said. People spitting in public places and breaking isolation will also face action, the sources said. The government is planning provisions of imprisonment of up to seven years and fine up to Rs 5 lakh for those misbehaving and acting indecently with frontline COVID-19 workers. The aim behind this is to provide security to health workers, police personnel and others in the forefront in the fight against the novel coronavirus, the sources said.  The central government had initiated a similar step recently against those indulging in attacks on health workers fighting the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-government-planning-ordinance-to-punish-those-flouting-covid-19-lockdown-misbehaving-with-frontline-covid-19-workers-831317.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||Three militants killed in encounter in Shopian||Security forces gunned down three militants in an overnight encounter in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Wednesday. A police official said while one militant was killed on Tuesday, two were gunned down on Wednesday. The identity and group affiliation of the slain ultras was being ascertained, he said. The encounter broke out after the militants opened fire on a search party of security forces at Melhora in Zainapora area of the south Kashmir district on Tuesday. The searches were going on and the operation is in progress, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-shopian-831338.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||3 out of 529 journalists tested for COVID-19 turn out to be positive: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said three out of 529 media persons, who gave their swab samples recently, have tested positive for COVID-19. He wished a speedy recovery to those found to be infected with the novel coronavirus. "Am so happy to share only 3 out of 529 media persons tested have been detected positive. My best wishes to all of you. Your work is very important esp during a pandemic. Those who have been detected positive, I am praying for your speedy recovery," Kejriwal tweeted. Last week, the Delhi government had set up a centre for testing of media persons working in the national capital, after 53 scribes tested positive for COVID-19 in Mumbai. The total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital climbed to 3,314 on Tuesday, with 206 fresh cases being reported in a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-out-of-529-journalists-tested-for-covid-19-turn-out-to-be-positive-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-831366.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||Railway employee under quarantine commits suicide in Uttar Pradesh||A 55-year-old railway employee, who was under quarantine at a medical college here, allegedly committed suicide on Wednesday, police said. The employee was under quarantine at F H Medical College and Hospital, Tundla. His body was found hanging in the medical college, Gyanendra Kumar, SHO, Tundla said. The victim, a resident of Railway Colony Tundla, was sent into quarantine on April 20 after his senior tested positive for coronavirus, the officer said. “His samples were taken on April 23 for testing, but the test could not be conducted. Another sample was taken for testing on Tuesday and its report is awaited,” SDM Tundla, K P Singh Tomer said. The body has been sent to the district hospital for postmortem, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/railway-employee-under-quarantine-commits-suicide-in-uttar-pradesh-831372.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Quotations invited for supply of PPE kits to overcome 'acute shortage' in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir Medical Supplies Corporation Limited (JKMSCL) has invited quotations for supply of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to overcome “acute shortage” in various coronavirus-hit areas. It has asked the prospective bidders to respond only if they are in a position to execute the supplies of minimum 10,000 PPE kits by May 1.  The department has sought online quotations from the manufacturers and authorised dealers for supply of the PPE kits, including personal protective coverall (garments) along with shoe covers, N-95 masks, goggles, face shields and nitrile gloves. It said no advance payment would be made at all. “Payment shall be released after receipt and verification of the supplies by the constituted board. Non conviction certification, quality certification, catalog and GST registration shall be uploaded with the quotation,” JKMSCL, a public sector unit of the Jammu and Kashmir government, said in its tender which was floated online on Monday.  Various government-run hospitals have been raising the demand for immediate supply of adequate PPE kits for the protection of the medical and non-medical staff as COVID-19 cases continue its upward trend in the Union Territory. Eight persons -- seven in Kashmir and one in Udhampur district of Jammu -- died due to the disease, while over 550 others were tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-quotations-invited-for-supply-of-ppe-kits-to-overcome-acute-shortage-in-jk-831377.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Authorities in Faridabad restrict movement of people from other states, districts||In the wake of rising coronavirus cases, authorities in Faridabad on Wednesday ordered restrictions over movement of government employees and regular people from other districts or states. According to an order issued by Faridabad's Deputy Commissioner Yash Pal, those government employees and regular people who commute daily from other districts or states, their movement has been stopped with effect from 12 pm on April 29. "Doctors, paramedics, bank employees and police are allowed to enter the district only till 12 pm of April 29 with their valid identity cards after which no relaxation for movement will be given," the order said. Those working in neighbouring places like Delhi that includes doctors, paramedics, bank employees and police personnel will have to make arrangements to stay at their workplace, it said, adding the directions will remain applicable till May 3. However, ambulances, vehicles transporting essential supplies and those involved in banking and gas services will be allowed to enter the district. The movement passes issued by the Centre under special circumstances will be recognised and such pass holders will be allowed to enter Faridabad, which abuts Delhi. Faridabad district has reported 46 coronavirus cases and is closely behind other worst-hit districts Gurgaon (51) and Nuh (57).  Earlier, Haryana's Home Minister Anil Vij had said that the state's borders with Delhi were “sealed” with essential services allowed but stricter restrictions imposed on those coming in from the national capital.   Vij had said that many of the coronavirus cases in NCR districts, including Sonipat, Gurgaon and Faridabad, have been found to have contracted infection from the national capital. He said that daily movement of the employees working in Delhi to their residences in Haryana increases the risk of spreading COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-authorities-in-faridabad-restrict-movement-of-people-from-other-states-districts-831384.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||Three AuGH militants killed in Kashmir’s Shopian||Three militants were killed while an army officer, a soldier and a civilian were injured in an overnight encounter between security forces and ultras in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Wednesday. A police official said while one militant was killed on Tuesday evening, two were gunned down on Wednesday. An Army officer, a soldier and a woman also sustained injuries during the gunfight, which had erupted on Tuesday evening at Melhora in Zainapora area of Shopian, he said. Earlier, police said that on ‘specific inputs’ about the presence of militants, a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) was launched in the area by a joint team of security forces including 55 Rashtriya Rifles and J&K Police. During the searches, the hiding militants fired upon the forces, which retaliated, triggering an encounter. Pertinently, four militants of Ansar Gazwat-ul-Hind (AuGH), an affiliate of Al Qaeda in Kashmir, were killed in an encounter with security forces in the same village on April 22. While police did not divulge the details about identification and group affiliation of the slain militants, sources said, they were affiliated with AuGH and one of them is its Kashmir chief Burhan Koka. In recent days, as part of new strategy, police do not reveal the identities of the slain militants and all the bodies of local ultras are taken either to north Kashmir or central Kashmir’s Sonamarg for burial to avoid huge gatherings at funerals. In the last 10-days, seven encounters have been reported in south Kashmir in which 20 local militants and one of their associates have been killed. Over 60 militants, including several top commanders of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) and Lashker-e-Toiba (LeT) have been killed in counter-insurgency operations by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir this year so far. April witnessed the highest number of militant casualties with 30 ultras killed so-far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-augh-militants-killed-in-kashmir-s-shopian-831410.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC rejects trust's plea to enter containment area for COVID-19 relief work||The Delhi High Court has dismissed a charitable trust's petition seeking permission to enter a containment area to do relief work, saying such pleas have "propensity to seriously impede" efforts of authorities to control spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The Civilian Welfare and Developm Trust had sought permission to enter the Chandni Mahal containment area in central Delhi to distribute ration and other material stored in its godowns there. Justice C Hari Shankar said the plea was "totally bereft of substance" or any material to indicate that essential commodities are not being made available to all persons located in the Chandni Mahal containment area by the authorities. The high court said such pleas "cannot be styled as public interest litigations, but are, in fact, inimical to public interest". Justice Shankar also noted in his order that he had earlier on April 15 dismissed a similar plea of the same trust with cost of Rs 10,000, but it was again re-agitating the issue now. The trust, in its defence, said it was not re-agitating the issue as it had not on the earlier occasion brought to the court's attention provisions of the Disaster Management Act which would permit the organisation to access the containment area. However, the court said that none of the provisions of the Act support the trust's plea to enter the containment area and distribute ration and other material, stated to be contained in its godowns, amongst the needy persons. The judge said that in the earlier matter of April 15, he had categorically opined that "there could be no question of allowing any person to enter a containment area". "The very purpose of designating an area as a 'containment area' is to ensure that ingress and egress of the public, to and from such area, is avoided. "The measure is an extreme one and has been resorted to, only in view of the unforeseen and unprecedented, and, admittedly, emergent situation, in which the country finds itself, in the wake of the global COVID-2019 pandemic," the court said in its order passed on Monday. The April 15 order had come while dismissing the trust's plea seeking contempt action against Delhi government officials for not issuing it travel passes to enter the containment area for relief work.  A cost of Rs 10,000 was also imposed on the organisation for moving the contempt plea. Subsequently, the trust had challenged the April 15 order before a division bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula which on April 27 dismissed the appeal saying it constituted an obstruction of officials work and was not in public interest. Justice Shankar, in his order of April 27, also said it was "unfortunate" that an organization which calls itself the 'Civilian Welfare and Development Trust' was "repeatedly filing such petitions" to have access to a containment area. The court said such actions were "directly in conflict with public interest and in stark violation of the provision of the Disaster Management Act and the very purpose of notifying the Chandni Mahal area as a 'containment area'." The judge said as he had already once imposed costs on the trust he was refraining from doing so once again, even though imposition of punitive costs may have been "eminently justified".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-rejects-trusts-plea-to-enter-containment-area-for-covid-19-relief-work-831420.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||Worry in MP as reports on 10K samples awaited||A significant surge in COVID-19 cases is feared in Madhya Pradesh as reports on 10,000 samples are awaited. The number of patients has already reached 2,519 till Wednesday afternoon with identification of 177 fresh cases. The death toll has risen to 123 after 10 more deaths were reported on Tuesday. The number of recovered patients stands at 472. Indore, with 1372 cases and 63 deaths, remains most critical city in MP, followed by Bhopal (458 cases, 13 deaths) and Ujjain (123 cases, 20 deaths).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/worry-in-mp-as-reports-on-10k-samples-awaited-831421.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||3 new COVID-19 cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar, total rises to 137||Three more people tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Wednesday, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district to 137, officials said. On the brighter side, two patients were discharged from hospitals following their treatment for COVID-19, the officials said. "Total 91 reports have been received in the last 24 hours. Three of them have tested positive and 88 resulted negative for COVID-19. The cumulative positive cases of coronavirus in Gautam Buddh Nagar are now 137," District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said. "So far, 81 of the 137 patients have been cured and discharged, leaving 56 active cases in the district," he said. The recovery rate of patients is 59.12 per cent, according to the official statistics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-new-covid-19-cases-in-gautam-buddh-nagar-total-rises-to-137-831425.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Punjab lockdown to continue till May 17, certain relaxations announced||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced the extension of the lockdown in the state by two weeks after May 3, though some relaxations have been given in areas that do not fall under the containment or red zones. However, containment zones will continue to remain under total and strict lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus, he said while addressing the people of the state. Based on the report of the expert committee set up to formulate the state's lockdown exit strategy and the inputs received from various sections of the society, the chief minister said it was necessary to continue with the lockdown restrictions for some more time. The lockdown in the state will now remain in force in Punjab till May 17, though limited easing of restrictions will be in place from Thursday from 7 AM to 11 AM every day, he said. The chief minister said certain shops will be allowed to remain open in specific areas by rotation for four hours every morning, with 50 per cent staff strength. The deputy commissioners have been directed to work out a schedule for the shops that are allowed to be opened, he said. The situation will be reviewed after two weeks and further relaxations will be announced thereafter if the pandemic remains in control, the chief minister said. The curfew to enforce the lockdown will remain in place after 11 AM as usual, said the Chief Minister, appealing to people to be back in their homes by that time and to maintain social distancing.  The Punjab government had announced imposition of curfew in the state on March 23 to enforce the lockdown in the wake of coronavirus outbreak. "All those stepping out during the relaxation period would have to wear masks and maintain a two-metre distance from others," he said, adding that the relief has been provided only for the convenience of the people and should not be used for social interactions. "If the situation improves after two weeks, we can take more steps," the chief minister said. The limited relaxations announced from Thursday include permission for opening of all registered shops, except those in multi-brand and single-brand malls, with 50 per cent strength of workers from 7 am to 11 am. In urban areas, all stand-alone shops, neighbourhood shops and shops in residential complexes are allowed to open during this period, the CM said. However, establishments dealing in services like saloons and barbershops would continue to remain closed, he said. Further, e-commerce companies will continue to be permitted to deal in essential goods only during this period, he said. Expressing his government's keenness to see the industries up and running, the chief minister urged all those who could accommodate workers or had workers staying in the vicinity to start opening up in order to help revive the state's battered economy. Referring to the large number of people from the state stranded in other parts of the country due to the lockdown, the chief minister said it was his government's duty to bring them back but they would have to be quarantined for 21 days. The state had made arrangements for their quarantine in all districts, he said, adding that the problem had aggravated in Punjab due to the large number of NRIs who came home, followed by the attendees of the Nizamuddin event. The state, he said, could not afford to let things spiral out of control due to those coming from outside. Keeping those coming home from other states in quarantine was essential for protection of the people, he said. Earlier, the chief minister said the relief announced today was for the benefit of the people who had been under severe curfew restrictions for the past 38 days. Describing it as a difficult time for the people, who had sacrificed a lot for themselves, their families and the state at large,  Amarinder Singh said it had been necessary to control the pandemic, which had so far infected 330 people in the state. While various experts were coming out with different opinions, there seemed to be an indication that the coronavirus crisis could continue till July-August, or even September, the chief minister said, terming it a "long-drawn battle".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-punjab-lockdown-to-continue-till-may-17-certain-relaxations-announced-831435.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||Spurt in coronavirus cases, 13 Bihar districts in red zone||There has been a sudden spurt in corona cases in Bihar in the last five days with the number of positive cases almost doubling compared to the last week. With 12 new cases reported on Wednesday, the figure has now gone up to 378. Besides, 13 districts, out of 28 affected ones, have been classified as a red zone. This includes the state capital, Patna, too, which has the second-highest number of positive cases, 39, in Bihar. Munger tops the list with 92 cases. The local administration has sealed the district with no one being allowed to enter it unless and until he/she has been certified by a doctor. The 12 new cases were found in Buxar on Wednesday thereby taking the tally in the district to 38. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s home town Nalanda ranks fourth with 35 cases. “In all these cases, the patient has been in touch with someone who has travelled from outside,” said the source in the Health Department, explaining why Nitish has been vociferously opposing the return of migrant workers and students stuck up outside the state. Meanwhile, former Union minister and BJP MP from Pataliputra, Ram Kripal Yadav has appealed to the chief minister to find a way out so that the students stuck up in Kota, Rajasthan, could be brought to Bihar.  The JD(U) has, however, asked the BJP MP to “plead with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and get the lockdown guidelines relaxed instead of making an appeal to the Bihar chief minister.” It is worth mentioning here that CMs of UP, MP, Haryana and West Bengal have brought students from Kota to their respective state by sending special buses to Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/spurt-in-coronavirus-cases-13-bihar-districts-in-red-zone-831442.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||UP coronavirus count: Two deaths, 62 new cases, 36 casualties, 2,115 total infections till date||With two more COVID-19 deaths and 62 new cases of infection reported from Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday, the coronavirus casualty count in the state rose to 36 and the total number of infected patients to 2,115 in the state. "So far, as many as 2,115 COVID-19 cases have been reported from 60 districts of the state," said Principal Secretary (Medical and Health) Amit Mohan Prasad, briefing reporters here. Thirty-six COVID-19 deaths have taken place in the state, while as many as 477 patients have been discharged, he added. The count of active cases in the state stands at 1,602, he said. Prasad also said sampling is now being done as per the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR)guidelines. "At present, pool testing is going on in 10 laboratories in the state, and so far 332 pool tests have been conducted. As many as 1,612 samples were tested. Of the 332 pools, 15 pools tested positive for COVID-19," Prasad said. He also informed, "Yesterday, 75 new units of L1 COVID care centres have been notified. There are 155 L-1 COVID-19 hospitals in the state, 78 L-2 hospitals and 6 L-3 hospitals in the state." "After the imposition of lockdown, there has been an impact on health services. A government order has been issued, so that vaccination and immunisation of children can be started at the earliest," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-coronavirus-count-two-deaths-62-new-cases-36-casualties-2115-total-infections-till-date-831476.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||Pakistan shells forward posts along LoC in J&K's Poonch||Pakistani troops resorted to unprovoked shelling on forward posts and villages along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Wednesday, a defence spokesperson said. The Pakistani troops initiated small arms firing and mortar shelling around 5.15 pm in Shahpur and Kirni sectors of Poonch, he said. The Indian Army retaliated befittingly and the cross-border shelling between both the sides was going on when last reports came in, the spokesperson added. However, there was no immediate report of any casualty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-shells-forward-posts-along-loc-in-jks-poonch-831495.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||No new coronavirus case in Himachal Pradesh in six days||Himachal Pradesh has not reported any fresh COVID-19 case in the past six days, a senior health official said on Wednesday. So far, 41 coronavirus cases have been reported and the number of active cases in the state is 10, the official said. Two people have died of COVID-19 in the state. The fatalities include a 70-year-old Delhi resident who had stayed at a guest house of a factory in Solan's Baddi and died at the PGIMER, Chandigarh, on April 2. "Of the 389 samples sent for testing on Wednesday, 227 tested negative for the infection while reports of the rest are awaited," Additional Chief Secretary (Health) R D Dhiman said. These tests are being conducted at Tanda's Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College (RPGMC) in Kangra, Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College (SLBSGMC) Nerchowk in Mandi, Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) in Shimla and Kasauli's Central Research Institute (CRI) in Solan. Four active cases from Una, two cases each from Chamba and Hamirpur and one case each from Kangra and Sirmaur are being treated at Tanda's RPGMC, Bhota Charitable Hospital in Hamirpur and the Katha's ESIC in Baddi.  Twelve patients from Una district, five from Solan, four from Chamba, three from Kangra and one from Sirmaur have recovered from the infection so far.   Four patients were taken to a private hospital outside Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-new-coronavirus-case-in-himachal-pradesh-in-six-days-831496.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||Cops earn praise for burying elderly woman who died of COVID-19 in JK||The police has earned praise for carrying out the last rites of an elderly COVID-19 positive woman, who died here on Tuesday, as her family members could not be present to bury her amid the countrywide lockdown.  The 80-year-old woman, who was diabetic and hypertensive, was laid to rest at a graveyard in Rainawari area of the city by police personnel as per the World Health Organisation protocol.  The funeral prayers were also performed by the police as the woman's close relatives were placed in administrative quarantine after she had tested positive for the disease. Social media was abuzz with appreciation for the police officials for going beyond their call of duty to give a dignified burial to the woman.  "Cops beyond the call of duty: SHO of Rainawari burried the deceased lady from Rainawari who died of COVID-19. Her relatives could not turn for funeral but the officer did," a senior police officer tweeted.  Another Twitter user, Waseem Khan, wrote, "May Allah reward them all for this noble cause, they're serving the people in all aspects. They really care for the people of J&K". However, the inability of the victim's close relatives to bid her goodbye also caused some to express sympathies for her and her kin on social media. "This pandemic has snatched the very humane touch we all long for. Not being able to say good bye is worse than the death itself, " Saleem Sofi, a Facebook user,  wrote.  Dr Naveed Nazir Shah, who is heading the COVID-19 hospital at Dalgate, also took to social media to express his views.  "Painfull to see the family members, near n dear ones not able to perform the last rites," Shah tweeted.  He said the woman neither had a travel history nor was a primary contact of any coronavirus patient.  "This is what  can happen if we  DONT  follow advisories. ELDERLY PATIENTS WITH COMORBIDITIES are most susceptible, " he warned.  Meanwhile, the Doctors Association of Kashmir has said there is no risk of catching infection from the bodies of persons who die from the novel coronavirus. "Cadavers do not transmit disease," said DAK President Dr Nisar ul Hassan.  "There is no evidence of a person being infected from exposure to a corpse of a person who died of coronavirus," he said. Dr Nisar said the main driver of transmission of COVID-19 is through respiratory droplets generated when an infected person coughs or sneezes. "There is no chance of spread of infection from a dead person. The dead person won't cough or sneeze. The virus doesn't survive in the human body after death," he added. Dr Nisar said health care workers and family members should be sensitized that dead people cannot spread the novel coronavirus and there is no reason to worry as long as standard precautions are followed. "For health care workers, mortuary staff and others handling bodies, these standard precautions involve wearing PPE," he said "For family members, they involve not touching the body, wearing basic protective gear and not gathering in groups to pray," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cops-earn-praise-for-burying-elderly-woman-who-died-of-covid-19-in-jk-831500.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||Plea in HC questions quarantine norms implementation by Delhi govt||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response of the AAP government on a plea questioning its way of implementing COVID-19 quarantine guidelines as one of the 72 families, which had contact with a coronavirus infected pizza delivery person, was put in quarantine for over 30 days. Justice C Hari Shankar issued notice to the Delhi government and sought its stand on the petition by a photo-journalist who was put in quarantine from midnight of March 24-25, when he had first contact with the delivery person, till April 28 -- for a period of over 30 days as against the stipulated 14 days. Besides, the quarantine notice was pasted on the petitioner Amit Bhargava's house on April 15, more than 20 days after he had first contact with the delivery person.  The notice said he was under quarantine from March 24 to April 20, which led to his neighbours questioning him as to why he was not observing quarantine since March 24, said the petition filed through advocate Shyel Trehan. The petition contended that the infected delivery person was diagnosed with coronavirus only on April 14 and therefore, the manner in which the government calculated the quarantine period indicated "non-application of mind". The plea further said that on April 17 another home quarantine notice was pasted on Bhargava's door and this time period was specified -- April 14-28. "There appears to be no basis for the calculation of a home quarantine for a period of over 30 days from the date of contact with the infected person, either clinically, or in law. The imposition of a 35 day quarantine period on a person who had a single defined point of contact with the infected individual, and who lives alone, appears to be arbitrary and reflects non-application of mind. "The calculation and imposition of home quarantine on the petitioner (Bhargava) is contrary to the 'Guidelines for home quarantine' issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare," the petition has contended.  It has sought directions to the Delhi government to strictly adhere to the said guidelines and follow due procedure, "when issues of liberty are at stake".    The photo-journalist also contended in his plea that during the entire period he was not tested for the infection by the government and he could not go out for testing at a private lab as for that a doctor's prescription was required for which he would have to go out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-in-hc-questions-quarantine-norms-implementation-by-delhi-govt-831520.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||16 rape, 64 molestation cases reported in J&K during coronavirus lockdown||Amid COVID-19 lockdown, 16 rape cases and 64 incidents of molestations were reported from Jammu and Kashmir Union Territory. (UT). Taking a suo-moto notice of the negative impact of the lockdown imposed due to COVID-19 pandemic on women and girls, a Coram consisting of Chief Justice, Justice Geeta Mittal and Justice Rajnesh Oswal had recently issued notices to J&K government and asked it to submit a report with regard to the steps taken regarding domestic or any other kind of violence being faced by women. A report submitted by the state government in the Court revealed that 16 cases of rape, 64 cases of molestation and one case of eve-teasing have been reported in J&K during the lockdown period. It further said that as many as 1314 calls have been received from the affected persons on the emergency number 181 from March 24 to April 24, out of which 65 were related to violence against women. “The remaining 956 calls were reported by migrant labourers, who were in distress on account of the lockdown,” it said. As per the government, Rs 10 lakh for each district of UT of J&K has been sanctioned out of SDRF fund for COVID-19 containment for victims of domestic violence for providing temporary accommodation, food clothing and medical care.  The High Court directed the government to consider notifying appropriate spaces so that women in difficulty have easy access to them.  The Court also directed the Department of Social Welfare and member State Legal Services Authority examine the requirements and steps necessary to mitigate the complaints and difficulties of victims of elderly abuse; child violence; violence against disabled and transgenders in the UTs of J&K as well as Ladakh. Last week former chairperson J&K women’s commission Vasundhra Phatak Masoodi had said that she was getting a lot of distress calls from women from the Valley complaining about domestic violence amid lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/16-rape-64-molestation-cases-reported-in-jk-during-coronavirus-lockdown-831532.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||Jammu & Kashmir reports 16 more coronavirus cases, tally reaches 581||Jammu and Kashmir had 16 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday taking the tally of infection to 581 in the Union Territory. Officials said among the new COVID-19 positive patients, six were detected at the virology lab of territory-care SKIMS hospital, while ten were confirmed at the VRDL lab at Chest Disease Hospital in Srinagar. Nine of the new positive cases are from south Kashmir’s Anantnag district, Srinagar reported only one case today. Even as an over 80-year-old woman from old city Rainawari, Srinagar succumbed to COVID-19 on Tuesday, the city has of late begun to witness a steady decline in the number of coronavirus cases. For the last two weeks, the recovery rate of positive patients in Srinagar has been quite encouraging. The total number of positive cases recorded in Srinagar till today was 87 out of which 50 persons have recovered, while 35 remain to be active positive. As per officials, apart from contact tracing, aggressive testing has helped Srinagar to fight COVID-19.   However, in the last one week Anantnag has emerged as a new hotspot in Kashmir with even health workers testing positive for coronavirus infection in the district, raising concerns about the lack of safety measures in rural hospitals. 71 positive cases have been reported in the district in just one week. According to the daily Media Bulletin, out of 581 positive cases, 381 are Active Positive, 192 have recovered and eight have died. The Bulletin said that out of 18450 test results available, 17869 samples have tested as negative till April 29. Till date 68846 travelers and persons in contact with suspected cases have been enlisted for surveillance which include 6440 persons in home quarantine including facilities operated by government, 244 in Hospital Quarantine, 381 in hospital isolation and 8663 under home surveillance. Besides, 53110 persons have completed their surveillance period, the Bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-kashmir-reports-16-more-coronavirus-cases-tally-reaches-581-831536.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||90% of Delhi's containment zones have not reported new COVID-19 cases recently: Jain||There have been no new coronavirus case in 90 per cent of the containment zones recently in the national capital, Delhi Health minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday. He said earlier the doubling rate of COVID-19 cases was four or five days but the current doubling rate is 13 days in Delhi, which is more than the national average. "There are 3,314 cases in Delhi currently including 206 from Tuesday. Thirty-two per cent of the patients, which means 1,000 patients have recovered so far," he told reporters. Out of the total patients who are hospitalised, 53 are in ICU and 12 are on ventilators, he said. "Those who are asymptomatic, they are being home quarantined," he added. When asked about the growing number of containment zones, he said the area which report even three cases are declared as containment zones. "But new cases have stopped coming from 90 per cent of the containment zones in the national capital recently," he said. There are currently 100 containment zones in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/90-of-delhis-containment-zones-have-not-reported-new-covid-19-cases-recently-jain-831564.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||Jamia violence: Delhi Police books Sharjeel Imam under UAPA||The Delhi Police has booked former JNU student Sharjeel Imam under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the violent protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act near Jamia Millia Islamia in December last year, said his lawyer. Imam has been booked under section 13 (unlawful activities) of the Act in the case, said his counsel advocate Mishika Singh. The police had earlier charged Imam with sedition, alleging his speech promoted enmity between people that led to riots. "He was arrested in two cases of violence at Jamia on December 13 and 15, 2019, for instigating and abetting the Jamia riots, due to his seditious speech on December 13 and based on evidences collected, IPC sections 124 A and 153 A were also invoked," said Anil Mittal, Additional PRO, Delhi Police. In its supplementary charge sheet, the police had said serious riots had broken out in consequence of the protest march organised by Jamia students against the amended citizenship law on December 15 last year. The mob indulged in large-scale rioting, stone-pelting and arson, and in the process destroyed several public and private properties while a number of police personnel and people were injured in the riots, the agency said in its final report filed before the chief metropolitan magistrate court. The cases were registered at New Friends Colony and Jamia Nagar Police Stations. In the New Friends Colony case, Imam was arrested for instigating and abetting the Jamia riots, due to his seditious speech delivered on December 13, 2019. "During investigation, on the basis of evidence collected, sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 A IPC (promoting enmity between classes) were invoked in the case," a police officer said. Imam was arrested from Bihar's Jehanabad on January 28. He was involved in organising protests at Shaheen Bagh but came into limelight after a video showed him making controversial comments before a gathering at Aligarh Muslim University, following which he was booked under sedition charges. The Delhi Police had also booked him for an "inflammatory" speech delivered on the Jamia campus. Another case was filed against Imam in Assam under the stringent anti-terror law for his remark that Assam could be "severed from India, even if for a few months" as a result of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Police in Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh had also lodged FIRs against the JNU scholar over his speech in which he threatened to "cut off" Assam and the rest of the northeast from the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jamia-violence-delhi-police-books-sharjeel-imam-under-uapa-831572.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||BJP slams Delhi Minority Commission Chairman's remarks||The BJP on Wednesday slammed Delhi Minority Commission Chairman Zafarul-Islam Khan's reported controversial remarks on social media "thanking" Kuwait for its "support" to Indian Muslims, and demanded that he be sacked. "The Delhi Minorities Commission Chief Mr Khan has drafted and posted an 'anti-India' letter on his social media. The letter is anti-India as it is against the basic tenets of the Indian Constitution," BJP's national spokesperson Sambit Patra alleged in a statement. Khan, whose term as Delhi Minorities Commission chairman ends in July this year, asserted that he was a "patriot" and warned of legal action against TV channels for allegedly distorting his views. "I issued a tweet on my Twitter handle on April 28. Nothing more should be added to this tweet as done by many media establishments. This tweet is in the background of how the issues of Muslims have been dealt within our country. Be it lynching, riots, media bashing or redressal of their problems in political and administrative processes," he said in the statement. Underlining that for Indian Muslims there can be no other place as safe as India, Patra questioned Khan's faith on Indian judiciary and Constitution. "Mr Khan projecting Zakir Naik as an Indian Muslim hero only confirms that he has ulterior motives and is trying to save even terror perpetrators," he said.   Patra demanded that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal sack Khan for indulging in anti-India activity. BJP MLA and Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri also made a similar demand. "Khan who holds a constitutional post has made anti-national comment and he should be immediately removed," Bidhuri said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-slams-delhi-minority-commission-chairmans-remarks-831580.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||J&K admin grants land to landslide-hit 132 families in Udhampur||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Wednesday granted five marla land on lease basis each to the 132 families who were rendered homeless by a landslide in 2014 in Saddal village of Udhampur district, an official spokesman said. In order to provide relief to the landslide victims of Saddal village, the Administrative Council headed by Lt Governor G C Murmu on Wednesday accorded sanction to the grant of five marla land on lease basis each to the 132 families affected due to the natural calamity in 2014, he said. As per the decision, 71 families would be provided land in Mansar village and 61 affected families in Debriah village in the district for their rehabilitation, the spokesman said. A massive landslide struck Saddal village in September 2014, rendering 134 families homeless. The Administrative Council also accorded sanction to the transfer of Shamilat (Kahcharai) land measuring 60 kanals (three hectares) situated in Chandhara village in Pulwama district of south Kashmir to the School Education Department for establishing a Kendriya Vidyalaya, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-admin-grants-land-to-landslide-hit-132-families-in-udhampur-831599.html
29-04-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan hikes excise duty on liquor by 10% points||Hit by huge revenue losses due to lockdown, the Rajasthan government has increased excise duty on liquor by 10 percentage points. The state's finance department issued the orders to amend a notification to increase the duty on Wednesday. The excise duty on Indian-Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) bottles having price below Rs 900 will now be 35 per cent instead of 25 per cent and the duty will now be 45 per cent instead of 35 per cent on IMFL bottles having price of Rs 900 or above, according to an official of the state excise department. The duty on beer was increased from 35 per cent to 45 per cent, he said. The basic licence fee for sale of Country Liquor and Rajasthan Made Liquor (RML) was also raised. The state government's revenue has badly affected due to lockdown which was imposed due to corona pandemic and the decision is aimed at collecting additional revenue from excise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-hikes-excise-duty-on-liquor-by-10-points-831605.html
29-04-2020||South||Infant among 73 new COVID-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh; tally crosses 1300 mark||An 11-month-old baby was among the 73 people who tested positive for coronavirus in Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours ending 9 am on Wednesday. The state's Covid-19 tally now crossed the 1300 mark and touched 1,332, the latest government bulletin said. While 29 more coronavirus patients got cured and discharged from hospitals in the state, the toll remained unchanged at 31, the bulletin said. Official sources, meanwhile, said the 11-month baby was from a family in the worst-affected Kurnool district, whose member returned from the Tablighi Jamaat congregation last month. The family remained in quarantine for 14 days but during a follow-up test, the baby was found to have caught the virus. "We are getting it checked again," a senior official monitoring the situation in Kurnool said over the phone. Following the Centre's latest guidelines, the child would be kept in home quarantine and monitored, he said. The kid becomes the youngest in the state to be hit by coronavirus while the oldest, an 85-year-old woman in Anantapuramu district, had recovered and been discharged last week. Almost all the Covid-19-affected districts in the state, barring SPS Nellore, reported fresh cases on Wednesday with Guntur registered the highest 29.  Vizianagaram continued to remain the only corona-free district in AP so far with zero cases. In neighbouring Srikakulam, where the pandemic spread for the first time last week, one fresh case was added on Wednesday, taking the total to five. As a record 7,727 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, the aggregate tests score in the state touched 88,061, of which 86,729 turned negative. The total number of patients discharged so far went up to 287, leaving 1,014 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/infant-among-73-new-covid-19-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-crosses-1300-mark-831320.html
29-04-2020||South||Telangana becoming rice bowl of the country, says CM||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday said the state is becoming the rice bowl of the country due to record paddy being cultivated following improvement in irrigation facilities. He said a strategy is being worked out to ensure reasonable support price for the agricultural produce in view of the increase inyield and acreage. Rao, who held a meeting on agriculture-related issues, also favoured the cultivation of crops in a regulated manner in which the farmers should cultivate crops that would have a demand in the market, an official release said.  He told the officials concerned to construct godowns with an additional capacity of 40 lakh tonnes. About 1300 TMC of water in Godavari and Krishna would be used soon as the government has prioritised irrigation projects, the Chief Minister said. Besides, availability of water for irrigation improved due to works taken up to revive tanks under Mission Kakatiya scheme and also due to the 24-hour-free power supply to farm sector, he said. Under projects related to wells and borewells, there is a possibility of having two crops in 1.45 crore acres and three crops in 10 lakh acres. Then Telangana will become the rice bowl of India. The yield will be doubled in the years to come. It is our bounden duty to finalise a strategy to get the support price, he said. Observing that the state government is now buying each and every morsel produced by farmers as the farmers are in distress due to the prevailing COVID-19 situation, Rao said the farmers should similarly get their support price in future too. Favouring the civil supplies department to buy paddy, pulses, and mill them into rice and pulses through food processing units and supplying them to people, he said such a move would help farmers get proper support price. The civil supplies department should prepare an action plan in this direction, he said.  The Chief Minister also favoured the farmers going for crops as per market demand. The practice of every farmer going for the same crop should be done away with. Farmers should go in for crops which have a demand in the markets. The agriculture department should suggest which crop should be grown in which area. Farmers should go in for crops as suggested by the Agriculture department. The government should procure the yield, he said. Procurement should also be done in a regulatory manner and the government is ready bring in a legislation if need be in this regard, he said. Noting that there is more demand for fertilisers and pesticides and seeds in view of rise in cultivation of crops, he said there is a need for 22.30 lakh tonnes of fertilisers in the coming monsoon season. Arrangements are being made to keep the fertilisers available for farmers. Saying that godowns with a capacity of 22.5 lakh tonnes are available in the state, he favoured construction of godowns with an additional capacity of 40 lakh tonnes. He suggested that the Rythu Bandhu Samitis (farmers coordination panels) plays an active role in helping the farmers. He further said the government is taking stern action against sale of spurious seeds, fertilisers and pesticides. According to official sources, the estimated production of paddy during the current season is around one core MTs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-becoming-rice-bowl-of-the-country-says-cm-831370.html
29-04-2020||South||Andhra to bring back 6,000 firshermen stuck in Gujarat: Prabhu||Andhra Pradesh is sending special buses to Veraval in Gujarat to bring back nearly 6,000 fishermen stranded due to the lockdown, former Union Minister and Rajya Sabha member Suresh Prabhu said on Wednesday. "I got the information regarding these fishermen. Immediately I contacted the Gujarat chief minister, local BJP unit and NGOs there for the supply of food and daily necessities to them," he said. Prabhhu, who is a Rajya Sabha member from Andhra Pradesh, said that he was also pursuing the matter with Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy. "I have been informed that special buses have been deployed to bring these 6,000 fishermen back to their homes. It was my responsibility as member of Parliament from the state to help them," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-to-bring-back-6000-firshermen-stuck-in-gujarat-prabhu-831397.html
29-04-2020||South||Spread of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu 'largely under control': CM Palaniswami||The spread of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu is "largely under control" due to the implementation of various government guidelines, but the contagion is "easily" spreading in this city due to its large population, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said on Wednesday. Palaniswami, who indicated resuming manufacturing in the Green Zones, also rued people not strictly following social distancing norms and urged the respective district administrations to ensure this principle is adhered to. Addressing a review meeting on Coronavirus with District Collectors, he also patted the officials for leading the fight against the pandemic and said government's measures in stemming its spread has largely borne fruit due to their efforts. "Barring Chennai, the spread is largely under control in other districts," he said and credited the collectors for strictly enforcing various guidelines in the fight against the deadly virus. "Chennai is a big city. More people reside here. Further, many visit the city. Moreover, there are narrow streets where a large population lives and due to this, the virus easily spreads from one person to another. This is the reason for the increased spread of the disease here," he said. As on Tuesday, the state capital has the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases in the state, 673 out of the 2,058. Incidentally, of the 121 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, the city had 103 infections. Palaniswami said that irrespective of an area being a city or rural one, the pandemic can be controlled if the government guidelines were strictly implemented and lauded the Collectors for doing so with the aim of contolling the spread. The district heads were diligently implementing the government's various measures, including availability of essential commodities, even as the coordinated work of various departments like Health, Police and Revenue, among others, had helped prevent the spread, he said. However, social distancing was not being strictly followed by the people, especially in ration shops and vegetable markets and the officials should ensure it was duly followed, he said. Compared to the struggles of many developed nations and super powers, the state was ensuring better delivery of public services, including on the food front, he said. T he flagship Amma Canteens, which are providing free meals to the needy and poor, was proof of this, even as migrant workers living here, among others, were being taken good care of. The police should ensure nobody enters or exits a containment zone, he added. On resuming or starting businesses,  Palaniswami said the government would advise Collectors accordingly on allowing such activities in the respective green zones. Those industries that could be given the green signal include cement, sugar, sago, steel and medical equipment, as allowed by the Centre, the Chief Minister added. Proper cleaning and maintenance of public toilets, strict implementation of all ongoing lockdown norms and keeping an eye on border districts were the other points stressed by Palaniswami as part of the virus control plan. Efforts should be to turn the Red zones in the state to Orange, while the latter should become Green and normalcy across the state should be ensured gradually, the Chief Minister told the officials. According to the government's virus hotspot categorisation, Red Zone denotes over 15 cases or those with a doubling time of less than four days while the Orange means districts with less than 15 infections. Green Zones are those with no new cases in the last 28 days. As of April 28, Krishnagiri district is the only Green Zone in Tamil Nadu, of the total 37 districts in the state. As many as seven are categorised as Orange, while the rest, including Chennai, are listed as Red Zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/spread-of-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu-largely-under-control-cm-palaniswami-831404.html
29-04-2020||South||COVID-19: Mother holds her baby 15 days after birth||At the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border, Sofia Marin Banu glanced down at her precious bundle of joy in her arms for the first time on Wednesday, 15 days after the baby girl was born in a hospital in Nagercoil. Amid the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown, officials of Kerala and Tamil Nadu witnessed the emotional reunion of mother and child at Kaliyikkavila. The healthy newborn was handed over to Marin by the medical staff of the private Erankulam Lisie Hospital where the child underwent a complicated surgery for a serious heart problem soon after her birth through cesarean section at a Nagercoil hospital. Her heart problem was diagnosed during pregnancy and the parents wanted the delivery at the private hospital at Ernakulam which is known for handling such cases. According to hospital sources, doctors had said the baby was due on April 30, but the woman developed labour pains much earlier and delivered the child at the Nagercoil hospital in Tamil Nadu. The baby born with complex heart disease (d- transposition of great arteries) was reunited with the mother after the surgery, hospital sources said here. Effective coordination by the Kerala and Tamil Nadu government officials removed all the blocks created due to the COVID-19 lockdown and the child was taken to Ernakulam in an ambulance immediately after her birth on April 14 for treatment, sources said. "It was a very complicated surgery. We kept the child in complete isolation during the course of treatment," Ebin Abraham, a Lissie hospital staff, told PTI. The surgery was conducted by a team of doctors led by cardiothoracic surgeon Sunil G S and pediatric cardiologist Edwin Francis.  The infant's father had accompanied the baby in the ambulance for the treatment but he was quarantined in a separate room in the hospital and was not allowed to see the child directly. He, however, saw his child through a video call. This is Marin's third child. "Certainly it was an emotional moment for Marin, who was in Nagercoil. But we could not see the emotions on her face as she was wearing a mask to protect herself from novel coronavirus infection when she received the baby from us," said Abraham who witnessed the reunion at the border.  Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's office, Ernakulam District Collector S Suhas and Tamil Nadu government intervened to facilitate the smooth journey of the ambulance carrying the child soon after her birth at the Nagercoil hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-mother-holds-her-baby-15-days-after-birth-831458.html
29-04-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: Migrant workers staged protest for wages at IIT Hyderabad||Migrant workers engaged in construction activities at the Indian Institute of Hyderabad went on a rampage on Wednesday demanding their pending salaries and permission to travel to their home states. About 2,400 workers from various states like Odisha, Bihar are engaged by two reputed infrastructure firms in the Phase-II building works at IIT Hyderabad, located near Kandi village, about 60 KMs from Hyderabad, in Sanga Reddy district. According to the district police officials, the agitated workers came out of their sheds, set up behind the IIT-H, in hundreds by Wednesday noon. Some were wielding sticks and raising slogans, and the workers pelted stones at a police jeep injuring three policemen initially sent there. Some executives of the construction firm were also reportedly attacked by the furious workers earlier, alleging non-payment of their March salaries. Additional police forces were rushed to the site and the situation was brought under control.  A few representatives of the workers were later taken to meet the district authorities, who convened a meeting between them and the construction firm executives.   The firms have reportedly agreed to pay the workers’ wages without delay. A decision on when to resume the construction work, which was halted due to the lockdown, would be announced thereafter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-migrant-workers-staged-protest-for-wages-at-iit-hyderabad-831509.html
29-04-2020||South||Lockdown violation: Book case instead of using 'lathi', Hyderabad Police chief to cops||A day after two men were allegedly hit by policemen here while enforcing lockdown, the city police has advised its personnel not to wield the lathis, saying such acts will spoil the hard work being done by the 10,000-strong constabulary in assisting the government in containing the spread of coronavirus. Referring to the incidents, Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar on Wednesday said the two incidents at Golconda and Mirchowk areas have brought bad name to the Hyderabad city police and in this regard a constable anda home guard were placed under suspension for their "unprofessional" conduct. Facing flak over use of force against people while enforcing lockdown by the police, the Hyderabad Police chief said any action regarding violation of lockdown should be done legally and added "You can book a case.But do not use lathi for such purpose". In separate incidents, the two men suffered bleeding injuries and one of them told media persons that one police man hit him on his head while he was on his way to buy vegetables. Meanwhile, the Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC) on Wednesday called for a report by June 2 from Hyderabad Police Commissioner after an advocate approached the Commission over the Golconda incident seeking directions for an inquiry into the matter and necessary action against the police personnel responsible for the act. Kumar said in both the cases police have used lathi to hit civilians and added "such unprofessional conduct of two police officers spoils the image ofhard work of more than 10,000 police officers in the city who are working so hard round- the-clock." He further said it appears the SHOs and Assistant Commissioners of Police are not briefing the police officers before the (duty) shift and the DeputyCommissioners of Policemust visit two Police Stations every day and brief the men.     "This is the holy month of Ramzan.People are fasting from morning to evening. You (police) all must show restraint and earn the goodwill of the community, " Kumar said, according to an official release. "All of you are working so hard for over a month and please do not allow few constables to spoil your hard work, " Kumar said. Hyderabad city police remain committed to safety, security and dignity of the common man, Kumar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lockdown-violation-book-case-instead-of-using-lathi-hyderabad-police-chief-to-cops-831568.html
29-04-2020||South||In Maharashtra, Mumbai records highest death toll, city sees 26 deaths on April 29||In yet another zoom, India's financial capital Mumbai recorded the highest number of coronavirus deaths in Maharashtra on Wednesday. While Maharashtra recorded 32 deaths, Mumbai recorded 26 deaths. On Tuesday, the Maharashtra and Mumbai toll were 31 and 25 respectively. The total positive cases in Maharashtra now stands at 9,915 and the death toll is at 432. While Mumbai's total number of positive cases stand at 6,644 and deaths 270. Out of the 32 deaths today, 25 were men and seven were women, 17 of them aged over 60 years, 15 were from the age group of 40 to 59 years. Eighteen out of 32 patients (56%) had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and heart disease.  Out of 1,37,159 laboratory samples, 1,26,376 were negative and 9915 have been tested positive for coronavirus until Wednesday. A central team, which recently visited Maharashtra to assess the COVID-19 situation, also found that the doubling rate of coronavirus cases in this megapolis is lower than what is registered by the state and the country, the civic body said. In a release, the BMC said that the doubling rate of coronavirus positive cases in the city has increased to 10 days from 8.3 days between April 11 and 27, and the mortality rate of patients declined to 3.9 per cent from 6.3 per cent in the same period.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-maharashtra-mumbai-records-highest-death-toll-city-sees-26-deaths-on-april-29-831573.html
29-04-2020||South||2 weeks after delivery, mother in TN reunites with her infant after treatment in Kerala||The Kerala - Tamilnadu border witnessed an emotional scene on Wednesday as a 15-day old baby born to a couple in Kanyakumari district was reunited with its mother after two weeks of treatment at a hospital in Kerala. The baby was born to Muhammed Faizal and Sofiya Nazriya Banu at a private hospital at Nagercoil in Kanyakumari on April 14. As the baby was found to be suffering from the transposition of great artery right at the time of birth, doctors referred the baby to Lisie Hospital in Kochi, about 275 kilometres from Nagercoil, even before the mother could have a look. Owing to travel restrictions due to lockdown, the child's immediate inter-state transportation was also made possible with the immediate intervention of Kerala and Tamilnadu governments. Only the father and another relative could travel to Kochi with the baby. The baby underwent emergency surgery. The child was named Fasrin by his father at the hospital.  On Wednesday the baby was discharged from hospital. A medical team took the child to the Kerala - Tamilnadu border between Thiruvananthapuram and Kanyakumari and handed over the baby to its mother.  The mother became emotional on seeing her baby two weeks after the delivery. She expressed thanks to the hospital authorities and those who arranged the transportation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/2-weeks-after-delivery-mother-in-tn-reunites-with-her-infant-after-treatment-in-kerala-831602.html
29-04-2020||State||Karnataka: Shops, industries can now function in state's green zones||Karnataka will ‘conditionally’ allow economic activities, including those considered as non-essential till date, to restart in green zones (districts without a single Covid-19 case) till May 3, as the state takes slow steps out of the lockdown.  The green zones of Chamarajanagar, Koppal, Chikkamagaluru, Raichur, Chitradurga, Ramanagara, Hassan, Shivamogga, Haveri, Yadgir, Kolar, Davangere, Udupi and Kodagu will now see shops and industrial activities start operations, said an order issued by Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar on Tuesday.  Lockdown restrictions will continue in the red zones of Bengaluru Urban, Belagavi, Mysuru, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Kalaburagi, Bidar and Dakshina Kannada, where only essential services and supplies will be allowed.   In the green zones, all shops including neighbourhood shops, standalone shops, shops in residential complexes within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities can open with 50% manpower, with masks and social distancing mandatory.  Shops in residential and marketing complexes are allowed to open in areas located outside municipal limits, the government order states. Multi-brand and single-brand malls will remain shut across the state. Industries operating in rural areas of these green zones (except Ramanagara) have been allowed to start.  Also, manufacturing and other industrial establishments with access control in special economic zones and export-oriented units, industrial estates and industrial townships will be allowed to operate.  “These establishments shall make arrangements for stay of workers within their premises as far as possible and/or adjacent buildings...The transportation of workers to workplace shall be arranged by the employers in dedicated transport by ensuring social distancing (sic),” Bhaskar said in the order.   The order comes a day after Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa participated in a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and with all deputy commissioners.  No decision has been taken on relaxing restrictions for Ballari, Mandya, Bengaluru Rural, Gadag, Tumakuru, Chikballapur, Uttara Kannada and Dharwad. “The decision regarding opening shops and industries in taluks where there are no active Covid-19 cases will be taken by the concerned district in-charge minister,” Bhaskarsaid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-shops-industries-can-now-function-in-states-green-zones-831218.html
29-04-2020||State||Friends of embattled billionaire assure B R Shetty will soon bounce back||Friends of embattled billionaire B R Shetty feel that he will come out clean in connection with the criminal complaint lodged against him by an Abu Dhabi-based bank. “He knows the value of NMC. He has not withdrawn the amount,” says Kaushal Shetty, General Manager, BRS Health and Research Institute. Kaushal told DH that if Shetty had intentions of swindling money, he would have withdrawn guarantee amount of $1.8 billion pledged for NMC. He will soon prove his innocence at the Attorney General’s Office of UAE, adds Kaushal.  No one knows what lies ahead for Shetty, whose swift rise is the stuff of movies.   Tracing his chequered rags-to-riches career, friends reveal that Shetty would not go down without a fight. Bavaguthu Raghuram Shetty was born in a Tulu-speaking Bunt community in 1942. After obtaining his degree in Clinical Pharmacy in 1972, Shetty began his career as a medical representative and became a distributor for a Pune-based pharmaceutical company in Udupi. Shetty tried his hand in politics. He and former Home Minister late Dr V S Acharya were active in local politics. He was elected twice to the Udupi town municipality from Bharathiya Jana Sangha (BJS). But unlike Dr Acharya, Shetty did not prolong his political career and migrated to UAE in 1973.  While working as a medical representative in UAE, Shetty begun selling fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) for a commission. In 1975, he took a gamble and set up a clinic-cum-pharmacy New Medical Centre (NMC) in a two-room apartment. At that time, the UAE government was offering healthcare for free. His wife Chandrakumari Shetty was the first doctor on board. Soon, NMC grew to become a healthcare giant in UAE, employing over 2,000 doctors across 45 hospitals. Shetty’s fortunes rose quickly. In 2018, he was worth $4.2 billion in 2018 and became a household name when he purchased the 100th and 140th floor in Burj Khalifain Dubai. For a decade, Shetty had evinced interest in improving the economy of undivided Dakshina Kannada district. His many proposals, except the proposal for setting up a 200-bed hospital in Udupi, have been gathering dust with the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/friends-of-embattled-billionaire-assure-b-r-shetty-will-soon-bounce-back-831220.html
29-04-2020||State||Karnataka: Hotel owner booked for taking out parade of coronavirus recovered patient in seal-down area||The owner of a posh hotel in Hubballi violated all the social distancing norms and seal-down rules on Tuesday by taking out a parade of a person, who is said to have recovered from COVID-19 in a highly sensitive zone of Old Hubballi.  An FIR against Metropolis Hotel owner, Ashraf Ali, who had organised the parade has been filed at Kamaripet Police Station in Hubballi late in the night. A video of the parade where tens of people are seen clapping and raising slogans to welcome a coronavirus recovered patient has now gone viral on social media. While it is claimed that the person in a video is P-194, a 27-year-old businessman from Mulla Oni and who recovered from the COVID-19 and was discharged from Karnataka Institute of Medical Science, Hubbali on April 24; the district administration, however, refuted claims and said that P-194 is still in the government facility and has not been let out.  Of the seven family members of the P-194 who are infected by the virus, six are still recovering at KIMS, the District coronavirus centre. Eight of the nine COVID-19 cases in Dharwad district have been reported from Old Hubballi, and the parade on Tuesday was taken out in the same area. Speaking to DH, Ali conceded that what he had done was a mistake. “I only wanted to help the youth go back to his home,” he said and added that he took P-194 from his hotel, where he was staying in quarantine, to his home to ensure that it is sanitised before other family members could return. “While walking to home, the residents of the area started cheering and clapping for P-194, ” he said.   Ali also claimed that he had urged people not to gather but they did not oblige.  While Ali said he accompanied P-194 to his house, speaking to DH, Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan claimed that the person in video is not P-194. “P-194 is very much in our custody and is kept in the government quarantine facility. Strict action would be taken against Ashraf Ali for violating the seal-down norms,” she said.  It can be noted here that Ashraf Ali had volunteered to give all the rooms in the hotel to the district administration to convert it into the government quarantine facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hotel-owner-booked-for-taking-out-parade-of-coronavirus-recovered-patient-in-seal-down-area-831240.html
29-04-2020||State||COVID-19: 5 Karnataka ministers undergoing test as they had met video journalist who tested positive||Five Karnataka ministers, who had reportedly come in contact with the video journalist of a Kannada news channel who had tested positive for COVID-19 last week, are undergoing tests, a senior minister said on Wednesday. "As far as our journalist friend who has supposedly met five ministers is concerned- the ministers are also getting tested and one of them said, he had tested negative," Minister S Suresh Kumar, who is spokesperson for COVID-19 in Karnataka, told reporters here. However, reports allege that the ministers had flouted mandated quarantining and are going about with routine work. The journalist, who had visited containment zones demarcated by BBMP (city civic body), was confirmed positive on April 24. As per the 34-year-old patient's (video journalist's) flowchart, he had met five ministers on work, between April 21 and April 24. Though, he had also visited Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's Home office "Krishna" multiple times during this period, according to officials, he had not met the CM. On April 23, he had given his swab samples along with other journalists for testing, and was confirmed positive the next day. At least 40 other contacts of the video journalist, including his family and journalists from various media outlets have been quarantined, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-5-karnataka-ministers-undergoing-test-as-they-had-met-video-journalist-who-tested-positive-831473.html
29-04-2020||State||Covid-19 claims 74-year-old in Tumakuru; 51 in isolation||It is now confirmed that the 74-year-old man who was admitted to hospital for respiratory trouble, died of Covid-19 in KHB Colony, Tumakuru city on April 26.    The patient had complained of difficulty in breathing on April 25 and was admitted to the hospital. His blood and sputum samples were sent for tests the same day. The samples were tested twice for confirmation and they turned out positive. But he died the very next day and the funeral was held at Kumbipalya near Nagavalli. This individual has been marked patient number-535 (P-535) and 51 people who had come into primary contact with him, are in isolation.  KHB Colony and a 100-metre radius around it has been declared a containment zone and sealed down. A one-kilometre radius around the patient's house has been declared a buffer zone.   Deputy Commissioner K Rakesh Kumar stated that P-535 had Asthma, but no history of traveling to other states or countries.  It may be recalled that on March 27, a Covid-19 patient has succumbed to the virus in Sira and his son also contracted the disease. This was followed by a preacher (moulvi) who had come back to the district from Gujarat, testing positive for Coronavirus. This makes P-535 the fourth positive case in the district. The people of the district are on tenterhooks because of the fact that of the four positive cases, two are dead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-claims-74-year-old-in-tumakuru-51-in-isolation-831514.html
29-04-2020||State||Tiptur's copra market reopens, farmers joyous||The copra market in Tiptur which had closed down due to the lockdown has reopened. This has brought a smile on the faces of coconut farmers. Tiptur, which is Asia's largest copra market was closed for a month. On Wednesday, one quintal copra was selling at Rs 11,200 and 4831.91 quintals were traded. Sales are expected to grow higher in the coming weeks. Officials distributed handbills to create awareness among traders on how to prevent the spread of Covid-19; especially on wearing masks and washing hands.  Farmers who were eagerly awaiting the opening of the market, have now heaved a sigh of relief. They expect betterment in their lives which had become a living hell when trading stopped a month ago and the copra that they had stocked up was rotting. The opening of the market has also seen a spurt in related economic activities in the taluk like the transportation sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tipturs-copra-market-reopens-farmers-joyous-831515.html
29-04-2020||State||Karnataka Child Marriage: Minor bride commits suicide||A minor girl committed suicide by hanging herself in her house because she was forcibly married to a boy in Sira on Tuesday.  Police said that the child marriage was held on April 26 and the girl was against the marriage. Depressed by this, the girl committed suicide. Senior Child Development Officer Surekha Takhe has lodged a complaint with the Sira town police under the Prevention of Child Marriage Act -2006 and POCSO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-child-marriage-minor-bride-commits-suicide-831516.html
29-04-2020||State||Man commits suicide||A 27-year-old man who was working as a daily wage labourer, ended his life by hanging himself near his house in Aiguru village on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Sunil, from the same village. It is said that he was under depression owing to stomach related ailment from the past three years. A case has been registered at Somwarpet police station, based on a complaint submitted by the brother of the deceased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/man-commits-suicide-831521.html
29-04-2020||State||3 Karnataka ministers who met coronavirus infected journalist under home quarantine||Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Tourism Minister C T Ravi, who were all interviewed by a Kannada news channel cameraperson who recently tested positive, have tested negative on the 5th day of their test during their 14-day quarantine period.    Conforming this to DH, BBMP commissioner B H Anil Kumar said, "According to the contact-tracing flow chart of the journalist, he came in contact with four ministers — Basavaraj Bommai, Dr Ashwath Narayan, C T Ravi and Housing Minister V Somanna. But since Minister Somanna was wearing protective gear during his interview, we are not considering him as a primary contact. The other three ministers have tested negative on their 5th day of testing. They have been advised home quarantine for 14 days. We will test them again on the 12th day." Somanna told DH, "I had worn a mask during the interview. Also, they were at a one-an-a-half metre distance from me and used a stick with the mic. Hence, I have not been advised quarantine." Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said, "I have undergone a swab test and it has came out negative. I’m healthy. However, I am self-quarantined. The cameraman claims he met me on the 21st. Hence, I will undergo six more days of quarantine."    Meanwhile, the issue of ministers failing to adhere to health officials' advisory has provided the Opposition parties ammunition to corner the government. Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar asked why the ministers were not under quarantine. "Isn’t it double standards by those who must set an example to citizens? This is a protocol violation. This government is not serious about fighting Covid-19," he said in a tweet. Other ministers that the journalist came in touch with, according to the patient flow chart available in the public domain, are Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar and MLC Narayan Swami. However, Anil Kumar said BBMP is yet to check if they are tested for Covid-19 or not.  Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey told DH, "A person advised home quarantine for 14 days has to test negative on the fifth and 12th days. We have advised the ministers home quarantine for 14 days. However, we have to check if it is being followed." P475, a 34-year-old male journalist visited BBMP containment zones and tested positive on  April 25 after the government decided to test all journalists in the state after scribes in Mumbai tested positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/3-karnataka-ministers-who-met-coronavirus-infected-journalist-under-home-quarantine-831608.html
29-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||IT cell targets Bommai over CRPF commando arrest||Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai was at the wrong end of a Twitter campaign on Wednesday, when sections of social media sought his resignation by trending #ResignHMBommai. The source of the social media anger was the arrest and alleged custodial assault on CRPF CoBRA commando Sachin Savant by Sadalaga police in Belagavi district. He was arrested following a skirmish with local police for allegedly violating lockdown norms on April 23, after which CRPF had sought an inquiry into the arrest. Prominent among the tweets using the hashtag was by right-wing commentator Chakravarty Sulibele, who shared images of bruises in the commando's buttocks.   Tweeting from his handle @astitvam, he said, "The issue of Cobra commando could have been solved easily by SP or the local leaders or finally by Home minister at least. But looks (like) total incompetence. Time to #ResignHMBommai or take the action immediately. @BSBommai In another tweet, he attempted to communalise the issue in a tweet, saying  "Mistakes after mistakes* ordered policemen not to use lathi against Tablighis* Gave no protection to Asha workers on street* Not adequate preparation before entering Padraynpura * ordered Hindus to stop jatra and ‘requested’ Muslims 2 stop gathering* Now This#ResignHMBommai Several of the tweets in the trend, appeared to be from a template, such as the one below, as many of those carryied the same text "Justice should be prevailed even for politicians' kins who regularly violate the rules. Why you are targeting  the innocent soldier Mr.Bommai #ResignHMBommai" Few handles - likely from the IT cell - posted and retweeted the same tweets regarding the formalities on arresting a 'army personnel'. The tweet read, "Protocol to be followed to arrest: Nearest military station headquarters need to be informed in written letter along with memorandum of arrest. The officer will be taken in custody by an IPS or state police officer of rank of equivalent or above seniority. #ResignHMBommai"||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/it-cell-targets-bommai-over-crpf-commando-arrest-831504.html
29-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rs 86 crore to contain Covid-19 in 26 districs||The government on Wednesday released Rs 86.25 crore from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) towards containment of the coronavirus in 26 districts.  Bengaluru Urban and Kodagu received Rs 10 crore each, the highest, followed by Rs 9.5 crore, to Kalaburagi. Kolar has received Rs 15 lakh.  According to a government order issued by the Revenue department (disaster management), districts are to use the Rs 86.25 crore for relief measures (Rs 29.16 crore), quarantine, sample collection and screening (Rs 21.25 crore) and procurement of essential lab equipment (Rs 35.83 crore).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rs-86-crore-to-contain-covid-19-in-26-districs-831548.html
29-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Licences of 146 fair price shops suspended: Minister||The licence of as many as 146 fair price shops (FPS) in the state had been suspended on the charge of irregularities and a total fine of Rs 4 lakh had been slapped on them. Minister of Food, Civil supplies and Consumer Affairs K Gopalaiah said here on Wednesday that  notices had been issued to nine FPSs in Haveri district. He warned of legal action against the officials found involved. "Free ration is being supplied to 27 lakh people covered in eight lakh ration cards. The Central government has taken measures to supply LPG cylinders for three months which will benefit 31.50 lakh people under Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana. Subsidy for the month of April has been deposited to beneficiary accounts," he said. He said that the state government had decided to supply free LPG gas cylinders to one lakh families at a cost of Rs 27 crore under Mukhyamantri Anila Bhagya Yojane. Based on the Central government's approval to procure paddy, ragi and maize, a proposal had been submitted for the procurement of maize.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/licences-of-146-fair-price-shops-suspended-minister-831549.html
29-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt to revive crippled tourism sector in five phases in state||Tourism Minister C T Ravi on Wednesday proposed a five-stage recovery process to bring the crippled sector back on its feet, which includes promoting local tourism on the lines of Singapore’s  "Love Your Local" campaign.  Ravi submitted a detailed proposal to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, after collating suggestions from various stakeholders in the tourism sector.  Tourism, which contributes 18% to Karnataka’s gross state domestic product, provides livelihood to about 35 lakh people. Thanks to the coronavirus-driven lockdown, all tourism activities have come to standstill with all bookings cancelled. According to Ravi, the five-stage recovery is based on suggestions received from officials and industry representatives. While the first stage involves creating awareness among citizens on the coronavirus, the second one will have local tourism activities - Nodu Baa Nammoora (Come, See Our City), dining out within the city and "Love Your Local" based on the Singapore model.  Staggered activities In the third stage, the government will look at the regional or inter-state tourism followed by the fourth stage where preparation will be made to attract domestic and international tourists. The final stage will see staggered tourism activities involving domestic/international tourists. The sector is in dire straits with 2.50 lakh tourist taxi drivers and guides struggling with no earnings, Ravi pointed out.  More than 18 tourism organisations have asked for short-term, interest-free loans, a one-year tax holiday and one year’s worth of MGNREGA wages for all employees in the tourism sector.  The Centre has already constituted a National Tourism Task Force (NTTF) to revive the sector and Karnataka is prepared to attend its meeting that will be held soon, Ravi said. "Consumer mindset, guarantee of safety and hygiene are two things that will have an impact on the revival of the sector,” Ravi said. “There’s an atmosphere of fear due to Covid-19. It’s important now to change the consumer mindset in favour of tourism.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-to-revive-crippled-tourism-sector-in-five-phases-in-state-831551.html
29-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Resident doctors demands for hike in stipend||The Karnataka Resident Doctors have warned of stepping back from non-Covid-19 duties, if the state government refuses to consider their request for hike in stipend. There are over 6,000 resident doctors and postgraduate medical students in Karnataka. They have been requesting a hike in stipend for the last two years. Now, as they are also working on the frontlines to fight against Covid-19, they requested state government to consider their request seeking increase in stipend. Speaking to Deccan Herald one of the members with the association said, "We are getting stipend between Rs 30,000 to Rs 40,000, but when the government increased fee for the postgraduate medical courses in the year 2019 it assured of increasing the stipend, but till date nothing has been done." "We will not step back from Covid-19 or any other emergency services duty. But we are planning to wear black ribbon as protest and work. We will also be forced to stay away from non-covid duties to mark our protest," said association members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/resident-doctors-demands-for-hike-in-stipend-831552.html
29-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Class 10 exams not over; PU colleges in admissions mode||The board examinations for Class 10 may have been postponed due to the lockdown, but it has not stopped private pre-university colleges from admitting students. Parents say a few private colleges have already completed admissions online and even started classes. A majority of these colleges which have started admissions and are conducting classes for I PUC are into integrated education. Basically, they offer coaching for CET, NEET and other entrance tests along with PUC education. Interestingly, some colleges are reserving seats by taking advance money from parents. "I got a call from my son's school a few days ago. The authorities offered a seat for my son for I PUC. They said they would reserve a seat for him, if I pay Rs 5,000," said a parent. These admissions are being made based on the marks secured by the students in the Class 10 preparatory examinations. "I have paid full course fee for my child and finished her admission. As she wanted to write NEET, the institute has already started coaching," said another parent. However, the Department of Pre-university Education (DPUE) said admissions made before completion of Class 10 exams were illegal and requested parents to file complaints. Kanagavalli, director of the department, said, "How can they begin admissions when the students have not yet appeared for their Class 10 exams. Admissions to I PU should be done only after announcement of Class 10 results and admission guidelines issued by the department." The director requested parents and the public to file complaints if they come across any such instance. "If we receive complaints from parents or the public, we will initiate action against colleges which have started admissions," she said. Some parents even brought the matter to the notice of Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar during his live programme on a private TV channel. The minister promised action against such colleges, if he receives complaints.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/class-10-exams-not-over-pu-colleges-in-admissions-mode-831553.html
29-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sub-registrar offices generate Rs 4 cr revenue||As many as 1,243 properties were registered by the Stamps & Registration Department, generating a revenue of neatrly Rs 4 crore, after government reopened sub-registrar offices in Bengaluru Urban and other major districts of the state. While the department collected Rs 10 lakh as stamp duty and registration charges in different parts of the state on Friday, the figure increased to around Rs 3.92 crore on Wednesday when sub-registrar offices in Bengaluru and Mysuru opened. During the day, 41 sub-registrar offices in Bengaluru were operational with strict social distancing measures in place. "Though the number of registrations was far lesser than normal, we are expecting the number to increase after May 3, if lockdown is lifted," an official said. Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that people had to apply for appointments at sub-registrar offices online, where token numbers are issued. "Only one person is allowed every half-an-hour. This is the reason for fewer registrations," he said. According to budget estimates, Stamps & Registration Department is expected to mop up Rs 12,655 crore, or around Rs 40 crore per working day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sub-registrar-offices-generate-rs-4-cr-revenue-831577.html
29-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: Revenue generation won't be easy for B S Yediyurappa govt, caution experts||The B S Yediyurappa administration may come out of the COVID-19 crisis unscathed, but generating revenues lost because of the lockdown will not be easy, especially with what some call “knee-jerk” reactions such as auctioning BDA corner sites.  The proposed revenue generation measures, experts say, will be of little help due to the economic crisis caused by the lockdown. Speaking to DH, former chief secretary A Ravindra said that it would be difficult for the government to bridge the revenue deficit suffered by the state during the lockdown and would be the first of the many problems in the days ahead. Noting that almost all the revenue generation streams of the state have either dried up or trickled in the last month or so, Ravindra suggested that the government must come up with a plan to mobilise more resources. “The government should constitute an expert committee to look into the question of resources. While it has proposed to auction of Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) sites, regularise unauthorised constructions, etc, the schemes will be successful only if people opt for them. At a time when everything is shut, the government won’t get the rates it is expecting,” he said. ‘Open up urban areas’ Another retired bureaucrat, who did not wish to be quoted, said that the measures proposed by the state were necessary to shore up funds. “These are desperate times for everyone, especially the government. However, whether the government will be able to generate the revenue it anticipates remains to be seen,” he said. Relaxing the lockdown - especially in urban areas – by identifying regions with no coronavirus cases was essential, so that the economy can return to normalcy and bring money to the government.  The government plans to auction nearly 12,000 corner sites belonging to the BDA to generate around Rs 15,000 crore. Sources in the Finance Department told DH that the government cannot expect any significant improvement in revenue generation until the lockdown is relaxed in Bengaluru. “Be it commercial taxes, stamps and registrations or motor vehicles tax, Bengaluru contributes 50% to 55%. Half of the revenue won’t come, if Bengaluru remains in total lockdown,” sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-revenue-generation-wont-be-easy-for-b-s-yediyurappa-govt-caution-experts-831578.html
29-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Staff nurse contracts Covid-19 in Davangere||After a gap of one month, Davangere city on Wednesday reported a new Covid-19 case, taking its tally to three. A 35-year-old staff nurse of a community healthcare centre (CHC) in the city testing positive for novel coronavirus has left the district administration worried. With just three cases, the last being reported on March 29, the district was in green zone till Wednesday. Just when the district administration was planning to lift lockdown curbs, this follows. Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi told reporters, The woman had shown Covid-19 symptoms on Sunday. Following which, she visited Chigateri Hospital. Her throat swab sample was sent to Shivamogga lab for examination. The sample returned positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday." The deputy commissioner said, the woman was believed to have contracted virus from her son, who had visited Vijayapura and Bagalkot districts, and Nittavalli, recently. Throat swab sample of her son has been sent to Shivamogga lab. On April 23, the nurse had attended the delivery of a woman. She claimed that she started experiencing symptoms after the delivery. Hence, the woman who's admitted to hospital for delivery and her family members were also being screened for Covid-19, the deputy commissioner said. A total of 20 primary contacts of the nurse, including her husband and two children, had been traced and quarantined. Tracing of secondary contacts was underway, he said. The surrounding areas of her house and community healthcare centre have been sealed, Bilagi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/staff-nurse-contracts-covid-19-in-davangere-831579.html
29-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||One death,12 new coronavirus cases takes tally to 535 in Karnataka; Death toll rises to 21||Karnataka reported 12 new cases and one death on Wednesday. Out of 297 active cases, seven are in ICU. Out of 12 new cases reported today, eight are from Kalaburagi. Belagavi, Davanagere, Mysuru and Tumakuru have reported one case each. Except patient 533 from Davanagere and patient 535 from Tumakuru, who presented with influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) respectively, the remaining 10 cases have been contacts of previously identified COVID-19 cases. Patient 535, a 73-year-old-male patient from Tumakuru, with complaint of SARI, diabetes and asthma died on Wednesday. Minister S Suresh Kumar, in charge of media briefings said, "In the past five days, the number of cases have been only 60 and number of discharges have been 64. So the growth rate is 1.25%." Kumar also said from Wednesday all frontline government employees from other departments who are working in close contact with health department employees for containing COVID-19 will be tested at K C General Hospital. He also said quarantine protocol for discharged patients has been changed by the union government and the new protocol will be followed.  "There are 123 containment zones in which 445 patients reside. There are 73,917 houses in the containment zones with a population of 4,12,278, Kumar added.    The number of people discharged stands at 216 with nine discharged on Wednesday. The number of deaths has risen to 21. The total tally stands at 535.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/one-death12-new-coronavirus-cases-takes-tally-to-535-in-karnataka-death-toll-rises-to-21-831582.html
29-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus patient tally projected to cross 1,000 in Karnataka by May 6||Even as the government continues to enforce lockdown measures, the number of Covid-19 cases in the state could well double over the next week, according to an internal projection. The projection, prepared by the State COVID-19 War Room that DH accessed, shows that the total number of cases will hit 1,086 by May 6, which is slightly more than double the present 535 cases. The projection has been made based on the average growth rate of coronavirus cases till April 25, officials said. According to the projection, Bengaluru Urban, which had 142 Covid positive cases on April 25, is likely to see up to 287 cases by May 6. Likewise, Mysuru, which had 88 cases, is likely to see 142 cases and Kalaburagi, with 36, might see 97 cases by next week.  Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, who is in charge of Covid-19 in Bengaluru, told DH that the graph was only indicative and was subject to change. “This is an indicative graph, which we make from time to time to keep all officials on vigil,” he said. “There is no perfect formula to predict the exact number of cases. For instance, cases were recently reported from Padarayanapura, which was unexpected,” he pointed out.  Karnataka wants to contain COVID-19 cases within 700, Sudhakar said. “We hope it will not reach the number as projected (1,086). We have already put in place stringent regulations wherever there has been a cause for concern. Individuals and organisations must also take precautions from their end,” he said. On the testing front, the government’s capacity has massively improved and there was adequate infrastructure, according to State Nodal Officer for Lab Testing C N Manjunath. “Our testing capacity has increased. While until April 14, we were conducting about 500 tests per day, on Tuesday we conducted 4,700 tests. Till now, we have completed 50,000 tests. We have now also begun to test secondary contacts,” he said. As for the number of labs, Dr Manjunath said Karnataka has 24 labs, with another five expected to open for testing in the coming week. He stressed that there was no cause for worry as far as the available infrastructure was concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-patient-tally-projected-to-cross-1000-in-karnataka-by-may-6-831584.html
29-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||4T model has helped in checking Covid spread: Minister||Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said that the decrease in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state has been appreciated at the national level and the 4T model (TTTT - Trace, Test, Track, Treatment), which the state has adopted, has yielded good results. Speaking to reporters, Sudhakar said Karnataka, which was in the third place earlier, is now in the 12th place by adopting this method.  “The masks used by the people should be disposed of as per the guidelines issued by the government, similar to medical waste. The deputy commissioners of all districts have been directed in this regard.” “There are complaints about improper disposal of masks. The masks used by the medical staff and personnel, like surgical masks, N95 masks and PPE kits, should be disposed of scientifically. There is no need for the public to use surgical masks. Any mask stitched in the cotton fabric can be used. Disposing them of at public places, in lakes and ponds, is an offence”, he said. “The PPE kits used in the state are of good quality, that are being used in European countries. We had ordered around three lakh PPE kits and have received around 70,000 kits,” he said. The minister said that there are demands that the insurance facility, being provided to corona warriors, should also be extended to journalists. It will be discussed in a meeting scheduled to be held on Thursday, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/4t-model-has-helped-in-checking-covid-spread-minister-831594.html
29-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Collective heeds call of anonymous voices - the sex workers & transgenders||Five friends in Mysuru raised funds from well-wishers, friends and acquaintances to provide help to sex workers, transgenders and those suffering from HIV-AIDS in these times of distress. They have reached out to a large number of migrant families that lack ration cards in Mysuru. The group comprises Mythri Prabhakar, a writer, Shruthi, a startup owner, Azhar, a techie, Shomika, an event planner and Keertana, anengineer. While Mythri drafted content requesting funds and circulated it on social media tools, Shruthi ensured that logistics were in place for the delivery of the kits. Shomika got in touch with suppliers and kept the list of essentials ready. Azhar and Keerthana coordinated and monitored progress of the plan. They created a WhatsApp group on March 23 and delivered the kits on April 4, 18 and 26 to 963 migrant families and 257 sex workers and transgender people. Each kit had materials meeting requirements of a family of four persons for about three weeks. Out of the Rs 8,10,700 that was collected, they have spent Rs 6,72,700. What prompted them to raise funds was hunger, loss of jobs and financial distress among migrants, sex workers and transgender people. Most of the transgender people are into begging. The social stigma attached to them has made it difficult for them to manage families. Ashodaya Samithi, an organisation working for the welfare of sex workers and transgender people, contacted the friends. Since it was difficult for them to appear in public and receive the kits, representatives from these two communities were identified for the collection of the kits. Specific locations were chosen to deliver the kits. The sex workers’ collective in the UK too decided to lend a helping hand. However, there are restrictions to receive funds from foreign countries. As the friends are against forming a non-government organisation, they decided to connect the collective with the Samithi for relief. The Samithi alone has over 3,000 female sex workers, 1,100 male sex workers and 200 transgender people registered with hit. Anand Jyothi, an association for the rehabilitation of HIV-AIDS patients, has also sought the kits. “We are working out ways to supply the kits to Anand Jyothi,” Mythri said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/collective-heeds-call-of-anonymous-voices-the-sex-workers-transgenders-831595.html
29-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||12-year-old tests positive for COVID-19 in Belagavi||Identified as P524, the boy had come in contact with P293 from Sankeshwar who had travel history of visiting New Delhi and had tested positive. District until now has recorded 55 COVID-19 positive cases of whom seven have been discharged, 47 remain active and one death due to the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/12-year-old-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-belagavi-831319.html
29-04-2020||West||Coronavirus deadliest in Gujarat, 150 death in less than two week||With over 3,700 positive cases by Tuesday and an alarming 181 deaths due to the deadly coronavirus, Gujarat is the second worst-hit state after Maharashtra in the country. The virus has already taken the life of a politician and has forced the chief minister to isolate himself after he came in touch with a sitting legislator, who tested positive. Between April 14 and April 28, the state has reported more than 3,000 positive cases and over 150 deaths. The first positive the state had recorded was on March 19. Principal Secretary, Health, Jayanti Ravi said that the reason behind the surge in numbers is attributed to the increased number of tests. Till April 14, 15,984 samples had been tested which rose to 53,575 by April 27, an increase of over 37,000 that comes to 2600 tests per day. The sudden rise in a number of confirmed cases has led to logistics issues in hospitals treating such patients. There have been reports of patients standing in line outside the hospitals to get admitted, while there is a shortage of beds and quarantine facilities across the state. “We have barely 6,000 beds in 29 hospitals spread across the state and nearly half of them are occupied. We will need at least 15,000 more such beds in the coming days if we can’t admit more patients. Due to lack of testing facilities, we are not taking samples of a lot of close relatives of people who have tested positive,” said a top IAS officer involved in overseeing the preparation. With 434 patients cured, the state has improved its recovery rate to more than 11% but the mortality rate is nearly 5% while the national average is below a little over 3%.  For the past couple of days, the Gujarat government has started sharing separate data of those who die due to the virus, and those who die due to co-morbidities. As for example on Tuesday, out of 19 deaths, data revealed that 4 persons died due to virus but 15 others had comorbid conditions. Jayanti Ravi has repeatedly stressed that "comorbid or pre-existing diseases are the major reason behind high death ratio in the state." Ravi also attributes dominance of L-type strain of coronavirus behind the rising death toll in the state. It is said to be the same strain in the virus that has been found in Wuhan in China, where the outbreak was first reported. Attributing the findings to the scientist of Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre, Ravi said that Kerala has a lower mortality rate since infected persons had milder S strain which is milder.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-deadliest-in-gujarat-150-death-in-less-than-two-week-831234.html
29-04-2020||West||Restart mining earliest; Goa economy in tatters: Governor writes to Amit Shah||With the state's tourism battered due to the COVID-19 pandemic and Goa's economy on the brink of collapse, Goa Governor Satya Pal Malik on Tuesday, knocked on the doors of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, urging him to find a way to restart the state's non-functional mining sector at the earliest. Malik's letter to Shah, comes at a time when the state's iron ore exporters have been claiming, that resumption of the mining industry would revive industry in Goa, as well as help the cash-strapped state earn the much needed revenue, especially with the tourism industry in shambles on account of the global pandemic. "The present outbreak of COVID-19 has severely dented the other mainstay of our economy i.e. tourism industry, thereby bringing the state economy to a near collapse," Malik has stated in his letter to the Union Home Minister on Tuesday. "More than 1.5 lakh people who were directly or indirectly dependent on mining lost their source of livelihood," Shah also said, adding that the state had to suffer a loss of Rs. 2,000 in revenue in two years on account of the non functional sector, which was banned by a Supreme Court order in 2018, following alleged irregularities in the mining lease renewal processes.The apex court in its order, had directed the Goa government to re-issue the mining leases afresh, but pressure from the existing mining lease holders to renew the leases in their favour, has stalled the efforts. The Goa government after more than a year has been tinkering with the idea of forming a state government-run corporation to run the mining industry, even as the Chief Minister Pramod Sawant-led administration subsequently also filed a review petition before the apex court, urging the Supreme Court for a re-look at its 2018 order banning the mining industry. At its peak, the mining industry which exported over 50 million tons of iron ore primarily to China, account for nearly 30 per cent of Goa’s GDP. The Goa governor recently also met Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and Chief Secretary Parimal Rai at Raj Bhavan recently to discuss the mining issue. "I had suggested in the meeting that with the collapse of the tourism industry in the state, it has become utmost important to pursue the matter of resumption of mining in the state with central government and the focus should be on legislative cure," Malik also said in is letter to Shah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/restart-mining-earliest-goa-economy-in-tatters-governor-writes-to-amit-shah-831235.html
29-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: Maha Vikas Aghadi delegation meets governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari||In a significant political development, a delegation of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari requesting him to nominate Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to the vacant post of Maharashtra Legislative Council.  The delegation was led by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar.  The delegation met governor hours after Thackeray met him at a formal function in which new Justice Dipankar Dutta was the sworn-in Chief Justice of Bombay High Court. The delegation comprises of MVA ministers - Eknath Shinde and Anil Parab of Shiv Sena,  state NCP Jayant Patil and his party colleagues Chhagan Bhujbal,  state Congress president Balasaheb Thorat and Aslam Shaikh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-maha-vikas-aghadi-delegation-meets-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-831236.html
29-04-2020||West||Palgarh lynching: Seer Shankaracharya Adhokshajanand Deo Tirth urges PM Narendra Modi a probe by sitting Supreme Court judge||Shankaracharya Adhokshajanand Deo Tirth on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to order a probe by a sitting apex court judge into the Palgarh lynching case. The seer sought an exemplary punishment so that such an incident does not take place in future. In a letter to the prime minister, he said only a probe by a sitting Supreme Court judge will satisfy seers. Three men, who were mistaken for thieves, were allegedly lynched on in Maharashtra's Palgarh recently. Among the victims, two were sadhus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palgarh-lynching-seer-shankaracharya-adhokshajanand-deo-tirth-urges-pm-narendra-modi-a-probe-by-sitting-supreme-court-judge-831252.html
29-04-2020||West||Palghar lynching: 35 policemen transferred in Maharashtra||Nearly a fortnight after two sadhus of Juna Akhada and their driver were lynched to death in Palghar district, 35 policemen have been transferred. All these policemen were attached to the Kasa police station. The Gadchinchale village in the Dahanu tehsil, where the incident took place came under the jurisdiction of Kasa police station. Earlier,  the government has suspended two inspectors and have ordered a probe by State-CID into the incident. The cops, who were transferred by Palghar Superintendent of Police Gaurav Singh on Tuesday night, include constables, head constables and assistant police inspectors.  Meanwhile, Chitra Chaudhari, the sarpanch of Gadchinchale village, who belongs to the BJP, has been provided police security after being threatened by the families of those arrested in the lynching case. The police has arrested 110 persons including 9 juveniles. Two sadhus -- Kalpavriksha Giri Maharaj (70 years), Sushil Giri Maharaj (35) -- and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30), were brutally lynched to death on the night of April 16. For four days before the incident, there were rumours that robbers had come to the village to steal kidneys particularly of children and sell them in the black market. This led to the villagers mounting a round-the-clock vigil.  The sadhus and their driver was attacked by villagers suspecting to be kidnappers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/palghar-lynching-35-policemen-transferred-in-maharashtra-831259.html
29-04-2020||West||Subramanian Swamy to file PIL in Palghar lynching case||Veteran politician-activist and BJP leader Subramanian Swamy is planning to file a PIL in the Palghar mob-lynching case.  "I am consulting my colleagues and after will file a PIL for a CBI inquiry into the pre-meditated murders in Palghar district recently. I hope the CM will in the meantime will himself order it," Swamy tweeted. I am consulting my colleagues and after will file a PIL for a CBI inquiry into the pre-meditated murders in Palghar district recently. I hope the CM will in the meantime will himself order it. Two sadhus from Varanasi-based Juna Akhada and their driver were killed a fortnight ago in Palghar near Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/subramanian-swamy-to-file-pil-in-palghar-lynching-case-831278.html
29-04-2020||West||Road accidents dip in Gujarat during coronavirus lockdown||Road accidents in Gujarat came down by 71 per cent during the coronavirus-enforced lockdown as compared to normal days, according to an analysis by an emergency services agency. From about 398 daily cases of accidents in normal times, the number fell to 115 during the lockdown period, says the study conducted by GVK Emergency Management and Research Institute (EMRI) that operates the free 108 ambulance service in the state. A comparative analysis of calls received for various emergencies on normal days and during the lockdown period showed that incidents of vehicular trauma, or accidents, fell sharply by 71 per cent, mainly due to lack of vehicles on roads, it said. However, cases of non-vehicular trauma rose from 281 on normal days to 400 during lockdown, showing more people were physically or sexually assaulted, or fell down and hurt themselves, it said. "This is surprising, and goes on to show that more people came out on roads despite lockdown," GVK EMRI spokesperson Ashok Soni said. Besides, the number of people calling for ambulance after suffering from high fever doubled during this period, mainly due to coronavirus concerns, the agency said. The number of calls received for ambulance services during the lockdown between March 25 and April 25 in the state rose mainly due to restrictions on the movement of othervehicles, as per the analysis.  The 108 ambulance service received about 3,854 calls on the daily basis for various emergency cases during the lockdown period, compared to 3,073 calls during normal days, showing an increase of 25 per cent, it said. Out of 1.55 lakh emergencies served since March 18 by the 108 service, 10,272 were related to suspected coronavirus cases, the agency said. Dedicated ambulances were deployed for suspected coronavirus patients, with medical technicians and drivers being trained and provided protective gears as per guidelines, it said. As many as two emergency medical technicians tested positive for coronavirus, it said, adding that both of them later recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/road-accidents-dip-in-gujarat-during-coronavirus-lockdown-831295.html
29-04-2020||West||29 fresh COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan, total stands at 2,393||Rajasthan recorded 29 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases to 2,393 in the state, an official said. The state has so far witnessed 52 deaths due to the virus, with Jaipur accounting for 27 deaths.  "As many as 29 fresh cases have been reported in five districts of the state, including 11 in Ajmer," Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said. Singh said besides Ajmer, eight in Jaipur, five in Chittorgarh and one case each in Banswara, Dholpur, Tonk, Jodhpur and Udaipur has been recorded.   A total of 2,393 cases of the virus have been reported in the state so far. He said so far 781 patients have tested negative for the infection after treatment, of which 584 have been discharged from hospitals. Jaipur has reported the highest 867 positive cases followed by 401 in Jodhpur.  The total number of COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran, who have been put up in Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The entire state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/29-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-total-stands-at-2393-831391.html
29-04-2020||West||BJP demands CBI probe into Palghar lynching||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-demands-cbi-probe-into-palghar-lynching-831418.html
29-04-2020||West||Uddhav speaks to PM as he awaits governor's decision on appointment to the legislature||As the decision about his appointment to the legislature as governor's nominee hangs fire, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene, sources claimed. Thackeray spoke to Modi on phone and told him that attempts were being made to create political instability in the state, sources told PTI. "Political instability in a huge state like Maharashtra when it is facing the COVID-19 crisis is not right and Thackeray urged the PM to look into it," they said. The telephone call came a day after leaders of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) metGovernor B S Koshyari with a fresh cabinet recommendation to nominate Thackeray to the Legislative Council through the governor's quota. The first recommendation of the state cabinet had been made on April nine. Thackeray, who is not a member of either house of the state legislature, was sworn in as chief minister on November 28, 2019. He has to become a member by May 28 when he completes six months in office. Otherwise he will cease to the chief minister. A delegation of MVA leaders led by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar met the governor on Tuesday, and handed over the cabinet decision's copy to him. A senior minister who was part of the delegation told PTI that he requested the governor to take decision at the earliest. The cabinet decision is valid as per law and accepting the cabinet recommendation was binding for the governor, he said. To which the governor said he will let them know his decision within a week, the minister said. Thackeray could not get elected to the Council through biennial polls as the elections were postponed due to coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-speaks-to-pm-as-he-awaits-governors-decision-on-appointment-to-the-legislature-831490.html
29-04-2020||West||Mumbai's doubling time increasing||The COVID-19 cases in India's financial capital of Mumbai is soaring northwards every day but the doubling time has increased.  The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) made this point based on statistical data reported between April 17-27.  According to slides provided by the civic body,  during this period doubling time in Mumbai has increased from 8.3 to 10. During the same period,  the average doubling rate in Maharashtra was 8.9. Whereas the national average was 9.5 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-doubling-time-increasing-831494.html
29-04-2020||West||COVID-19 cases cross 4,000-mark in Gujarat, 16 deaths||The number of coronavirus cases in Gujarat rose to 4,082 after 308 new patients were reported on Wednesday, 234 of them in Ahmedabad alone. The death toll rose to 197 with 16 COVID-19 patients dying during the day, a senior health official said. Ahmedabad reported 234 new cases, taking the total in the district to 2,777.  In Surat, number of coronavirus positive cases rose to 601 with 31 new cases. In Vadodara too, number of cases rose to 270, said Principal Secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi. Nine COVID-19 patients died in Ahmedabad, three in Vadodara and Surat each and one in Rajkot, she said. Twelve of them had existing health conditions besides virus infection, Ravi said.  93 coronavirus patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery on Wednesday, the highest in a day so far. Gujarat coronavirus figures are thus as follows: Positive cases: 4,082, new cases: 308, death toll: 197, discharged: 527, active cases: 3,358; people tested so far: 59,488.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-cross-4000-mark-in-gujarat-16-deaths-831534.html
29-04-2020||West||Maharashtra's move to slash power tariffs will benefit industries: Nitin Raut||The Maharashtra government's recent move to slash electricity rates will help industries and businesses in the trying times in view of the coronavirus-enforced lockdown, Power Minister Nitin Raut said on Wednesday. He said electricity rates have been reduced by average 7 per cent. "While industrial consumers will enjoy a tariff cut of 10-15 per cent, residential consumers will see a reduction by 5 per cent in their electricity bills," Raut told reporters. He said industrial and commercial consumers will not have to pay the fix charges for the next month. He said power charges for agricultural users were not hiked and no additional charges have been added for the users of roof-top solar panels. "Similarly, solar grid support charges too have been waived," Raut added. Power tariffs of Adani,Tata, BEST and Mahavitran have been reduced. "In order to boost industries in Marathwada and Vidarbha regions, the state electricity department is trying to increase the subsidy package for industries," Raut said. He said domestic power bills will not be generated on the basis of this month's metre reading. "Instead, an average of three months will be taken for generation of bills," the minister added. "Considering the difficult times, the bill for the month of April can be paid till May 31," Raut said. Acknowledging the challenges in providing 24-hour power supply during the lockdown period, the minister said the concerned staffers of Electricity department will be rewarded suitably. Raut, who is also the state Congress working president, said his party had provided relief to more than 1.10 lakh migrant workers from other states who are stranded in Maharashtra due to the lockdown. "The disaster cell set up by the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) has directly reached to over 32 lakh people in the state. Ration and essential supplies have been provided to 18.30 lakh people by the Congress party," he said. Raut said 16.60 lakh people have been provided with medicines, sanitisers, andmasks, while 60,000 people are being given food daily by workers of the Congress. About5,000 PPE kits have been distributed to doctors,police personnel and other frontline workers, he said, adding that mobile clinics have been set up in Sangli, Nagpur,Mumbai,Pune and Kolhapur. He said more than 20,000 workers of the Congress have participated in blood donation camps and collected 14,517 bags of blood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-move-to-slash-power-tariffs-will-benefit-industries-nitin-raut-831535.html
29-04-2020||West||Maharashtra, Mumbai record highest coronavirus death toll||In yet another rise, India's financial capital of Mumbai and Maharashtra recorded the highest number of COVID-19 deaths on Wednesday. Out of 31 deaths in Maharashtra,  Mumbai recorded 26 on Wednesday.      On Tuesday, the Maharashtra and Mumbai toll were 31 and 25,  respectively.  The total positive cases in Maharashtra now stands at 9,915 and death toll 432.   Mumbai's total positive cases are 6,644 and deaths 270. Out of the 32 deaths today, 25 were men and seven women. 17 of them aged over 60 years, 15 were in the age group 40 to 59 years. 18 out of 32 patients (56%) had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease. Out of 1,37,159 laboratory samples, 1,26,376 were negative and 9915 have been tested positive  for coronavirus until Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mumbai-record-highest-coronavirus-death-toll-831550.html
29-04-2020||West||Maharashtra police registers over 83,000 cases of lockdown violations||Over 83,000 offences were registered and 16,897 persons were arrested for allegedly violating the COVID-19 lockdown in Maharashtra, police said on Wednesday. As of Wednesday, the Maharashtra police have registered 83,156 cases against people under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, an official said.  At least 155 police personnel, including 21 officers, tested positive for coronavirus, he said, adding that 11 had recovered from the infection, while three had succumbed to it in Mumbai. As many as 618 were arrested and 165 cases of attacks on policemen were registered in the state, he said. Police control rooms across the state received a total of 8,0617 calls during the lockdown period, he said. The police have registered 1,114 offences of illegal transportation and seized 49,802 vehicles during the period, he said, adding that fines to the tune of Rs 2.94 crore were collected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-police-registers-over-83000-cases-of-lockdown-violations-831563.html
