30-04-2020||Comment||Revisiting Hitler in today’s age||A few minutes past 3 pm on April 30, 1945, one of the most merciless mass murderers of our times fired a single, fatal shot from his 7.65-mm Walther PPK: Germany’s feared dictator Adolf Hitler, running scared of the Soviet army juggernaut rolling towards his city, ended his life in an underground bunker in Berlin’s Reich Chancellory building exactly 75 years ago. Hitler, the terror titan of the Third Reich, was just 56 when he killed himself, but the enormity of his cruelty against humanity is incomprehensible. In less than four years prior to his death, Hitler’s Holocaust killed six million Jews, including a million children: most of them were gassed to death in concentration camps in Poland. Hitler hated Jews, calling them devilish and a hurdle in his plans to create an Aryan superior race. Jews were also victimised by centuries of wrongly interpreted anti-Semitic biblical theology. Those who stepped up to the plate, like evangelical pastor Dietrich Bonhoeffer, were bumped off by Hitler. Political pundits even today are flummoxed how the Fuhrer’s 12-year reign from 1933-1945 went unchecked by the world powers for such a long time. Marcus Tullius Cicero, an outstanding Roman statesman in the first century AD, said, history is the teacher of life, ‘historia vitae magistra’. The itch to become all-powerful autocrats is always there. If the 1930s’ Great Depression made it possible for some like Hitler, it is the Covid-19 catastrophe today.   Hitler’s COVID-19 moment was the Great Depression when Wall Street collapsed, causing an economic tsunami in Europe where American funds were deployed. Germany was crushed by the Great Depression, with thousands of small businesses shuttered, millions of people thrown out of their jobs, social problems mounting. Germany’s largest bank collapsed. And that’s when the Nazi party’s rising star Hitler was mesmerising his way into the minds of the depressed masses with what they thought was his redemptive, messianic charisma. They bought his stories of grand plans to make Germany rise like the Phoenix from the ashes, making it the world’s number one superpower with glorious advances in aviation, military, automobile -- even creating their own superior, special Aryan race. A vegetarian, teetotaller, and a health freak, Hitler would later tell his generals that in his single-minded pursuit to recreate a new Germany, he would crush anyone who stood in his way. He was the all-powerful leader. All instructions could go out only from him. He rebuffed the idea of a second line of leadership, becoming autocratic to the vilest core. Hitler could not form normal human friendships. He was moody and unpredictable, which some believe could be due to his dysfunctional family: he was born in April 1889 in Austria to his father Alois’ third wife. Alois, an illegitimate child himself, clashed with Hitler often.   Hitler didn’t study beyond secondary school but took to painting. But he was denied admission into Vienna’s Academy of Fine Arts twice. He eked out a meagre living painting post cards and doing odd jobs, leading a lonely, secretive and bohemian existence. He detested Vienna’s cosmopolitan, multicultural, multinational character. Later, his attempts to join Austrian military service in 1914 failed because of his poor physique. When World War I broke out, he appealed to the king of Bavaria, Louis III, who helped him to join the infantry regiment after an 8-week field training. Germany’s defeat in the war threw the country into a tailspin. Hitler returned to Munich, the hub of ex-servicemen and critics of the Weimar Republic, where he joined a small German Workers’ Party in 1919 in its propaganda unit. The party, renamed the National-Sozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei (Nazi) in 1920, successfully tapped into the popular resentment. Hitler was learning the ropes of propaganda through the Nazi party newspaper Völkischer Beobachter [‘Popular Observer’]. Nationalist Alfred Hugenberg’s newspapers also helped reach the Nazi propaganda before Goebbels and his gargantuan propaganda machinery. Soon, industry titans and the deep-pocked business community were pumping in massive funds into the Nazi party to erect a right-wing, anti-communist charismatic leader-led government. Pontificating from the cash-rich financial mountain, Hitler packed his emotional speeches to the masses, especially the poor and the unemployed, assuring them that he was the messiah to save them. His political rivals ribbed him with disparaging terms -- complete petit bourgeois, a Bohemian corporal, etc., – but he was busy galvanising the party, winning big elections and becoming Chancellor in 1933. Within a year, he consolidated the powers of the President and Chancellor into one, becoming ‘The Leader’, Der Fuhrer. Hitler’s architectural megalomania drove him to immediately plan an imposing New Berlin City, with stately buildings, archways and legislative houses. His favourite architect, Albert Speer, was tasked with changing the face of Berlin with the leitmotif of Hitleresque grandiose nationalism. Speer built a new, grand Reich Chancellery on the site of an old palace in Berlin within a year. Hitler used the democratic process first to make himself the autocrat. His charisma connected him directly with the desperate masses: from the worker class to the rich industrialists, from ecclesial leaders to socialist intellectuals. One historian quotes Sir Nevile Henderson, the British ambassador to Berlin in the 1930s, writing about how Hitler “owed his success in the struggle for power to the fact that he was the reflection of their [i.e., his supporters’] subconscious mind, and his ability to express in words what that subconscious mind felt that it wanted.” From his early 1920s political speeches right up to the mid-1940s, the outline of Hitler’s speeches were simple: start with a deeply pessimistic scenario of the present and end it by projecting a triumphant, glorious future to come, interspersing it with deep injections of anecdotes into the masses’ subconscious. Hitler is a creepy reminder that there is no shortage of charismatic, authoritarian-minded political leaders prowling the world stages today. (The writer specialises in public policy, politics and religion)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/revisiting-hitler-in-today-s-age-831662.html
30-04-2020||Davangere||Davangere records two COVID-19 positive cases in just 24 hours||Davangere, which was declared a green zone, has recorded two COVID-19 positive cases in just 24 hours and this has triggered fear among people of the district. Speaking to mediapersons on Thursday, Deputy Commissioner Mahantesha Beelagi said a 69-year-old man, resident of Jaalinagara in Davangere, has tested positive for COVID-19. He was suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection and admitted to District General Hospital on April 28. The throat swab of the man was sent to VRDL in Shivamogga on the same day and the result confirmed that he was infected with the virus. He is undergoing treatment in a COVID-19 ward in the hospital. A 35-year-old staff nurse has also tested positive for the virus. Beelagi said nine primary contacts of the man had been put in an isolation ward in the hospital and their throat swabs had been sent to the laboratory. Efforts are on to trace secondary contacts and it would be completed by Thursday evening. He also said it is still not clear how the man was infected by the virus. Police are also leaving no stone unturned to trace the secondary contacts. They would submit a report soon. The area of the man's residence has been declared a containment zone and it has been sealed down to prevent spread of the virus. Incident commanders would be appointed to monitor the situation in Bashanagara and Jaalinagara areas. On staff nurse case, he said around 25 primary contacts of the woman had been traced and they have been put under quarantine and 45 secondary contacts would also be put under quarantine. The throat swabs of 56 persons had been collected and efforts are on to collect throat swabs of the remaining persons. Beelagi said the primary and secondary contacts would be put in lodges in Davangere and doctors who are treating these patients are not allowed to go home. They have to be in quarantine. Nodal officers have been appointed to provide food and other facilities to them, he added. It may be recalled that Davangere recorded three positive cases earlier and all the three had recovered. It was declared a green zone as it had not recorded fresh positive cases over the last 28 days. Now, the district has two active COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/davangere-records-two-covid-19-positive-cases-in-just-24-hours-831774.html
30-04-2020||First Edit||Coronavirus: Resume regular immunisation||The deferring of immunisation will increase their burden of measles cases significantly. Caused by a highly contagious virus, measles can result in blindness, pneumonia and even death. As for the polio virus, which largely strikes children below the age of five, it can invade the nervous system and cause paralysis. The fight against these diseases hasn’t been easy. Global, national and local organisations and health workers have slogged for decades to eradicate these diseases through immunisation. India, once a hotbed of polio, was certified polio-free in March 2014. Polio has been eradicated from much of the world. These hard-earned gains could be reversed with immunisation on hold. Even before the onset of COVID-19, the incidence of several diseases that are preventable through immunisation was increasing. A safe and effective vaccine against measles has existed for several decades. Yet, measles cases surged in 2018, claiming the lives of 140,000 children and babies worldwide. These numbers can be expected to surge in the coming months. South Asia is highly vulnerable. Even before the COVID-19 outbreak, 4.5 million of the region’s children had missed out on routine immunisation. Global health bodies and national government have had to make a difficult choice. The decision to put immunisation on hold at this point is understandable. There is a shortage of vaccines and health workers. However, health authorities must strategise for the future. They need to keep track of children who are unvaccinated or have missed out on a dose and ensure that they are provided with the vaccine as soon as it is possible for this to be administered. Failure to act now will open up space for more and deadlier epidemics in the coming months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/coronavirus-resume-regular-immunisation-831661.html
30-04-2020||In Perspective||Is the coronavirus a trigger for ‘creative destruction’?||The disruption and chaos that coronavirus is causing the world over is a once in a lifetime experience for most of us. Over three million people have been infected, and over 219,000 people have died so far. It has not even spared the isolated Yanomami tribe in the Amazon rainforest. Nations have been imposing restrictions on their citizens, prohibiting air, rail and road travel, closing offices, shops and manufacturing units. Those who defy or violate the diktats have been arrested or penalised. In the midst of all the hysteria that Covid-19 has created, are we seeing a huge change coming in the world order? Is coronavirus playing the catalyst of a new ‘creative destruction’? The World Wars in the 20th century destroyed old orders and created new ones. They also created new leaders. There was destruction before creation. For us Indians, this notion is not new. We are familiar with the notion of creation and destruction. The Trimurti of Brahma, Vishnu, Shiva create, protect and destroy the universe. This notion is similar to the Western notion of ‘creative destruction’ -- a concept that the Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter explained in his book ‘Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy’ in 1942. Inspired by Karl Marx's thoughts, Schumpeter argued that the creative-destructive forces unleashed by capitalism would eventually lead to its death as a system. He argued that creative destruction was “the essential fact about capitalism.” He stated that capitalism keeps creating new products and markets by destroying the old. This convulsive process is not confined to products only but to institutions and ideas as well. Despite this, the term has gained popularity within mainstream economics as describing events that would cause disruptions and, in the process, create new companies or increase the efficiency of existing companies and benefit thousands of people (read consumers). Netflix is a case in point. After causing disruption in the cable and TV industry, it is changing the way we see movies. Andrei Bystritsky, Dean at the Higher School of Economics, Moscow, believes that the disruption the pandemic is causing will lead to a new world order. In an article provocatively titled “Coronavirus, instead of war,” for the Kremlin mouthpiece Izvestia, he observes that major wars have often given birth to new world orders: the Thirty Years War led to the Westphalian system, the Napoleonic wars to the Congress of Vienna, and World War II gave us Yalta. “Will [the coronavirus crisis] play the role of creative destruction that is necessary for the emergence of a newly arranged world?” With global cooperation low and European Union coordination weak, he suggests that Covid-19 is exposing the shortcomings of the existing international order. He says that for Russia, the pandemic is an opportunity to play a key role in shaping the new world order. The lockdown has destroyed jobs and millions of workers are looking to governments and big corporations to save them. It is no different in India. The underprivileged and the daily wage earners are the worst hit. In the wake of the pandemic, Indian Railways has distributed over one million food plates to the underprivileged at railway stations. The Railways has been providing free food to the needy at a time of global crisis; Tata Sons has made a huge contribution towards fighting the Covid-19 disaster by donating Rs 1,500 crore to the PM-Cares fund; the Azim Premji Foundation has committed Rs 1,125 crore toward various healthcare measures. In this crisis, the government has become the only means of providing financial security, public health and insurer of last resort. Though many countries have announced relief packages, the pandemic has exposed the fault lines of societies. Central banks have been using all the ammunition in their arsenal to inject liquidity in their economies where millions of jobs and livelihoods have been lost and ‘helicopter money’ has become a reality. Governments can use the pandemic as a tool to push through legislation and take harsh measures without bothering too much about opposition from any group or a party. Leaders at the central, state and local levels are using this as an opportunity to enhance the legitimacy of their governments. The state government in Kerala has set up community kitchens in villages and municipal areas to provide food to all needy people during the lockdown. Local leaders are falling head over heels in distributing groceries to protect their vote bank. In every crisis, there are challenges and opportunities. There is an opportunity to respond to the crisis. It’s laudable that governments are caring for the underprivileged, but governments can also think of improving the infrastructure, drinking water and better sanitation. For example, here in Bengaluru, with fewer vehicles on roads, the corporation could have filled all the potholes with pothole-filling machines during the lockdown. With nations banning the movement of people across borders and quarantining themselves, globalisation has hit a pause button. Countries are looking inward and are becoming more self-centered. In India, states are sealing their borders with one another. Within states, movement from one town to another is prohibited. Within cities, neighbourhoods are blocking roads and erecting makeshift barricades everywhere, restricting the movement of people. Surely, there is disruption happening all around. Will it lead to the creation of a new world order? Only time will tell.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/is-the-coronavirus-a-trigger-for-creative-destruction-831669.html
30-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||FIR against four journalists in Karnataka||Alleging assault and abuse, Krishik Gowda, son of MLC, K T Srikantegowda, lodged a police complaint against four reporters in Mandya, Karnataka on Wednesday. The police filed FIR against four reporters - K N Nagegowda, Sunil, H S Mahesh and Madan, belonging to TV channels. Krishik Gowda has alleged that the reporters abused his fatherSrikantegowda and assaulted him at Ambedkar Bhavan during COVID-19 tests on the journalists on Saturday. There was a delay in lodging the complaint as they were upset due to the media reports, he reasoned. The journalists attended the programme wearing black badges, as a mark of protest, during a meeting at the Zilla Panchayat hall on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fir-against-four-journalists-in-karnataka-831796.html
30-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sudhakar flouts quarantine norms; draws flak||Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar had drawn flak for flouting the norms and holding a meeting of officials and elected representatives, when he should have been under quarantine. MLA C S Puttaraju on Thursday alleged that Sudhakar, who has a contact history with a videographer, who later tested positive for Covid-19, held a meeting in Mandya on Wednesday. Hundreds of officials and elected representatives of the district attended it. This has created anxiety now. The videographer of a Bengaluru-based private channel, who interviewed a few ministers, tested positive for Covid-19. Now, five ministers, who had contact history with him have been quarantined and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has instructed them not to come to Vidhana Soudha. But, Sudhakar conducted a meeting in Mandya, the MLA said. Puttaraju explained that ministers Basavaraj Bommai, Sudhakhar, V Somanna, C N Ashwath Narayan and Sriramulu have been quarantined. How did the minister hold a meeting, when he was supposed to be under quarantine. MLAs and the officials participated in the meeting, but social distancing was not followed. The district administration has failed in following the norms, he criticised. The meeting could have been held via video-conference and instructions given to officials. But, Sudhakar visited Mandya to hold the meeting. Seating arrangement was made for 130 people at Cauvery hall. Hundreds of officials took part in the meeting in place of 65 officers. The officials, who have to educate the public flouted the norms, he alleged. The ministers took Covid-19 test as per the protocol and have tested negative. But the ministers are still under home quarantine for 14 days, as a precaution. Puttaraju urged the authorities to release water from Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam to canals for the benefit of farmers. Provide them suitable platform to market their produce and issue passes to farmers to transport their produce. Asha workers should be provided protective equipment like masks and sanitisers and good quality PPE kits for Covid-19 duty, he stressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sudhakar-flouts-quarantine-norms-draws-flak-831985.html
30-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||ATI prepares ‘Legal Framework for Covid-19 Risk Mgmnt'||The Centre for Disaster Management (CDM), under the Administrative Training Institute (ATI), Mysuru, has prepared a document on ‘Legal Framework for Covid-19 Risk Management’ for the use of government officers, for effective management of Covid-19, during lockdown and also post-lockdown. The document is compiled by Ashok Sanganal, head of CDM, ATI, and K Gagan, faculty (Law), ATI, under the guidance of Kapil Mohan, Director General of ATI. The framework is in the form of a power point presentation, for easy reference of the legal provisions provided under Disaster Management Act, 2005, Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, and Indian Penal Code, 1860. The framework, prepared on the basis of the order of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, on April 15, highlights the relevant provisions of the above mentioned two Acts and the IPC. As a few selected additional activities are expected to be allowed for public convenience shortly, they need to be carried out under strict operating guidelines. The framework provides detailed lockdown guidelines for the Union and state government departments like standard operating procedure for social distancing for offices, workplace, factories and establishments. It mentions offences and penalties for violation of lockdown measures. It contains guidelines sector wise. The framework elaborates the constitution of the National Executive Committee, organisational structure for Disaster Management in Karnataka, structure of Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA), constitution of State Executive Committee, structure of Karnataka State Executive Committee and their duties and responsibilities. The framework touches up to the district-level. It explains the constitution of District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), DDMA structure for districts having City Corporation, constitution of advisory committees and other committees, powers and functions of the District Authority, powers and functions of the District Authority, powers and functions of the District Authority during emergencies. The framework outlines the functions of the State Executive Committee, to implement the national and state plan for disaster management, as a coordinating and monitoring body for management of disaster in the state, to examine disaster vulnerability and specify measures for prevention and mitigation, to lay down guidelines for preparation of disaster management plans by the government departments District Authorities and to monitor them. To ensure that communication systems are in order and the disaster management drills are carried out periodically, to lay down review and update state-level response plans and guidelines and to ensure that the district-level plans are prepared, reviewed and updated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ati-prepares-legal-framework-for-covid-19-risk-mgmnt-831987.html
30-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||2nd batch of Covid-19 treating staff leave for home||The second batch of doctors and staff treating Covid-19 patients went home after a gap of 21 days on Wednesday. The Health department has formed six batches to treat Covid-19 patients. Each batch consists of nearly 60 professionals, including doctors, nurses, anesthetists, pulmonologist and Group D workers. Each batch works for seven days and the staff members self-quarantine for 15 days at a accommodation facility. Following the completion of quarantine period, the staff leave for their respective house. The staff members, a majority of them attached to Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMC & RI), rest two or three days with family and join work at KR Hospital. While the first batch completed quarantine period in April first week, the second batch completed on Wednesday. The district administration and the Health department has made all necessary arrangements to stay for the staff members at private hotels and guest houses of education institutions in the city. Only one person is accommodated in a room and no other individual is allowed enter the particular room. Once the staff vacate the facility, the whole room is cleaned and disinfected. All the facilities to the staff are in place at the accommodation facility. Food and essential items are served to their door steps, during their stay at the quarantine facility, said an officer. All staff members are taken utmost care and provided with all facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/2nd-batch-of-covid-19-treating-staff-leave-for-home-831988.html
30-04-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Two nabbed for hunting deer in Kalaburagi district||Two have been arrested on Wednesday for hunting a deer by using a country-made pistol near Sheribikanahalli of Chincholi taluk of the Kalaburagi district. They have been remanded to judicial custody.  The arrested have been identified as Ramesh Shetty Pawar of Ainolli tanda and Chandra Lakshman Pawar of Dharmasagar. During interrogation, they revealed that this is their second hunting after the lockdown was enforced to break the chain of COVID-19.  Wildlife Sanctuary Range Forest Officer Sanjeev Kumar Chauhan said a probe is being conducted on how the accused got the pistol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-two-nabbed-for-hunting-deer-in-kalaburagi-district-832064.html
30-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Centre, Karnataka govt doing nothing to help farmers, alleges Congress||After a meeting with the leaders of the opposition parties and farmers to discuss the plight of those affected by the lockdown here, Senior Congress leader D K Shivakumar told reporters that they completely supported the government in its fight against the coronavirus, but "it was doing nothing to help people economically." Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, former speaker K R Ramesh Kumar, former PWD minister and H D Deve Gowda's son H D Revanna, JD(S) MLA Bandeppa Kashempur were also present during the meeting. Shivakumar claimed that the Centre has not issued any direction to the banks to waive interest on the loan in view of the lockdown. "All the announcements that banks should be generous in giving loans and exempting from recovering is not happening at the ground level. The Centre has completely failed to handle the banks and financial institutions including the nationalised ones," he alleged. The Congress urged the government to announce a package of Rs one lakh crore to various companies and to workers of unorganised sector like taxi drivers, barbers, washermen, domestic helps and cobblers. "The government has to announce a plan. Depositing Rs 500 or Rs 1,000 is not an incentive," the state Congress chief emphasised. He predicted that trouble would mount after May 3 as people were in distress and those living on house rents were desperate. At the meeting, Siddaramaiah asked the government to straightaway procure vegetables and fruits from farmers and save them from losses. "The government should procure the vegetables and fruits directly from the farmers and distribute them among the poor people," he said. Leaders were unanimous that farmers were in a financial crisis due to the lockdown whereas there was no clarity that it may be lifted anytime soon. In the absence of markets, agriculture produce were rotting in lakhs of hectares of land in the state. "There is no proper arrangement to transport agriculture produce. Due to the lockdown, the inter-district and inter- state transportation of agriculture produce has become difficult," Siddaramaiah claimed. Citing the government estimate, Siddaramaiah said close to 17.38 lakh tonnes of vegetables were grown in 64,340 hectares whereas 32.56 lakh tonnes of fruits in 1.93 lakh hectares. Similarly, flowers of various varieties have been grown over 11,027 hectares and silk production is on in 1.08 lakh hectares.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/centre-karnataka-govt-doing-nothing-to-help-farmers-alleges-congress-831836.html
30-04-2020||Karnataka Politics||Amid coronavirus pandemic, Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa looks to consolidate his stature||The administration may be receiving flak from all quarters, but Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s statesmanship, especially his non-communal outlook during the COVID-19 crisis, is getting noticed and earning him brownie points. This is arguably his last stint as the CM Yediyurappa is seen positioning himself away from the hardline stance his BJP colleagues are known for. His recent letter of gratitude to the Karnataka Jesuit Educational Society, which runs the St Joseph’s institutions among others, for their coronavirus relief works went viral on social media, winning him laurels. “It’s been a long time since we have seen such old-fashioned gracefulness in Karnataka’s politics that ⁦Yediyurappa⁩ certainly is an exemplar of, a stark contrast to the arrogant brashness of several junior colleagues of his,” activist Leo F Saldanha, a Josephite, said in a tweet. Yediyurappa received praise when he publicly chided communal statements targeting Muslims during the COVID-19 pandemic. He has personally reached out to the Muslim community seeking their help in containing the virus. “Yediyurappa is a street fighter who rose from the grassroots through struggle. A man like that can never be communal and he has never taken hardcore, radical stands,” political commentator Muzaffar Assadi said. “In Shikaripura, even Muslims vote for him. And today, he has managed to instill confidence among them. While it’s quite obvious that he’s rising above petty politics, he must go a step further and give representation to minorities.” Yediyurappa, 78, struck a chord when he called up a nurse in Belagavi to praise her service, an onion farmer in Chitradurga assuring her help and arranging medicines to be sent to a family in Belagavi. “He knows that this, perhaps, is the last leg of his chief ministership and he doesn’t want to go as someone who oversaw bickering among communities,” political analyst Harish Ramaswamy said. “Also, he knows that BJP high command is strong and he can’t go against them. So, the best way is to gain support from communities, including the Opposition.” The Opposition Congress has vowed to support Yediyurappa during the Covid-19 crisis, but Shivajinagar MLA Rizwan Arshan is not entirely convinced. “He’s a fair man alright, but what’s the effect on the ground? When the top leader says minorities shouldn’t be targeted, his own party leaders don’t seem to care. Will the public listen?” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/amid-coronavirus-pandemic-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-looks-to-consolidate-his-stature-831997.html
30-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||Normalcy on restoration slowly in district||Kolar, DHNS: Normal life in the town slowly limped back to normalcy on Thursday as lock down guidelines have been relaxed in the town. Commercial activities were adversely affected in the last 39 days since March 22. The state government permitted certain activities from Thursday as Kolar is in the list of green zone districts. The district administration has directed merchants to follow odd and even number system to open their stores. As there was a lot of confusion over the order, most merchants opened their outlets. The police, City Municipal Council (CMC) officials and the nodal officer shut down some outlets. During the process, there were heated arguments between merchants and the officials. Commercial activities in rural and urban areas too resumed. The government offices too were open and offered services. Since the bus and autorickshaw services are yet to be resumed, the attendance in offices was less. There was heavy congestion at major junction and primer commercial zones. People thronged petrol bunks in large number. The industrial units at Vemagal and Narasapur resumed operations with 50% of the workforce. There was heavy rush at sub-registrar’s office. Ban on saloons, beauty parlours, liquor outlets, dental clinics and cinema theatres has continued. Barring routine rituals at temples, masjids and churches, all other major rituals have been banned. As a precautionary measure, ban has been continued on educational institutions to resume operations. Despite relaxation of norms, most people chose to stay indoors fearing action by the police and spreading of Covid-19. Checking has been tightened at checkpoints. Vehicles from other states and districts are being thoroughly checked before granting permission to enter the district. Merchants faced financial distress as there was no business due to lock down. We’ve heaved a sigh of relief as the district administration relaxed norms,” K S Balaji, a provision store, owner said. “Farmers faced difficulty in getting sowing seeds and fertilizer during the lock down. Relaxation has benefited the farming community,” Srinivas, a farmer from Gaddekannur, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/normalcy-on-restoration-slowly-in-district-831933.html
30-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||CAPC to recommend compensation for rain-hit crops||The Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices (CAPC) president Hanumanagauda  Belagurki on Thursday assured that he would make recommendations to the government to disburse compensation to farmers for losses of horticultural crops in the district due to heavy rains. He inspected fields at Seesandra, Tambihalli, Manighatta and Gangarasanahalli in the district. Heavy rains on April 28 destroyed horticultural crops in these villages. He said,” The untimely rains have destroyed crops in 500 hectares. The Horticulture and Agriculture departments will submit a joint report. I will make recommendations to disburse compensation based on the report.” Belagurki said that the government in the past had disbursed Rs 48,000 crore for crop losses. The compensation would be disbursed shortly this time. As per National Disaster Response Fund guidelines, an amount of Rs 18,000 would be disbursed to perennial crops per hectare and Rs 13,500 for annual crops per hectare. Since the investment on the crops is more than what has been prescribed in the guidelines, the CAPC will make recommendations for higher compensation. He said that a team of scientists from University of Agricultural Sciences will be sent to the fields to revive the partially damaged crops. A training will be imparted to farmers in this regard. “Due to Covid-19 and subsequent lock down, farming sector has landed in great distress. Prices of produces have come down due to non-availability of vehicles. However, the government is making it best efforts to transport the produces to other states,” he said. Belagurki said that agriculture is a state subject, but the centre fixes prices for agricultural produces. The CAPC has no rights to fix the prices. Since farmers have incurred losses due to decline in prices and crop losses, the CAPC will make recommendations to announce support price to produces. “Farmers love farming more than their wives and children. Country will have to face food crisis if agriculture sector is ignored,” he said Horticulture department deputy director M Gayatri, agriculture department joint director Shivakumar, Krishi Vigyan Kendra head Tualsiram and scientist K S Nagaraj were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/capc-to-recommend-compensation-for-rain-hit-crops-831959.html
30-04-2020||Kolar-Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru||11 booked for offering mass prayers||The police on Thursday booked 11 people for violating lockdown guidelines by offering mass prayers at Bha-Ki Masjid near Doddapet market here. “Religious meetings and mass prayers have been banned due to Covid-19 lock down. Certain restrictions have been imposed on religious centres. However, the 11 people violated the guidelines by conducting the mass prayers,” Shobitha, tahsildar, told reporters. On a tip-off, the tahsildar and the police rushed to the masjid for inspection. “All 11 have been handed over to the City police. Deputy commissioner and superintendent of police have been informed about the development,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-chikkaballapur-tumakuru/11-booked-for-offering-mass-prayers-831974.html
30-04-2020||Mysuru||Four COVID-19 patients recover in Mysuru; active cases tally at 28||Deputy Commission Abhiram G Sankar confirmed that the Patients 270, 321, 365 and 367 recovered and discharged from the hospital on Thursday.  The district has reported as many as 90 positive cases and 62 among them have recovered as on Thursday. It has to be recalled that the number of new cases has drastically declined. After a gap of four days, one positive case was reported on Wednesday. However, no new case was reported until Thursday noon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/four-covid-19-patients-recover-in-mysuru-active-cases-tally-at-28-831754.html
30-04-2020||National||Ten more, including journalist and health worker, test COVID-19 positive in Kerala, ten patients recover||Ten more persons in Kerala, including three health workers and a visual media journalist, were tested COVID-19 positive, while ten got cured. Six cases were found in the Kollam district in south Kerala. While two more persons in Kasargod district got infected, three in the district got cured. Meanwhile, 3.2 lakh NRIs from Kerala so far registered on an online registration facility launched by Kerala for those who wished to return. Of this, 56,114 were those who lost their jobs abroad. Registration facility for Keralites in other states was opened by Wednesday evening on registernorkaroots.org. Meanwhile, Kerala Police have warned of a fine of Rs 5,000 for those who repeatedly violate the directive to wear masks while at public places and workplaces. For first time offenders, the fine will be Rs 200. For repeated offenders, it would be Rs 5,000, a statement from the state police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ten-more-including-journalist-and-health-worker-test-covid-19-positive-in-kerala-ten-patients-recover-831635.html
30-04-2020||National||Indian states present effective models of fighting coronavirus||While COVID-19 cases in India breached 31,000 mark and casualties crossed 1,000 four days before the end of the 40-day national lockdown, the country has seen the emergence of various local models confined in smaller regions with success stories attracting global attention. The most talked-about of this is the Bhilwara model “ruthless containment” that drew the attention of even Modi. Borders were sealed when a doctor tested positive. District healthcare workers fanned out across Bhilwara, carried out aggressive surveillance, curfew was imposed at 34 places to ensure containment of the disease. Two kilometres of the area around a coronavirus positive case was sealed. In Maharashtra, ‘Islampur pattern’ has emerged as a successful model that could be used in smaller towns. When four members of a family in Sangli, who returned from Saudi Arabia, were found coronavirus positive on March 23, it took just a week to get 22 more members of the family to develop COVID-19 symptoms. In a fortnight’s time, all 26 patients, however, tested negative. All symptomatic contacts were put in isolation and tested while the asymptotic contacts were put in institutional quarantine. All low-risk contacts were home-quarantined. Since most of the cases were from the same locality, a one-km radius containment zone was created and over it a buffer zone. Islampur, which has a population of nearly 70,000 was totally cut off - and people remained where they are. Modi praised the Himachal Pradesh model and asked other states to adopt it. The entire 7 million population of the state was screened for influenza-like symptoms under this exercise.  Tamil Nadu’s Erode district has also successfully contained the disease with the district having no active cases for now. Institutional quarantine of suspected patients, home isolation of their family members, immediate barricading of areas where positive patients lived etc helped here.  Kerala’s handling of COVID-19 cases, backed by a rigid protocol, including a 28-day quarantine to contain its spread, offers a model to others. Seizing passports of quarantine violators, fining those who wear no masks etc have helped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-states-present-effective-models-of-fighting-coronavirus-831637.html
30-04-2020||National||Army troops, paramilitary forces cautioned against fake 'Aarogya Setu' app||Security agencies have warned Army troops and paramilitary forces against a malicious Pakistan-propped mobile app that masquerades as the anti-COVID-19 'Aarogya Setu' app to steal sensitive data, officials said on Wednesday. An advisory issued said the fake app can be received by a user as a WhatsApp forward or through SMS, a phishing e-mail or other links and via Internet-based social media. The advisory has recommended to the personnel that they should only download the 'Aarogya Setu' app from authorised links from the 'mygov.in' website. "The fake app during installation asks the user to permit use of internet and installation of additional application packages. "Thereafter, it installs malicious links like face.apk, imo.apk, normal.apk, trueC.apk, snap.apk and viber.apk," the advisory, accesed by PTI, said. These viruses then look into a user's smartphone and enable a hacker to track and monitor the content and activity of the phone. The data extracted from the user is saved at the command and control server of the app that is reported to be located in the Netherlands, a senior official said. The troops have been asked to exercise caution while opening suspicious links over social media platforms and e-mail over their phones and apply up-to-date security patches and anti-virus guard, he said. The Aarogya Setu application developed by the government helps people assess themselves on the risk of their catching the coronavirus infection. The app detects other devices having the same facility in its GPS or bluetooth range and captures information regarding COVID-19 positive or linked cases. The central government on Wednesday also made it mandatory for government officials to download and use the app in their personal phones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-troops-paramilitary-forces-cautioned-against-fake-aarogya-setu-app-831651.html
30-04-2020||National||Make difficult decisions to run cancer care in the days of coronavirus: Tata Memorial Centre doctors||Amidst reports of hospitals closing its doors on non-coronavirus patients, India’s topmost cancer hospital has shown to the world how it’s possible to run the regular services if doctors and hospital administrations make some tough and timely decisions. One of the difficult decisions that doctors at Tata Memorial Centre, Mumbai had to make was prioritising the patients requiring cancer therapy. “Patients with the potentially curable disease who could substantially benefit from treatment are given high priority, whereas care for patients who were being treated with palliative intent, especially those for whom interventions are expected to have marginal benefit, is being deferred,” they wrote in a note published in the New England Journal of Medicine. In other words, they have to choose between a patient, who has greater chances of survival over someone who is being treated to relieve pain without addressing the root cause. “Decisions are made by balancing the risk that patients will contract COVID-19 because of exposures associated with cancer treatment—and their risk for complications if they do — with the benefits of receiving potentially lifesaving cancer treatment,” TMC oncologists C S Pramesh and Rajendra Badwe wrote. The doctors admitted that they had to make “some difficult choices”. But on the plus side, it was possible to run regular services at the TMC albeit on a lower scale because of the social distancing measures.  Publication of the TMC experience coincided with the Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan’s letter to the states asking them to convince private hospitals to re-open so that patients are not denied treatments like blood transfusion, dialysis, chemotherapy and institutional delivery. “For a center that sees more than 70,000 new patients with cancer each year, even a slowdown in clinical services is likely to have a substantial impact on outcomes. Although cancer is often not immediately life-threatening, treatment services are also not entirely elective, and delaying care can have serious adverse consequences,” they wrote.  Early action on COVID-19 patient screening, contact tracing and social distancing, and not a huge number of patients overwhelming Mumbai hospitals are factors that TMC took into account while deciding on the course of action. The hospital also established a staff-sparing strategy, which involved providing paid leave for at-risk employees and rotating remaining staff. “The countries that have not had high rates of death from COVID-19 could consider similar approaches to balance pandemic control with the provision of continued cancer care,” the TMC duo observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/make-difficult-decisions-to-run-cancer-care-in-the-days-of-coronavirus-tata-memorial-centre-doctors-831658.html
30-04-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: April 30, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back. Download the e-paper to read today’s edition and beat the lockdown blues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-april-30-2020-edition-831659.html
30-04-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on April 30||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 34,765 as of April 30. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 1,151 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 7797 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-april-30-831660.html
30-04-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi’s soaring popularity lets him forget pre-coronavirus woes||By Bibhudatta Pradhan and Sudhi Ranjan Sen Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s response to the country’s surging coronavirus epidemic may help him walk away unscathed from a host of political and economic problems that hounded his government just months ago. His approval rating on April 21 was 83%, up from 76% on January 7, according to Morning Consult, a US-based survey and research firm. A separate survey, the IANS-CVoter COVID-19 tracker also showed that trust in his leadership jumped to 93.5% as of April 21 from 76.8% on March 25. In early March, just as the number of people with COVID-19 began rising, Modi was presiding over an economy set to expand at the slowest pace in more than a decade, one of India’s biggest bank failures, deadly riots on the streets of New Delhi and months of sustained street protests against a new religion-based citizenship law. Those issues seem to have been forgotten for now as Modi has placed himself front and center of India’s virus fight and bolstered his image as a world leader by promising to help other countries with medicines like the much-hyped hydroxychloroquine. The street protests have withered away amid the nationwide lockdown, as have criticisms of his government’s handling of the economy, with even the opposition parties focusing on the virus fight.  But the battle to retain the tag of India’s most popular leader is still likely to be an uphill task for Modi at a time when millions have lost their jobs and small businesses have been shuttered in one of the world’s most stringent shutdowns. So far, a lower infection rate -- which virus experts say may be masked by low testing numbers -- and a contained death toll in the country of 1.3 billion people have earned him praise. “As the leader with the biggest megaphone, most agile political organization, and the full support of the government machinery, Modi will undoubtedly use the crisis as a way to consolidate his own position while also pinning the blame for India’s economic woes on the virus,” said Milan Vaishnav, director and senior fellow at the South Asia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “Politics in India is in a state of suspended animation -- in that vacuum, Modi’s leadership has become even more visible while the centre has used this crisis to further centralize decision-making authority,” Vaishnav said. India has been under a stringent nationwide lockdown since March 25, even though some restrictions were eased on April 20 to allow farmers and some industries to resume operations in rural areas and in districts that were free of infections. The country had reported 31,360 infections, including 1,008 deaths as of Wednesday, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. The 40-day mandatory stay-at-home for almost all of the nation’s 1.3 billion people -- is in place until May 3 -- has crippled business activity and put a lid on consumption, the backbone of the economy, which could be heading for its first full-year contraction in more than four decades. But through it all Modi, who as prime minister has never addressed a press conference, has made regular televised appearances, asking for the nation’s cooperation in the virus battle and thanking citizens for their discipline and fortitude during the lockdown. Road Ahead The fight against rising infections may have silenced the opposition and pushed Modi’s many challenges to the back-burner, but the path ahead is less certain. When the country is eventually able to exit its lockdown, the prime minister will be questioned about a strategy to help the economy back on its feet, said Sandeep Shastri, a political scientist and Pro Vice-Chancellor at Jain University in Bangalore.“The response to the questions will be the barometer to measure the success of the current leadership.”  The main opposition Congress party says it is waiting for virus fears to abate before it puts Modi to the test. The pandemic makes political mobilization difficult, said Manish Tewari, a spokesman for the Congress party. “Nothing else focuses the mind more than the possibility of invisible and lurking death be it on a doorknob or a mirror.” There’s been limited opposition from other political parties as well, although state governments have complained the federal government has corralled finances even as they struggle to find funds to scale up their medical infrastructure. And the protests that rocked India’s streets until just before the spread of the virus and the subsequent lockdown, are also still simmering. “The protests will not end,” said Muzakkir Zama Khan, a lawyer who was part of the demonstrations against the government’s new citizenship law. “The means of expressing our viewpoint may, however, have to change.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-s-soaring-popularity-lets-him-forget-pre-coronavirus-woes-831694.html
30-04-2020||National||UP police orders 10,000 PPE kits as 28 cops test positive||The Uttar Pradesh police has ordered over 10,000 personal protective equipments and asked cops above the age of 55 years with health history to stay off the frontline duty after 28 of them tested positive. Director General of Police Hitesh Chandra Awasthi also asked district police chiefs to purchase necessary safety kits at local level wherever needed. "Till Thursday, 28 policemen have been found coronavirus positive in different districts of the state," Awasthi told PTI. "We have already ordered 10,000 PPE kits. But due to shortage, only 3,000-4,000 kits have been received so far. Over 6,000 PPE kits are being purchased at the district level," he said. "We have to take extra precautions to save our personnel from coronavirus," the state police chief said. Directives have been issued to ensure that frontline police personnel, especially in hotspot areas, follow all security protocols using PPE kits, masks, gloves and sanitisers, according to Awasthi. "We have given money, material, direction and guidance to local police chiefs to save our personnel," he said. "The districts have to access and purchase things required and give it to their men." Asked about the number of personnel under quarantine, he said: "This number continues to change, but we are doing whatever is possible for saving our force from the virus." A 'police corona helpline' has been set up at the DGP headquarters in Lucknow for guidance and counselling to the personnel. "Policemen can contact this helpline if they have any personal problems or if they are worried about their family's health. It will continue during the lockdown period for 24 hours," the DGP said. For the hotspots, after incidents of clashes with policemen is reported, the DGP has asked to take strict action against the guilty, including invoking NSA against them. "The policemen have also been asked to remain in their protective gear and have shields to save themselves in such situation," he said. In the state, there are over 400 hotspots under 248 police stations in 57 of the 75 districts having over 5.8 lakh houses and a population of over 34 lakh, according to the police. The DGP said directives had been issued to keep those police personnel, who are have past history of illness, free from frontline duties. "Officers have been asked to make a list of personnel above 55 years of age and scan their health history before putting them on frontline duties. "They have been asked to strictly follow these orders to protect subordinates from getting exposed to the deadly virus while performing their duties and further infecting others in the force," the DGP said.  It has been specifically told that personnel who are suffering from diseases related to respiration, lungs, heart and diabetes should be kept free from frontline duties. Those deployed in the frontline duties are being briefed to strictly follow standard operating procedures (SOPs) and other instructions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-police-orders-10000-ppe-kits-as-28-cops-test-positive-831711.html
30-04-2020||National||Rishi Kapoor will be greatly missed: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday remembered Rishi Kapoor as a wonderful actor, while noting that it has been a terrible week for Indian cinema with the passing away of another legend. Kapoor, who was suffering from cancer, died in a Mumbai hospital. The death of the veteran actor comes a day after versatile actor Irrfan Khan died in Mumbai. In a tweet, Gandhi said, "This is a terrible week for Indian cinema, with the passing of another legend, actor Rishi Kapoor.   "A wonderful actor, with a huge fan following across generations, he will be greatly missed. My condolences to his family, friends and fans all over the world, at this time of grief,"  he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rishi-kapoor-will-be-greatly-missed-rahul-gandhi-831714.html
30-04-2020||National||71 new COVID-19 cases in Nashik; District tally rises to 276||The number of coronavirus cases in Nashik district of Maharashtra has gone up to 276 as 71 more people have tested positive for the disease, an official from the district administration said on Thursday. Most of the new cases are from the district's Malegaon town, he said. The new patients include six police personnel and three children - aged three months, 5 years and 11 years. Out of the total 276 cases, 253 have been reported from Malegaon, 10 from Nashik city, 11 from other parts of the district and two patients are from outside the district who are undergoing treatment in hospitals here.  There was no change in the death toll which stood at 12, the official said. Till date, 11 people have recovered from the disease in the district and discharged from hospitals, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/71-new-covid-19-cases-in-nashik-district-tally-rises-to-276-831715.html
30-04-2020||National||Another lockdown may be devastating: Raghuram Rajan||India needs to open up its economy in a “measured way” and “as fast as possible” so that people start having jobs, millions of which have been lost due to the COVID-19 outbreak, former Reserve Bank of India Governor Raghuram Rajan said. In an interaction with former Congress President Rahul Gandhi, Rajan said India needed to be “cleverer” in opening up the economy and handling fresh COVID-19 infections quickly without having to go for a “second or a third lockdown”, which would be a “devastating” option. “It is all too easy to cover a lockdown forever, but obviously that is unsustainable for the economy,” Rajan said, adding that zero infections at the end of the lockdown would be an unachievable target. The interaction was the first of a series of conversations of Gandhi with global and Indian thought leaders the Congress has initiated to make a renewed bid to present the former Congress President as an alternative to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “India will need a budget of Rs 65,000 crore to help the poor. India should do this,” Rajan said when asked how much money would be required to help the poor. Asked how India could use the crisis to its benefit, Rajan said there was an opportunity for India to shape the dialogue for a rethink on the global economy. “If there is opportunity for India, it is in shaping that dialogue. Being more of a leader in that dialogue because it is not one of the two big warring parties, but it is a big enough country to have its voice heard in the global economy,” Rajan said. He said India can also find opportunities for its industries, for its supply chains, but most importantly, “We can try and mould the dialogue towards one which has greater place for more countries in the global order, a multi polar global order rather than a single or a bipolar global order.” Rajan also raised concerns on the current COVID-19 testing rate in India, contending that it was nowhere close to the US, which now has the highest number of coronavirus cases. However, given the limited resources in India, Rajan suggested mass testing as an option to reduce the burden on the test infrastructure and to try and vet much more. “In some sense less intensive, but we have to be cleverer since we simply cannot wait till we have that kind of testing,” Rajan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/another-lockdown-may-be-devastating-raghuram-rajan-831722.html
30-04-2020||National||Pawar condoles Rishi Kapoor's death, calls him versatile actor||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday expressed grief over veteran actor Rishi Kapoor's death, saying the Indian film industry has lost a versatile and charismatic artist. The 67-year-old actor, who was suffering from cancer, died in a Mumbai hospital. "Saddened to know about the sad demise of veteran actor Rishi Kapoor. The Indian film industry has lost a versatile and charismatic actor. My sincere condolences to Kapoor family, Pawar tweeted. Pawar's daughter and NCP Lok Sabha member Supriya Sule also expressed grief over the untimely demise of Chintu, as Kapoor was fondly called. She said Kapoor was a highly talented and acclaimed actor and a very fine human being and friend. My Deepest Condolences to Neetu, Ranbir, Daboo, Rima, Chimpu and the rest of the Kapoor family. RIP Chintu, you will be missed, Sule said on the micro-blogging site. Rishi Kapoor, a third-generation actor of the famous Kapoor dynasty, was taken to the H N Reliance Hospital by his family on Wednesday. His death comes a day after his "D-Day" co-star Irrfan Khan passed away, also of cancer. Three months ago, the disease claimed Kapoor's sister Ritu Nanda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pawar-condoles-rishi-kapoors-death-calls-him-versatile-actor-831725.html
30-04-2020||National||Rishi Kapoor torch-bearer of illustrious legacy: Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday condoled the death of Rishi Kapoor, saying the veteran actor was the torch-bearer of an illustrious legacy whose contribution to the film industry is unparalleled. He was not only a good actor, but also a straight forward human being, Thackeray said in a condolence message. Kapoor, 67, who was suffering from cancer, died in a Mumbai hospital. "In his death, we have lost a link to connect two generations of artists. He was the torch-bearer of an illustrious legacy of his family whose contribution to the Indian film industry is unparalleled," Thackeray said. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar also expressed grief over Kapoor's death, saying a pleasant personality full of life has been lost. The actor gave his fans happy with his performances and carried forward the legacy of Kapoors in the field of cinema, he said. Pawar said the news of Kapoor's death is shocking and heartbreaking, especially since it comes a day after the demise of another talented actor Irrfan Khan. "Rishi Kapoor was unwell but he never let his fans know about his pain. He was an artist who remained in constant touch with his fans. He will live through his work in the film industry," he said. Rishi Kapoor, a third-generation actor of the famous Kapoor dynasty, was taken to the H N Reliance Hospital by his family on Wednesday. His death comes a day after after his "D-Day" co-star Irrfan Khan died, also of cancer. Three months ago, the disease claimed Kapoor's sister Ritu Nanda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rishi-kapoor-torch-bearer-of-illustrious-legacy-thackeray-831729.html
30-04-2020||National||Kapoors: The numero uno Bollywood family||The Kapoor clan or the Kapoor khandaan is in many ways the numero uno family of the Hindi film industry. The family and the extended family have several actors, directors, producers and so on. From the silent era to black and white, colour, Eastmancolor and digital, the family has seen nearly 90 years of the Hindi film industry, popularly called Bollywood. The family has its origins in Lyallpur, now in the Faisalabad district of Pakistan. Son of a police officer from Peshawar, the tall and handsome Prithviraj Kapoor started as an actor during the silent era. He started acting as an extra in Imperial Films Company. He later founded Prithvi Theatres in 1944. Among his best admired performances was the portrayal of Alexander the Great in Sohrab Modi's Sikandar. He was into both stage and screen. His brother Trilok Kapoor was also an actor. Three of Prithviraj Kapoor's sons, the legendary showman Raj Kapoor, Shammi Kapoor and Shashi Kapoor, went on to become top actors of their times. Raj Kapoor's son are Randhir Kapoor, Rishi Kapoor and Rajiv Kapoor, all into films. Randhir's daughter's Karishma and Kareena were also into acting. Rishi Kapoor's son Ranbir Kapoor is among the top actors now. Shashi Kapoor's sons are former actors Kunal Kapoor and Karan Kapoor and daughter is Sanjana Kapoor. She is married to environmentalist Valmik Thapar, nephew of historian Romila Thapar. Randhir Kapoor's daughter Kareena Kapoor is married to Saif Ali Khan, the 10th Nawab of Pataudi and son of legendary cricketer MAK Pataudi and actress Sharmila Tagore, who is related the family of Nobel laureate and poet Rabindranath Tagore. She is also related to Devika Rani, who married Himashu Rai, the founder of Bombay Talkies. The Bachchan family is also related to the Kapoors. In fact, Amitabh Bachchan's daughter Shweta Bachchan Nanda is married to Nikhil Nanda, son of Ritu Nanda, the daughter of Raj Kapoor. Surinder Kapoor, the father of brothers Boney Kapoor, Anil Kapoor and Sanjay Kapoor, was a cousin of Prithviraj Kapoor. Anil Kapoor's daughters Sonam Kapoor, Rhea Kapoor and son Harshavardhan Kapoor are also actors. Top actor Ranveer Singh and Arjun Kapoor, Jhanvi Kapoor and Mohit Kapoor are cousins. Three members of the Kapoor family – Prithviraj Kapoor, Raj Kapoor and Shashi Kapoor – are recipients of the Dadasaheb Phalke awards and adding Amitabh Bachchan, it is four.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kapoors-the-numero-uno-bollywood-family-831730.html
30-04-2020||National||Rajasthan: Mother, uncle held for ‘honour killing’ of 16-year-old girl||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly strangulated, burnt and buried in a village in Pali district of Rajasthan by her mother and uncle in a suspected case of honour killing, police said on Thursday. The charred body of the girl was exhumed and sent for post-mortem examination while the accused mother Sita Devi and uncle Sawaram were arrested, they said. “The incident took place on March 19 but came to light after more than a month following a tip-off from a police informer,” said Superintendent of Police (Pali) Rahul Kotoki. “We have registered a case against the victim’s mother and uncle and arrested them,” he added. According to the officer, families of brothers Shesharam and Sawaram from village Sonai Majhi in Pali district had shifted to Pune long back where they owned a grocery shop. The victim – Rinku was the daughter of Shesharam and in a relationship with a local boy in Pune with whom she had eloped about two months ago, Kotoki said. “However, Rinku’s family lodged a police complaint accusing the boy of kidnapping the girl following which the Mumbai Police held the couple at Dadar Railway Station. The man was arrested but the girl, being a minor, was handed over to the family,” he said. “A month later when the man got out on bail, Rinku insisted on marrying him but her family members refused and instead took her to their village in Rajasthan on March 18 on the pretext of visiting a local deity,” said the officer. The following day, on March 19, they killed the girl and returned to Pune, Kotoki said, adding that the role of other family members is also being investigated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-mother-uncle-held-for-honour-killing-of-16-year-old-girl-831731.html
30-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Indian missions in UAE open online registration for its citizens who wish to fly home||The Indian missions in the UAE have opened online registration for the expatriates who wish to fly back home after getting stuck in the country amidst the lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. On Wednesday night, the Indian Embassy in Abu Dhabi announced the details of data collection through the website of the Indian Consulate in Dubai, the Gulf News reported. "It is informed that the Embassy of India, Abu Dhabi and the Consulate General of India, Dubai, have started a database to register Indians wishing to travel back to India under COVID-19 situation. The details can be entered through the website of the Embassy www.indianembassyuae.gov.in or Consulate www.cgidubai.gov.in by following the link 'Register in Database of Indians to Travel Back to India under COVID-19 situation'," India in Dubai tweeted on Thursday. "These can also be entered by following the link www.cgidubai.gov.in/covid_register," it tweeted. However, minutes after posting the tweet, the mission deleted it citing “technical issues.” It seemed some users were having trouble accessing the page, the report said. On Thursday, the Consulate General of India in Dubai reposted the link, warning it may take "some time for the page to load due to high traffic," the report said. The Abu Dhabi mission earlier clarified that the purpose of the form is only to collect information to enable the Government of India to plan for the return of Indians from abroad under the present COVID-19 situation, the report added. This form is to be filled for a single individual at a time. Families need to fill separate forms for each member, it said.  Similarly, for companies, a separate form has to be filled for each employee. It was also clarified that the decision on resumption of passenger flights to India will be taken in due course, the report said. Tens of thousands of Indian expats are expected to register their details, it said. On April 10, the government said a decision to bring Indians stranded abroad will be taken after reviewing the COVID-19 situation. Ministry of External Affairs Additional Secretary Dammu Ravi said, "Some questions have come about Indians abroad. It is a situation where we cannot give a definite answer because the lockdown is still there. We need to assess the situation… It will be the government's decision on how we manage the return of Indians from other countries." Indian expatriate community of approximately 3.42 millions is reportedly the largest ethnic community in UAE constituting roughly about 30 per cent of the country’s population, as per the International Migrant Stock 2019 released by the Population Division of the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs (DESA), according to the Indian Embassy. PTI AMS AKJ A||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-indian-missions-in-uae-open-online-registration-for-its-citizens-who-wish-to-fly-home-831739.html
30-04-2020||National||Plea in HC for proper supply of meat during lockdown||A PIL was filed in the Delhi High Court seeking direction to the authorities here to ensure uninterrupted supply of meat as an essential item during the coronavirus lockdown period. The plea, which was later withdrawn, sought a direction to the Delhi government and East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) to take steps including the opening of lone Ghazipur abattoir in a time-bound manner and facilitate the supply of meat by complying social distancing norms and other guidelines issued by the Centre. After making some submissions, the petitioner however sought to withdraw the public interest litigation which was allowed by the court. “The petition is dismissed as withdrawn and disposed of accordingly,” a bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh said. Petitioner Rishabh Bhargava, in the plea filed through advocate Arpit Bhargava, said the PIL raised a question of public importance whether any state government and the municipal corporation can be allowed to violate mandatory guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs during the nationwide lockdown and infringe upon fundamental rights of the citizens by non-availability of the essential item, meat, during the lockdown.  The bench, in its order, said it has not made any observations on the merit of the issues raised in the petition and they are left open to be determined in an appropriate proceeding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-hc-for-proper-supply-of-meat-during-lockdown-831740.html
30-04-2020||National||We are not experts, says SC on use of HCQ, AZM on COVID-19 patients||The Supreme Court, on Thursday, refused to consider a plea against use of anti-malarial drug, Hydroxychloroquine and broad-spectrum antibiotic Azithromycin, in the treatment of critically ill COVID-19 patients in view of lethal side effects on cardiovascular system. "Can the courts say which type of treatment should be used? We are not experts for these things," a bench presided over by Justice N V Ramana told Kunal Saha, president of petitioner NGO 'People for Better Treatment'. Saha, for his part, contended that patients did have a right to know if there was a risk in the treatment. He said there should be informed consent due to serious side effects. The bench, however, said it was not going to issue any direction. The Indian Council for Medical Research may consider the petition as a representation, it added. Saha, a medical practitioner, contended that the updated treatment guidelines issued on March 31, 2020, for doctors and hospitals across India has made categorical recommendations to use a combination of the two drugs without any direct scientific evidence. "The off-label use of HCQ and AZM in COVID-19 patients on anecdotal evidence has already created a great deal of controversy among healthcare professionals because of their previously known potentially life-threatening side effects, particularly on the cardiovascular system," it said. It sought a direction to the Centre and the ICMR for reconsideration of any use of both the drugs. The plea sought immediate implementation of a six-point specific recommendations made jointly by the American Heart Association (AHA), American College of Cardiology (ACC) and Heart Rhythm Society (HRS) in the USA on April 8 against such a use without an informed consent in order to save potential loss of innocent patients due to cardiac complications and heart failure. Soon after a joint bulletin by the USA bodies was released on April 8, 2020, the petitioner claimed it intimated the Health Ministry about "serious and potentially life-threatening dangers for using HCQ and AZM" in COVID-19 patients and asked it to immediately adopt precautionary measures. "Unfortunately", even after several reminders on extremely urgent situation, the Centre has remained absolutely silent and did not respond or show any interest to adopt any precautionary measures to mitigate the obvious risks, including heart failure and death, involved with the acutely sick ICU patients, it said. "It is truly alarming that while off-label treatment with HCQ and AZM mostly on anecdotal evidence for serious COVID-19 patients has been advised. They have failed to provide the important and specific precautionary measures that doctors should take before and during the use of these drugs apart from vaguely stating that ‘these drugs should be administered under close medical supervision’," it added. An extraordinary joint bulletin by the American associations asked the doctors to give stark warnings to patients for before and during the use of HCQ and AZM in COVID-19, especially for patients with existing cardiac conditions since these drugs have potential to trigger arrythmia (abnormal heartbeat), heart failure and even death. The petition contended that doctors and healthcare workers across India always looked toward the central health ministry for proper guidance and management of COVID-19 patients as there is very little medical research on a novel virus first isolated in China only four to five months ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-are-not-experts-says-sc-on-use-of-hcq-azm-on-covid-19-patients-831745.html
30-04-2020||National||'Bhag jaldi Dilli pagal': Smriti Irani remembers Rishi Kapoor's words to her in 2014||"Bhag jaldi Dilli pagal," were the words of veteran actor Rishi Kapoor to Union minister Smriti Irani in 2014 when he came to know that she had been summoned to the national capital take oath after formation of a new government. Paying a moving tribute to Kapoor, Irani remembered her last meeting with the actor on a movie set. "In 2014 he told me 'bhag jaldi Dilli pagal ' for he knew I've been summoned to take the oath. The last I saw him was on a set and that's how I will remember him. Prodding you to do your best, caring for the little things, teaching you the craft no matter how old you were on the job," she said in a tweet. "Khannas, Kapoors and Malhotras he said will always love the good life, will always laugh gregariously ... make the heavens happy Rishi Sir. Will miss you," she said in another tweet, sharing a picture of herself with the actor. Malhotra is the minister's maiden name. Kapoor died in a Mumbai hospital on Thursday, his brother Randhir Kapoor said. He was 67. Kapoor, who was suffering from cancer, was taken to the H N Reliance hospital by his family on Wednesday. The actor returned to India last September after undergoing treatment for cancer in the US for almost a year. In February, he was admitted in hospital twice||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhag-jaldi-dilli-pagal-smriti-irani-remembers-rishi-kapoors-words-to-her-in-2014-831752.html
30-04-2020||National||Nine in 10 urban Indians consider banking as most essential service during lockdown: Survey||Majority of urban Indians consider banking and online home repairs as important essential service during the lockdown, even as nearly three-quarter of respondents said they are satisfied with the available essential services, says a survey. According to a survey by market research and data company YouGov, nine in 10 urban Indians (89 per cent) picked banks as the most essential service during the lockdown from a list of businesses providing non-essential goods and services. Banking was followed by the online home repairs, which was considered to be crucial during this time by around three-quarters (74 per cent) of respondents. The onset of summer and the need for AC and fridge servicing could be the reason for placing greater importance on this need, the survey noted. Interestingly, the survey said many people considered newspapers and magazines as well as pet stores to be of higher importance (61 per cent each) in the current scenario than the availability of alcohol and cigarettes. The need for pet stores and services is more urgent for tier I residents (with 66 per cent) than tier II (57 per cent) and tier III (59 per cent) residents. The demand for pet stores, however, is comparatively lower in south India. The survey was done from data collected online by YouGov Omnibus among 1,000 respondents in India between April 21–24 using YouGov's panel of over six million people worldwide. Meanwhile, the Home Ministry's decision to cancel the permission to sell non-essential commodities on e-commerce platforms is likely to add to the disappointment of many who consider the online sale of kitchen appliances (40 per cent), gadgets (33 per cent) and body or skin care products (35 per cent) as essential. The survey also found that there also seems to be scepticism towards some businesses that the government has allowed to trade during the pandemic. While 60 per cent said they consider postal and courier services essential, people seem to be in a less dire need of local standalone salons and parlours, and only a meager proportion counts salon services - either at home (15 per cent) or at shops (13 per cent), as "essential". On restriction on the operation of gyms and fitness centres, close to half of the respondents (46 per cent) think of them as key services, but almost as many (54 per cent) feel they are unnecessary, it said. At an overall level, people seem happy with the availability of essential items in the lockdown, with 76 per cent respondents saying they are satisfied with the available essential services and don't want any more amenities while 17 per cent are dissatisfied with the services and want more amenities during the lockdown, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-in-10-urban-indians-consider-banking-as-most-essential-service-during-lockdown-survey-831755.html
30-04-2020||National||Delhi Police allows Rishi Kapoor's daughter to travel to Mumbai amid lockdown||"Along with Riddhima, four other people -- Bharat Sahni, Samara Sahni, Akshay Sahni and Drigalakshmi Rai -- got permission to travel to Mumbai," Deputy Commissioner of Police (southeast) R P Meena said. Riddhima Sahni lives in southeast Delhi. The 67-year-old actor, who was suffering from cancer, died in a Mumbai hospital. His death comes a day after his 'D-Day' co-star Irrfan Khan passed away due to cancer. The Delhi Police also paid tribute to both the actors. "Two of the finest personalities of the film world, who made us laugh and cry with their performances, are not among us today. Delhi Police pays them an emotional tribute," it tweeted. Rishi Kapoor, a third generation actor of the famous Kapoor dynasty, was taken to the H N Reliance Hospital by his family on Wednesday. His family said the actor remained "jovial and determined to live to the fullest right through two years of treatment across two continents". "Family, friends, food and films remained his focus and everyone who met him during this time was amazed at how he did not let his illness get the better of him," the family said in a statement, adding the actor would like to be "remembered with a smile and not with tears". On Wednesday, Irrfan Khan (54), lost his battle with a rare form of cancer and died in a Mumbai hospital. He was buried at the Versova graveyard in the afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-allows-rishi-kapoors-daughter-to-travel-to-mumbai-amid-lockdown-831762.html
30-04-2020||National||Railways comes as lifeline to private companies to move their foodgrains consignment||With the road transport sector totally disrupted due to nationwide lockdown, Indian Railways came as a lifeline to private companies and traders as national transporter moved more than 7.74 lakh tonnes of foodgrains for the past one month. More than 7.75 lakh tonnes of 303 rakes of private foodgrains freight loaded by Indian Railways during the lockdown period from  March 25 to  April 28, 2020, as compared to about 6.62 lakh tonnes of 243 rakes last year in the same period, said an official from railways. Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Tamilnadu are the leading states in private foodgrains freight loading, said the official. Earlier most of these foodgrains are being transported through the road sector. The national transporter also transported the highest quantity of foodgrains from Food Corporation of India ( FCI) which is being distributed to the poor under the public distribution system. The railways transported more than 5.2 million tonnes of foodgrains belongs to FCI  from March 25  to April 25, 2020, which is more than double the quantity foodgrains moved compared to last year. The Indian  Railways making all efforts to ensure that farm products like foodgrains are picked up on time and also to ensure an uninterrupted supply chain said the official. Also, the railways is operating more than 500 parcel trains since the start of the lockdown transporting for perishable commodities including fruits, vegetables, milk, and dairy products and seeds for agriculture purposes.  It also notified routes with a fixed time table to run parcel trains. "These parcel Trains have been given en-route stoppages at all feasible locations, so that maximum possible clearance of parcels can be done," said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-comes-as-lifeline-to-private-companies-to-move-their-foodgrains-consignment-831764.html
30-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Guest workers take out march in Kerala demanding arrangements to go home||Violating lockdown protocol, at least 100 guest workers took out a march here on Thursday demanding immediate arrangements to return to their home states. The demonstration comes a day after the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued guidelines to allow inter-state movement of stranded migrant workers, tourists, pilgrims, students and others. Holding placards and raising slogans, the workers took out the march at around 10 am at nearby Chattiparambilbazaar. "Less than a hundred workers from other states took out a protest march seeking assistance to go back to their native. states. We used force to disperse them and held discussions and noted down their demands," the Malappuram DySP told P T I. He said the workers were demanding transport facilities to move back to their native land as there was no work here. Malappuram district, which falls under the red zone in Kerala, has over 1,500 people under observation and one positive case, as per the medical bulletin issued on Wednesday. "They said their families were suffering back at their homes as the workers here were unable to send money due to lack of work during the lockdown period. They said they had food and other facilities here but were unhappy as they were unable to return to their families," the official said. Another official said some of the protestors have been taken into custody. "We are investigating whether there has been any conspiracy or instigation behind the move," a senior police official said. Several guest workers had assembled in Paippad town in Kottayam district on March 29 urging the State Government to arrange vehicles for them to travel to their home destinations in north India.  However, due to the nation-wide lockdown, the government had turned down their plea but instead arranged free meals for them at various places where they have been lodged. Presently in Kerala, 3.61 lakh guest workers are lodged in 20,826 camps. Attracted with the high wages for labourers in Kerala, lakhs of people from the north-eastern states of West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Assam and Manipur have been working and living in Kerala since the past many years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-guest-workers-take-out-march-in-kerala-demanding-arrangements-to-go-home-831781.html
30-04-2020||National||Reduce exam duration, conduct exams offline or online in July: UGC recommends to varsities||Universities may conduct semester exams in July either online or offline depending upon the feasibility and the COVID-19 situation and reduce the exam duration from three hours to two hours, the University Grants Commission (UGC) has recommended. Detailing the guidelines for examinations and academic calendar for universities in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, the commission has said the exams for final semester students be conducted in July. It has recommended that intermediate semester students may either be evaluated on the basis of internal assessment or in states where the COVID-19 situation has normalised, exams be conducted in July only. The varsities may decide whether to conduct exams online or offline keeping in view the support system available with them and ensuring the fair opportunity to all students. "Universities may adopt alternative and simplified modes and methods of examinations to complete the process in a shorter period of time. They may reduce the time from 3 hours to 2 hours," the UGC has said. "They may conduct examinations in offline or online mode, as per their ordinances or rules and regulations, the scheme of examinations, and must observe the guidelines of social distancing besides keeping in view the support system available with them and ensuring a fair opportunity to all students," it added. The commission has said in case the situation does not appear to be normal in view of COVID-19, the safety and health of students be prioritised and their grading could be composite of 50 per cent marks on the basis of internal evaluation and the remaining 50 per cent marks can be awarded on the basis of performance in the previous semester. "The situation where previous semester or previous year marks are not available, particularly in the first year of an annual pattern of examinations, 100 per cent evaluation may be done on the basis of internal assessments. The internal evaluation can be continuous evaluation, prelims, mid-semester, internal evaluation or whatever name is given for student progression. The UGC has said if the student wishes to improve the grades, he or she may appear in special exams for such subjects during the next semester. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the central government announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as one of the measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak.  Later, a nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which has now been extended till May 3. The UGC had formed two committees to deliberate on issues arising due to the lockdown to avoid academic loss and take appropriate measures for the future of students. One of the committees led by Haryana University Vice-Chancellor R C Kuhad was formed to look into the ways of conducting exams in universities amid the lockdown and work on an alternate academic calendar. The UGC has also notified in the guidelines that new academic session for freshers may begin in universities from September and for already enrolled students in August. The admission process will begin in universities from August 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reduce-exam-duration-conduct-exams-offline-or-online-in-july-ugc-recommends-to-varsities-831785.html
30-04-2020||National||SpiceJet flight brings 14 tonnes of medical supplies from China||SpiceJet said on Thursday that it has brought 14 tonnes of medical supplies here from China. The airline said it operated its maiden freighter flight carrying medical supplies from Guangzhou in China to Delhi on Wednesday. The cargo plane had left Kolkata at 10:30 am on Wednesday for Guangzhou. After loading all the items, the plane came back to Kolkata at 8:20 pm, the airline said in a release. The B737 plane then left Kolkata at 9 pm and came to Delhi at 11:15 pm on Wednesday, it said. The airline said the plane brought 14 tonnes of medical supplies including medicines and protective gear. India has been under lockdown since March 24 midnight to curb the spread of COVID-19, which has infected more than 33,000 people and killed around 1,070 people in the country till now. All commercial passenger flights have been suspended for the lockdown period. SpiceJet has till date transported over 4,750 tons of cargo on more than 651 flights since the nation-wide lockdown began. Of these, 233 were international cargo flights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spicejet-flight-brings-14-tonnes-of-medical-supplies-from-china-831788.html
30-04-2020||National||Rajasthan Royals launches fundraiser for COVID-19 relief in Rajasthan||The franchise has set up a dedicated fundraiser page on Facebook where donors can contribute towards Gram Chetna Kendra, an NGO that works in Rajasthan with a focus on children and women projects. The funds received via this initiative will focus on extending help to women and dependent families from underprivileged households in the state of Rajasthan by providing over 200,000 nutritious meals. Royals have already contributed funds to supply 100,000 meals to underprivileged women in Rajasthan. Speaking about the initiative, Royals Executive Chairman Ranjit Barthakur said, "Rajasthan is our home state and during these distressing times we would like to extend our full support to our extended family there."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-royals-launches-fundraiser-for-covid-19-relief-in-rajasthan-831791.html
30-04-2020||National||Migrants hope CMs won't let them down after MHA guidelines to states to take them back||Twenty-three year old Amir Sohail wants to hug his son and get a good night's sleep on his charpai in the courtyard of his house in Muzaffarpur, Bihar. He is just waiting for the promised bus to take him there. After a nearly 40-day ordeal of skimming for food, Sohail, a migrant worker, is tired and all his hopes are now depended on the bus the government has said will ferry him home from Surat in Gujarat where he has been stranded due to the lockdown. "I just want to go home now. We have been struggling here. There is hardly any food. I keep thinking if I should have tried to return earlier like the others. But I am no good to my family if dead. I just hope I can return to my son. I want to hug him," Sohail, who stitched clothes at a factory before the lockdown told PTI on the phone. The Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday issued a fresh set of guidelines to let migrant workers, students, tourists and pilgrims stranded in different parts of the country to get back home. The inter-state movement of these stranded people will be facilitated by the state/UT governments by road only, the order stated. Anyone willing to be transported back home will have to be medically screened at the source as well as destination and will be kept in a home or institutional quarantine on arrival, the home ministry guidelines said. Suman who works as a labourer in Nagpur, Maharashtra had decided to walk back to his home in Meghnagar, Madhya Pradesh but was restrained by fellow workers after they got to know that some like them had been detained by the police. "I was ready to walk it. I was tired of waiting for food and basic necessities. When we earned, whatever little we did, we lived on our own terms. Here, we have to beg for everything. Now, when the buses come, I want to be the first to get on it. While I have been here for seven months, never have I longed for home like this," he said. "This uncertainty of the lockdown has made me long for the safety of my house. The first thing I would do when I get home is eat food cooked by my mother," the 22-year-old said. While the protocols for ferrying these migrants will be chalked out in the next couple of days, workers stranded in distant lands are restless and want to ensure that their names feature on the lists of those granted access to the buses.  "I was told we need a pass for it. Where will I get the pass? Can you tell me please. I don't want to miss this opportunity to go home," said 34-year-old Ramnath, a labourer from Bihar's Muzaffarpur who is stuck in Mangalore with 21 other migrant workers since the lockdown.   Ramnath, who has two children back home, never again wants to come back if he gets work in his home state. The MHA in its order has stated that state governments need to coordinate with each other to facilitate the movement of the migrant workers. It is not clear how that will be achieved, but migrants from different parts of the country hope that their respective chief ministers won't let them down. "We saw on TV that our CMs will help us get back. I hope they do something quickly. I am ready to go however they take me, on a bus, train or car. I just want to leave. There is no food and no money," said 23-year old Avinash Kumar from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh who works as a labourer in Nagpur. Others like him -- Ramashankar and Guddu stuck in Surat, Urmila Devi from Lakhisarai stranded in Faridabad, Anita Devi in Gurgaon -- are all waiting for the buses to take them home to their loved ones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrants-hope-cms-wont-let-them-down-after-mha-guidelines-to-states-to-take-them-back-831798.html
30-04-2020||National||COVID-19: IIT designs bamboo furniture for health centres, makeshift isolation wards||The team at Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Guwahati's design department has pitched the idea to the authorities and highlighted that the furniture can be used at primary health centres and make shift isolation wards set up in places like indoor stadiums. It can be easily disposed off when the virus has been contained. According to Ravi Mokashi Punekar, a professor at the institute's design department, over 200 beds can be manufactured per day using the design. "Bamboo craft forms an important economic driver in the northeast region of India. However, for a craft that is so prevalent in the region, its effective utilisation for public community facilities like health centres in rural areas were limited and this particular project demonstrated the potential," Punekar told PTI. "The hospital furniture range that we have developed is an appropriate and sustainable solution to meet local infrastructure needs and concurrently creating job opportunities for craft-persons using bamboo and cane available in the region," he said. "Considering the present pandemic scenario, where there is an urgency in improving the basic infrastructure facilities in our primary healthcare services, it offers scope for collaborative interaction amongst the various stakeholders for the improvement of health services in particular and the overall development and the wellbeing of the community," he added. The institute is in touch with with two local entrepreneurs who have agreed to undertake the manufacturing of the furniture and the designs have also been shared with Guwahati Medical Hospital. "Given the current pandemic situation, if the situation arises, the bamboo furniture range will help. If there is spike in number of cases and more infrastructural demand rises, then the furniture can be used in setting up makeshift isolation wards like in stadiums. The furniture can be used during that period and disposed off when the need is over," Punekar said. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 824 and the number of cases climbed to 26,496 in India on Sunday, according to the Union health ministry. The death toll increased by 45 and the number of cases by 1,554 since the ministry last updated its data on Saturday evening. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 19,868 while 5,803 people were cured and discharged, and one patient has migrated, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-iit-designs-bamboo-furniture-for-health-centres-makeshift-isolation-wards-831801.html
30-04-2020||National||Young professionals to lead 1st phase of 'immediate' travel post coronavirus lockdown: Survey||Young professionals will lead the first phase of 'immediate and essential travel' once the lockdown restrictions are relaxed, a survey has revealed. The second phase of the nationwide lockdown to contain COVID-19 infections is scheduled to end on May 3. While many are willing to stay put for the next few months until the situation improves, 25 per cent of the 'young Indian workforce' have shown a strong sentiment towards travel immediately to return home or to their work city, visit friends and family, for business and for medical purposes, the survey by online travel company MakeMyTrip has found.   The survey was commissioned by MakeMyTrip's Consumer Insights team between April 1-15 among 1,500 respondents between the age group of 18 to 55 years. Most people who are willing to travel immediately comprise millennials or working professionals within the age group of 25 to 35 years. "In these uncertain times, we are closely gauging customer sentiment to better understand what travel would look like once restrictions ease. While travel will take a while to normalize, our survey helps us understand specific customer needs and concerns. "This will help us do all we can to help make our customers' journeys easier and safer and also work closely with our partners to ensure that together, we are ready to address concerns and meet customer expectations," MakeMyTrip Group Chief Marketing Officer Sunil Suresh said. As people anticipate what post COVID-19 world will look like, travellers will be seen shifting towards conscious travel with people prioritizing social distancing and high safety standards, the survey said. It found that over 57 per cent travellers have shown a high preference for air travel, followed by 22 per cent opting for self-drive car rentals, suggesting an increase in the number for people preferring weekend getaways or travelling to nearby tourist destinations.  In parallel, accommodation choices are expected to see an equal degree of transformation with travellers choosing to book premium standardised properties that follow sanitisation and hygiene protocols (38 per cent) or staying at a friend's or relative's place (25 per cent), indicating the need for stringent hygiene standards, it said. Some of the parameters that rank high for hotel bookers include opting for a hotel that prioritises cleanliness and practices safety guidelines as directed by the World Health Organization and the government (69 per cent), conducts regular sanitisation of rooms and bed linens (62 per cent), employs well trained staff with adequate protective gears (52 per cent) and offers an option to pay later with free cancellations up to 24 hours prior to the check-in (31 per cent). Other factors include facilities for in-room dining, availability of disposables for serving food and 24/7 helpline, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/young-professionals-to-lead-1st-phase-of-immediate-travel-post-coronavirus-lockdown-survey-831806.html
30-04-2020||National||Month of May could be 'make or break' for COVID-19 fight, say medical experts||As the May 3 deadline for the lockdown nears, medical experts feel the next month can be "make or break" for the fight against COVID-19 and an aggressive containment strategy for hotspots along with insulation of green zones is essential while giving some relaxations. The experts also suggested that railways, air travel, inter-state bus services, malls, shopping complexes, religious places, among others, should be kept shut at least for the month of May. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday had told chief ministers that the country will have to give importance to the economy while continuing the fight against coronavirus. The Centre on Wednesday gave clear indications that the ongoing nationwide lockdown will be extended beyond May 3, but with "considerable relaxations" to people and services in "many districts". Medical experts feel an aggressive containment strategy in red zones and insulation of green zones is a must while giving relaxations. The number of COVID-19 hotspot districts in India has come down to 129 from 170 a fortnight ago, but in the same period the number of infection-free districts or green zones too decreased from 325 to 307, official sources said on Wednesday. During this time, the number of non-hotspot districts, also known as orange zones, increased from 207 to 297, they said. Dr Rajesh Kumar Gupta, Additional Director, Pulmonology and Critical Care, Fortis Noida, said it is important to understand that the lockdown does not kill the virus, it only slows the spread. Gupta suggested that the lockdown should be continued in red zones for about two weeks or some more time, and curbs be lifted in green zones while ensuring that there is no intermingling between them. May could be the "make or break" month for the fight against COVID-19 and it is important to keep curbs on in places from where cases are being reported, he told PTI. Dr Arvind Kumar, a noted lung surgeon at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said it was important that railways, air services, interstate bus services, malls, shopping complexes, religious places etc., should be kept shut. The borders of green districts should be sealed and limited activities be allowed while ensuring social distancing with hand washing and wearing of masks being part of people's lifestyle, he told PTI. In districts where cases have been reported, the lockdown should continue until such a time when there is a downward trend. May is very crucial in this fight against COVID-19 as India has done well till now and it is important to keep the cases in check and follow an aggressive containment strategy in red zones, while being very cautious in lifting curbs in green zones, Kumar said. Dr Rommel Tickoo, Associate Director, Internal Medicine, Max Healthcare, said any major relaxation at this juncture of the fight against COVID-19 could be "disastrous". He advocated that restrictions remain in place at least for one more month, asserting "May could be the make or break month" in the nation's battle against COVID-19. "Places like malls, schools, colleges, markets should remain closed through the month of May as one slip up could lead to major spread, undoing the good work," he told PTI. "I would say lockdown should be in place for at least four more weeks. Numbers are increasing so it is not the time to remove it. Some economic activity can be allowed in green zones, but we have to be very careful," he asserted. India seems to be better placed than the US and other western countries, but Prime Minister Modi has cautioned against complacency. At various benchmark numbers, India seems to have done relatively better than most advanced nations. At the 1,000 deaths benchmark, India had registered 31,332 cases, while Italy (15,113), UK (17,089), France (22,304), Spain (21,571) and Belgium (15,348), had registered lesser cases, according to official data. This shows that India's death rate, the number of deaths with respect to the number of cases, remains low. Till now, India also seems to have done well in checking the increase rate of doubling of cases, which was three days when cases increased from 2,000 to 4,000 and went up to 10 days in doubling of cases from 16,000-32,000. India has the best rate of doubling of cases from 16,000-32,000 when compared with the US, Italy, Spain, France, Germany and the UK. The death toll due to the novel coronavirus pandemic rose to 1,074 after 66 more fatalities and the number of cases climbed to 33,050 in the country on Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry. To maintain the good work till now, the focus is now on containment strategy in red zones. The government has already identified 15 districts in nine states, including Delhi, Maharashtra and Gujarat, as having "high case load". "These 15 districts are critical in our battle against COVID-19. Of them, 7 show particularly high case volumes. India's success in battling COVID-19 is dependent on them. We must aggressively monitor, contain, test, treat in these districts! We must win here," Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant tweeted on Monday. The nationwide lockdown was first announced by Prime Minister Modi on March 24 in to combat the coronavirus threat. It was extended till May 3. Travel restrictions and other curbs may remain for some time and will eventually go away, but looking at global trends and the spread of the pandemic, it seems wearing masks, washing hands and practising social distancing would be a way of life from here on, experts say.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/month-of-may-could-be-make-or-break-for-covid-19-fight-say-medical-experts-831811.html
30-04-2020||National||Manohar Lal Khattar chairs all-party meet on coronavirus situation||Khattar thanked all state leaders for extending support to the Haryana government’s steps for curbing the spread of coronavirus. The chief minister held a two-hour-long video conference, in which former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, Home Minister Anil Vij and opposition INLD MLA Abhay Singh Chautala, among others, participated. There was complete support for the recent decision of putting strict curbs on daily travel across borders of Jhajjar, Sonipat, Gurgaon and Faridabad, the districts which fall in the national capital region, an official statement said after the meeting. Haryana has maintained that many of the coronavirus cases in its NCR districts have their origins in infections emanating from the national capital. Home Minister Anil Vij expressed hope that with curbs on inter-state movement, Haryana would soon be able to check the spread of the virus. During the meeting, the fourth one to be held after the lockdown was announced to check the coronavirus spread, the leaders were informed that the procurement of wheat and mustard was in full swing. About 30 lakh metric tonnes wheat and over 2.90 lakh metric tonnes mustard has been procured till Wednesday. A total payment of about Rs 591 crore for mustard has already been remitted in accounts of 52,645 farmers. Apart from this, another payment of Rs 700 crore for wheat is being released on Thursday and will be credited to the account of farmers in the next three-four days. In the meeting, it was also decided to refer the inquiry of suicide case of an inspector of the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, Kurukshetra to the Central Bureau of Investigation. Inspector Ashish had committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance on Friday and his wife had lodged a police complaint, alleging that he took the extreme step due to harassment by department officials. The officers present in the meeting included Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora, Chief Minister‘s Principal Secretary Rajesh Khullar, CM’s Additional Principal Secretary V Umashankar, Additional Chief Secretary (Revenue) Dhanpat Singh, ACS (Home) Vijai Vardhan and ACS (Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare) Sanjeev Kaushal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manohar-lal-khattar-chairs-all-party-meet-on-coronavirus-situation-831816.html
30-04-2020||National||77 fresh COVID-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, total climbs to 2,211||Uttar Pradesh reported 77 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in the state to 2,211, a senior official said. With one fresh death in Amroha, the state has reported 40 deaths due to the virus so far, with one each in Bareilly, Basti, Bulandshahar, Lucknow, Varanasi, Aligarh, Mathura and Shravasti, five in Meerut, six in Moradabad, two in Firozabad, 14 in Agra and four in Kanpur. "With 77 fresh cases, total number of cases reported in the state is 2,211 of which 551 have been treated and discharged. Forty deaths have been reported so far in the state due to the virus. The number of active cases are 1,620," an official release of the health department said here. It said of the total cases, 1,113 are linked to those who attended a Tabhligi Jamaat event and their contacts. The Jamaat had held a religious congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin in March and several of those who attended it and travelled to other parts of the country tested positive for the virus. These 2,211 cases were reported from 60 districts of which there is no active cases in six districts presently, the department said. Earlier, Additional Chief Secretary, Information Awanish Awasthi said central institutions like Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI), Indian Institute for Toxicology Research (IITR) and Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences (BSIP) have been given permission for testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/77-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-total-climbs-to-2211-831817.html
30-04-2020||National||SC notice to Centre on PIL for regulating fees of COVID-19 treatment by Pvt hospitals||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to the Centre on a PIL to regulate the cost of COVID-19 treatment at private and corporate hospitals, which were exploiting the situation by charging Rs 10 to 12 lakh from one patient in the national calamity. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justice Aniruddha Bose sought a response from the Union government on the petition filed by advocate Sachin Jain. The petitioner contended a patient was being charged Rs 10 to 12 lakh, though the treatment did not involve any surgery. The hospitals merely provided beds and medicines. He said there should be some regulation on the upper limit of the fees charged by the private and corporate hospitals. He submitted the private hospitals running on public land or the land allotted at a concessional rate to treat COVID-19 patients pro bono or on a no-profit basis. The court decided to consider the matter, saying let the government explain it. The petitioner said many private Hospitals were exploiting the patients suffering from COVID-19 to make a fortune out of miseries in the hour of national crisis. He also pointed out that a large number of people in the country did not have insurance cover, requiring urgent intervention to determine as what could be the fate of common men in case pandemic grew and the healthcare sector reached a saturation level. Jain contended the tariff structure of private hospitals should be regulated so as to make them affordable and accessible for the general public and to save human life. He submitted the Union government was competent to issue such directions under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.  In his plea, the petitioner said the government should bear the cost of treatment of those who neither had any means nor were covered under any insurance or Ayushman Bharat scheme. He said the government should identify the hospitals involved in black marketing of essential health services at the hour of national calamity and take effective steps for their prosecution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-pil-for-regulating-fees-of-covid-19-treatment-by-pvt-hospitals-831818.html
30-04-2020||National||India's COVID-19 doubling rate slower, mortality rate lower than US, Italy, Spain, UK||The rate at which COVID-19 cases has been doubling in India is slower than several other countries such as the USA, Italy, Spain and the UK which have been hit hard by the pandemic, according to official sources. In terms of mortality rate too, India fared better than these developed nations. Data from the health ministry and Worldometer, a website that records confirmed cases of infection and deaths globally, said in India coronavirus cases doubled from 500 to 1,000 in five days and then took four days to reach 2,000. It took just three days for coronavirus cases in the country to double and reach the 4,000 mark but six days for the tally to reach 8,000. Then the doubling rate was eight days when the tally reached 16,000 and 10 days as it hit the 32,000 mark. In comparison, in the US, it took three days for the cases to double from 500-1,000, two days to go up from 1,000 to 2,000, three days from 2,000 to 4000, two days from 4,000 to 8,000, two days again from 8,000 to 16,000 and another two days to go up from 16,000 to 32,000 cases. In Italy, for the same range of cases, it took two, two, four, three, four days and five days respectively while in Spain for the same range of cases of COVID-19, it took two, two, two, three, three and four days. As for the United Kingdom, the number of days it took for cases to double from 500 was two days, four days from 1,000 to 2000, three days from 2,000 to 4,000, again three days from there to reach 8,000 cases, four days to reach 16,000 and five days to hit the 32,000. In Germany, cases went up from 500 to 1000 in three days, from 1000 to 2000 in four days, 2000 to 4000 in two days, 4000 to 8000 in three days, from 8000-16,000 in three days and 16,000 to 32,000 in four days. However, Canada is ahead of India in slowing the COVID-19 doubling rate. The rate was three days when the number of cases kept doubling from 500 till it hit the 4,000 mark. From then on it started to slow, with it taking five days for the cases to double and reach the tally of 8,000, another six days to reach 16,000 and 12 days to hit the 32,000 mark. Not just the doubling rate of coronavirus cases, official sources say that the mortality rate was lower in India than many other countries.     India had 4,067 COVID-19 cases when it crossed the benchmark of 100 deaths. At this point, France had 5,423 cases, Italy 3,089 cases, Spain 4,231, the UK had reported 2,630 and Brazil 3,904 cases. India had 15,712 cases when it crossed the benchmark of 500 deaths. France had 14,459 cases, Italy 10,149, Spain 13,716, the UK 11,658 and Brazil 12,056 cases for the same number of fatalities. Also, India had 31,332 cases when its death toll crossed the 1,000 mark. At that same point, France had 22,304 cases, Italy 15,113, Spain 21,571, UK 17,089 and Brazil 19,789 cases. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,074 and the number of cases climbed to 33,050 in India on Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-doubling-rate-slower-mortality-rate-lower-than-us-italy-spain-uk-831820.html
30-04-2020||National||20-day-old baby boy tests positive for COVID-19 in Maharashtra||At least six more persons, including the baby boy, tested positive for coronavirus in Kalyan Dombivli Municipal limits, taking the count in the region to 162, including three deaths, said Dr Raju Lawangare, medical officer of health at the KDMC. The infant's mother had tested positive earlier and was being treated at a hospital, he said. The six new COVID-19 patients include two workers of the APMC market in Vashi, a health department worker and an employee of a private hospital in Mumbai, he said. Meanwhile, the KDMC on Wednesday set up a dashboard to provide real-time feed on the COVID-19 status in the civic limits. The dashboard created under the leadership of municipal commissioner Dr Vijay Suryavanshi will give latest real-time feeds about COVID-19 cases, public relations officer of the KDMC Madhi Phophle said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/20-day-old-baby-boy-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-maharashtra-831822.html
30-04-2020||National||National Testing Agency extends application deadline for various exams||The National Testing Agency, on Thursday, further extended the deadline for submission of applications for various examinations, including the Jawaharlal Nehru University Entrance Examination. “Keeping in mind the current COVID-19 crisis, I have asked the National Testing Agency to further extend/ revise the dates of submission of online application forms for various examinations,” HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said. The last date to apply for the National Council of Hotel Management JEE 2020, Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) admission test 2020 for PhD and OPENMAT (MBA), Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) 2020, Jawaharlal Nehru University Entrance Examination (JNUEE) 2020 has been further extended till May 15, 2020, the NTA said in a statement. The last date for submission of applications for the All India Ayush Post Graduate Entrance Test (AIAPGET) 2020 has been extended till June 5, 2020. The agency said that the submission of online application forms shall be accepted up to 4 pm, and submission of fee up to 11:50 pm on the last date for the registration of the above-mentioned exams. The detailed notification regarding the release of the admit cards and examination dates will be displayed on the specific examination website after the assessment of the COVID-19 situation after May 15, the NTA said. This is the second time that the NTA has extended the deadline for submission of application forms for these examinations. Earlier, on March 30, the NTA extended the last date to April 30. However, with nationwide anti- COVID-19 lockdown extended to May 3 by the Union Government, the agency has decided to push the deadline to May 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-testing-agency-extends-application-deadline-for-various-exams-831826.html
30-04-2020||National||Approach Allahabad HC: SC on Cong leader's bail plea||The Supreme Court Thursday asked two minor children who sought release of their father -- a Congress leader -- arrested in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly "questioning the methodology" of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in handling COVID-19 pandemic at a press conference held purportedly without permission, to approach the Allahabad High Court for relief. The minor children of Congress leader Sachin Choudhary, who is in judicial custody in connection with an FIR lodged by Amroha Police on April 11, approached the apex court through their mother. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justice Aniruddha Bose, which heard the matter through through video-conferencing, suggested senior advocate Salman Khurshid, who was appearing for the minors, to move the high court for the relief in the case in which the FIR was lodged for various offences including sedition.  Khurshid said he would withdraw the plea with liberty to approach the high court. "Accordingly, the writ petition is dismissed as withdrawn with the liberty aforesaid. We request the high court to deal with the matter expeditiously in accordance with law," the bench said in its order. The two minors, aged two and seven respectively, had said in their plea that their father had served food and other necessary items to migrant labourers, who had left for their native places due to nationwide lockdown from March 25, near the Delhi-Moradabad highway. The minors, who had approached the apex court through their mother, had claimed that police had lodged an FIR against their father for "holding a press conference highlighting the infirmities in the measures taken by the state" and he was later sent to judicial custody. "Father of the petitioner is affiliated to Congress party, the chief opponent of the ruling party and due to vendetta and political vengeance, he has been arrested and the registration of the FIR is stage managed," the plea, filed through advocate Smarhar Singh, had alleged. The petition had further alleged that Choudhary "was detained for holding a press conference and questioning the methodology of the chief minister of the state in handling the epidemic i.e. Corona". It had claimed that even if the allegations levelled in the FIR are presumed to be true, no offence under sections 124-A (sedition) and 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race etc and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the IPC was made out against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/approach-allahabad-hc-sc-on-cong-leaders-bail-plea-831827.html
30-04-2020||National||Gujarat COVID-19 patient escapes from isolation ward, found dead||A probe is underway into the matter, they said. Preliminary inquiry and CCTV footage of the hospital indicate that the man did not go outside the hospital campus, located in Khatodara area, during the last two days, an official from Khatodara police station said. The official further said the man "secretly" walked out of the COVID ward on the night of April 28 and disappeared. Though the police tried to search for him at every possible location, he was not found, the official said. "As of now, we don't know why he ran away in the middle of his treatment, where he went and how he died. We are carrying out a thorough investigation into it," Deputy Commissioner of Police Vidhi Chaudhari said. As per the civil hospital records, the man was a resident of Salabatpura area and got admitted to the hospital on April 21 after he tested positive for coronavirus. Before that, his wife had also tested positive for coronavirus and was admitted to the same hospital, another official said, adding that she is currently undergoing treatment at the medical facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-covid-19-patient-escapes-from-isolation-ward-found-dead-831830.html
30-04-2020||National||Four more test positive for COVID-19 in Assam; state tally rises to 41||In a first in the state, the patients -- three from Bongaigaon town and one from Chaprakat -- were found to have no contact history. Their samples were sent for COVID-19 examination as they had fever. Of the total cases reported in the state so far, 29 have recovered and one person has succumbed to the disease. "Four more coronavirus positive cases reported from Bongaingaon district. The number of COVID-19 patients in Assam now stands at 41. Twenty-nine discharged, one death. So active hospital cases 11," Sarma tweeted. Bongaigaon has emerged as the new 'red zone' in the state with five cases in a week, including that of a 16-year-old girl who tested positive for the disease on Tuesday, Sarma told reporters, adding the deputy commissioner will declare areas within three-km radius of the residences of those affected as containment zone. "Patients are being taken to Mahendra Mohan Choudhury Hospital in Guwahati," he said. Altogether six persons have tested positive for COVID-19 this week. A 61-year-old person from Goalpara was found to have contracted the disease on Tuesday. Apart from Bonagaigaon, Assam has five other districts in the 'red zone' -- Golaghat, Nalbari, Dhubri, Goalpara and Morigaon. Sarma said that Golaghat and Nalbari districts are expected to come out of the Red Zone over the next few days. Containment zone restrictions at a high-end apartment in Guwahati, where one person had tested positive, was lifted on Thursday. Assam has so far tested 9,520 samples, of which 41 tested positive for COVID-19, Results of 708 samples are still awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-assam-state-tally-rises-to-41-831831.html
30-04-2020||National||President Ram Nath Kovind, PM Narendra Modi and other political leaders pay homage to Rishi Kapoor||President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and prominent political leaders across party lines remembered veteran actor Rishi Kapoor, who died on Thursday in Mumbai after a two-year battle with leukaemia, as an "evergreen" and "multifaceted" personality. The death of the 67-year-old veteran actor comes a day after the sudden demise of versatile actor Irrfan Khan. Rishi Kapoor and Irrfan co-starred in 2013 film "D-Day". President Kovind said Rishi Kapoor's death comes as a "shock". "An evergreen personality with an always smiling face, he was so full of life that it's difficult to believe that he is no more. A huge loss for the entertainment industry. Let us pray for his soul. Condolences to his family and friends," the president added. Remembering him as a "multifaceted", "endearing" and "lively" person, PM Modi said he is "deeply anguished" by the news. "He was a powerhouse of talent. I will always recall our interactions, even on social media. He was passionate about films and India’s progress. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and fans. Om Shanti," he wrote on Twitter. Vice President Venkaiah Naidu also paid homage to the veteran actor, recalling how he essayed many roles with aplomb and was popular for his romantic films. "In his passing away, the nation lost a beloved son and film industry lost a gem," Naidu's office tweeted. Home Minister Amit Shah said Rishi Kapoor was an "institution in himself" and he is "pained" to learn about his death. "Rishi ji’s demise is an irreparable loss for Indian cinema. He will always be remembered for his exceptional acting skills. Condolences to his family & followers. Om Shanti," he added. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said as an actor, Rishi Kapoor was able to create a special place in the hearts of the audience with "his inimitable style and performances". "My thoughts are with his family and fans in this hour of grief. Om Shanti," he added. Referring to the deaths of Rishi Kapoor and Irrfan, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that she is saddened by the loss of two "iconic actors". "Irrfan Khan’s understated brilliance in 'Piku' was moving and Rishi Kapoor’s youthful 'Bobby' notwithstanding, his role as a fun, physically distant, supportive father in 'Hum Tum' remains etched," she added. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray also condoled Rishi Kapoor's demise and the veteran actor was the torchbearer of an illustrious legacy whose contribution to the film industry is unparalleled. "In his death, we have lost a link to connect two generations of artists. He was the torch-bearer of an illustrious legacy of his family whose contribution to the Indian film industry is unparalleled," Thackeray said. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal termed the "Kapoor & Sons" actor's death as "terrible loss". "Deeply saddened by the sudden demise of actor Rishi Kapoor. He entertained several generations of Indians throughout his career. What a terrible loss.. My condolences to the grieving family. May God bless his soul," he tweeted. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said, "Deeply shocked & saddened at the demise of the iconic & versatile film actor #RishiKapoor. "A National Film Award winner, he acted in more than than 150 films. He endured his illness with dignity and grace. My condolences to his family, friends, fans & the entire film fraternity," Banerjee tweeted. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said it was a "terrible week" for Indian cinema with the loss of Rishi Kapoor and Irrfan. "This is a terrible week for Indian cinema, with the passing of another legend, actor Rishi Kapoor. A wonderful actor, with a huge fan following across generations, he will be greatly missed. My condolences to his family, friends & fans all over the world, at this time of grief," he tweeted. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said Kapoor's demise was an irreparable loss for Indian cinema. "We have lost two of our rarest stars in the last two days. My condolences are with his family, friends and loved ones in this hour of grief," she added. Another senior Congress leader, Shashi Tharoor, tweeted, "Saddened to hear that my senior schoolmate at Mumbai's Campion School, Rishi Kapoor, whom I competed with in 'inter-class dramatics' in 1967-68, has gone to a better world. "From the romantic hero of 'Bobby' to the mature character actor of his last films, he evolved remarkably. RIP." Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah said Rishi Kapoor's film have been an "integral part" of his childhood. "From 'Bobby' to 'Karz' to 'Zamane Ko Dikhana Hai', your movies & some of the dialogues have been such an integral part of my childhood. You made a little hut in Gulmarg an iconic place with one song. Farewell @chintskap and thank you for the memories. #riprishikapoor" he posted. The veteran actor returned to India last September after undergoing treatment for his cancer in the US for almost a year. A third generation actor of the famous Kapoor dynasty, Kapoor was taken to the H N Reliance Hospital by his family on Wednesday. His family said the actor remained "jovial and determined to live to the fullest right through two years of treatment across two continents".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-pm-narendra-modi-and-other-political-leaders-pay-homage-to-rishi-kapoor-831832.html
30-04-2020||National||Current doubling rate of COVID-19 stands at 11 days, case fatality 3.2%: Health Ministry||Addressing a press briefing, Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said the doubling rate of COVID 19 cases was found to be between 11-20 days in Delhi, UP, Jammu and Kashmir, Orissa, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Punjab. Doubling rate between 20-40 days has been seen in Karnataka, Ladakh, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Kerala, he added. In the last 24 hours, 1,718 new cases of COVID-19 were reported, taking total number to 33,050 in India, he said. Agarwal further said that the current case fatality rate is 3.2 per cent for COVID-19 in the country, with 65 per cent of it males and 35 per cent females. "If we divide it on basis of age, then 14 per cent case fatality was seen below 45 years, 34.8 per cent between 45-60 years and 51.2 per cent case fatality at above 60 years," he said. Agarwal further said that the recovery rate for COVID-19 has improved from 13.06 per cent to over 25 per cent in the past 14 days. "8,324 COVID-19 patients, which is 25.19 per cent of the total cases, have recovered so far," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/current-doubling-rate-of-covid-19-stands-at-11-days-case-fatality-32-health-ministry-831837.html
30-04-2020||National||Indian-origin girl gets honour of naming NASA's first Mars helicopter||NASA's first Mars helicopter has a name now and the credit goes to 17-year-old Indian-origin girl Vaneeza Rupani. Rupani, a high school junior from Northport, Alabama, earned the honour of naming the helicopter after she submitted her essay into NASA's "Name the Rover" contest. Destined to become the first aircraft to attempt powered flight on another planet, NASA's Mars Helicopter officially named: Ingenuity, as suggested by Rupani. While NASA announced in March that its next rover would be named Perseverance based on seventh-grader Alexander Mather's essay, the agency decided to also choose a name for the helicopter that will accompany the rover to Mars. "Our Mars helicopter has a new name! Meet: Ingenuity. Student Vaneeza Rupani came up with the name during our “name the rover” contest. Ingenuity will ride to the Red Planet with @NASAPersevere to attempt the first powered flight on another world," NASA tweeted. Rupani's entry was among 28,000 essays submitted by K-12 students from every US state and territory, according to NASA, which made the announcement on Wednesday. "The ingenuity and brilliance of people working hard to overcome the challenges of interplanetary travel are what allow us all to experience the wonders of space exploration," Rupani wrote in her essay, according to a news release by NASA. "Ingenuity is what allows people to accomplish amazing things, and it allows us to expand our horizons to the edges of the universe," it said. Rupani has been interested in space science since she was a young child, according to her mother Nausheen Rupani. "On their way to school every day, she and her dad would pretend they were in a spaceship. They would imagine seeing planets (buildings), stars (traffic lights), etc. on their way and give them names," Nausheen Rupani told NASA. To have her submission selected was more than exciting, the teenager said. "(I thought) ingenuity would be a good name for the helicopter because that is exactly what it took to design this machine," she told NASA. "The helicopter is an incredible project, and I am thrilled to have a part in its journey." Ingenuity and Perseverance are scheduled to launch in July and land next February at Mars' Jezero Crater, the site of a lake that existed 3.5 billion years ago. While the rover collects samples of Mars, the helicopter will attempt to fly and if successful, it will enable future Mars missions to "add an aerial dimension to their explorations," according to NASA. "I am proud that NASA’s Mars Helicopter will be named by Vaneeza Rupani of Northport, Alabama. This is a unique privilege. Ms Rupani’s essay on why she chose the name 'Ingenuity' highlights her creativity, originality, and intelligence. Her grasp on the importance of exploration is extraordinary, and I am confident that she has a bright future ahead," Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-origin-girl-gets-honour-of-naming-nasas-first-mars-helicopter-831839.html
30-04-2020||National||Don't let telcos charge offices, biz for unused internet during lockdown: PIL in HC||The petition, by a lawyer, was filed through advocate Amit Sahni who said it was likely to be heard on Friday. Petitioner S K Sharma has contended that "shops/ offices/business houses/factories and almost all commercial establishments remained closed in order to abide by the dictate of the government to maintain social distancing during the period of lockdown". He has further contended that telephone operators and ISPs ought not to charge citizens for services not used by them while following the government's directions. The petition has said that in the event such charges are levied, then the payments made be transferred to the relief fund set up by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to fight coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-let-telcos-charge-offices-biz-for-unused-internet-during-lockdown-pil-in-hc-831840.html
30-04-2020||National||COVID-19: SC declines plea for rent waiver, relief for lawyers||The Supreme Court on Thursday declined to consider a PIL for granting relief in payment of chambers rent by advocates suffering financial losses due to lockdown.  The top court also refused to issue any direction on a separate plea for creating a financial emergency fund for lawyers. "Tomorrow engineers will come, architects will come. How can we give special dispensation to lawyers? This is unreasonable for us to do. There may be old ladies, aged persons as landlords. How can we say this," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde told a senior advocate making such a request. Senior advocate Kailash Vasdev for Supreme Court Bar Association, contended we are not saying that rent for lawyers chambers should not be charged. It should not be made a ground for eviction during the lockdown.  "We are not going to enter into this issue. You are not entitled to any special consideration," the bench said.     A PIL by Pawan Prakash Pathak sought a direction to the Bar Council of India for the creation of a financial emergency fund for practicing advocates. He said the Allahabad, Jharkhand, and Calcutta High Courts have taken up the issue. With courts having been shut down, advocates practicing independently have been left with no source of income, he submitted.  "We can't create a special category for lawyers when unfortunately the whole country is facing a difficult situation. Let the BCI decide," a bench presided over by Justice N V Ramana said. The bench said all persons were without work. Architects are without work, others are also without work. This is something for the BCI to consider.  "We don't have funds to give to you. It's for the Bar Councils to take action. We cannot tell the Bar Council to do so," the bench added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-sc-declines-plea-for-rent-waiver-relief-for-lawyers-831845.html
30-04-2020||National||PM holds meeting to discuss strategies to attract more foreign investments, boost economy||An official statement said the meeting discussed that a scheme should be developed to promote more "plug and play" infrastructure in the existing industrial lands, plots or estates in the country and provide necessary financing support. During the meeting, Modi directed all concerned that action should be taken for a more proactive approach to "handhold" the investors, to look into their problems and help them in getting all the necessary central and state clearances in a time-bound manner. The meeting also discussed various strategies to bring investments into India on fast-track mode and to promote Indian domestic sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-holds-meeting-to-discuss-strategies-to-attract-more-foreign-investments-boost-economy-831849.html
30-04-2020||National||11 more die of COVID-19 in West Bengal, death toll reaches 33||In the last 24 hours, Sinha said, 37 fresh coronavirus cases have been reported in the state, and 15 people were discharged from hospitals following their recovery. Currently, West Bengal has 572 active cases. At least 139 people have recovered, he said. Since Wednesday, 1,905 samples have been tested for the virus. The total number of samples examined so far stands at 16,525, the senior officer said. According to the state health department, West Bengal has reported a total of 744 COVID-19 cases. The Union health ministry, however, stated that the total was 758.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/11-more-die-of-covid-19-in-west-bengal-death-toll-reaches-33-831855.html
30-04-2020||National||Smart card may be made mandatory to travel in metro trains||Smart cards may be made mandatory to travel in metro trains soon after the services resume after lockdown as the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs is discussing on Standard Operating Procedure (SOP)  to ensure contactless travel and maintain social distance in the mass rapid transport network. As per the draft SOP, the government wants to do away with a single journey token ticket system and make it mandatory for the passenger to carry magnetic strip smart cards to travel in metro trains. For buying a token, passengers have to wait in a queue either at token vending machines or token issuing counters. If smart cards are made mandatory, passengers can top-up the currency at recharge point or an automated machine at metro stations or using digital transactions whenever they want once in a week or month said an official. Apart from this, the smart card holding passengers can just show their smart card at  Automatic Fare Collection (AFC) gate to ensure contactless access to the metro. However, in the token system, passengers have to put it in the AFC machines, thereby ending up touching AFC gate, said an official in the Ministry. Moreover, most of the metro companies are already giving concessions to passengers to travel using smart cards than token. In a way, the smart card is more beneficial to passengers, said the official. Other aspects of the SOP includes a compulsory thermal screening of passengers and staff at the metro station, maintaining social distance while entering stations, prevent passengers loitering inside stations, making compulsory downloading Arogya Sethu App in their mobile,  compulsory wearing masks, increasing frequency of trains during peak hour,  said the officials. The top officials of the Ministry already held a discussion on steps to be taken to prevent the spreading of COVID-19 once the metro services resume after the lockdown. The metro rail services suspended across the country from March 25 to May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/smart-card-may-be-made-mandatory-to-travel-in-metro-trains-831859.html
30-04-2020||National||SC dismiss review plea against verdict refusing ‘pressure cooker’ symbol to TTV Dhinakaran faction||The Supreme Court has dismissed the review petition against the last year's verdict which had dashed the hopes of a faction led by former AIADMK leader TTV Dhinakaran for getting the 'pressure cooker' symbol exclusively for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and assembly by-polls, but asked the Election Commission to allot a common free symbol to it. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices Deepak Gupta and Sanjiv Khanna said, “We have perused the Review Petition and the connected papers. We do not find any error in the order impugned, much less an apparent error on the face of the record, so as to call for its review. The Review Petition is, accordingly, dismissed”. The review petition filed by V K Sasikala, a close aide of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and AIADMK chief late J Jayalalithaa, was taken in chambers on April 23 but the order was uploaded on apex court website on Thursday. The top court on March 26, last year had refused to grant ‘pressure cooker’ symbol to a faction led by Dhinakaran and asked the Election Commission to allot a common free symbol to it. The top court had said to "ensure a level playing field" among the contesting political parties in 2019 Lok Sabha polls and by-election in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, it has directed the poll panel to allot a common free symbol to the group. The order had come on the last day of filing of nomination papers for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in 40 seats and assembly by-elections on 19 seats in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The bench headed by then Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi had made it clear that if candidates fielded by Dhinakaran-led group win the elections in the Lok Sabha and assembly by-polls, "they will be treated as independent candidates". "The claim of the appellant to the symbol of 'pressure cooker' in an exclusive manner cannot be acknowledged in view of the provisions of Section 29A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 and the guidelines issued by the Election Commission of India thereunder, which the appellant or his group has concededly not followed. "We are, therefore, not inclined to grant any recognition to the appellant or his group to the symbol of 'pressure cooker'," the bench had said. It had taken on record the list of names of 59 candidates, marked as 'X', to be fielded by Dhinakaran led group in the Lok Sabha elections and assembly by-elections in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. "The EC on due and proper satisfaction that the candidates named in the document marked with the letter 'X' (list of names) want to contest the election under any one common symbol, will make all endeavour to ensure that in the forthcoming elections..., the aforesaid candidates be allotted any one particular free symbol," the bench had said. The top court had clarified, that its order will not amount to recognition of the group or its any part as a political party whether "registered" or "unregistered" and only election commission can take a decision in that regard as and when required. Dhinakaran had challenged a Delhi High Court order granting the 'two leaves' symbol to the AIADMK faction led by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister E K Palaniswami on the limited aspect of allowing use of 'pressure cooker' as a common symbol. On February 28, last year the high court had dismissed the pleas of Dhinakaran and Sasikala challenging the EC order granting 'AIADMK' name and 'two leaves' symbol to Palaniswami led faction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismiss-review-plea-against-verdict-refusing-pressure-cooker-symbol-to-ttv-dhinakaran-faction-831869.html
30-04-2020||National||Sweet news! Famous Kovilpatti Kadalai Mittai gets GI tag||Kovilpatti Kadalai Mittai, the mouth-watering and healthy snack made of groundnuts and jaggery in parts of Thoothukudi district in Tamil Nadu, was on Thursday granted the Geographical Indication (GI) tag.   The granting of GI tag to manufacturers of Kadalai Mittai could not have come at a better time for the cottage industry which completes 100 years of existence this year. Launched in 1920 by S S Ponnambalam, Kovilpatti and adjoining areas today have nearly 150 small and medium enterprises that manufacture the sweet candy. “Kovilpatti Kadalai Mittai has been granted GI tag today. I have signed the order,” Chinnaraja. G. Naidu, Deputy Registrar of Geographical Indications, told DH. GI tag, according to manufacturers in Kovilpatti, will help them go a long way in establishing their value at a time when people across the state are using the town’s name to manufacture Kadalai Mittai. Kovilpatti Kadalai Mittai is made using groundnuts and jaggery in carefully selected quantities from selected specific locations in Tamil Nadu along with water from river Thamirabarani which “enhances the taste naturally.” The first initiative to get GI tag for Kovilpatti Kadalai Mittai was taken in 2014 by the then sub-collector Dr K Vijayakarthikeyan, now Tiruppur District Collector, who filed an application in this regard. However, the competent authorities suggested that the application be filed by manufacturers’ association rather than a government servant. “We launched an association in 2018 and applied for GI tag in 2019. We are so happy to receive the GI tag today. It is a big recognition for all those who manufacture the delicacy in this town and nearby villages. The tag will help us maintain the quality of the sweet candy,” A Kartheeswaran, President of Kovilpatti Regional Kadalai Mittai Manufacturers and Retailers Association, told DH. Vijayakarthikeyan told DH that he was happy that the initiative that he launched six years back has yielded the desired results. “It was me who first gave the idea of applying for a GI tag. I was of the view that the tag would give the industry advantage of quality control and would lead to more demand. I have been getting so many calls since Thursday afternoon thanking me for the initiative which makes me happier,” he said.  Groundnuts grown in the native black soil in and around Kovilpatti and those sourced from the nearby town of Aruppukottai are used for making Kadalai Mittai. The groundnuts are shelled and roasted in a machine before being used.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sweet-news-famous-kovilpatti-kadalai-mittai-gets-gi-tag-831871.html
30-04-2020||National||COVID-19 patient faces flak over food complaints, apologises||A COVID-19 patient, who complained about not being provided non-vegetarian food during his hospital stay here, later apologised for it and thanked the doctors who took care of him, an official said on Thursday. The man made a series of videos from his bed at a private hospital and in one of the clips, he expressed displeasure over not being served non-vegetarian food. However, after he uploaded the clip on social media and faced criticism for his remarks, he posted another video in which he expressed regret over it and thanked Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and the doctors for the arrangements made for his treatment. Authorities at the hospital said the man was discharged on Tuesday after recovering. Earlier this month, a 25-year-old man, who in a TikTok video ridiculed the use of masks for protection against COVID-19, later tested positive for the disease in Madhya Pradesh's Sagar district. In one of the videos, apparently shot after the COVID-19 outbreak in the country, the man was purportedly seen sitting on a bike and when someone asked him to wear a mask, he dismissed it, saying why trust a piece of cloth, keep faith in God.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-patient-faces-flak-over-food-complaints-apologises-831874.html
30-04-2020||National||Make public info on hospitals for non-COVID-19 patients: Bombay HC||Justice B Colabawalla issued the direction after BMC counsel Anil Sakhre told the high court that the civic body had directed all private hospitals, clinics, dispensaries to remain open and provide treatment to non-COVID-19 patients. The court was hearing a bunch of petitions filed by a lawyer and social activists highlighting the plight of people suffering from several chronic or serious ailments being turned away from clinics and hospitals, and issues such as lack of adequate facilities and medical infrastructure in the state, municipal-run, and private hospitals in current times. Senior advocate Gayatri Singh, counsel for one of the petitioners, told the high court that while the BMC had issued the above directions, it was imperative that the authorities ensured implementation on the ground considering that there existed a shortage of PPE kits, health staff, and medical infrastructure. She pointed out that the state and municipal authorities did not have a detailed action plan for non- COVID-19 patients and several people had died of lack of treatment already. She added that the authorities must also come up with a helpline for non-coronavirus patients to assist them with ambulance, mobile medical aid, list of hospitals and clinics providing treatment. The petitioners also suggested that the authorities could make arrangements for mobile clinics, and paramedical services at different locations to help non COVID patients who did not necessarily require hospitalisation but were in need of preliminary check-ups, dialysis, or other such aid. At this, Justice Colabawalla said that the BMC and the state had to ensure implementation of their directions to provide medical aid to non-COVID-19 patients. He said that the authorities must make public all information on the hospitals and clinics that will remain open for other patients, and those that are meant exclusively for COVID-19 patients. He directed Sakhre and the state's counsel, advocate Poornima Kantharia to file their respective affidavits within two weeks, advocate Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/make-public-info-on-hospitals-for-non-covid-19-patients-bombay-hc-831884.html
30-04-2020||National||COVID-19 worry grows in Assam after four without travel history tests positive||Four persons including a woman having no travel history tested COVID-19 positive in Assam on Thursday increasing the health officials' worry in the state. Confirming the four new positive cases in western Assam's Bongaigaon district, health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told reporters that it was a cause of worry as this was for the first time in the state that persons having no travel history tested COVID-19 positive. "Out of the three, one lives near a government hospital, where a person who tested positive earlier visited. But we don't have information so far about three others coming into contact with any such COVID-19 positive persons. This proves that coronavirus is active in Assam and anyone can get infected by it if we don't maintain the safety norms prescribed by the government," Sarma said. This took the total number of COVID-19 positive cases to 41, of which 27 have been released so far after recovery. One of them, however, succumbed to the virus.  Two more persons, including one from Bongaigaon district, tested positive on Wednesday. The duo, however, were in-home quarantined and had come in contact with persons, who returned from the Nizamuddin congregation.  Following the new cases, the state health department asked the Bongaigaon district administration to declare three-kilometer radius of their residences as a containment zone. The district was also put into the list of COVID-19 'Red Zone'. Three other districts, Morigaon, Dhubri and Goalpara are in the list at present.   Sarma said the health department, however, decided to remove Nalbari and Golaghat districts from the list of 'Red Zones' as no new COVID-19 positive cases were detected in the past 28-days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-worry-grows-in-assam-after-four-without-travel-history-tests-positive-831886.html
30-04-2020||National||As unlinked coronavirus cases increase, Kerala shifts focus on enforcing hygiene||On Thursday alone 954 cases were registered in Kerala against people for not wearing masks. The police will be stringently acting against those flouting basic hygiene as a sense of carelessness in following the basic hygiene was quite visible among the people, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Kerala health department sources said that the exact source of infection of over 20 cases could not be tracked yet. It included health workers also. It was an obvious trend being seen in many COVID-19-affected countries. The only effective way to prevent unlinked cases is to ensure basic preventive and hygiene measures like wearing masks and washing hands by the entire society. So far random test was initiated among 1,508 people in priority sectors like health workers and police officials. As many as 897 test results already came negative, while a few are awaiting further confirmation and many results were awaited. As random test progresses more unlinked COVID-19 cases may emerge, said sources. Kerala Health department Nodal officer Dr Amar Fettle pointed out that a major chunk of COVID-19 cases in Kerala was caused due to local contact. Most of these were due to laxity in following the basic quarantine and hygiene norms. Similarly, many of those who contracted the infection from untraceable sources were also found not following the basic advisories like wearing masks, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-unlinked-coronavirus-cases-increase-kerala-shifts-focus-on-enforcing-hygiene-831887.html
30-04-2020||National||Punjab cop, whose hand was severed in attack, discharged from hospital; son gets job as constable||Punjab Police Sub-Inspector Harjeet Singh, whose hand was chopped off in a brutal attack by a group of 'Nihangs' in Patiala over a fortnight ago, was discharged from PGIMER here on Thursday following a successful surgery reattaching the severed limb. Before being discharged from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Punjab Police chief Dinkar Gupta handed over to Singh his son Arshpreet's appointment letter as a constable in the force. The 50-year-old Singh, who was an assistant sub-inspector of police at the time of the brutal incident, has been promoted to the rank of sub-inspector in recognition of his exemplary courage. "Happy to share that SI Harjeet Singh has been discharged from PGI, Chandigarh, today. I thank doctors, burses, paramedics and all the staff of PGI for taking good care of him. Before getting discharged, he was handed over his son's appointment letter with Punjab Police," Chief Minister Amarinder Singh tweeted. Harjeet Singh's hand was severed and two of his Punjab Police colleagues injured in Patiala district on April 12 when a group of 'Nihangs' (a sect of Sikhism whose members are armed with traditional weapons and dressed in loose blue robes) allegedly attacked them with swords after being asked to show curfew passes outside a wholesale vegetable market. That day itself, doctors reattached his hand following a seven-and-half-hour-long surgery. Medics at the PGIMER expect that Harjeet Singh will be able use his reattached hand in five to six months. "The hand is completely surviving. Movement of fingers of the affected hand is a good sign. The quantum and frequency of physiotherapy will be gradually stepped up over the next few weeks," PGIMER said in a release. His wounds are well healed and all the sutures have been removed, it said. The Punjab Police gave a red-carpet welcome to Harjeet Singh upon his return home at Darshan Singh Nagar in Patiala, an official said. DGP Dinkar Gupta tweeted, "Felt greatly pleased handing over the appointment letter of SI Harjeet Singh's son, Arshpreet Singh, as a constable in the Punjab Police. Am sure he will serve the people of Punjab as bravely and sincerely as his father. Wish him all the very best!"   Harjeet Singh was welcomed home with a police band and showering of flower petals. Patiala Senior Superintendent of Police Mandeep Singh Sidhu and other senior police personnel were also present on this occasion. PGMIR said that Singh will be visiting the hospital regularly for check-up and physiotherapy. A few days ago, the Punjab police had launched a 'MainBhiHarjeetSingh' campaign in solidarity with him. The initiative was aimed against any kind of attacks on policemen, doctors and healthcare workers across India who are engaged in the fight against COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-cop-whose-hand-was-severed-in-attack-discharged-from-hospital-son-gets-job-as-constable-831888.html
30-04-2020||National||Addiction to tobacco lands youth in trouble||Addiction to tobacco has landed a 'bad character' in police records in trouble.  With cigarettes or tobacco not available due to COVID-19 lockdown, 28-year-old Punit decided to 'steal' some from a shop in north Delhi, use some of it and then sell it to others for money. But he landed in police net soon after he allegedly broke open a pan shop in north Delhi's Burari. He has been arrested, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Monika Bhardwaj. Riding a stolen Scooty, he could not escape the police patrol party on early Wednesday. "Punit is addicted to tobacco and he committed a burglary in a Pan Shop after breaking the locks of the shop. The police patrolling team found him with a large number of tobacco articles. He tried to flee but was overpowered. The stolen Scooty being used by the accused has also been seized" Bhardwaj said.   He is involved in 16 snatchings, motor vehicle theft, burglary, and also has theft cases against him. A school dropout, Punit is working as an e-rickshaw driver. and in order to earn easy money, he started allegedly committing burglary in houses and theft of two-wheelers parked outside the houses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/addiction-to-tobacco-lands-youth-in-trouble-831892.html
30-04-2020||National||Two migrants test COVID-19 positive in Chhattisgarh; active cases four||Talking to PTI, public relations officer of AIIMS- Raipur, said that total nine people, including some migrant labourers from Surajpur district of Chhattisgarh, had tested positive in the rapid-testing method and were kept in the isolation ward at the hospital, where their RT-PCR tests were conducted. "Two of them, a 26-year-old and another aged 25 years, tested positive this afternoon. With this, total four active cases are currently being treated in the COVID-19 ward of AIIMS," he said. Their condition is stable and they are getting treatment as per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). On April 28, a 58-year-old migrant labourer from neighbouring Jharkhand state, who was admitted to a quarantine centre in Jajawal village of Surajpur, had tested positive for the infection, he said. "Later, reports of nine other people, including migrant labourers and government staff, at the facility came out positive in the rapid testing process. However, all nine were shifted to AIIMS Raipur and their swab samples were taken for RT-PCR test for final confirmation," he said. "Two of them were found infected. However, six other suspected patients have been shifted to a quarantine facility at Mana here, while the sample of one more person will be re- tested to ascertain COVID-19 status," he added. All three migrant labourers who tested positive, worked in Maharashtra and had travelled to the border district of Rajnandgaon along with other labourers during the lockdown early this month in a bid to return to Jharkhand, another official said. They were placed in a camp on the inter-state border, but in view of crowding at the facility, workers, most of them hailing from Jharkahand and Bihar, were shifted to the quarantine centre in Surajpur on April 17, he said. The fourth coronavirus positive patient currently undergoing treatment is a nursing officer of AIIMS, Raipur, the officer added. With the latest cases, the state has so far recorded 40 cases of coronavirus. Of them, 36 have been discharged from hospitals following their recovery, he said. Chhattisgarh's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 40, new cases two, deaths zero, discharged 36, active cases four, people tested 16,546.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-migrants-test-covid-19-positive-in-chhattisgarh-active-cases-four-831896.html
30-04-2020||National||Centre's guidelines on movement of migrant workers to be strictly followed: MHA||All states and union territories (UTs) will have to "strictly follow" the home ministry's latest guidelines allowing cross-country movement of stranded migrant workers, students and pilgrims during the ongoing lockdown, a senior official said on Thursday. The Union government had on Wednesday issued fresh directives allowing states to transport stranded students, migrant labourers, tourists and pilgrims to their home states or destination by strictly following guidelines meant to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus in the country. Asked during a press briefing if special trains and private vehicles will also be allowed to transport these people as demanded by some states and others, Joint Secretary in the Union home ministry Punya Salila Srivastava said the orders issued at present were for "using buses and for group of persons". Asked if e-commerce activities will resume post May 3, when the extended lockdown is scheduled to end, Srivastava said "we should wait" for the new orders to come. "State governments have to keep in mind certain things while arranging their movement. All states and UTs will appoint their nodal officers who will develop standard protocols for such stranded people." "They will also register such people and concerned states will discuss among themselves for ensuring these movements by road," Srivastava told reporters during the routine briefing on updates related to the virus outbreak and lockdown measures. Every person will be screened and asymptomatic ones will be allowed to go. Buses will be used for travel and these vehicles will be sanitised and social distancing rules will be strictly followed while seated in the bus, she said. All states in transit route will allow such movement and on reaching the destination, local health officials will check the travellers and if they are not required to be kept in institutional quarantine then they will be allowed to go in home quarantine for 14 days, the official said, quoting the order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA).  Their (travellers) health check-up will be done regularly and monitored. Travellers will be encouraged to use the 'Aarogya setu' app, she said.  "All states will have to strictly follow these directives," Srivastava said. The officer also briefed the media about the feedback given by the inter-ministerial central teams (IMCTs) that went to Hyderabad (Telangana's capital) and Chennai (capital of Tamil Nadu). The teams are headed by an additional secretary-rank officer of the central government and comprises experts from health care, disaster management and other fields and are mandated to review the progress of COVID-19 containment in worst affected districts of the country. In Hyderabad, the IMCT toured hospitals, central drug stores, shelter homes and 'mandis', Srivastava said.  It found that the state has adequate numbers of test kits and personal protective equipment (PPE) and is using an end-to-end IT (information technology) dashboard that tracks a patient from testing to discharge, she said. The team also visited the hospital which is the state nodal centre for COVID-19.  They found all protocols are being followed there. It has a lab where 300 tests can be done everyday and about 97 per cent of cases of the state have been treated here.   The team also visited the district hospital at King Koti and found all protocols were being followed. It was suggested that donning (area to wear PPE) and doffing areas (place to take out PPE after work) in the hospital should be placed afar.   There should be different corridors for staffers and patients. Some wards had no toilets and it was suggested that patients should not be admitted in these wards to avoid crowding in the open area, she said.   Srivastava added that the IMCT also visited the Humayun Nagar containment zone which was barricaded and house-to-house surveillance was on. Important goods and services are being provided at door steps for which a WhatsApp group has been created comprising municipal officials and the residents of the area, she said. In Chennai, the officer said the IMCT that toured the city suggested that social distancing norms should be strictly followed at public places and it was "very important" to spread coronavirus awareness in fishermen's villages.  The team found that the recovery rate is much better as out of 2,058 infected, 1,168 have recovered meaning 57 per cent people have been cured, she said quoting the IMCT.  It found facilities were good for migrant labourers and the workers are satisfied with the facilities provided. Test reports are provided in 24 hours which was found commendable, she said.  To curb domestic violence, Srivastava said quoting the IMCT feedback, that women police constables were "proactively" visiting those houses where such incidents are expected to take place. It was suggested that in crowded places, banks and slums, strong steps should be taken for social distancing.  It is very important to increase awareness about COVID-19 in fishing villages, she said.  In hospitals relatives waiting or using lifts need to undertake social distancing very strictly and there is a need to enhance PPE usage among health care workers.  Truck drivers should also be screened it was suggested, she said. "We hope that with this joint effort of the Centre and states, we will be able to control the pandemic situation successfully," the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-guidelines-on-movement-of-migrant-workers-to-be-strictly-followed-mha-831897.html
30-04-2020||National||IIT Guwahati students' venture develops low-cost intubation boxes to shield doctors against COVID-19||IIT Guwahati students' venture has designed low-cost intubation boxes that promise to obstruct the flow of virus-laden droplets from COVID-19 positive persons to doctors, thereby reducing the chances of their infection. The device will function as an aerosol obstruction box which is placed atop the patient bed on the head-side, limiting the flow of droplets from the patient to the doctor, especially during the process of intubation. "As in the case of COVID-19, patients develop respiratory failure thus requiring assistance in the form of endotracheal intubation. Given the nature of this process, healthcare providers are at risk of contracting the virus via droplets either exhaled or coughed out by the patient," said a statement issued by IIT Guwahati on Thursday.  It said the device was inspired by the design of Dr. Hsien Yung Lai, an anesthesiologist from Taiwan. The box has been developed and designed by Mitochondrial, a student venture for medical innovation mentored by S. Kanagaraj and Sajan Kapil of the department of Mechanical Engineering. It is a low-cost alternative to intubation boxes and is easier to manufacture and deliver amid the lockdown. The projected cost of a box is about Rs. 2,000, which is significantly lower than alternatives, it said. The team has received assistance from the DRDO for prototyping and testing at the Solid State Physics Laboratory, New Delhi.  As opposed to other PPEs, this box works effectively for multiple doctors and nurses serving the patient. While the transparent material allows visual access to the head of the patient inside, the arm-holes on the box allow for the care-provider to perform any necessary tasks including intubation and extubation, which are both processes known to be cough inducing. Further, the boxes are reusable, as they may be cleaned thoroughly with 70% alcohol or bleach, to allow use for the next patient, the statement said. "We feel that it is our responsibility to contribute to this fight against a global pandemic," Umang Mathur said.  The primary prototype of the design has been completed at DRDO, New Delhi, and the box is being reviewed in the field in major COVID-19 care centres, such as AIIMS, New Delhi.  Based on the feedback, the design will be further optimised for improved efficacy, before the first batch is manufactured in Gurgaon, Haryana, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-guwahati-students-venture-develops-low-cost-intubation-boxes-to-shield-doctors-against-covid-19-831900.html
30-04-2020||National||USAID to provide additional assistance worth USD 3 mn to India to fight COVID-19||The United States government, through the its Agency for International Development (USAID), has announced an additional assistance of USD 3 million to India to mitigate the spread of COVID-19. In coordination with the Government of India, USAID is providing these funds to the Partnerships for Affordable Healthcare Access and Longevity (PAHAL) project, an innovative financing platform of IPE Global. Through the PAHAL project, USAID will support the National Health Authority to establish a financing facility that can mobilise resources from the private sector to assist over 20,000 health facilities enrolled under Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY), India's health insurance scheme for 500 million poor and vulnerable people, according to a statement. “...The US government through USAID announced an additional USD 3 million to India to mitigate the spread of COVID-19,” it said. The release quoted US Ambassador to India Kenneth Juster stating that “this additional funding to support India in its continuing efforts to combat COVID-19 is yet another example of the strong and enduring partnership between the United States and India.” To date, USAID has provided USD 5.9 million to assist India in responding to the COVID-19 outbreak. This assistance will help India slow the spread of COVID-19, provide care for the affected, disseminate essential public health messages to communities, and strengthen case finding and surveillance, as per the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/usaid-to-provide-additional-assistance-worth-usd-3-mn-to-india-to-fight-covid-19-831907.html
30-04-2020||National||Haryana bans purchase of new vehicles except for public transport, emergency use||The Haryana government on Thursday decided to put a complete ban on the purchase of new vehicles, including cars and jeeps, except buses for public transport and vehicles used for emergency responses during the current financial year. A decision in this regard was taken in the Haryana cabinet which met under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, an official statement said. The cabinet has also decided that even in case of very urgent need of a new car or jeep, outsourcing/hiring of the vehicles should be done. Haryana's revenue sources have dried up in view of the ongoing coronavirus-induced lockdown, which has adversely affected all economic activities, and the present measures are aimed to cut down on expenses. Chief Minister Khattar had recently said that Haryana was losing a whopping Rs 4,600 crore revenue. While maintaining that state's revenue sources had dried up in the wake of present crisis situation, Khattar on Wednesday had said, "We will have to curtail our expenses and generate sources of income." Clarifying his earlier statement that new recruitment in the state will remain "frozen" for one year, he said the directive will remain applicable for universities. Meanwhile, in another decision, the cabinet accorded ex-post facto approval to the proposal to purchase Gold Field Institute of Medical Sciences and Research in Chhainsa village in Faridabad. The Haryana dispensation will later run it as Government Medical College in larger public interest to provide adequate, accessible, quality health care services to the common man, the statement said. The institute, a private medical institution, was set up in 2009 and had stopped functioning in 2015 due to the withdrawal of recognition and financial crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-bans-purchase-of-new-vehicles-except-for-public-transport-emergency-use-831909.html
30-04-2020||National||India, Pakistan nuclear procurement networks larger than thought, study shows||Hundreds of foreign companies are actively procuring components for India and Pakistan’s nuclear programmes, taking advantage of gaps in the global regulation of the industry, according to a report by a US-based research group. Using open-source data, the nonprofit Centre For Advance Defense Studies (C4ADS) report provides one of the most comprehensive overviews of networks supplying the rivals, in a region regarded as one of the world’s most dangerous nuclear flashpoints. “India and Pakistan are taking advantage of gaps in global non-proliferation regimes and export controls to get what they need,” said Jack Margolin, a C4ADS analyst and co-author of the report. It is seldom possible to determine whether individual transactions are illegal by using publicly available data, Margolin said, and the report does not suggest that companies mentioned broke national or international laws or regulations. But past reports by the think tank, whose financial backers include the Carnegie Corporation and the Wyss Foundation, have often led to action by law enforcement agencies. Spokesmen from the offices of India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan did not respond to requests for comment. Pakistan's military, which plays a major role in decision-making for the nuclear weapons programme, also declined to comment. To identify companies involved, C4ADS analysed more than 125 million records of public trade and tender data and documents and then checked them against already-identified entities listed by export control authorities in the United States and Japan. Pakistan, which is subject to strict international export controls on its programme, has 113 suspected foreign suppliers listed by the United States and Japan. But the C4ADS report found an additional 46, many in shipment hubs like Hong Kong, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates. “In Pakistan's case, they have a lot more stringent controls, and they get around these by using transnational networks… and exploiting opaque jurisdictions,” Margolin said. The father of Pakistan's atomic bomb, AQ Khan, admitted in 2004 to selling nuclear technology to North Korea, Iran and Libya. He was pardoned a day later by Pakistani authorities, which have refused requests from international investigators to question him. India has a waiver that allows it to buy nuclear technology from international markets. The Indian government allows inspections of some nuclear facilities by the International Atomic Energy Agency, but not all of them. Neither India or Pakistan have signed the international Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, adhered to by most nuclear powers. Consequently, they are not obliged to submit to IAEA oversight over all of their facilities. C4ADS identified 222 companies that did business with the nuclear facilities in India that had no IAEA oversight. Of these, 86 companies did business with more than one such nuclear facility in India. “It's evidence that more needs to be done, and that there needs to be a more sophisticated approach taken to India,” Margolin said. “Just because the product is not explicitly bound for a military facility, that doesn't mean that the due diligence process ends there.” India and Pakistan have gone to war three times - twice over the disputed Kashmir region - since they won independence from British colonial rule in 1947. Having for years secretly developed nuclear weapons capability, the two declared themselves nuclear powers following tit-for-tat atomic tests in 1998. A few years later, in 2002, the two foes almost went to war for a fourth time, following an attack by Pakistan-based militants on the parliament in New Delhi. And a year ago, a suicide attack by a Pakistan-based militant group in a part of Kashmir controlled by India sparked another flare-up in tensions. Both countries are estimated to have around 150 useable nuclear warheads apiece, according to the Federation of American Scientists, a nonprofit group tracking stockpiles of nuclear weapons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pakistan-nuclear-procurement-networks-larger-than-thought-study-shows-831913.html
30-04-2020||National||India exports 50 million hydroxychloroquine tablets to US for COVID-19 fight||The trade, India's biggest export of the drug to any country, follows a request by US President Donald Trump for New Delhi to release supplies of hydroxychloroquine as a possible treatment for the respiratory disease. "It amounts to 50 million tablets... Commercial companies are pursuing. It's ongoing," said the source, who declined to be identified due to the sensitivity of discussions with the United States. The US Food and Drug Administration, the European Union's drug regulator and the Canadian health department have cautioned against the use of hydroxychloroquine, citing side effects such as abnormal heart rhythms and a dangerously rapid heart rate. However, the health warnings have done little to deter the drug's imports to the United States, where some doctors are continuing to prescribe the drug for the treatment of COVID-19. "There is high demand for hydroxychloroquine in the international market including US," Viranchi Shah, senior vice-president, Indian Drug Manufacturers Association (IDMA), told Reuters. This month India said it would allow some exports of hydroxychloroquine after Trump touted it as a "game changer" and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to send supplies. In Modi's home state of Gujarat, 68 new licences have been issued to drugmakers to manufacture hydroxychloroquine formulations, H.G. Koshia, commissioner, Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA), Gujarat, told Reuters. "Majority of these licences are for exports," he said. Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, IPCA Laboratories and Cadila Healthcare are among India's leading suppliers of hydroxychloroquine. Cadila Healthcare recently said it was ramping up production tenfold to 30 metric tonnes per month. Sales of the decades-old treatment had soared overnight after Trump's advocacy of the drug, raising questions whether political pressure had overridden scientific criteria in the crisis. As the US coronavirus death toll topped 60,000 on Wednesday - the highest in the world - doctors in the United States are desperate for anything that might alter the course of the disease, which attacks the lungs and can shut down other organs in severe cases. "Pharma companies in Gujarat are continuing to produce and export hydroxychloroquine in large quantities," IDMA's Shah said. The foreign ministry said India was continuing to supply hydroxychloroquine, and other essential medicines produced in India, to other countries. These supplies were taking place both on a humanitarian and a commercial basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-exports-50-million-hydroxychloroquine-tablets-to-us-for-covid-19-fight-831915.html
30-04-2020||National||Monsoons, cyclones can be predicted more accurately now, says study||Large-scale weather events, such as monsoons and tropical cyclones, can now be more accurately predicted, findings from a joint India-UK research project show, the IISc, Bengaluru, said on Thursday. Using a research vessel in the southern Bay of Bengal, the teams from the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru and University of East Anglia (UEA) in the United Kingdom and several Indian institutions created a blueprint for future weather system observational experiments, critical for forecasting things such as rainfall amounts, the IISc said in a statement. "This could mean, for example, that Asian farmers are able to determine the optimal time for planting crops and what will grow best based on expected levels of rainfall," the statement read. According to the IISc, the research project was led by Prof P N Vinayachandran of the Centre for Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences at the IISc and Prof Adrian Matthews, of the Centre for Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences in UEA s School of Environmental Sciences and School of Mathematics. The findings, 'Closing the sea surface mixed layer temperature budget from in situ observations alone: Operation Advection during BoBBLE', are published in Nature Scientific Reports, said the statement. The project was jointly funded by the Ministry of Earth Sciences, Government of India, and the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC), UK. The project also included researchers from Cochin University of Science and Technology, Kochi, India; the CSIR- National Institute of Oceanography, Goa; Visakhapatnam, India; the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services, Ministry of Earth Sciences. "Time series of oceanographic properties, including temperature, salinity, velocity, underwater radiation and subsurface mixing, along with surface fluxes of heat, were calculated from shipboard measurements on board the RV Sindhu Sadhana in the southern Bay of Bengal during the boreal summer monsoon of 2016. The measurements were made continuously for 11 days, using a novel combination of ship-based and autonomous platforms, such as ocean gliders," the release added. Professors Matthews and Vinayachandran were quoted as saying that cloud formation in the monsoon regions is crucially dependent on the temperature of the ocean beneath. Therefore, accurate determination of the sea surface temperature in models is absolutely essential. "Forecasting monsoon rainfall requires accurate simulation of the Sea Surface Temperature, and inadequate information may also hinder predictions of climate change on monsoon rainfall," they noted. Variability in tropical SST in turn influences large-scale ocean-atmosphere interaction processes such as the Asian monsoon, El Nino, tropical cyclones and expansion of sea ice in the Antarctic, the scientists explained. They noted that the study in the Bay of Bengal served as a blueprint for future observational campaigns that aim to determine the scale and impact of weather systems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoons-cyclones-can-be-predicted-more-accurately-now-says-study-831922.html
30-04-2020||National||No need for separate passes for truck movement: MHA||With several states not allowing free travel of trucks, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Thursday once again asked them not to insist on separate passes at borders for passage of cargo. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to states after reports reached the MHA that movement of trucks are not allowed freely and local authorities insist on separate passes. "No separate passes are required for through traffic of trucks and good carriers, including empty trucks. This is essential for maintaining the supply chain of goods and services across the country during the lockdown period," Bhalla said. All states should ensure that district authorities and field agencies are informed about this and there is "no ambiguity" at the ground level and movement of through traffic of trucks and goods carriers are allowed without any hindrance, he said. The government has already allowed inter-state travel of trucks to deliver both essential and non-essential items. However, truck drivers had often complained about trouble at borders where police insist on separate passes. The MHA had also made it clear that there was no need for any separate passes for the movement of the trucks and the vehicles needed only its papers, as well as the driver, should possess a valid licence. The government had allowed movement of trucks with two drivers and a helper. Trucks should be allowed to ply after the delivery of goods or for pick up of goods, the revised guidelines for the lockdown issued on April 15 had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-need-for-separate-passes-for-truck-movement-mha-831930.html
30-04-2020||National||Centre, states to consider issue of providing ration to those without card: SC||The Supreme Court Thursday left it open to the Centre, concerned states and union territories to consider the issue of providing ration to those who do not have ration card and also for universalisation of public distribution system (PDS). A bench headed by Justice N V Ramana, which heard a plea in this regard through video-conferencing, said this is a "policy issue" and the government should consider it. The bench, also comprising Justices S K Kaul and B R Gavai, noted in its order that during the hearing, the counsel appearing for the petitioner had confined the prayer for providing ration to those people who do not have ration card and for universalisation of PDS. "This being a policy issue, it is left open to the Government of India and also the concerned states/union territories to consider such relief," the bench said in its order. The bench, which disposed of the plea, directed the petitioner to serve a copy of the petition to Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. During the hearing, the bench said it had already passed order regarding universalisation of PDS. The petitioner's counsel said that orders passed earlier only cover those who already have ration cards and states like Telangana and Delhi have allowed PDS distribution to those who do not have ration cards. The bench, which observed that it is largely a state subject, said it is for the government to see what other documents apart from ration cards can be used. The top court had recently asked the Centre to consider the feasibility of 'temporarily' adopting the 'one nation, one ration card' scheme during the ongoing coronavirus lockdown period to enable migrant workers and economically weaker sections (EWS) get subsidised foodgrain. The central government scheme in this regard is scheduled to be launched in June this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-states-to-consider-issue-of-providing-ration-to-those-without-card-sc-831931.html
30-04-2020||National||No masks, no petrol norm in Goa soon||If you don't wear a face mask, you won't get fuel in Goa's petrol pumps, according to an action plan being worked out by the state government to enforce the use of masks amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. According to the State Executive Committee headed by Chief Secretary Parimal Rai, which has been tasked with the responsibility of overseeing COVID-19 related relief chores, those not wearing face masks may not be allowed to buy rations too in the near future.  "The SEC decided that the state needs to enforce the use of face cover or masks. To enable this, the state should start a campaign, such as 'no mask - no petrol', 'no mask no ration', or on the similar lines," according to a statement issued by the committee which met on Thursday. The Committee also directed the Goa government's Secretary Civil Supplies and the Department of Information and Publicity to work out an action plan to implement the 'no mask-no-petrol' norm at the earliest. Goa has already been declared a Covid-19 free state, but the state authorities have begun a heavy crackdown on those not wearing masks in public spaces. The government has also directed self-help groups to stitch and supply washable cotton masks in order to meet the demand for facial appendage, which is an important defence against the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-masks-no-petrol-norm-in-goa-soon-831939.html
30-04-2020||National||I bow out with a Namaste to you: Akbaruddin to UN chief||India’s outgoing Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador Syed Akbaruddin bid adieu to UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres with a ‘Namaste’ in a virtual meeting. Akbaruddin had a virtual meeting with Guterres as he prepares to return to India. “Before I leave Secretary General, I have one last small request and that is in the Indian tradition, when we leave or when we meet, we don’t stay hello or shake hand but we say Namaste. So before I end I want to say Namaste to you and I hope if you can reciprocate,” Akbaruddin said during his video conversation with Guterres, adding that “I bow out with a Namaste to you.” Guterres, smiling, also responds with a Namaste, saying it three times. Akbaruddin had assumed charge as India’s envoy to the UN in November, 2015. Seasoned diplomat T S Tirumurti, currently serving as Secretary in the Ministry of External Affairs, was on Wednesday appointed as India’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations. A 1985-batch Indian Foreign Service officer, Tirumurti will succeed Akbaruddin, a prominent face in Indian diplomacy who is credited with successfully presenting the country''s position at the global body on a range of key issues for last several years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-bow-out-with-a-namaste-to-you-akbaruddin-to-un-chief-831944.html
30-04-2020||National||Govt favouring private companies in mining resumption bid: AAP||he Aam Aadmi Party in Goa has accused the state BJP-led coalition government, of trying to 'help' private mining companies in its bid to restart the industry, while using the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic as cover. "The mining lobby in Goa is conniving with the BJP government in Goa to restart the industry, under the cover of the coronavirus crisis," Goa AAP spokesperson Valmiki Naik said in a statement issued on Thursday. The AAP comment comes at a time when Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, Governor Satya Pal Malik as well as iron ore exporters in Goa, have insisted that restarting the mining sector at the earliest is the only key to reviving Goa's economy, which has had to face the brunt of the COVID-19 pandemic, especially the loss of tourism sector revenue. "The common language used by the Chief Minister, the Governor and the Goa Mineral Ore Exporters Association in their frantic appeals to the Centre to find a 'legislative cure' to the mining ban, once again demonstrates the vice-like grip that the powerful mining lobby has over a supposedly democratically elected government," the statement also said. The mining has long been a contentious issue in Goa, ever since the apex court banned extraction and transportation of iron ore from 88 mining leases from February 2018, while also directing the state government to re-issue mining leases. This is the second time in less than a decade that all mining in the state has come to a standstill. It was banned the first time in 2012 after a judicial commission exposed an Rs. 35,000 crore illegal mining scam, indicting top mining companies as well as politicians and bureaucrats. Till some months back, the state government had been actively contemplating the formation of a state-run mining corporation as a nodal body to relaunch and oversee mining operations in the state. AAP said, that the switch in the argument from a government corporation to handle the state's mining sector, to the pursuit of a legislative cure -- which would ensure that the mining leases would be handed back to the private leaseholders -- to restart the mining industry would be detrimental to the interests of the state's economy. "This option of a government-run corporation had even gained traction in the months before the coronavirus crisis, but now it appears that the state's mining lobby is working through the government to push legislative amendments that would undermine the SC verdicts and retain its own influence to pillage Goa of its resources again," the AAP spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-favouring-private-companies-in-mining-resumption-bid-aap-831947.html
30-04-2020||National||COVID-19 offered opportunity to make virtue out of adversity: Jitendra Singh||He said while addressing an 'online' convocation amid lockdown as chief guest, when the Indian Institute of Public Administration (IIPA) concluded its 45th advanced professional programme in public administration, attended by 45 senior Group 'A' officers from the all India and central services as well as those from all wings of the armed forces. Singh said that the virus had once again vindicated the resolve of the present government for minimum government and maximum governance, according to a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry. He said that while the effective handling of COVID-19 by India has made it a frontline country in the community of world nations, it has also reaffirmed Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a world leader of top order. Singh urged upon the IIPA to continue with its efforts and said COVID-19 offered an opportunity to learn and develop new models which could also be emulated by others. "This is an opportunity to make virtue out of adversity," he said. The ceremony through video conference was attended, among others, by Director IIPA Surendra Nath Tripathi, Secretary Department of Personnel and Training C Chandramouli, Registrar IIPA Amitabh Ranjan, faculty of IIPA as well as all the scholars who had successfully completed their academic course. Singh, the minister of state for personnel, lauded the IIPA for completing on time all the requirements of the academic programme despite the constraints of lockdown and improvising different methods to meet the deadlines and timelines, which included the "online" conduct of viva voce by the candidates. Congratulating the IIPA for its capacity building efforts, the minister commended the institution for reorienting itself to the demands of changing times. A living and vibrating entity, he said, keeps continuously reinventing and revisiting its current ways in order to innovate, improvise and improve. The minister congratulated the efforts of IIPA in the COVID pandemic followed by lockdown situation and said this is one such occasion when IIPA has lived up to its avowed objective in a very distinguished manner. He called upon the IIPA to continue developing new models, which could be emulated by the rest of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-offered-opportunity-to-make-virtue-out-of-adversity-jitendra-singh-831950.html
30-04-2020||National||PM Modi prepared people mentally for lockdown through Janta Curfew: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi for mentally preparing people for the lockdown by giving a call to observe the Janta Curfew before imposing nationwide curbs three days later on March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus. According to a health ministry statement, while interacting with civil society organisations and NGOs through a video link, Vardhan thanked PM Modi for leading containment efforts by "first preparing the minds of people for lockdown through Janta Curfew and then announcing lockdown as part of the graded response to the evolving situation". NITI Aayog, CEO, Amitabh Kant was also present at the video conference. "The COVID-19 doubling rate in the country has been showing regular improvement and stands at 12.5 days when seen over a period of three days, 11 days seen over a period of seven days and 9.9 days over a period of 14 days," the health minister said. These may be taken as indicators of the positive effects of the lockdown along with the cluster management and containment strategies, Vardhan said. According to the Union Health Ministry, the death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 1,075 and the total number of cases climbed to 33,610 in the country on Thursday, recording an increase of 67 fatalities and 1,823 cases since Wednesday evening. However, a PTI tally of the figures reported by various states as on Thursday showed 33,579 cases and 1,093 deaths in the country. There has been a lag in the Union Health Ministry figures, compared to the number of deaths announced by different states, which officials attribute to procedural delays in assigning the cases to individual states. At the meeting, Vardhan expressed gratitude over the work done by over 92,000 NGOs in providing food and other necessities to different sections of society. Appreciating the contribution of these organisations and terming it vital in the management of COVID-19, the minister said such work by these institutions also inspired other people to come forward and make contributions. Vardhan also briefed the participants about the chronology of efforts made to combat the COVID-19 situation. "The Government of India has taken pre-emptive and pro-active action and escalated the response as per the situation," he said. During the interaction, the NGOs raised concerns over the limited availability of medicines, lack of services for geriatric care especially in aspirational districts, issues faced by women, mobility problems faced by NGO workers during the lockdown, malnourishment and food security, issues of the stigma associated with certain livelihoods and problems in last-mile provision of entitlements to migrants among others. They also urged Vardhan to take appropriate measures for boosting of immunity through traditional knowledge, dispel fears of communicable diseases among the people, financial support for micro, small and medium enterprises when the economy reopens after the lockdown. Vardhan assured help to the NGOs and said that classification of districts in red, orange and green zones based on the number of coronavirus cases will help them in prioritizing their work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-prepared-people-mentally-for-lockdown-through-janta-curfew-harsh-vardhan-831952.html
30-04-2020||National||Only buses to be used to transport workers, no train: Centre||The Centre on Thursday clarified that only buses should be used to transport stranded migrants workers, students or tourists in various places to their home states. In a daily press briefing, the officials clearly said that the Ministry of Home Affairs earlier issued orders to move stranded migrants only in buses.  To another question whether private vehicles allowed to transport such people, Union Ministry of Home Affairs Joint Secretary P S  Srivastava told media persons that " the order is very clear that it is for a group of persons."  With this, the speculation about running special trains was ruled out. Earlier several Chief Ministers including Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and  Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren requested the Centre to operate special trains to transport stranded workers, students, pilgrims, and tourists. They also said that the number of stranded people is huge, it is impossible to transport in buses.  There were reports that the railways kept ready 400 special trains to operate as special service if the government asked it to do so. The railways also ready with the standard operating procedures by ensuring social distancing and mandatory wearing masks of the passenger during the journey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-buses-to-be-used-to-transport-workers-no-train-centre-831956.html
30-04-2020||National||Over 100 people test COVID-19 positive in Punjab; cases jump to 480||Punjab saw the steepest rise in the number of novel coronavirus cases on Thursday with 105 persons, mostly pilgrims who returned from Nanded, testing positive for the disease, officials said. Pilgrims coming back from Hazur Sahib in Nanded in Maharashtra, students from Kota and labourers from Jaisalmer in Rajasthan are turning out to be the latest threat for spread of COVID-19 in the state. Of the 105 cases reported in the state, 98 are from outside, an official said. Officials also said of those who have returned from Nanded in the past few days, test reports of 577 people have been received and 20 per cent of them were found positive. So far, 3,525 pilgrims from Nanded and 153 students from Kota had returned to Punjab in the last few days. More than 3,000 labourers from Rajasthan have been received at Fazilka-Rajasthan border. The state government has ordered a 21-day quarantine for people coming from outside. Of the 105 fresh cases, 34 were reported in Ludhiana, 28 in Amritsar, 13 in Mohali, seven in Tarn Taran, six in Kapurthala, three each in Gurdaspur, Jalandhar and Muktsar, two each in Sangrur and Rupnagar and one each in Moga, SBS Nagar, Patiala and Ferozpur, as per a medical bulletin. Meanwhile, the test report of a 50-year-old woman, who died on Tuesday in Jalandhar, came positive, taking the total death count to 20 in the state. Jalandhar continued to lead the COVID-19 tally as it has so far reported 89 cases, followed by 86 in Mohali, as per the medical bulletin. Sixty-four have been reported in Patiala so far, 63 in Ludhiana, 42 in Amritsar, 25 in Pathankot, 23 in SBS Nagar, 14in Tarn Taran, 13 in Mansa, 12 in Kpaurthala, 11 in Hoshiarpur, six each in Kapurthala and Faridkot, five each in Moga and Rupnagar, four each in Gurdaspur and Muktsar, two each in Barnala, Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib and Ferozepur, as per the bulletin. Of the total cases, 20 have died while 104 patients have been fully cured of the infection, as per the bulletin. A total of 21,205 samples have been taken so far in the state and of which, 17,286 samples are negative and reports of 3,439 samples are still awaited. There are 356 active cases in the state, as per bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-100-people-test-covid-19-positive-in-punjab-cases-jump-to-480-831961.html
30-04-2020||National||Delhi chronicler, author RV Smith no more||Delhi's famed chronicler and author R V Smith passed away on Thursday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said. He was not keeping well for several months. "RV Smith, the chronicler of our great city Delhi passed away this morning. His work kept alive the stories and memories of our city. It's a huge loss especially for Delhiites. My heartfelt condolences to his family and friends. RIP," Kejriwal tweeted. Smith, who grew up in Agra, had come to Delhi as a young journalist in the 1950s. His career in journalism spans nearly four decades. Among his notable books are 'Delhi That No One Knows' and 'Capital Vignettes'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-chronicler-author-rv-smith-no-more-831963.html
30-04-2020||National||COVID-19: Andhra Pradesh CM urges Centre to extend stimulus measures||In a 10-page letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Reddy highlighted the contribution of different sectors to the state and the national economy and sought specific incentives to each of the sub-sectors, mainly the micro, small and medium enterprises. "Given the current pandemic, the manufacturing sector in the state is in great peril and needs support in order to sustain itself and prosper in the long run. In addition to piling up of inventory due to trade and export restriction, the absence of the workforce has also hit the industry very hard. While all the markets are shut down, the uncertainty around future demand looms over the sector," the CM pointed out. Exports from AP crossed Rs 98,983 crore in the 2018-19 financial year, with major items being pharmaceuticals, textiles, processed food, aqua products and electronic items, apart from engineering goods. "Due to the current lockdown the world over, many of the industries in Andhra Pradesh are not able to export. I would like to reiterate that the impact on MSMEs is likely to have a cascading effect across the value chain even after the lockdown restrictions have been eased owing to global slowdown in demand," Reddy noted. He sought creation of a 'fund of funds' for supporting MSMEs in terms of additional liquidity to meet their wage liabilities during the shutdown. He also wanted extension of interest-free working capital term loans to the exporters to cover the cost of wages, rent, and utilities. Additional duty drawback of at least two per cent on all exports made during the period of April 1 to September 30, 2020, should be extended. Referring to the agriculture and allied sectors, the Chief Minister said more than 20 per cent of state GDP came from it as it had over 3,000 food processing units, commodity-based cluster projects, mega food parks, Multiple Agriculture Export Zones and cold chain-related infrastructure. He wanted the Centre to defer GST, electricity charges and duties, provide short-term collateral-free loans and resume export of aqua products to US, EU and Asia quickly. He also requested the Centre to create warehousing and cold storage infrastructure at ports with special quality testing infrastructure and target new markets for exports that could fetch higher prices for our produce. Reddy sought immediate release of funds for projects under the National Infrastructure Pipeline (Rs 102 trillion) and announcement of stimulus/revival packages for strategic sectors like real-estate. For the automobile sector, he wanted the central government to extend GST rate cuts for new vehicles. "The automotive sector has already been facing weak demand for the past one year. The shutdown due to the pandemic has exacerbated its problem and will significantly impact the sector," the Chief Minister pointed out. He wanted the Centre to extend BS-VI deadline by six months and also defer GST payments for the sector to boost liquidity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-andhra-pradesh-cm-urges-centre-to-extend-stimulus-measures-831966.html
30-04-2020||National||Parents having visitation rights can contact children via electronic means during lockdown: SC||The Supreme Court suggested on Thursday that parents having visitation rights can contact their children through electronic means during the nationwide lockdown period instead of visiting them. The top court said that if there is grievance with regard to contact through electronic means, the aggrieved party could approach the family court. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B R Gavai disposed of two separate petitions seeking directions for contact with children during the lockdown period saying that the parties in questions have to arrive at a mutually acceptable arrangement for enabling contact through electronic means. "The grievance of the petitioner is that because of lockdown, the children are unable to interact with their parents even though they have visitation rights for the purpose. If they have visitation rights, we suggest that electronic contact instead of physical visits can be substituted in these times. The parties can arrive at mutually acceptable arrangements in this behalf," the bench ordered on a PIL filed by one Tanuj Dhawan. The bench, which took up the matters through video conferencing, said, "If there is an aggrieved party, the same can approach the Family Court". Dhawan, who appeared in the matter, told the bench that because of lockdown, the children are unable to interact with their parents even though they have visitation rights for the purpose. Dealing with another petition filed by Venkatesh Srinivasa Rao, the bench said that it does not find it necessary to issue encompassing guidelines to facilitate video calls between the child and non-custodial parents. Rao in his petition had sought guidelines for daily electronic access in the form of minimum of one-hour video call to be facilitated between the child and the non-custodial parents, who have already been granted visitation rights by any competent court. To this, the bench said, "We do not find it permissible to issue encompassing guidelines on the said subject". Counsel appearing for Rao, conceded to the suggestions of the bench that wherever the parties are mutually agreeable, they can always arrange for an electronic interaction and if there is resistance, they will have to approach the concerned Family Court for the purpose. PTI MNL ABA SJK SA||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parents-having-visitation-rights-can-contact-children-via-electronic-means-during-lockdown-sc-831970.html
30-04-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi discusses coronavirus situation with Myanmar State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday expressed India's readiness to provide all possible support to Myanmar to mitigate the health and economic impact of COVID-19. The prime minister discussed the evolving COVID-19 situation with Myanmar State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi. "Had a good discussion with State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi," the prime minister tweeted. He said they discussed the evolving COVID-19 scenario and "agreed to work together to address the challenges in the spirit of our excellent bilateral ties and India's neighbourhood first policy". An official statement later said the leaders discussed the evolving COVID-19 scenario in the domestic and regional contexts and updated each other on the steps being taken to control the spread of the disease. Underlining the importance of Myanmar as a vital pillar of India's Neighbourhood First Policy, Prime Minister Modi conveyed India's readiness to provide all possible support to Myanmar for mitigating the health and economic impact of COVID-19, it said. Modi assured all possible support by the Indian government for Myanmar citizens present in India, and thanked the state counsellor for the cooperation being extended by Myanmar authorities to Indian citizens there. The leaders agreed to remain in touch and work together to address the present and future challenges posed by COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-discusses-coronavirus-situation-with-myanmar-state-counsellor-aung-san-suu-kyi-831973.html
30-04-2020||National||India has 'gone quite ahead' to win war against COVID-19: Health Minister||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said India is doing better compared to other countries on all parameters in its fight against COVID-19 and should be able to win this decisive war in the coming few weeks. While virtually interacting with civil society organisations (CSOs) and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) on COVID-19 issues at an event organised by Niti Aayog, Vardhan said such organisations have been working tirelessly to ensure essential resources reach the last mile. Talking about India's preparations and their results, the minister said, "We have gone quite ahead towards winning this war against COVID-19." Elaborating further, he said the country has done better on "all our parameters compared to the rest of the world. And I am sure in the coming few weeks, we should be able win decisive war against COVID-19". The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and the   Department of Biotechnology are doing genetic sequencing of coronavirus at 1,000 places, he said, adding that "we have half a dozen vaccine candidates, four of them are in significantly advanced stage". The health minister also informed that everyday the country is manufacturing 1.5 lakh personal protective equipment in the country. He said that in May, "we will have good indigenous production of good quality anti-body test kits and also kits for detection of coronavirus". About challenges ahead as the Centre relaxes curbs on movement of stranded migrant workers, he said there will be requirements of lots of help from NGOs to reorganise migrant labourers again in their home towns as there could be some resistance in the society when they go back. Vardhan also pointed out that India took immediate proactive steps within days of knowing about the outbreak of the novel coronavirus in China.        " The central government immediately issued advisories to the states, undertook rigorous community health surveillance and started thermal screening at airports, borders as well as seaports," he said.       The health minister also spoke on the issue of stigmatisation of COVID patients and frontline workers who are engaged in battling this war. The government has recently amended the Epidemic Diseases Act to protect healthcare workers against violence during health crises such as COVID-19. However, he said, not everything can be solved with the help of law and sought the assistance of NGOs and CSOs to battle the menace of stigmatisation in the society.  Until now, nine lakh people are under community surveillance, the minister said adding that it was a huge operation undertaken in the last three months. Meanwhile, in its latest update, the Union Health Ministry said 1,075 people have died due to COVID-19 so far across the country. The number of cases has increased to 33,610, including 1,823 new cases detected in the last 24 hours. All NGOs registered on Niti Aayog's Darpan Portal became part of the interaction -- Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, represented by Hari Menon; HelpAge India, represented by Mathew Cherian; Tata Trusts, represented by HSD Srinivas, among others. The NGOs/CSOs mentioned a number of issues including combating stigma and discrimination against COVID-19 patients and frontline workers, flagging shortage of medicines in rural areas, seeking help for e-passes, provision of more PPEs and N95 masks and seeking a data-driven response to the crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-gone-quite-ahead-to-win-war-against-covid-19-health-minister-831978.html
30-04-2020||National||33 new COVID-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir, total rises to 614||Thirty-three people tested positive for coronavirus in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 614, officials said. Of the total 614 patients, 390 are undergoing treatment, 216 have recovered and eight died. All the fresh cases were reported from Kashmir, they said. Till date, 70408 travellers and people in contact with suspected cases have been enlisted for surveillance, the officials said. The union territory administration asked people not to spray bleach or any other disinfectant on their body "as it will not protect you against COVID-19 and can be dangerous". "These substances can be poisonous if ingested and cause irritation and damage to your skin and eyes. Bleach and disinfectant should be used carefully to disinfect inanimate surfaces only. Remember to keep chlorine (bleach) and other disinfectants out of the reach of children," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/33-new-covid-19-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-total-rises-to-614-831983.html
30-04-2020||National||SC dismisses review plea against rejection of Dhinakaran-Sasikala's AIADMK party symbol||The Supreme Court has declined to reconsider its March 26, 2019 order that had rejected a plea for allotment of the common symbol of 'pressure cooker' to TTV Dhinakaran and V K Sasikala faction of AIADMK. As Dhinakaran had won the R K Nagar by-poll, once represented by TN CM J Jayalalithaa, with the symbol, they wanted to retain it in 39 Parliamentary constituencies in Tamil Nadu and one in Puducherry. On April 23, a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde dismissed a review petition by Sasikala against the last year's order. "We do not find any error in the order impugned, much less an apparent error on the face of the record, so as to call for its review," said the bench, also comprising Justices Deepak Gupta and Sanjiv Khanna. The top court had then told the Election Commission to allot a symbol common to all candidates put up by Dhinakaran and Sasikala in Parliamentary constituencies in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The court, however, had said if any candidate is elected, he or she will be treated as independent as the faction was still not a registered political party. The court had then rejected their plea for the common symbol of 'pressure cooker'.  Dhinakaran had then floated a new party 'Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam' after his rival E K Palaniswami-O Panneerselvam faction was declared as the 'real' AIADMK party with ‘two leaves’ election symbol. Dhinakaran and Sasikala challenged the validity of February 28, 2019, Delhi High Court judgment which upheld the Election Commission decision to recognise the rival E K Palaniswami-O Panneerselvam faction as the 'real' AIADMK party worthy of the ‘two leaves’ election symbol. In their plea, Dhinakaran and Sasikala sought a stay on the EC's decision of November 2017 to allot his rival group the ‘two leaves’ symbol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-review-plea-against-rejection-of-dhinakaran-sasikalas-aiadmk-party-symbol-832004.html
30-04-2020||National||Take stringent action against people obstructing COVID-19 dead cremations, CM Jagan tells AP Police||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the state’s police to act sternly on people obstructing the burial of COVID-19 dead in their localities. The state with 31 deaths is topping the south Indian states in COVID-19 fatalities. The state is continuing to report an alarming number of cases every day – 71 new cases on Thursday (April 30) took the total cases to 1403. The CM’s direction came during a pandemic review on Thursday when one such resistance faced by officials came to light from Kurnool. Fearing virus spread, ill-informed locals objected to cremation of a COVID-19 patient’s body in a plot earmarked for the purpose on the city outskirts. Kurnool has the highest number of COVID-19 cases – 386 and also deaths – 9. The incident reportedly took place on Tuesday (April 28) night when an ambulance carrying the dead body entered the Jaganatha Gutta area near the Outer Ring Road. Alerted by a few youths, a large crowd from a nearby colony gathered and some have allegedly pelted stones at the ambulance. “Such acts are very inhuman. Coronavirus could infect anyone – these protestors might also be affected by the virus tomorrow. Stigmatizing the COVID-19 affected and treating them as untouchables is very wrong. We should be sympathetic to those fallen ill like we treat our dear ones in similar situations,” Reddy said, according to officials, while asking the DGP to take action in this regard. Reddy was informed that as per the central guidelines legal action can be taken against such obstructors. The state has at present 1051 active cases.  However, officials foresee a high number of recoveries in the next 2-3 days. There were no COVID-19 casualties in AP from the past few days.  So far, 94,558 COVID-19 tests have been conducted averaging to 1,771 tests per a million population. The country’s COVID-19 positive rate and the mortality rate are four and 3.26 percent respectively, whereas, for AP it is 1.48 and 2.21 percent, respectively. Over 68,000 rapid tests have been conducted separately, officials briefed the CM. The Chief Minister has ordered officials to monitor the facilities in Kurnool General Hospital and improve the infrastructure at all hospitals and quarantine centers. As of now, the state has 80 very active clusters, 64 active clusters, and 66 dormant clusters besides 20 clusters with no active cases for the past 28 days. COVID-19 preventive measures are being intensified in Kurnool, Guntur, Vijayawada which have become hotspots with spiraling cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/take-stringent-action-against-people-obstructing-covid-19-dead-cremations-cm-jagan-tells-ap-police-832011.html
30-04-2020||National||PM discusses potential economic reforms in mines and coal sectors to boost economy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a "detailed" meeting to discuss the potential economic reforms in the mines and coal sectors to give a boost to the economy in the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic. The discussions involved ensuring easy and abundant availability of mineral resources from domestic sources, upscaling exploration, attracting investment and modern technology to generate large-scale employment through transparent and efficient processes, according to an official statement. In the meeting with top officials, the prime minister laid special focus on improving the country's self-reliance in production of minerals and their in-country processing. Auctioning of additional blocks, encouraging wider participation in auctions, increasing the production of mineral resources, reducing the cost of mining and cost of transporting formed part of the discussion. The deliberations also focussed on increasing ease of doing business while also reducing carbon footprint with environmentally sustainable development. The issues related to reforms in auction structure, efficient institutional arrangements, participation of private sector in exploration and mining, making public sector more competitive as well as broad-basing the community development activities through the Mineral Development Fund were also deliberated. Expanding and improving evacuation infrastructure for minerals, including use of sea-routes for domestic supplies, was also considered.  Aspects related to increasing the efficient and environmentally-sound "first mile connectivity" for coal transport from mines to railway sliding, automatic loading on rail wagons, coal gasification and liquefaction, coal bed methane exploration were also discussed as potential reforms. PM Modi reviewed the contribution of mines sector in increasing employment opportunities and boosting growth. He also said that the mineral sector should benchmark its operations to international standards and advised its representatives to prepare an action plan. He exhorted using modern technologies for efficient mining. He said the aim should be for reducing delays in obtaining clearances and partnering with states to facilitate increase in private investment to boost the economy. He gave directions to target thermal coal import substitution, particularly when a huge coal stock inventory is available in the country this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-discusses-potential-economic-reforms-in-mines-and-coal-sectors-to-boost-economy-832012.html
30-04-2020||National||Delhi govt to screen people for COVID-19 before they return to their native places||The Delhi government has sought details from states about numbers of their migrant workers stranded in the national capital due to the coronavirus lockdown and said it will make arrangements for their screening before they leave for their native places. According to an official, the government will set up medical camps where migrant workers and other people who are stranded here will have to undergo the screening process. The Delhi government and police are working on preparing a standard operating procedure (SOP) on the movement of migrant labourers and other stranded people during the lockdown in pursuance of the Union Home Ministry guidelines on the matter, he said. "We are in talks with states and sought number of migrant workers and stranded people in Delhi. We will then make arrangements for medical camps for the screening of these people accordingly," he said. The government has also appointed nodal officers to address issues related to migrant workers. The MHA, in an order issued on Wednesday, allowed migrant workers, tourists, students and other people, who are stranded in different parts of the country, to move to their respective destinations with certain conditions. The order stated that buses shall be used for transport of such groups of stranded people and these vehicles will be sanitised and will have to follow safe social distancing norms in seating. Delhi Police's Public Relation Officer Mandeep Singh Randhawa said the government and Delhi Police are finalising modalities and working on the SOP. "Till the time the SOP is finalised, we request stranded people not to pay attention towards any social media post. The Delhi Police is regulating social media and will take strict actions against those who spread rumours," he said. On March 28, thousands of migrant workers thronged Anand Vihar bus terminus on the Delhi-UP border to go back to their villages.  Similarly on April 14, the last day of the first phase of the lockdown, hundreds of migrants had assembled on the west side of Bandra suburban station in Mumbai demanding trains to take them to their native places, hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced an extension of the lockdown till May 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-to-screen-people-for-covid-19-before-they-return-to-their-native-places-832016.html
30-04-2020||National||Rajnath Singh takes stock of armed forces' preparedness in dealing with COVID-19||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held a meeting with the top military brass of the country on Thursday to take stock of the overall preparedness of the armed forces in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic, officials said. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Indian Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh, Indian Air Force's Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria and Indian Army Chief General M M Naravane were present at the meeting, they said. Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar, Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) chief G Satheesh Reddy and other senior officials of the Ministry of Defence were also present at the meeting, the officials noted. The defence minister is learnt to have enquired the top military brass about their preparedness to deal with the pandemic and measures taken to protect the armed forces personnel against the respiratory disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-takes-stock-of-armed-forces-preparedness-in-dealing-with-covid-19-832023.html
30-04-2020||National||PM calls for self reliance in mineral production||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday emphasised that India should be self-reliant in production of minerals and its processing.  The PM, who held a meeting to deliberate the potential economic reforms in Mines and Coal Sectors to give a boost to the economy in the backdrop of COVID-19, also asked the concered department to prepare action plan to make country at par international standard in mining sector. He also directed the officials to take steps to reduce delays in obtaining clearances and partnering with states to facilitate increase in private investment in the sector to boost the economy. The PM directed to reduce the import of  thermal coal as a huge coal stock inventory is available in the country, said a statement. Auctioning of additional blocks, encouraging wider participation in auctions, increasing the production of mineral resources, reducing the cost of mining and cost of transporting, increasing ease of doing business while also reducing carbon footprint with environmentally sustainable development issues also discussed in the meeting. Coal transport from mines to railway sliding, automatic loading on rail wagons, coal gasification and liquification, coal bed methane exploration were also discussed for potential reforms. The PM reviewed the contribution of mines sector in increasing employment opportunities and boosting growth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-calls-for-self-reliance-in-mineral-production-832024.html
30-04-2020||National||Karnataka, Tamil Nadu among states with best coronavirus recovery rate||Karnataka and Tamil Nadu are among the states with the best recovery rates from coronavirus, whereas Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh are among the worst. The recovery rate is just above 25% for the country as a whole, but there are wide variations among the states. Tamil Nadu tops the list with 56.75% recovery rate followed by Karnataka (39.58%). The rate is more than 30% in Delhi, Rajasthan, Telangana and Jammu and Kashmir, government sources say. On the other side of the spectrum are Gujarat and Maharashtra with 12% and 15% recovery rate. The two western states are followed by Madhya Pradesh (15.79%) and West Bengal (16.41%). Experts, however, have pointed out that the recovery rate is not an ideal parameter to measure, as it depends on the number of patients in hospitals and their duration of stay. It is possible that some states show relatively low recovery rates only because most of their patients were admitted within the past two weeks and will recover, raising the state's recovery rate.  But Karnataka’s ability to manage the novel coronavirus a tad better than its southern neighbour can also be gauged from the fact that it has a marginally better doubling rate of 21.6 days as against 19.1 days of Tamil Nadu. The numbers are far better for Kerala and Telangana with 37.5 days and 70.8 days respectively, as the two states have flattened the curve, according to records maintained by the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai.  Himachal Pradesh has a doubling rate of 191.6 days — the best in India. Chhattisgarh (89.7 days), Telangana (70.8) and Assam (59) are also among states with a doubling rate of more than 40 days.  Besides Karnataka, the states with a doubling rate between 20-40 days include Haryana (24.4) and Uttarakhand (30.3). A Union Health Ministry official on Thursday said that the case fatality ratio in India stands at 3.2% and a majority of the victims are elderly persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-tamil-nadu-among-states-with-best-coronavirus-recovery-rate-832026.html
30-04-2020||National||Coronavirus: Privacy debate heats up over India's contact tracing app Aarogya Setu||Indian authorities plan to make a contact-tracing mobile app mandatory for everything from taking public transit to going to work, raising concerns among digital rights experts about privacy and increased surveillance. Aarogya Setu, the app launched by the Indian government earlier this month to stem the novel coronavirus outbreak, evaluates users' risk of infection based on location, and their medical and travel history. It uses Bluetooth and location services to trace a user's contacts. While authorities have said use of the app is voluntary, it has been made mandatory for food-delivery workers and some other service providers, and all federal government employees. It may also be needed to access public transit and airports when a nationwide lockdown lifts, according to local media reports. But digital rights organisation Internet Freedom Foundation called the app a "privacy minefield", adding "it does not adhere to principles of minimisation, strict purpose limitation, transparency and accountability". "The app runs very palpable risks of either expanding in scope or becoming a permanent surveillance architecture," said executive director Apar Gupta. Founder of food-delivery firm Zomato Deepinder Goyal said that "being on the frontline exposes our delivery partners to catching the infection, and therefore, any customers that they get in touch with for those few handover seconds." By mandating all its delivery staff to use Aarogya Setu, "the idea is to keep individuals as well as authorities informed in case they have crossed paths with someone who has tested positive for coronavirus – to prevent further spread," he said in a statement. India has recorded more than 31,000 cases of the coronavirus, including more than 1,000 deaths, according to a Reuters tally. About 80 million downloads of Aarogya Setu - meaning 'health bridge' in the Sanskrit language - have been reported, a small fraction of the 500-million smartphone user base in a population of over 1.3 billion. India is among a growing list of nations using mobile apps, facial recognition cameras, drones and other technologies to track the virus, monitor people under quarantine, and determine who can work and take public transit as lockdowns are eased. A spokesman for the information technology ministry did not respond to requests for comment.  'MISSION CREEP' Digital rights experts have warned that use of such technologies increases the risk of surveillance, and that some of these measures will persist even after the situation eases. At the time of the launch of Aarogya Setu, officials had said: "The personal data collected by the app is encrypted using state-of-the-art technology and stays secure on the phone till it is needed for facilitating medical intervention." Like China's Health Code app that shows a user is symptom-free to board the subway or check into a hotel, federal government employees in India must have a "safe" or "low risk" status on their Aarogya Setu app to go to work, according to a notification dated April 29. The app may soon be installed on all smartphones by default, according to local media reports. Bluetooth phone apps for tracking the coronavirus have seen modest early results, although more countries are rolling them out. Luxury carmaker Ferrari has a voluntary contact-tracing app as part of its plan for re-opening its factories. About 600 scientists and researchers from around the world, in a joint statement earlier this month, said GPS-based contact tracing apps lacked "sufficient accuracy" and carried privacy risks. Some of these apps enabled government or private surveillance through "mission creep", they said, a shift from the stated objectives. Countries are addressing privacy concerns differently, said Anirudh Burman, an associate fellow at Carnegie India. "What we are seeing so far is that most of these applications are designed for pandemic prevention," he said. "We are not yet seeing any significant evidence of the scope of these applications increasing. It is not clear yet that there is a significant function creep," he said. But the risk that this may happen is high in India, which has neither a data protection law nor a data protection authority, said Suhrith Parthasarathy, a lawyer. "Aarogya Setu is framed as a necessary technological invasion into personal privacy to achieve a larger social purpose," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "But without a statutory framework, and in the absence of a data protection law, the application's reach is boundless."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-privacy-debate-heats-up-over-indias-contact-tracing-app-aarogya-setu-832042.html
30-04-2020||National Politics||Cong leader Dipak Babaria resigns as gen secy for MP, Wasnik appointed in his place||Congress leader Dipak Babaria has resigned as the AICC general secretary in-charge of Madhya Pradesh and the party has appointed Mukul Wasnik in his place. "Congress president has accepted the resignation of Dipak Babaria from the post of general secretary, in-charge of Madhya Pradesh, on account of his ill health. "Following this, Congress president has appointed Mukul Wasnik as the general secretary, in-charge of Madhya Pradesh, in addition to his current responsibility as the general secretary, in-charge of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry," an official communication from All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary K C Venugopal said. The Congress, which was in power until recently in Madhya Pradesh, lost out to the BJP after its leader Jyotiraditya Scindia quit the party to join the saffron camp. A number of MLAs loyal to Scindia also quit the grand old party and resigned as legislators, which led to the fall of the Congress government in Madhya Pradesh that was headed by Kamal Nath.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cong-leader-dipak-babaria-resigns-as-gen-secy-for-mp-wasnik-appointed-in-his-place-831835.html
30-04-2020||National Politics||TRS minister targets Modi, says free trains for migrants should have been arranged'||The Narendra Modi government should take the responsibility of migrant workers’ return home by arranging free trains to their states, said a TRS minister even as Telangana appointed a nodal officer for facilitation. Respective states have to make transport arrangements for their people’s return.    At least, 15 lakh workers from outside Telangana are estimated to be engaged in various works primarily in the construction sector and are especially concentrated in the capital Hyderabad. “The central government has simply eased restrictions and washed its hands of the matter. For these workers to travel in buses as far as Bihar will take 3-5 days. Taking the responsibility, the centre should have arranged free rail travel for these hapless workers,” said Talasani Srinivas Yadav, Telangana’s animal husbandry and cinematography minister on Thursday.   Many of these workers, rendered jobless and without income since March last week, want to go home. Some of them, who set out on foot to their states as far as Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh were stopped by the officials, providing food and shelter arrangements in various districts. On Wednesday, around 2,000 laborers engaged for construction of buildings at the IIT Hyderabad clashed with cops damaging a police vehicle, while demanding their March salaries from the construction firms and permission to go home.   Though the K Chandrasekhar Rao government had announced Rs 500 per every migrant and 12 kg rice relief, many allegedly did not receive the benefit. Following the central government’s Wednesday’s fresh guidelines allowing interstate road movement of migrant workers, stranded tourists etc., the Telangana government has appointed a senior IAS as the nodal officer to facilitate all such movements. A meeting headed by chief secretary Somesh Kumar to discuss their movement has devised a protocol for the purpose. Kumar said that they wrote to all states asking to furnish the details of people stuck in Telangana, while requesting those states to plan for their transport home. Stranded people have to contact their respective state governments.  The Telangana nodal authority would facilitate other governments, while issuing passes for the migrants after their screening confirms no COVID-19 infection.   In addition to Sandeep Sultania, secretary, Panchayati Raj and Rural Development, as the nodal officer for the movement of stranded persons, the CS has also designated a senior IPS - Jitender, ADGP (Law & Order) as the police nodal officer since the movement requires police scrutiny and permissions at various check posts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/trs-minister-targets-modi-says-free-trains-for-migrants-should-have-been-arranged-831841.html
30-04-2020||National Politics||BJP takes swipe at Rahul Gandhi over his reference to 'authoritarian model'||The BJP on Thursday took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi over his reference to "authoritarian model" in his interaction with former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan, saying those who had put in place an "accidental model" will pass off any show of "decisiveness and determination" as authoritarian. "Rahul Gandhi complains to Raghuram Rajan of an 'authoritarian model'. But of course those who had put in place an 'accidental model'; for them any other model that has 'decisiveness' & 'determination' as its basic ingredients will be passed off as 'authoritarian'," BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said. The Congress leader, he added, is probably unaware of the fact that this very idea of 'antyodaya' (serving the last man in queue) of Mahatma Gandhi and Deen Dayal Upadhyay is the backbone of the BJP. "You just dream. We perform," Patra added. He also took a dig at the former Congress president over his reference to inequality, wondering if it is a case of the "epitome of inequality complaining about inequality?" Talking with Rahul Gandhi on Thursday, Rajan said India should be "cleverer" in lifting the lockdown and should open up its economy in a "measured way" soon to save jobs, underlining that Rs 65,000 crore should be spent to support the poor amid the crisis. In a first-of-its-kind dialogue broadcast on the Congress's social media handles this morning, Rajan, who was in the US, deliberated on the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic with Gandhi. Asked about the \Rauthoritarian model, which is questioning the liberal model, being on the rise in more and more places, Rajan said the central authoritarian model -- the strong figure -- in a world where one is powerless, is sometimes appealing. "Especially if you can develop a personal rapport with that figure," he added. Another BJP leader and the party's foreign affairs department in-charge Vijay Chauthaiwale said, "RR interviewing Rahul Gandhi is the sharpest devaluation of RR in the history."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-takes-swipe-at-rahul-gandhi-over-his-reference-to-authoritarian-model-831964.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Punjab govt allows shops to open in staggered way for four hours after May 3||The Punjab government on Wednesday allowed the opening of shops in a staggered way on rotation for four hours every morning after May 3. The directions came after Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced the extension of the coronavirus curfew in the state by two weeks after May 3, though some relaxations have been given in areas that do not fall under the containment or red zones. In a statement, the state Home Department said, the issue of opening of shops has been considered in detail and it was decided that all districts should allow opening of shops as per the guidelines of the Union Home Ministry. But they should do so in a staggered way on rotation, maintaining uniform timings from 7 am to 11 am only, it read. During the four hours, people will be allowed go out to procure commodities, strictly adhering to the coronavirus prevention measures. The statement said no one will be allowed to open shops or move around without prior permission of a competent authority. In line with the fourth corrigendum of the Ministry of Home Affairs on April 24, the state government issued detailed guidelines clarifying that the word 'shopping complexes' is replaced with 'market complexes' within the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities, thereby activities in market complexes would continue to remain prohibited till May 3. In rural areas, all shops registered under the Shops and Establishment Act, except those in multi-brand and single-brand malls, are allowed to open with 50 per cent strength of workers. Similarly, in urban areas, all standalone and neighbourhood shops along with those in residential complexes are allowed to open. The shops in markets, market complexes and shopping malls are not allowed to open, it said. E-Commerce companies will be permitted for the delivery of essential goods and the sale of liquor will continue to be prohibited, it said. The state government has allowed all kinds of construction activity in rural areas. The state home department issued detailed guidelines to the district authorities to allow industrial activities across the state, said an official release here. In urban areas, only ongoing projects can continue, subject to the availability of workers at site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-punjab-govt-allows-shops-to-open-in-staggered-way-for-four-hours-after-may-3-831656.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: New COVID-19 case in Maharajganj||A man who had recently returned from Delhi tested positive for novel coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh's Mahrajganj district, which had not reported any infection for over three weeks, an official said. District Magistrate Ujjwal Kumar said the sample of the man, who had returned from Delhi six days ago to his native Ratanpurwa village in Paniyara area, tested positive in the report received from the Gorakhpur medical college late on Wednesday. "The family members and all those who came in contact with him will be quarantined. The entire area has been sealed and sanitised," Kumar said. The district had not reported any new COVID-19 case after six people had tested positive on April 4. Maharajganj was declared having zero active cases after the recovery of the six patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-new-covid-19-case-in-maharajganj-831709.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: First-ever Global Investors Summit in J&K put off indefinitely||The decision to put off the Summit has been taken by the government in view of the novel coronavirus situation as it wouldn’t be possible to hold such a large gathering by the end of this month. “It will not be possible to hold the Summit in May. It has been put off till the coronavirus situation improves and things return to normal,” Commissioner/Secretary Industries and Commerce MK Dwivedi, said.  However, he said, they will be utilizing the time period to initiate the business-related reforms, build industrial estates, identify more land across the Union Territory as well as other districts. “The call on further timing for holding the Summit will be taken only after the situation returns to normal and industrial activity is resumed across the country,” Dwivedi said. However, he added, the investors haven’t lost their interest in Jammu and Kashmir as they continued to call them to express their keenness to invest but only want the industry to recover from the shocks of coronavirus lockdown. Sources said it could take quite some time for the industry as well as the Jammu and Kashmir government to hold the Summit going by the pace at which the COVID-19 cases were increasing especially in major investor-friendly states like Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnataka, where the investors had shown keen interest to invest in the Union Territory. “Preference of the industry now is the revival after the government allows resumption of activities. Further investment will be their next option which can take quite some time. In such a scenario, the government anticipates that it won’t be possible to hold the Summit before next year,” they said. After the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, the central government had given much hype to the Summit stating that it would be a game-changer for bringing outside investment to the industrially backward Union Territory. As a precursor to the mega event, several pre-summit investors’ meets and curtain-raisers were held in New Delhi, Bangalore, Mumbai, Kolkata and Hyderabad in January and February this year.  The aim of the Summit was to exhibit the different investment opportunities available in the newly formed Union Territory of J&K in sectors including tourism, film tourism, horticulture and post-harvest management, agro and food processing, mulberry production for silk, health and pharmaceuticals, manufacturing, IT/ ITes, renewable energy, infrastructure and real estate, handloom and handicraft, and education. However, the situation arising out of pandemic has shattered the investment sentiment across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-first-ever-global-investors-summit-in-jk-put-off-indefinitely-831733.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||Domestic workers face the brunt during COVID-19 lockdown||A domestic worker has been working in a South Delhi household for the past 15 years but her employer has bothered neither attended her telephone call nor called her back to check about her well-being since the COVID-19 lockdown that started on March 25. Like her, many domestic workers across the country are just abandoned by their employers in the hour of crisis, asking them not to come to their houses for work, denied full payment for March and not even bothering to pay them in April. Several domestic workers have woke up to no work and uncertainty on March 25 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a lockdown to fight the pandemic. Adding to this is a section of abusive employers and mental trauma due to the inability to reach out to their families far away. Official statistics place the number of domestic workers employed in India at 47.5 lakh, including 30 lakh women, but this is considered as severe underestimation and the true number to be more between two crore to eight crore workers, according to International Labour Organisation website. A number of domestic workers stay in south Delhi's Madanpur Khader and work in south Delhi's Greater Kailash, Safdarjung Enclave, Malavya Nagar and Kalkaji area. Many of them attempted to walk to their workplaces but some of them were even not allowed to enter. "Employers are not even picking up phones. Many of the domestic workers have not even got a salary. They are being told to stay home and some are even told not to come for next six months," says Hirawati of Delhi-based Nari Ekta Shakti Sanghathan.  One of the biggest fears is that the pressure they will face from their landlords to pay the pending rents once the lockdown is lifted. "It is not easy to pay the pending rent soon after the lifting of lockdown. At present, there may be some relaxation in paying rent. Many may not get work. The pressure is going to build up. That is one worry," Hirawati says. Meva Bharti of Rajasthan Mahila Kaamgaar Union too echoes her saying 80% of the domestic workers in Jaipur have lost at least 10 days salary in March while almost all employers telling them that they will not give them a salary for April as they have not worked. "Some are even saying they don't need someone for cooking from now on. Many are just losing their source of income," Bharti says. The situation for the migrant domestic workers is more critical as they were not prepared for the sudden lockdown and not in a position to leave for their native places. Coupled with income loss, domestic workers, like many other migrant workers, now face the prospect of being thrown out of their rented accommodations, undergo mental trauma as they living in sheds with no water and proper sanitation facilities. The announcements by the central and state governments asking employers not to deny wages and landlords not to ask for rent appeared to have not cut much ice with Geeta Menon, co-founder of Bengaluru-based Stree Jagruti Samiti, saying the COVID-19 situation has made it much worse for migrant workers. "Many working in apartments have got their wages for March because of their bargaining power. But several fear that they won't get their April wages. There is a sense of insecurity among them. In metros, the issue may not be severe but in districts, it is the other way. Any way the wages are too low there. We should also look at the situation of male cooks from West Bengal, Odisha, Assam and elsewhere who are working in food stalls and houses outside their states," Menon told a webinar organised by Delhi-based 'Jagori'. Menon says pressure should build-up, as employers think domestic workers are carriers of the disease and a potential threat.  Jagori's Jayashree Velankar too points out to the potential job loss and the impact it can have on domestic workers' income and well being. Velankar and WIEGO's Shalini Sinha also highlight the vulnerability of older domestic workers, whom employers may suspect of being unhealthy. NCW Member Secretary Meeta Lochan says the vulnerabilities of the domestic workers are same as that of any other lower-income groups and one needs to look at how the domestic worker could be "upskilled" like training them to use a dish-washer, washing machine or oven besides abilities to read and write. "The pandemic might be the right time to rejig the strategy," she says. Aya Matsuura, a Gender Specialist at the International Labour Organisation (ILO), says domestic workers often do not have income support though they have the right to a safe environment to work. She says it is imperative for the employer to provide protective gears as well as information to workers and focus should be to support a vulnerable group of workers, including domestic workers. If one goes by Nalini Nayak, General Secretary of Self Employed Women's Association (SEWA), all is not bad in Kerala where the state government has taken pro-active measures, especially by preparing the public for the lockdown in advance. "Kerala and West Bengal governments have reached out to workers very well while the situation in Bihar is problematic. In Delhi, the middlemen are collecting the rents and many domestic workers are threatened," she said. Nayak says that those working on the issues of domestic workers should also try to tap the mainstream trade unions and women's wings of political parties and involve them in the fight. The paucity of authentic data that indicates that this section of workers, especially women workers, is not given due importance by the labour departments and big central Trade unions alike. "The trade unions were not earlier open to the issue. Now, some of them have realised that they should," she says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/domestic-workers-face-the-brunt-during-covid-19-lockdown-831737.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Wearing face-mask mandatory in Srinagar from May 1||An order issued by Deputy Commissioner Srinagar, Shahid Iqbal Choudhary, says that wearing face masks is mandatory for all residents of Srinagar from May 1.   “It shall be mandatory to wear Face Mask /Face-covering at all public places including public transport, offices, shopping or market places etc w.e.f 1st May/2020. Medical grade masks which are strictly for hospital use shall, however, be avoided for general use,” it reads. The order adds that all government offices /private establishments/shops/mandis etc shall put in place arrangements for hand-wash/sanitizers/ soap etc as per the requirement. “Information promoting hygiene/hand-wash shall be displayed at all such places. This shall be applicable for all managed public places and institutions as well,” it says. The DC has also directed the nodal department to make available 15 lakh masks which have been produced for the public.   “Assistant Commissioner Development, Srinagar (RRD being Nodal Department) shall make available for public use 15 Lakh masks produced, as per Government order, through Rural Development Department, Social Welfare Department, SHGS and other groups, after approval from a competent authority," reads the order. The DC has also directed the nodal department to distribute a pack of five masks per family across Srinagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-wearing-face-mask-mandatory-in-srinagar-from-may-1-831747.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus lockdown: Yogi Adityanath asks UP officials to prepare action plan for return of migrants||As Uttar Pradesh prepares for the return of stranded migrants, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has asked officials to keep ready quarantine centres, shelter homes and community kitchens for about six lakh people. Adityanath also appealed to those stranded in other states to be patient and not start walking towards their homes. "Maintain patience that you have shown till now. A detailed plan is being prepared after contacting states concerned to ensure that all return to their homes safely. Therefore, stay where you are and remain in contact with the respective state governments. Do not start moving on foot," he said in a tweet on Thursday. An official spokesman said the state government has written letters to different states seeking detailed data on migrant labourers and workers of UP along with their names, mobile numbers and addresses as well as medical reports. The spokesman said workers stranded in Madhya Pradesh will be brought back on Thursday and those in Gujarat on Friday by buses. The UP government had on March 28-29 facilitated the return of around 4 lakh people from Delhi. The government has also ensured the return of about 50,000 people from Haryana and Rajasthan. Around 13,000 people are being brought back from Haryana. Earlier the government brought back 11,500 students of the state from Kota in Rajasthan and ensured that 15,000 students from Prayagraj return safely to their homes in different districts of the state, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-yogi-adityanath-asks-up-officials-to-prepare-action-plan-for-return-of-migrants-831773.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||28 cops test coronavirus positive in Uttar Pradesh||Worried over the safety of its personnel after 28 of them tested positive, the Uttar Pradesh Police has ordered over 10,000 PPE kits and asked cops above the age of 55 years with health history to stay off the frontline duty. Director-General of Police Hitesh Chandra Awasthi also asked district police chiefs to purchase necessary safety kits at the local level wherever needed. "Till Thursday, 28 policemen have been found coronavirus positive in different districts of the state," Awasthi told PTI. "We have already ordered 10,000 PPE kits. But due to shortage, only 3,000-4,000 kits have been received so far. Over 6,000 PPE kits are being purchased at the district level," he said. "We have to take extra precautions to save our personnel from coronavirus," the state police chief said. Directives have been issued to ensure that frontline police personnel, especially in hotspot areas, follow all security protocols using personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, masks, gloves and sanitisers, according to Awasthi. "We have given money, material, direction and guidance to local police chiefs to save our personnel," he said. "The districts have to access and purchase things required and give it to their men." Asked about the number of personnel under quarantine, he said: "This number continues to change, but we are doing whatever is possible for saving our force from the virus." A 'police corona helpline' has been set up at the DGP headquarters in Lucknow for guidance and counselling to the personnel.  "Policemen can contact this helpline if they have any personal problems or if they are worried about their family's health. It will continue during the lockdown period for 24 hours," the DGP said. For the hotspots, after incidents of clashes with policemen is reported, the DGP has asked to take strict action against the guilty including invoking NSA against them. "The policemen have also been asked to remain in their protective gear and have shields to save themselves in such situation," he said. In the state, there are over 400 hotspots under 248 police stations in 57 of the 75 districts having over 5.8 lakh houses and a population of over 34 lakh, according to the police. The DGP said directives had been issued to keep those police personnel, who are have past history of illness, free from frontline duties. "Officers have been asked to make a list of personnel above 55 years of age and scan their health history before putting them on frontline duties. "They have been asked to strictly follow these orders to protect subordinates from getting exposed to the deadly virus while performing their duties and further infecting others in the force," the DGP said. It has been specifically told that personnel who are suffering from diseases related to respiration, lungs, heart and diabetes should be kept free from frontline duties. Those deployed in the frontline duties are being briefed to strictly follow standard operating procedures (SOPs) and other instructions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/28-cops-test-coronavirus-positive-in-uttar-pradesh-831783.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan reports 3 more COVID-19 deaths, 118 new cases||The death toll due to the novel coronavirus pandemic rose to 58 in Rajasthan with three fatalities on Thursday, while the number of cases climbed to 2,556 after 118 more people tested positive in the state, an official said.     Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said of the three deaths, two occurred in Jaipur and one in Chittorgarh.  Jaipur alone has reported 32 deaths due to the pandemic so far. As many as 118 new cases, including 83 in Jodhpur and 21 in Jaipur, have been reported. Four infections were detected in Ajmer, three in Chittorgarh, two each in Tonk and Kota and a case each in Alwar, Baran, Dholpur districts, the Health Department official said.  The state now has 2,556 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), out of which 592 have been discharged from hospitals. There are 1,662 active cases in the state at present, Singh said.  Jaipur has reported the highest number of cases with 899 infections, followed by 496 in Jodhpur.  The COVID-19 patients in Rajasthan include two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran, who have been put up in Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer.  The state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-reports-3-more-covid-19-deaths-118-new-cases-831838.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||Ambulance driver who brought back Tripura patients from Chennai tests COVID-19 positive||An ambulance driver who brought back some stranded patients of the state from Chennai has tested positive for COVID-19, senior minister Ratan Lal Nath said on Thursday. Five persons from Udaipur town in Gomati district and Baikhora in South Tripura district went to Chennai for treatment but got stuck there as the lockdown was imposed. They hired an ambulance and the driver drove them over 3,200 km to reach Udaipur town on April 27. They were screened at Churabari on Assam-Tripura border and allowed to enter the state since they had no symptoms. The driver was allowed to return as his pass was valid till April 28," Nath told reporters at the secretariat. "The swab samples of the driver and the five passengers were collected for tests. The report of the sample of the driver, who is from Tamil Nadu, came in as COVID-19 positive," he added. The reports of the swab samples of the other five persons were negative, Nath, the spokesperson of the state cabinet, said. The driver was located in Siliguri in West Bengal earlier in the day, he said. The five persons are now undergoing quarantine in Udaipur, the minister said. Though the reports of the five persons came in as negative, their samples would be tested again for reconfirmation. Their 14-day quarantine is not over yet. So, we shall test them again. Having no symptom doesnt mean one isnt infected by the virus," he said. The government is also trying to find out if anyone other than the passengers came in contact with the driver, Nath said. The minister said that about 40,000 people from Tripura are now stranded in different parts of the country, but so far only 6,000 have registered themselves with the state helpline to return home.  It is a tough task to bring all of them back to the state and there is a huge risk in allowing them to enter. Our government is providing all kinds of help to the stranded people," he said.   Tripura would soon start rapid testing for COVID-19, Nath said, appealing to people not to panic. Nath urged the people of the state not to conceal any coronavirus-like symptoms and report to the authorities. Tripura reported two COVID-19 cases and both the patients have recovered. At present, 307 persons are under surveillance in the state, including 231 in home isolation and 75 in quarantine centres. So far, 4,613 persons have been tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ambulance-driver-who-brought-back-tripura-patients-from-chennai-tests-covid-19-positive-831851.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||Youth leaves home to bring ration, returns with bride||The cops at Sahibabad Police Station in Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad district found themselves in a fix when an angry woman accused her son of violating the lockdown by going out on the pretext of buying groceries and vegetables but returning with his bride instead. She said that she would not allow his son and his newly wed wife to enter the house and sought help from the cops so that the duo could not force their way in. Unable to persuade the woman to accept her daughter-in-law and son, the cops arranged a rented accommodation for the couple with the assurance that they would look into the matter after the lockdown ended. According to the police, the youth, a resident of Shyam Park area in Ghaziabad, had secretly married his girlfriend at a temple in Hardwar town in Uttarakhand a few months back. His wife lived at a rented room in Sahibabad. The youth planned to bring her home but could not do so owing to the lockdown. In the meantime, the landlord asked his wife to vacate the premises immediately. On Wednesday, the mother of the youth asked him to go to the market and buy some groceries and vegetables. He went out and returned with his bride only to be denied entry into the house by a bewildered mother.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/youth-leaves-home-to-bring-ration-returns-with-bride-831870.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||UP CM asks officials to prepare action plan for return of migrant workers||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday asked officials to keep ready quarantine centres, shelter homes and community kitchens as the state prepares for the return of migrant workers stranded in different parts of the country due to the coronavirus-forced lockdown. The chief minister's office also put out the names, phone numbers and e-mail addresses of nodal officers appointed by the state government for facilitating the return of the migrant workers. The Union Home Ministry, in an order issued on Wednesday, allowed migrant workers, tourists, students and other people, who are stranded in different parts of the country, to move to their respective destinations with certain conditions. The order stated that buses shall be used for transport of such groups of stranded people and these vehicles will be sanitised and will have to follow safe social distancing norms in seating. On Thursday, CM Adityanath appealed to those stranded in other states to be patient and not start walking towards their homes. "Maintain patience that you have shown till now. A detailed plan is being prepared after contacting states concerned to ensure that all return to their homes safely. Therefore, stay where you are and remain in contact with the respective state governments. Do not start moving on foot," he said in a tweet. An official spokesperson said the state government has written letters to different states seeking detailed data on migrant labourers and workers of UP along with their names, mobile numbers and addresses as well as medical reports. The spokesman said workers stranded in Madhya Pradesh will be brought back on Thursday and those in Gujarat on Friday by buses. The UP government had on March 28-29 facilitated the return of around 4 lakh people from Delhi. The government has also ensured the return of about 50,000 people from Haryana and Rajasthan. Around 13,000 people are being brought back from Haryana. Earlier the government brought back 11,500 students of the state from Kota in Rajasthan and ensured that 15,000 students from Prayagraj return safely to their homes in different districts of the state, the spokesperson said. In a meeting with senior officials, the chief minister said an effective work plan should be made to bring back migrants from other states. He instructed officials to seal state borders so that no one can enter the state without permission. The chief minister also asked officials to prepare quarantine centres, shelter homes and community kitchens to facilitate 10 lakh people. Adityanath suggested that these quarantine centres and shelter homes could be set up in college buildings and must have a proper facility of community kitchens, toilets and security among other things He directed setting up committees to maintain a vigil on those in home quarantine for which help of Nehru Yuva Kendra, NSS and NCC could be taken. Assistance of women self-help groups could be taken for preparing food. Proper medical examination of these migrant labourers must be conducted before sending the migrant labourers back home from quarantine centres or shelter homes, the chief minister said. Besides bringing back students from Noida, he said a list of the students returning to different parts of the state from Noida, Ghaziabad and Aligarh must be prepared. Different state governments must be contacted to facilitate the return of students from there to Uttar Pradesh, Adityanath said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-asks-officials-to-prepare-action-plan-for-return-of-migrant-workers-831881.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||Wearing face masks mandatory in Srinagar from May 1||Authorities in the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir have made wearing face masks mandatory in all public places from Friday, officials said.  "From May 1, let's please make it sure to wear face mask at all times, at all places of contact. We will ensure to make masks available to everyone. Do remember: mask is just one of various precautions," Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar, Shahid Iqbal Chaudhary said in a tweet. Chaudhary said the district administration will provide 15 lakh masks to the city residents. "We are making available 15 Lakh masks for public use in Srinagar," he said, adding that each family will get a pack of five face covers. "A humble contribution for public good. Let's appreciate those dedicated Wo(Men) behind making, packing & delivering," he said in another tweet.  According to an order issued on Wednesday, people are advised to wear face masks in all public places, including public transport, market places and offices. The order issued by the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) urged the city residents to also follow other safety precautions like regularly washing hands, using sanitisers and maintaining appropriate distance in public places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wearing-face-masks-mandatory-in-srinagar-from-may-1-831882.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||Cop forces old man to frog jump for violating lockdown in Uttar Pradesh, now suspended||Angry over violation of the lockdown by an old man, who was going to the temple for offering water, a cop allegedly made him do 'frog jump' all the way to the temple in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur district. The cop, identified as Vinod Kumar Singh, in-charge of Panki police station in the district, has been suspended, police sources said on Thursday. The matter came to light when a video showing the cop spilling the water out of the puja tray and the old man frog jumping went viral on the social networking sites on Wednesday. Sources said that the old man was going to offer water at a banyan tree inside the temple premises, when he was intercepted by the cop and punished for violating the lockdown.    ''Singh has been sent to police lines after a preliminary probe found him guilty,'' said a senior police official in Kanpur. UP police had earlier also shamed the lockdown violators by making them walk with placards stating, ''I am the enemy of the society and I will not stay at home''. At some places the violators were made to ride donkeys also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cop-forces-old-man-to-frog-jump-for-violating-lockdown-in-uttar-pradesh-now-suspended-831893.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||75 cases registered, over 2,200 people detained for defying coronavirus lockdown norms in Delhi||Over 70 cases were registered and 2,283 people detained in the national capital on Thursday for violating government orders during the lockdown imposed to control the coronavirus outbreak, police said. According to the data shared by the police, 75 cases were registered under section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code till 5 pm. A total of 2,283 people were detained under section 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers) and 157 vehicles impounded under section 66 of the Delhi Police Act, they stated. A total of 411 movement passes were issued, police said. Thirty-three cases were registered against people for stepping out of their houses without wearing masks. Since March 24, a total of 1,30,540 people have been detained so far for violating orders under section 65 of the Delhi Police Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/75-cases-registered-over-2200-people-detained-for-defying-coronavirus-lockdown-norms-in-delhi-831916.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||None of us could see his face for last time: Daughter of COVID-19 victim||Seventeen-year-old Rita expected her father to be back soon from Safdarjung hospital where he was admitted on April 16 for high sugar levels and fever, but destiny had other plans as he passed away the next day and it was later found that he was coronavirus positive. Rita (name changed), her mother and her two siblings have been tested for COVID-19 and the results are still awaited. On April 19, the hospital informed the family that he was COVID-19 positive and it would take care of his cremation. The contagion, if precautions are not taken, can spread. “None of us could see his face for the last time,” said Rita, the eldest of her siblings – one five years old and the other 13 years old. Oblivious to the situation the five-year-old has been told his father is away for work. The victim’s swab samples were taken for COVID-19 testing between 11 am and 12 pm on April 17. In about 12 hours, his conditioned deteriorated and he died, family members said. His condition worsened the very next day after being admitted to the hospital, said the victim’s brother-in-law. The patient’s body was kept at the hospital till April 19 when his reports arrived. He had tested positive for the novel coronavirus. “The hospital told us that they would take care of the cremation and we would not be allowed anywhere near the body. His body was wrapped in plastic sheets (protection used to contain the infection),” the brother-in-law said. The victim’s wife was with him during the two days of his hospitalisation, he said. After the reports came on April 19, family members, including the patient’s brother-in-law, were tested the next day for the infection. The results came negative. The body was taken to the Nigambodh Ghat and cremated. The ghat has an electric crematorium, and last rites of COVID-19 victims are being performed there. “Only my wife’s brother was allowed for the cremation, and that too from a distance, fearing the spread of infection,” the brother-in-law of the victim said. Delhi so far has recorded 3,439 coronavirus cases and 56 have died due to COVID-19, while 1,092 have recovered, as per Union health ministry data. Since the body was wrapped in protective sheets, it was never opened. “We still have not got his ashes,” the victim’s brother-in-law said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/none-of-us-could-see-his-face-for-last-time-daughter-of-covid-19-victim-831932.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir records 33 more coronavirus cases, tally jumps to 614||Thirty three more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kashmir on Thursday, taking the tally of total positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir to 614. Officials said among new positive cases, 13 were confirmed at Viral Diagnostic Lab of teritary-care SKIMS hospital and include 11 from Baramulla and one each from Budgam and Shopian districts. They said that 20 samples were tested positive from testing laboratory at Chest Disease hospital Srinagar and include 12 from Anantnag district, four from Kulgam and two each from Srinagar and Pulwama.   As per the official data, there are 614 positive cases in Jammu and Kashmir, out of which 58 are from Jammu, while 556 are in Kashmir division. They said new cases include a 5-year-old female child, women in age bracket of 32-65, and men in age bracket of 37-60.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-records-33-more-coronavirus-cases-tally-jumps-to-614-831975.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC grants interim bail to minor girl's rape accused as family need medical attention||The Delhi High Court has granted interim bail for three weeks to a man, accused of raping a minor girl, on the ground that his parents and wife are unwell. Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, granted the relief to the man in view of the medical attention required by his family and asked him to furnish a personal bond of Rs 25,000. The court said in view of the COVID-19 pandemic resolution passed by the high powered committee and a judgement of the division bench, the requirement of furnishing a surety bond by the prisoner while granting bail is dispensed with. It directed the accused not to try to get in touch with the complainant or any other prosecution witness directly or indirectly and not to make any effort to tamper with the evidence. The high court directed the accused not to leave the national capital during the period of release on interim bail without the prior permission of the concerned court. The high court asked the man to provide his mobile number to the investigating officer of the case and remain in touch with him twice a week and directed him to surrender before the concerned jail superintendent on expiry of interim bail period. The man, who is accused of raping a minor girl in 2018 in Adarsh Nagar in north west Delhi, approached the high court seeking interim bail on the ground that his father, mother and wife are unwell and require medical attention. His counsel said while the man's father suffered a paralytic attack and required medical attention, his wife has been medically examined with complaint of fever and breathlessness. However, the prosecutor, who opposed the interim bail plea, said the medical documents of the man's father have been verified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-grants-interim-bail-to-minor-girls-rape-accused-as-family-need-medical-attention-831998.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||BJP alleges Punjab govt not distributing foodgrains sent by Centre for needy; to hold fast on May 1||The Punjab unit of the BJP on Thursday said its leaders and workers will fast on May 1 protesting against the Congress-led state government allegedly not distributing foodgrains to the needy during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. BJP national secretary Tarun Chugh said the decision was taken during a meeting of the party's state unit through a video conference under the chairmanship of Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma. "The BJP has planned a protest in the form of fast. BJP leaders and workers in the state will observe fast on May 1 from 10 am to 5 pm," he said in a statement here. The protest has been named 'Jago Captain Jago – Modi dwara bheja ration banto' [Wake up Captain (Amarinder Singh) – distribute ration sent by (PM Narendra) Modi]. The decision by the BJP came days after the ruling Congress asked people of the state to raise the tricolour atop their homes on May 1 to protest the Centre's alleged discrimination against the non-BJP ruled states in the matter of extending support in the fight against COVID-19. Chugh said the Modi government had under its flagship scheme 'Garib Kalyan Yojana' sent foodgrains to Punjab. He claimed that each of the 1.40 crore population of the state has been allotted 15 kg of wheat and three kg of pulses. "But the Congress government in the state has failed to distribute the same," the BJP leader alleged.  He said the BJP would continue to support the Punjab government in its fight against COVID-19 but it was highly disappointing that the Amarinder Singh-led government was "not sincere" in the battle against the pandemic.   The Congress had sought from the Centre an immediate relief of Rs 20,000 crore for the state to combat the COVID-19 crisis||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-alleges-punjab-govt-not-distributing-foodgrains-sent-by-centre-for-needy-to-hold-fast-on-may-1-832005.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Run ‘Ghar-wapsi special train’ for migrants, Bihar tells Centre||Nitish Kumar government on Thursday appealed to the Centre to run several special trains which could help to bring back around 28 lakh migrants, stranded in different states, to Bihar. “Several lakhs migrant workers, besides students and others, are stuck up in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra. We urge the Centre to run ‘Ghar wapsi special trains’ so that these people could be brought to Bihar without violating lockdown guidelines,” Bihar’s Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Modi said here on Thursday evening. These trains should run non-stop, he argued. The Nitish regime concern (for the migrants) stems from the fact that it actually lacks resources to bring back so many people at a time. “In Kota alone, around 6,500 students are stuck up. Even if we press all the buses at our disposal, will it possible to bring 28 lakh people from different states to Bihar,” argued a senior official, refusing to be identified. Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav, meanwhile, slammed Nitish for ill-preparedness to bring back migrants. “We are ready to provide 2,000 buses to bring back people. The Nitish government should just tell us where could we send these buses,” said Tejashwi.  “Our suggestion is that those stranded should may be screened and maintaining social distance, be allowed to board these special trains. These trains should run non-stop. Once these people reach their destination, they should be screened again and kept at isolation centres or asked for home quarantine,” said Bihar’s Deputy CM Sushil Modi, who is a senior BJP leader. Meanwhile, the Bihar government appointed Pratyaya Amrit, the Principal Secretary of the Disaster Management Department, as the nodal officer to supervise the process of bringing back those stranded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-run-ghar-wapsi-special-train-for-migrants-bihar-tells-centre-832014.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||Teenage boy killed in Pakistani shelling along LoC in J&K||An 18-year-old boy was killed on Thursday evening in Pakistan shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) in Mendhar area of Poonch district in Jammu and Kashmir. Officials said at around 7 pm, when people in villages were busy in Iftaar amid fasting, Pakistan Army violated ceasefire and started mortar shelling in Krishna Ghati sector in Poonch. "Civil population of five villages in the area came under shelling,” they said. An 18-year-old-boy identified as Gulfraz Ahmed of Tain Mankote village got hurt when a mortar shell exploded near their house and its splinters pierced his chest, they said. "The boy died on the spot," a police official confirmed and added that intermittent firing and shelling was going on in the area till late in the evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teenage-boy-killed-in-pakistani-shelling-along-loc-in-jk-832015.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||Adieu RVS: Tributes pour in for city chronicler, raconteur R V Smith||To say that R V Smith knew the winding lanes, bylanes and little-known monuments of Delhi like the back of his hand, won't be an exaggeration. The Agra-born octogenarian, who started his career as a journalist in mid-1950s, devoted his life later to chronicle the heritage facets of the city, and collect tales untold. "He was able to relate broken domes, ruins, mausoleums to an era or period, and had access to histories -- private and family -- of Anglo-Indians that most people didn't," city-based historian Sohail Hashmi told PTI. Hashmi, who has been an avid reader of Smith's columns in The Hindu, said, "he was in love with Delhi". "He was not the 'pucca' Delhiwallah as he was born in Agra, but like poets Mir Taqi Mir and Ghalib, he too was in love with the city. Smith, like a tramp, had walked all streets, nooks and crannies of Delhi," he recalled. Noted author and columnist and famed chronicler of Delhi, Ronald Vivian Smith, better known as R V Smith, and best known for his writings on Delhi, breathed his last at a hospital here on Thursday. He was 81. In his book, 'The Delhi That No-one Knows', he described his experience of chronicling: "I did not refer to any nook, did not make notes from dusty volumes in old libraries - I just walked." "Sometimes, I took buses- many a long after years ago, when as a bachelor and a young journalist in Delhi, finding out about old monuments was a passion," he wrote. INTACH Delhi Chapter Convener and author of the book on old Delhi and New Delhi, Swapna Liddle, also condoled his death. "Smith's contribution to the history of Delhi is immense. He collected histories and memories not only from books but from people. Equally importantly, his beautiful storytelling style brought that history to life in his books and columns," she said. Smith's love for Delhi was infectious and in many heritage walks he was invited as a special guest by organisers. His last book was a collection of potpourri of myths, lores and historical tales, in and around Delhi, titled "Lingering Charm of Delhi". Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also expressed his grief over his death. "RV Smith, the chronicler of our great city Delhi passed away this morning. His work kept alive the stories and memories of our city. It''s a huge loss especially for Delhiites. My heartfelt condolences to his family and friends. RIP," Kejriwal tweeted.  Born in 1938, Smith was suffering from age-related ailments for the past four months, his family said.  "It is very difficult to describe him. He of course was a walking encyclopedia on Delhi, be its history, culture, Anglo-Indian community and what not. Even when he was not in good health, he didn't stop writing. I would at times help him with typing out the articles but that was about it. He has been a big source of inspiration in my life," recounted his son Tony Smith. Son of late journalist Thomas Smith, R V Smith also worked as a journalist spanning over four decades. He worked with the Press Trust of India (PTI) and The Statesman for a significant period of time. Journalist Reshmi Ray Dasgupta wrote a social media post in a tribute to Smith. "Rest in peace Ronald Vivian ((Ronnie) Smith, legendary news editor of The Statesman and raconteur of events in Delhi's history that rarely find mention in our dry textbooks... Generations of journalists honed their skills on his watch... And I loved reading his post-retirement columns in The Hindu - vignettes of the history of Delhi... Adieu RVS," she wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/adieu-rvs-tributes-pour-in-for-city-chronicler-raconteur-r-v-smith-832031.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||2 more test positive for COVID-19 in Uttarakhand, total climbs to 57||Two more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Uttarakhand on Thursday, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the state  to 57, a state health bulletin said. The two latest cases were detected in Udhamsingh Nagar district, it said.  Both the patients are admitted at an isolation ward of government Hospital, Rudrapur, it said. This takes the total number of positive cases in the state so far to 57, it said, adding that 36 persons have already recovered.  The number of active cases stands at 21, it said. The rate of doubling of positive COVID-19 cases stands at 25 days and the percentage of recovery at 63.16 per cent, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-uttarakhand-total-climbs-to-57-832036.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||IAF's Dornier aircraft aborts take-off at Palam due to tyre deflation||A Dornier aircraft aborted take-off after one of its tyres got deflated when it was heading for a routine flight at the Palam air base on Thursday, stated the Indian Air Force (IAF). "On April 30, 2020, a Dornier aircraft was planned to undertake routine flight from Palam Air Base. During the take-off roll, aircraft experienced a tyre deflation," the IAF said in its statement. The captain of the aircraft took "prompt and correct action" of aborting the take-off, it mentioned. "The aircraft and crew on board are safe and there has been no damage to any property. The aircraft was towed off the runway by the technical crew of the IAF promptly," it noted. The Dornier aircraft is a multi-purpose twin-engine turboprop aircraft capable of taking 19 passengers or 2,057 kg freight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iafs-dornier-aircraft-aborts-take-off-at-palam-due-to-tyre-deflation-832041.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||Youth killed, another injured in Pakistan shelling in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||A youth was killed and another injured when the Pakistan Army violated ceasefire and resorted to mortar shelling in forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Thursday, an official said. "About 7 pm today, the Pakistan Army initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along the LoC in Mankote sector," he said. He said Indian troops retaliated to the shelling, which led to an exchange of fire. Eighteen-year-old Gulfraz Ahmed was killed and another youth was injured when shells hit their Tain hamlet in Mankote sector, the police official told PTI. The injured youth was rushed to a nearby hospital, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/youth-killed-another-injured-in-pakistan-shelling-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-832054.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||26-year-old man hacks 6 family members to death; surrenders: Police||Six members of a family were allegedly hacked to death by another family member over a property dispute in Gudauli village in the Banthra area on the outskirts of the city on Thursday, police said. The accused, Ajay Singh (26), went to the local police station after committing the crime and surrendered, they added. Singh allegedly had a heated argument with the family members over a property and attacked them with a sharp-edged weapon, the police said. The accused allegedly killed his mother, father, elder brother, his wife and two children -- a son and a daughter -- they added. The victims were identified as Amar (60), Ramsakhi (55), Arun (40), Ramdulari (35), Saurabh (7) and Sarika (2). When asked, Commissioner of Police Sujeet Pandey said six members of a family were killed and the accused surrendered before the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/26-year-old-man-hacks-6-family-members-to-death-surrenders-police-832066.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||Trains must be allowed to operate for hassle-free movement of migrants amid coronavirus lockdown: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has urged the Centre to allow the Indian Railways to operate trains for hassle-free transport of migrant workers to their home states. Welcoming the Centre's decision on allowing movement of migrant workers stranded in different part of the country due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, Gehlot made the request on Wednesday. "It is a welcome step but until the government of India allows Indian Railway to operate - practically it will not be possible to facilitate smooth and hassle-free transport (of migrants) to their homes," Gehlot had said. He said that in just a few days, Rajasthan got registered more than 6 lakh migrants from across the country, including Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Assam and North East. "I strongly request that railways must be allowed to function destination to destination," Gehlot said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/trains-must-be-allowed-to-operate-for-hassle-free-movement-of-migrants-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-ashok-gehlot-832068.html
30-04-2020||North and Central||3 more lose life to coronavirus, 76 fresh cases in Delhi||Three more persons died due to COVID-19 in Delhi on Thursday while 76 fresh cases were reported, taking the toll to 59 and cases to 3515. The cases recorded during the day showed that the cases fell below the three-digit mark for the first time in the past five days. Two persons were discharged while 2362 still remained in hospital. The total recovered people have risen to 1094. The number of containment zones has come down to 100from 102. At least, 5.02 lakh people are living in these zones. Authorities have so far sent samples of 6,972 people till Tuesday. At least 381, according to statistics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-more-lose-life-to-coronavirus-76-fresh-cases-in-delhi-832069.html
30-04-2020||Opinion||We will need a new normal: Here’s how to make it||None of this will happen in the next 12 months, at least. That’s a long time to spend in limbo, and people will need straws of normalcy to clutch at much before that. So, no, logical as these indicators may be, they can’t be our identifiers of the normal. There’s the option of declaring normalcy for ourselves once governments remove lockdowns. Given the pressure governments are in, some easing could start soon, but all the easing won’t happen in one go. The release will be slow, and it will be a while before pre-COVID19 status is restored (if at all). An unacceptable wait involved here too. Also, lockdown relaxations like formal post-war truces and withdrawals of curfew orders, can’t mark the advent of normal. They can only be a signal to life to begin the walk back to normal, a nudge to individuals, institutions, and businesses to pick themselves and cajole others to so too. Given the high anxiety level the novel coronavirus has sparked and the possibility of its resurgence as relaxations come into play, it is difficult to see an anywhere-near-full restoration of normalcy with a phased lifting of curbs. In short, normal, as we last remember knowing and seeing it, won’t be presenting itself anytime soon. Much has already been said about how things will never be the same, and how disruptive and painful the adjustment will be. It is all correct.  Reworking the idea of normal In the interests of our own well-being and sanity then, we will have to construct a new normal and reconcile to it. And since this will happen in the interstices of lockdown relaxations, checks on mingling and protocols for screening, sanitisation, and distancing will be very much part of the new picture.  Encouragingly, a reworking of the idea of normal is possible.  One, because, as we have said before, we just need to find a normal. Two, because we are used to defining and re-defining, subconsciously or otherwise, our normals. Rapid changes in economics, science, technology, and politics have ensured that none of us has seen a stable, steady-state in our lifetimes.  Ways we work, learn, network, travel, celebrate, and express and entertain ourselves and relate to our family, friends, fellow citizens, and governments have changed frequently. What we have experienced in our years on the planet is not a single normal but a series of normals. Three, because the virus, in some ways, is only hastening a journey humans have already embarked on. Over the years, we have increasingly been embracing many of the things COVI-19 is said to be pushing us towards. Virtual socialisation, screen-based amusements, work for home, online shopping, online education, etc. If it feels different this time around, it is because we have lost our agency. In the driver’s seat now is a pandemic, and it doesn’t really care about speed limits and safety rules. Four, and perhaps most important, because some things and the delight we draw from them have remained constant despite the multiple normals we have inhabited. A meal with the extended family. Adda with friends. A celebration with dear ones. Coffee at a regular haunt. A walk in the neighbourhood. A summer swim. A winter picnic. A quick getaway. A hop to the stores for a gift for someone precious – or as an indulgence for oneself. (I deliberately list out-of-home pleasures here.)  It is in re-living these much-cherished experiences that we will find the cornerstones of our new normals. Temperature checks, spaced seatings, longer queues, restrictions on gathering size, and such will mean that these experiences won’t have their familiar texture, but the smell of freedom and the company of dear ones will more than compensate for that, still bring in the flavours we have been missing. It will be joyful, it will be reassuring, it will be different, better from now.  Of course, like those emerging from convalescence, many will be tentative, wondering at every step if they are risking too much. For them, others’ cues will matter. Friends will embolden them to step out. Colleagues will draw them to the workplace. Co-parents will persuade them to pack the kids to school. Strangers will convince them to shop and travel. In a sense, we will all become part of a cue-giving, cue-taking chain shaping the new normal. We may not all have been in it together. We could still come out together. (Manish Dubey is a policy analyst and writer)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/we-will-need-a-new-normal-here-s-how-to-make-it-831742.html
30-04-2020||Panorama||Blame it on the lockdown: The mango, jackfruit season is souring||With the governments of mango-growing states – mainly Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana -- having decided to extend the lockdown in ‘red zone’ areas, some till May-end, the situation appears to have become worse for mango and jackfruit harvesting. This will also spell doom for the seasonal mango and jackfruit melas held all over Karnataka. The melas are popular among the people, especially in Bengaluru, Mysuru and Mangaluru which used to be visited by lakhs of people every season. These melas will now have to be shelved for this season, said officials at HOPCOMS, the organiser.  The All-India Mango Growers’ Association (AIMGA), headquartered in Lucknow, UP, has written to all mango-growing states to issue passes to the truck operators carrying the fruit under essential services category. “The association has appealed to the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh and the surface transport ministry with a special appeal to facilitate the interstate movement of mango trucks. Depending on the availability of transport facilities, the wholesale markets will function. Ever since the lockdown, labourers have migrated away from the farms. But many units of captive labour are available in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana where farm operations can take place at 50% capacity,” S Insram Ali, the Lucknow-based president of the AIMGA told this writer. According to the statistics available with the National Horticulture Board, India has 26 lakh hectares under mango cultivation, yielding over 17 million tonnes of the fruit in 13 states. India produces 50% of the world output. Most of them are the pulpy kind -- Ratnagiri Apoos, Devgadh Apoos from Maharashtra, Sindhoora from Andhra Pradesh, Mundappa and Kadri from Coastal Karnataka, Manganpalli and Bainganpalli (Benisha) Raspuri, Badami, Pairi, Neelam, Dasheri, Kent, Tom Atkins, Kesar and Fazil. In some of the growing areas, the crop will be ready for harvest only by the end of June, but 80% of the growing area is ready for harvest between March and May. The Alphonso is also grown on a large scale in Mundgod in Uttara Kannada district. “Alphonso mangoes command premium rates in Bengaluru, Mumbai and Panaji markets. There are about 2,000 hectares of land growing this variety in Mundgod. There used to be a group of 1,000 workers from Uttar Pradesh dedicated to mango-plucking, but now, they have just vanished,” said Harish Bhimgadh, a farmer. “Presently, the crop is ready to be harvested but we do not have adequate manpower due to the lockdown, compounded by the lack of transport, central storage facilities and the market network. The yards in several states are also under lockdown, which is a cause for worry,” say functionaries of the Karnataka State Mango Development and Marketing Corporation Limited, Bengaluru. Similar concerns have been aired by the mango marketing bodies of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. According to statistics available with the AIMGA, the total value of the market operations run into a few thousand crores. In 2017 and 2018, the total turnover of the mango trade was about Rs 3,000 crore (including export). The wastage due to non-availability of transport or market connectivity even in normal times amounts to 2-3%. “I would not venture into guessing what that loss would be in the present lockdown conditions,” said Insram Ali. One saving grace is the Mahamango, a cooperative launched by the Maharashtra state government in 1991, has created facilities for preserving mango pulp for the value-addition industry.  Value-addition to the rescue If the price is sliding down but the crop is still on the trees, that’s an ideal situation for value-addition. “Alphonso mango prices have dropped drastically from Rs 2,200 per dozen to Rs 2,400 for three-dozen fruits now. Even then, there are no buyers. Luckily, the pulp-makers are still working, they will salvage some percentage of the crop,” Pradeep Pai, an ice-cream maker in Mangaluru, said. Another potential saviour is the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR) at Hesaraghatta, on the outskirts of Bengaluru. It has tested and produced the first batch of a new probiotic mango drink, the technology for which is ready for transfer to farmers’ collectives. “We are organising a video conference with farmers from all over the country. We will showcase the probiotic drink and osmotically-dehydrated mango slices as value-added products,” IIHR scientist M R Dinesh told this writer.  Jackfruit in the same boat Jackfruit also hits the market at around the same time as mango. “But the jackfruit market is not as organised as the mango business. Generally, it is looked down upon. Even today, only a few parts of Karnataka have roughly a 1,000-hectares in all of organised jackfruit farms. But in terms of its nutritional value and the satisfaction quotient from its consumption is not any different than from eating a mango” says Sreepadre, a Kerala-based expert on jackfruit. “80% of the jackfruit grown in the country goes to waste as people were unaware of the nutritional value of the fruit and its value-added products to humans, livestock and wildlife till we cranked up a national-level information campaign on the jackfruit,” Sreepadre said. (The writer is a senior journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/blame-it-on-the-lockdown-the-mango-jackfruit-season-is-souring-831687.html
30-04-2020||Panorama||Coronavirus Lockdown: A paradigm shift in how we work||We are living in an inevitable intersection of life and the modern economy. The restrictions that the government are placing to save lives have had an adverse on the growth of the economy. No other outbreak in the past has demanded such drastic measures. Companies are getting ready for slow business over the next few quarters and are looking at slashing marketing budgets, recruitment and new investments. Funding has slowed down drastically. From the kids selling roses at traffic signals to industry giants, everyone is facing a slowdown. Start-ups are already seeing a 5 to 50% decrease in their top line. Other industry numbers will soon be out and not going to look pretty. While the hard numbers are readily available, the softer and indirect impact to the economy is more difficult to measure. As organizations evacuated workspaces to ensure social distancing, remote working seemed to be the natural solution. But all industries and roles are not conducive to remote working. The IT industry and most technology jobs, in general, seemed a little better as work could be accomplished with good internet connectivity. But even in those cases, remote working has had a mixed impact. During the initial days, people tweeted about seeing families taking walks in the park and playing with children. But within a few days, the oft-ignored inequality in domestic work has surfaced. For working women, housework has doubled or tripled with the children staying back from schools and the entire family staying and working from home. To understand what this means, before Covid-19, women put in 352 minutes a day into domestic work while men put in only 51.8 (WEF). With support system crumbling like this and travel impacted, people are under stress and quality of work is taking a hit as a result.  The second factor that is emerging is the increasing number of hours spent in managerial oversight to ensure employees are actually working from their homes. It is evident that culture of trust cannot be seeded overnight; in stark contrast to the pace of the virus. This is leading to low employee morale and fatigue.  Anxiety levels are on the rise as well due to the uncertainty in the air.  However, there is also a sense of optimism as we hear about companies protecting and supporting the welfare of their employees by coming up with innovative measures of compensation and funding health care costs. There are also generous offers to provide services for free and give short term relief from payments due to help customers. Such efforts are commendable.  But being realistic, there is going to be a sharp dip over the next few weeks on availability and accessibility to business infrastructure. However, this is also an opportunity to focus on the following measures: Using technology to build innovative solutions. Using technology to combat the virus (solutions are desperately needed to build scale to test for and contain the virus) and for new modes of working will be pivotal. Taking a cue from the current practices that we have been forced to adopt and making them standard, thus saving costs and impact to the environment. Many of us have discovered that not all travel is essential and working from home is not ineffective. It is crucial for governments to step in to offset income losses in the short term and provide funding relief for long term revival of the economy. We are seeing many governments already taking to the front foot on this. The support in terms of tax reliefs, lower interest rates and industry-friendly laws will play an important role in helping economies bounce back. The current situation should allow new economic models to emerge, which are sustainable and not dependent on consumer spending. There are many interesting conversations and experiments happening in the space of alternate economies. Future-proofing humanity relies on giving such initiatives a louder voice. As we understand the virus more, it poses a unique challenge we seem unequipped for, now. Success lies in us emerging cleverer from the lessons we learn from humanity and technology rather than the economic structure we have come to rely on. (The writer is the Managing Director of AnitaB.org, India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/coronavirus-lockdown-a-paradigm-shift-in-how-we-work-831690.html
30-04-2020||Right in the Middle||Love, the many-splendoured thing||Our profession brought us together in the mid-1950s. Iyer and I had joined the same Steel Plant in 1956 and shared a room as trainees in the erstwhile Soviet Union, during which period we found each other to be on the same wave-length in many aspects. Life moved on for the Iyers, as per their chalked out blueprint till their only son, fell in love with a girl from a different caste and married her as per civil law. Though their daughter-in-law (orphaned at a young age and totally self-made) was highly qualified, professionally well-placed besides being endowed with an extremely sweet and amicable temperament, the Iyers could not reconcile with this development.    Before the turbulence of the event could fade, cruel fate struck, completely destroying the fabric of the family. My friend’s wife died in a freak accident within a year of the entry of the bride into the family. To my horror, Iyer was convinced that his daughter-in-law’s stars were responsible for this calamity! Dejected to the core, he at once detached himself from his son’s family, left his lucrative job and settled down alone renting a small house in a temple town down south. No amount of entreaties from the youngsters could change his mind and he withdrew from them, cocooning himself in his warped convictions. Years rolled by and, despite my incessant efforts, there appeared to be no change of heart. Drained physically and mentally the old man fell ill and was bed-ridden. Learning of his condition, the daughter-in-law took leave from her busy job, rushed to his place, took full charge of the situation and nursed him with filial love like a devoted daughter till he recovered. A couple of months later, I was pleasantly surprised by Iyer’s unexpected visit. He appeared to be a totally changed person. “What a blunder I have committed all these years!” he lamented in a choked voice, tears flowing in profusion. “Who was I to question the will of God? What a fool I must have been to expect the mighty river of love to flow the way I desire? Look at my daughter-in-law and her divine magnanimity despite my hurting her so ruthlessly.  She has more God in her than I have in me! I have decided to join them and atone myself in the soothing stream of their love!” The fragile man-made barrier that had separated them had been shattered by the power of realisation that real values and ultimate truth of life have nothing to do with caste, creed and religion!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/love-the-many-splendoured-thing-831692.html
30-04-2020||Second Edit||RBI’s move will calm panic, for now||The decision of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to provide a Rs 50,000 crore special liquidity facility for mutual funds is intended to allay fears about the strength and stability of an important area of investment for people. Many forms and instruments of investment and savings are under pressure now after the lockdown to contain coronavirus has badly hit economic and financial activities. Trust in stock exchanges and mutual funds needs to be affirmed and strengthened in these difficult times because large investments have been made in them. The RBI took the decision as a confidence-boosting measure in the wake of last week’s announcement by Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund that it was closing six mutual funds. This had the potential to trigger a large-scale exit from mutual funds. The RBI’s assurance of adequate liquidity may set at rest those fears. The RBI decision comes on top of an earlier assurance made by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) that there is no liquidity crunch in the industry.  The RBI has said that banks can borrow up to Rs 50,000 crore from it in the next 90 days to lend to mutual fund managers that need funds. Banks will only gain from this, and they have been offered some incentives also to utilise the facility. They can also use the money to buy corporate bonds, commercial papers or deposit certificates from the mutual funds. But there is still some uncertainty about whether banks will utilise the facility. They have been averse to lending money to industry, financial institutions or any other borrower for fear that the money will turn into NPAs. They have safely parked their money with the RBI instead of lending it even at higher rates of interest as they are in no mood to take risks.  This is the third instalment of the RBI’s financial stimulus measures in recent weeks. It has made timely and necessary interventions to boost credit availability and liquidity, to support and strengthen financial institutions, to ensure the smooth functioning of the system and to boost the confidence of all stakeholders, including the common people. But considering the uncertainties involved in the situation, these initiatives, including the latest decision, may not lead to the expected results. The central bank’s proactive stance and actions are in stark contrast with the failure of the government to take any meaningful measures to rescue, much less stimulate, the economy, which was already weak before the pandemic, and has been further weakened now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/rbi-s-move-will-calm-panic-for-now-831667.html
30-04-2020||South||Kerala: Kasaragod collector advised to go into quarantine as scribe tests positive for COVID-19||After a television journalist in Kerala’s Kasaragod tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday, the health authorities here advised the district collector, his driver and gunman to go into self-quarantine. The district collector had given an interview to the journalist a few days ago. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday had said that 10 people, including three health workers and a journalist, were found infected with the virus. The journalist who works for a prominent television channel in the state is the first positive case from the media fraternity. "I had given an interview to the journalist on April 19. He has tested positive for coronavirus. Along with me, my driver and gunman have been advised to go into self-quarantine," District Collector D Sajith Babu told PTI. A cameraman, driver and two other staff members of the media organisation have also been asked to remain quarantined. The media organisation later issued instructions to its staff to maintain social distancing and other precautions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-kasaragod-collector-advised-to-go-into-quarantine-as-scribe-tests-positive-for-covid-19-831643.html
30-04-2020||South||71 new COVID-19 cases reported in Andhra Pradesh; number goes up to 1,403 in state||Seventy-one fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 1,403, the government said on Thursday. The toll remained at 31 in the last six days while 34 more patients got cured and were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, the latest COVID-19 bulletin said. In all, 321 patients have been discharged in the state so far. The number of active cases stood at 1,051. Kurnool district, the largest coronavirus hotbed in AP, reported 43 cases on Thursday, taking the aggregate to 386. Officials attributed the steady spurt in cases over the last few days in Kurnool district to "local transmission." Krishna too continued to report fresh COVID-19 cases in double digits, adding 10 and taking the total to 246. The other hotbed in the state-Guntur had only four new cases, making it 287 in all. Kadapa, Anantapuramu, Chittoor, East Godavari and SPS Nellore districts too added fresh cases to their tally while five other districts in the state reported no cases.  The aggregate number of tests conducted in the state increased to 94,558, with 6,497 since Wednesday. Of the total, 93,155 tested negative so far, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/71-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-andhra-pradesh-number-goes-up-to-1403-in-state-831746.html
30-04-2020||South||Coronavirus: How did a Tamil Nadu district move from hotspot to safe zone?||“Since April 15, we have not had a single positive case. The last set of patients, who were receiving treatment at the IRT Perundurai Medical College Hospital, also left for home on Tuesday. The district now has zero active cases and has not reported new patients for 15 days,” Dr S Soundammal, Deputy Director of Health Services, Erode, told DH.  The district is moving from red to orange and will further move to green if there are no cases for another 14 days. Tamil Nadu has only one green district – Krishnagiri -- that shares borders with Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh with no COVID-19 positive case being reported so far. Erode district saw an increase in cases from March 21 to April 15 and the majority of them were related to a “single source event”, an oblique reference to the religious congregation in Delhi. It was in Erode where the Tablighi link was established as officials came to know that a large number of people from the state were part of the event while questioning the Thai nationals.  Focus on containment zones Institutional quarantine of suspected patients, home isolation of their family members, immediate barricading of areas where positive patients lived, contact tracing through CCTV footages, and deploying drones to monitor containment zones are some of the activities that the district administration took to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Also, the district administration adopted novel ways to keep people, especially inside the containment zones, confined to their homes besides taking everything that they need from ATMs to vegetables to fruits to provisions to their doorsteps. Drawing competitions for children and rangoli competitions for women were also announced to keep them indoors. “When people got everything at their doorstep, they didn’t feel the need to come out. We even arranged for mobile ATMs and ensured that people do not step out of their homes. And we were transparent with the prevailing situation that made people trust us and cooperate with our activities,” Erode District Superintendent of Police S Sakthi Ganesan told DH. He said effective coordination between various departments and active surveillance at district borders, where every vehicle was checked and its driver screened for fever, contributed majorly to the district turning orange from red. The district administration also ensured those who went inside the containment zones to provide essentials to the people took necessary precautions like wearing gloves and masks to prevent further spread of the disease. As soon as a patient tested positive, the SP said, the entire area was barricaded and the entry and exit of the people were restricted. He also said the police extensively relied on drones to monitor the containment zones, besides keeping a tab on the movement of people. “We made optimum use of technology to keep people inside their homes. Competitions were announced and people were asked to send their entries through WhatsApp and other apps. When we give what people need, they will cooperate with you,” Ganesan added.   Active contact tracing Though it has tested only 4,000-odd persons – the testing rate per million population is just 440 but the district administration believes effective containment activities and restricting people to their homes has helped it contain the spread for now. Out of the 18 containment zones, restrictions have been relaxed at eight and we will do the same in the remaining 10 as well once the “mandatory period” ends.  Soundammal said CCTVs installed near two mosques, which were frequented by the Thai nationals, provided “vital clues” on their contacts who were immediately quarantined. “We were met with some resistance in the beginning as many feared isolation, but people realised the magnitude of the spread and cooperated with us. The primary contacts of the Thai nationals were quarantined at IRT, Perundurai and their family members were home quarantined. When the contacts tested positive, tests were also conducted on their family members,” Soundammal added. She said every house within the containment zone was visited by health workers every single day to check for any COVID-19 symptoms from people living there. She also added that enough care was taken to fulfil the dietary needs of the patients in the IRT hospital. “Enough care was taken to ensure that the food given to patients was healthy and would supplement the treatment being provided. As far as patients were concerned, we gave them choice and asked them to inform us the previous night,” Soundammal said. Besides the patients and those under institutional quarantine, people inside containment zones were given the highest priority. “We were the first to distribute kabasura kudineer (herbal mix) to those living inside the containment zones. It is just an immune booster and we clearly explained that to the people,” the district health officer said. How the Thai link came to the fore It was on March 14 that the Erode administration came to know that a group of foreigners are in the district for religious activities after a Thai national, who was part of the group, came to the Coimbatore airport to board a flight back to his country. By then, thermal scanners had been installed at the airport, and officials refused to let him fly because he had a fever. The 49-year-old Thai national was quarantined at ESI hospital in Coimbatore but tested negative for COVID-19 though he had exhibited symptoms of fever. “It was a piece of information given by the Thai national, who died of complications caused by diabetic nephropathy, helped us track those who attended the conference. We came to know about the presence of Thai nationals in Erode only after talking to this traveller. We then began tracking the Thai nationals and quarantined six of them,” a senior official with the Health Department had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-how-did-a-tamil-nadu-district-move-from-hotspot-to-safe-zone-831775.html
30-04-2020||South||Mystery shrouds the death of NRI businessman Arakkal Joy in Dubai||Mystery shrouds the death of NRI businessman from Wayanad in Kerala, Arakkal Joy, as latest reports claimed that he committed suicide, while the earlier reports stated that he died due to a heart-attack in Dubai on April 23. A section of media reported quoting the Dubai police that Joy, who was managing director of Innova Refining and Trading, jumped from the 14th floor of a building in Dubai and that he committed suicide owing to financial problem. The news came as a shock for the people of Wayanad where Joy had earned much goodwill owing to his social services like donating land and constructing houses for the poor. MLA of Mananthavady in Wayanad Mr. O R Kelu told DH that it was hard to believe that Joy committed suicide owing to financial problems. "I spoke to his bother Johny, who is in Wayanad, after I came across Joy's death. Johny only said that Joy died after suffering a heart attack," he said. Kerala Transport Minister A K Saseendran, who is the minister in charge of Wayanad district, said that the government had no official information regarding the cause of death. Owing to the request from the family and others close to Joy, the government only pressed for getting permission to the family to bring Joy's body to his native place by a chartered flight, he said. Soon after Joy's death, there were reports in a section of media that Joy committed suicide owing to financial problems and he was closely associated with another NRI businessman who is now caught up in a financial cheating allegation. But Joy's family had denied such claims. Joy received much attention in Kerala over his palatial house in Wayanad. With an area of 45,000 square feet, it is considered to be the largest house in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mystery-shrouds-the-death-of-nri-businessman-arakkal-joy-in-dubai-831825.html
30-04-2020||South||Supreme Court refuses to entertain plea against 'communal' hashtags trending on Twitter||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to entertain a PIL seeking a direction to the Centre and the Telangana police chief to restrain social networking site 'Twitter' from allowing trending 'communal' hashtags linking Islam to spread of novel coronavirus in India. A Hyderabad-based lawyer had sought a direction to the Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, Telangana's Director General Of Police and the Commissioner Of Police to ask Twitter Inc "to stop illegal trending such as "#Islamiccoronavirusjihad, Jamat, #Coronajihad, #Nizamuddinidiots, #TablighiJamatVirus" as they attach religion to the pandemic. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justice Aniruddha Bose, hearing the plea through video conferencing, took note of the submissions of lawyer Khaja Aijazuddin and said that he should seek remedies before the Telangana High Court. "The petitioner prays for withdrawal of this petition with liberty to approach the Telangana High Court. Prayer is allowed. Accordingly, the writ petition is dismissed as withdrawn with the liberty aforesaid," the apex court said in its order. During a brief hearing, the bench had said that the court cannot stop any persons from saying some wrong things on the phone or social media. The lawyer said that he was not seeking a direction to stop anything but was praying for the direction to Twitter to drop hashtags as they can be "inflammatory" in nature. The petition said trending hashtags "attaching the religion to pandemic disease which is done by social network users on Twitter was contrary to the Guidelines or advisory dated March 18, issued by the World Health Organization". It was also contrary to penal laws prevailing in India for want of manifestly insulting the religion by hurting the feelings of the followers, the plea said. A religious congregation was conducted from March 13-15 in Delhi and it was organized by Tablighi Jamat at Nizamuddin. Reports suggest that the attendees went to various parts of the country and some of them were found to be infected and played parts in the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/supreme-court-refuses-to-entertain-plea-against-communal-hashtags-trending-on-twitter-831903.html
30-04-2020||South||Youth booked for fake message of coronavirus data leak in Kasargod||The police booked two persons in Kerala on charges of spreading fake messages on social media alleging that details of coronavirus patients in Kasargod were leaked out and the high curing rate in Kerala was a gimmick of the government. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the allegations were spread with political interests. Imad of Pallikara in Kasargod spread a social media message claiming that he was a coronavirus survivor and someone contacted him as well as around ten other COVID-19 survivors and sought personal information. It was found that no one by that name was under treatment in Kasargod. A case was registered against him for unleashing the baseless allegation that details of COVID-19 patients were leaked.  Another youth in Kannur district, identified as Ajanaz, was booked for spreading a fake message that the high number of COVID-19 patients recovering in Kerala was a gimmick of the government. Meanwhile, a probe by an ADGP into allegations of a Bangalore-based agency contacting some accused was still continuing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/youth-booked-for-fake-message-of-coronavirus-data-leak-in-kasargod-831941.html
30-04-2020||South||Tamil Nadu sees big spike in coronavirus cases, record 161 reported||Tamil Nadu reported another single biggest spike in the number of COVID-19 patients in a day on Thursday when swab samples of 161 people tested positive with more than 80% of them belonging to this metropolis. The tally now stands at 2,323 including 27 deaths and 1,258 discharges with 48 people leaving various hospitals on Thursday alone. The state now has one of the highest testing numbers at 1,19,748 samples so far - 9,787 samples were tested on Thursday, the highest in a single day, though 1,664 samples are under process. Chennai, which reported 138 cases on Thursday alone, is the biggest hotspot in the state with 906 positive patients. The biggest worry for the government is the increasing number of primary or index cases in Chennai, whose source is not known. Also, new clusters are emerging out of Chennai making the job of health workers and those at the forefront containing the spread more difficult. In some good news, Erode district, once a hotspot with 70 cases, graduated from being a red zone to the orange zone as the district did not report any fresh Covid-19 cases in the past 14 days.  The district had last reported six patients on April 15. However, Ranipet district, which was in the orange zone on Wednesday, moved back to the red zone with one primary patient testing positive. The number of discharges also took a slide on Tuesday with just 48 patients leaving hospitals across the state – the number had been witnessing a slide in the past few days.  While 26 districts are in the red zone, 10 are in Orange zone and Krishnagiri, bordering Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, remains a green district with no case being reported since the outbreak of the disease in March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-sees-big-spike-in-coronavirus-cases-record-161-reported-831981.html
30-04-2020||South||Kerala Congress MP booked for flouting lockdown norms||A case was registered against Congress MP Adoor Prakash on charges of flouting lockdown norms. The MP, who represents Attingal constituency in Thiruvananthapuram, attended a function to distribute food kits at Nedumangad, about 20 kilometres from Thiruvananthapuram city. Social distance norms were allegedly not followed at the function and over 50 people attended it. Hence a case was registered against the MP and the organisers under various Sections of Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020, IPC and Kerala Police Act. Meanwhile, Congress staged a protest alleging that no action was taken against Kerala Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran who attended a function at a school recently. Some Congress leaders had even filed a police complaint against the minister earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-mp-booked-for-flouting-lockdown-norms-832010.html
30-04-2020||South||AP govt releases over Rs 140 crore to fight COVID-19||The Andhra Pradesh government on Thursday released Rs 141.46 crore to combat COVID-19. The amount would be spent on Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness to eradicate the disease under the National Health Mission, Finance Special Secretary K V V Satyanarayana said in an order. Also, a sum of Rs 18.99 crore has been released through the Disaster Management Department for procurement of disinfectants and personal protection equipment for sanitary workers and also for containment of the contagion in rural local bodies. The Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Department had sought Rs 102 crore for the purpose as per the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs but given the resource crunch being faced by the state government, the Finance Department released only Rs 18.99 crore, official sources said. The balance amount will probably be released at a later date, the sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ap-govt-releases-over-rs-140-crore-to-fight-covid-19-832033.html
30-04-2020||State||COVID-19: Karnataka orders mega survey of high-risk groups||Keen to reboot the state’s economy without the Covid-19 risk post lockdown, the Karnataka government on Wednesday ordered a massive door-to-door universal survey of every family across the state. The survey aims to identify the vulnerable population ailing from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), Influenza-like Illness (ILI) and other respiratory illnesses and to prevent them from being infected with Covid-19. Aiming to accomplish the massive task ahead of May 3, the state government has not only roped in teachers from across the state but has also set a deadline of five days for the completion of the task.  To facilitate quick availability of data and estimation of the vulnerable population, the state government has also developed a mobile app into which all the teachers have to upload the data. To simplify the teachers’ task, the government has ordered that the survey be conducted based on the voters’ list at every booth level. According to the circular, a copy of which is with DH, the Commissioner, Education Department stated, “One teacher will be posted to every polling booth limit to assist the Booth Level Officer (BLO) in completing the survey. The data needs to be uploaded directly into the mobile app or to the computers or laptops available at the Block Education Offices.” The commissioner has also instructed DDPIs at every district to make arrangements for teachers to upload data to the system.  Though the teachers’ association had initially refused to take part in any surveys, it has now agreed to be part of this study keeping in mind the national emergency. However, they have demanded that the state government provide safety gear. Basavaraj Gurikar, president of Karnataka State Government School Teachers’ Association said, “Covid-19 is a national emergency and we are all ready to join the fight. But the government should ensure proper safety accessories like masks, gloves etc..to boost our confidence.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-karnataka-orders-mega-survey-of-high-risk-groups-831614.html
30-04-2020||State||Coronavirus lockdown: Around 11K Kannadigas stranded abroad set to return||In a relief to Karnataka-origin tourists, visitors, students, migrants and ship crew, as many as 10,823 of them stranded abroad will be brought back soon, Minister S Suresh Kumar, in charge of Covid-19 briefings, said on Wednesday. The UAE, Saudi Arabia and the US account for maximum number of such people.  Most international passengers who tested positive in the state had travel history to the Gulf. That is why the state is taking no chances and even category C passengers, asymptomatic passengers below 60 years of age who were previously home-quarantined before the lockdown began, will be quarantined at hotels and sent home only after they test negative on the fifth day and the 12th day.    Among those stranded include 4,408 tourists and visitors, 3,084 students, 2,784 migrants, and 557 ship crew. Around 6,100 of them will be brought back early, although the Union government has not disclosed the date, said Kumar.  Passengers are arriving from Canada (308), US (927), UAE (2,575), Qatar (414) and Saudi Arabia (927). "All their arrangements are being worked out. The passengers will be divided into risk categories -- A, B, and C," he said.  Category A includes symptomatic passengers who will be admitted to an isolation hospital. Risk category B includes asymptomatic passengers who are above 60 years of age and have comorbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension. Category C includes asymptomatic passengers who are below 60 years of age.   Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey told DH, "Category B (who will be monitored 24/7 by a doctor and a nurse) will be sent to hotels or hostels. They can select from a choice of hotels. At our facilities, they can stay free of cost. But many of them ask for more amenities. Category C will also be housed in hotels but without 24/7 health personnel. Our mobile team will check on them once a day." Government facilities for category B can include BSF camps too. "For those wishing to stay in three-star hotels, a committee will finalise bulk rates with these hotels. All categories will stay in the facilities for 14 days and will be sent home only if they test negative on the fifth and 12th days. They will be housed in either in Bengaluru or Mangaluru," he said.    Suresh Kumar said there are plans to bring back migrant labourers stranded in Gujarat as well but the numbers are yet to be ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-around-11k-kannadigas-stranded-abroad-set-to-return-831617.html
30-04-2020||State||Karnataka: Don't hike fees, schools told||Private schools in the state have been barred from increasing the tuition fee for the 2020-21 academic year. The state department of public instruction has ordered schools not to hike fees considering the financial crisis several parents are facing due to the Covid-19 pandemic and nationwide lockdown. There is a provision for private schools to hike tuition fees by up to 15% every year according to the 2013 guidelines issued by the department. However, these particular guidelines will not apply for the 2020-21 academic year as far as the fee hike is concerned. However, the department stated that if any schools wish to decrease the fee, they are free to do so. According to officials from the department, the order has been issued following complaints from parents that some Bengaluru-based schools were increasing the fee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-dont-hike-fees-schools-told-831618.html
30-04-2020||State||Coronavirus Lockdown: Over 30,000 Malayalis in Karnataka register online||Around 95,000 Keralites in other states have registered within 24-hours on an online facility launched by Kerala government for Malayalis stranded in other states. Keralites in Karnataka topped the tally with 30,576,followed by Tamilnadu with 29,181 and Maharashtra 13,113. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the government would be giving priority to those in distress and stranded. Hence those who were well settled on other states should not make use of this as an opportunity to visit their relatives in Kerala. Meanwhile, 3.53 lakh Keralites from 201 countries registered on the online facility for those who wish to return home. A majority of them were from UAE, 1.5 lakh. Registrations could be done on www.registernorkar||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-over-30000-malayalis-in-karnataka-register-online-831934.html
30-04-2020||State||30 new cases take Karnataka tally to 565; death toll at 22||The state on Thursday witnessed a big jump in COVID-19 cases with 30 people testing positive for novel coronavirus. The flurry of fresh cases has taken the state’s tally to 565. As on April 30, the state has 314 active cases while the number of people discharged stands at 229. A 67-year-old woman (P 409) from Bantwal, Dakshina Kannada, with SARI (past history of COPD and Diabetes) died at Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru. With this, the death toll in the state has gone up to 22. Among the 30 new cases, while Belagavi has reported 14 cases, Bengaluru has 10, Vijayapura 2 and Dakshina Kannada, Tumakuru, Davangere and Kalaburagi have one each.  As per the data released by a state war room, as many as 139 patients (as on April 30) are in the age-group of 20 year to 30 years. This is of concern, as many young people who tested positive are asymptomatic. Going by the gender-wise break-up of cases, men are more prone to contract coronavirus. Of the 565 cases, only 177 women have tested positive for coronavirus. Around 79% of the cases are direct contacts of the infected, and 13% had an international travel history. Around 7% showed SARI symptoms and 1% showed the symptoms of influenza-like illness. Karnataka has done 906 tests per million population, which is slightly higher than the country, which is 768 tests per million. The state’s average daily growth percentage at 5.9% is also lesser than that of the country at 13.2%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/30-new-cases-take-karnataka-tally-to-565-death-toll-at-22-832046.html
30-04-2020||State||Enough is enough, says Opposition over lockdown woes||Opposition parties led by the Congress threatened to hit the streets in protest against the government for failing to address the problems faced by farmers and labourers due to the coronavirus-driven lockdown. This was decided at a meeting of all the Opposition parties. The meeting was attended by the Congress, the JD(S), the CPI, the CPI(M) and the farmers’groups.  “The state has been under lockdown for the past 40 days, which has hit farmers hard. We discussed all these issues for nearly four hours,” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said. “We will compile a list of demands and submit it to the CM. If nothing happens, it will be inevitable for us to take to the streets in protest,” he said.  “The Opposition parties have been cooperating with the government till now. Still, it is doing nothing to the issues that we have been raising on the farmers and the working classes. We can’t be patient anymore,” Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/enough-is-enough-says-opposition-over-lockdown-woes-832049.html
30-04-2020||State||Five elevated as high court additional judges||Five judicial officers were on Thursday elevated as additional judges of the Karnataka High Court. A notification was issued by the Law Ministry appointing Shivashankar Amarannavar, M Ganeshaiah Uma, Vedavyasachar Srishananda, Hanchate Sanjeevkumar and Padmaraj Nemachandra Desai as additional judges for a period of two years. The Supreme Court Collegium had, on April 20, recommended the elevation of the five judicial officers as judges of the Karnataka High Court. With the latest appointment, the number of judges in the HC rises to 46 against the approved strength of 62.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/five-elevated-as-high-court-additional-judges-832050.html
30-04-2020||State||COVID-19 lockdown: Karnataka allows one-time movement of those stranded||The Cabinet on Thursday decided to allow one-time inter-state, inter-district movement of people and labourers stranded due to the lockdown. The move will also benefit students and others who have been seeking permission to move to their native states or districts. However, people from containment zones will be allowed to travel only after they are tested for the virus.  The government will also allow people from Karnataka residing in other states to return if they test negative for Covid-19, Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said, briefing reporters after the Cabinet meeting. Nodal officers The state government also appointed nodal officers to “facilitate the smooth and orderly movement of people” as per the standard operating procedure prescribed by the Ministry of Home Affairs. “Expenses should be covered by those wishing to travel. The government is willing to arrange buses,” Madhuswamy said. The government will provide a permit to anyone who wishes to go, he said.  An order issued by Chief secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar deputed IAS officers Rajkumar Khatri and Arun Jeji Chakravarthy as overall in-charges for the movement of people to Karnataka from different states. IAS officers N Manjunath Prasad and P S Sandhu will oversee the movement of people from Karnataka to other states.  The order also directed district administrations, KSRTC, NWKRTC and NEKRTC and all other departments concerned to facilitate the process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-lockdown-karnataka-allows-one-time-movement-of-those-stranded-832063.html
30-04-2020||State||Coronavirus lockdown: Karnataka readies for industry operations from May 4||Karnataka has decided to allow all industries located outside Covid-19 containment zones to operate from May 4, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Thursday, even as he cautioned that the virus crisis may last another couple of months. Yediyurappa and Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar met industry captains to discuss resuming operations from May 4. The state government anticipates that the Centre will allow industrial operations to resume, Yediyurappa said.  The government has already permitted industries to start operations in green zones. Industries will have to take precautionary measures on factory premises and ensure social distancing after they are opened. Officials from the Labour department clarified that permission will be provided for industries to extend their working hours so that labourers can work in shifts. “We feel the virus is coming under control in the state. In Bengaluru, not many cases have been reported in the last 3-4 days. If this continues, it’ll help us open up industries in and around Bengaluru also. We’ll wait for 2-3 days,” Yediyurappa told reporters. “It won’t be a surprise if the corona (threat) continues for another 2-3 months. However, based on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s directions, stringent lockdown measures (in red zones) and reviving economic activity will go hand in hand,” the chief minister said. Taluk-level zones Karnataka is moving towards declaring containment zones at taluk levels after May 3 to ensure that other parts of a district where Covid-19 cases are not reported remain open for industrial and other commercial activities. Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said inter-district passes will be issued to top management members of industry units to travel from their homes to workplaces.  Malls, liquor outlets, salons and restaurants will remain closed till May 3, after which the government will take a call based on the directions issued by the Centre.  “Opening of malls and hotels is not an option before us right now. But all hotels can give parcels,” Yediyurappa said. “I’m confident that the PM will allow the resumption of all activities. He has already said that corona (containment) and economic activities will have to go hand in hand. So, I’m expecting the Centre to take some favourable decisions,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-readies-for-industry-operations-from-may-4-832065.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Most coronavirus patients in Karnataka who died had no fever||A COVID-19 mortality panel of specialists appointed by Karnataka government to probe all 21 virus deaths has found that most patients did not have fever but had cough and breathlessness. The panel has been tasked to answer questions like why the mortality rate in Kerala is less than in Karnataka. They are studying gaps in treatment and how various district administrations can avoid delays in starting treatment. Dr K S Sathish, pulmonologist at Vikram Hospital, who is part of the panel, said, “What is striking is most patients who died, did not have fever. They only had cough and breathlessness. It is already known that most were above the age of 60 and had co-morbidities. It was assumed that breathlessness was due to a pre-existing disease, for example a heart ailment.”  “We are looking at the reason for death, gaps in detection, delay in patient arrival, what we could have done and what we can recommend district administrations and peripheries where there are no experts and what appropriate treatment they should give if there are gaps. There should be a uniform proforma for the information that should be filled in. We have been asked why there are more deaths here than in Kerala,” he added.     Dr S Sachidanand, vice-chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS), who heads the mortality panel, told DH, “We are looking at whether something could have been done to save the patients. Critical aspects like when a patient can be put on a ventilator or intubated. It is not to find fault. Sometimes, patients may have come in at the last minute or must have delayed his/her treatment. We are not saying there is negligence but we are checking if the protocol wasfollowed.” The panel is yet to get case sheets of 10 patients from the respective districts. But it has analysed 10 patients’ deaths. The panel comprises 12 specialists including pulmonologists, anaesthetists and general physicians. Dr C Nagaraj from Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases and Dr Ravi from BMCRI’s department of medicine are other experts on the panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/most-coronavirus-patients-in-karnataka-who-died-had-no-fever-831615.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa condoles death of Rishi Kapoor||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday condoled the death of Bollywood actor Rishi Kapoor, saying his stellar performances will be remembered. The veteran actor, who was suffering from cancer, died at a Mumbai hospital this morning. "Shocked by the passing of another legend, and veteran actor, Rishi Kapoor. His way of mesmerising us with his stellar performances will be remembered and missed. Prayers to his family and loved ones. RIP," Yediyurappa tweeted. Shocked by the passing of another legend, and veteran actor, Rishi Kapoor. His way of mesmerising us with his stellar performances will be remembered and missed. Prayers to his family and loved ones. RIP. Karnataka Health Minister B Sriramulu too expressed his condolence. "Deeply saddened by the demise of wonderful actor and legend Shri #RishiKapoor. The cine world would be poorer by his absence. My sincere condolences to his family and friends," Sriramulu tweeted. Multilingual film actress and Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh expressed her grief, stating the year 2020 is turning out to be the worst nightmare. "Woke up to this absolutely devastating news, 2020 is turning out to be the worst nightmare @chintskap #RishiKapoor. Stole our hearts with his performances right from Bobby until now..no more," Sumalatha tweeted. She said she will miss him forever.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-condoles-death-of-rishi-kapoor-831736.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||All industries outside containment zones to start from May 4: Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa||“We feel that the COVID-19 menace is reducing and coming under control in the state. In Bengaluru, not many cases have been reported in the last 3-4 days. If this continues, it’ll help us open up industries in and around Bengaluru also. We’ll wait for another 2-3 days,” Yediyurappa told reporters after chairing a meeting of the Cabinet. Yediyurappa and Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar are scheduled to meet industry captains on Thursday evening to discuss resuming operations from May 4. "It won't be a surprise if the corona continues for another 2-3 months. However, based on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's directions, stringent lockdown measures (at red zones) and reviving economic activity will go hand in hand," Yediyurappa said. The Cabinet decided to allow one-time inter-state or inter-district movement of people and labourers stranded due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The move will also benefit students and others who want to return to their native states or districts. The government will also allow people from Karnataka residing in other states to return only if they are tested negative for Covid-19, Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said. An official order for this will be issued by evening today. "Expenses should be covered by those wishing to travel. The government is willing to arrange buses for their benefit," Madhuswamy said. The government will provide a license to anyone who wishes to go, he said. Having relaxed norms for industries outside red zones to resume operations, Madhuswamy said that inter-district passes will be issued to the top management of these units to travel from their homes to workplaces. Liquor outlets, saloons and restaurants will remain closed till May 3, after which the government will take a call based on directions issued by the Centre. “Opening of malls and hotels is not an option before us right now. But all hotels can give parcels,” Yediyurappa said. “I’m confident that the PM will allow the resumption of all activities.   He has already said that corona (containment) and economic activities will have to go hand in hand. So, I’m expecting the Centre to make some favourable decisions,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/all-industries-outside-containment-zones-to-start-from-may-4-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-831756.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: 22 new positive cases confirmed in Karnataka; state tally rises to 557||Twenty-two new cases of coronavirus have been confirmed in Karnataka, taking the total number of infections in the state to 557, the Health Department said on Thursday. "Twenty-two new positive cases have been reported from last evening to this noon...Till date 557 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed. This includes 21 deaths and 223 discharges," the department said in its mid-day situation report. Among 22 new cases, 14 are from Belagavi, three from Bengaluru urban, two from Vijayapura, and one each from Davangere, Dakshina Kannada and Tumkur.  Out of 22, eight are contacts of patients already tested positive, ten are secondary contacts, two had contact with containment zone BBMP Ward-135, and the other two are with history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-22-new-positive-cases-confirmed-in-karnataka-state-tally-rises-to-557-831778.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: 14 people held for offering prayer at mosque in Karnataka||As many as 14 people have been arrested for offering prayer at a mosque in violation of the coronavirus lockdown norms in Kalaburagi district in Karnataka, police said on Thursday. Police said they were looking for two more people who participated in the prayer on Tuesday. "We arrested 14 people on Tuesday evening from T Bommanahalli mosque," a police officer told PTI. A total of 16 people gathered in the mosque for the prayer and two of them managed to flee when police rushed there following information, the official said. Religious gatherings have been prohibited under the lockdown in force to check the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-14-people-held-for-offering-prayer-at-mosque-in-karnataka-831803.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Central team concludes visit to assess and assist Karnataka's COVID-19 response||A central team of doctors deputed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare concluded their Karnataka visit today. The agenda of the team was to assess the State’s COVID-19 response and provide the required assistance. The team consisting of Dr. Avdhesh Kumar, Additional Director, National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, Dr. RK Gupta, Consultant Physician, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Dr Nishant Kumar, Professor, Anaesthesia, Lady Hardinge Medical College, and Dr. Anuradha Shulania, Associate Professor, Microbiology, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital visited health facilities and institutions across the state, interacting with local and state health officials in the districts of Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mandya, Chikkaballapura, Hassan and Dakshina Kannada. The team also held meetings with officials of the Department of Health and Family Welfare including Jawaid Akthar, Additional Chief Secretary, Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Commissioner, R Ramachandra Rao, MD, National Health Mission, Karnataka. “The central team held discussions about the State’s preparedness in COVID-19 and reviewed the establishment of a designated structure of institutions to serve COVID-19 patients through fever clinics, exclusive COVID care centers, and swab collection facilities at taluka and district levels. The team was also apprised on the measures put in place to strengthen universal surveillance using available databases on TB, HIV patients, and other vulnerable patients. The team was informed that the per day testing capacity was being increased successfully, and that technology, along with the involvement of private health facilities was being effectively used to increase outreach,” said Jawaid Akthar, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, Karnataka.     “In Bengaluru, the team visited health facilities including fever clinics and the designated COVID-19 Victoria Hospital. The team also visited institutions such as NIMHANS, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, and the National Institute of Virology, Bengaluru. They were updated on various innovations of Karnataka to strengthen health systems and surveillance, including the Critical Care Support team and the tele-ICU unit, the BBMP War Room, and the Media Bulletin Room. During their travel to other districts, the central team visited fever clinics, quarantine and isolation wards of district and taluka-hospitals, as well as microbiology labs,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare. “The team declared that the Victoria Hospital and Surathkal quarantine facilities were model practices to be followed. They also made suggestions on medium and long term measures like strengthening human resources at health institutions, training, and mass counseling,” Pandey added. The central team deemed the Mysuru screening facility as excellent and declared that the ‘Critical Care Support team initiative’ should be emulated by other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/central-team-concludes-visit-to-assess-and-assist-karnatakas-covid-19-response-831828.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt allows one-time movement of stranded people||The Karnataka government on Thursday decided to allow migrant workers, tourists, students and others stranded in different parts of the state due to the ongoing lockdown to return to their native places, a day after the Centre issued guidelines for the process. This will be a one-time movement and the government would arrange buses for those in need but they should bear the expenses, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy said. He also said people willing to return to the state would have to undergo tests for COVID-19. The decision was taken at the state cabinet meet and it might come into effect from Friday as the Chief Secretary will have to issue an official order, he said. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi had taken decision on movement of people and the Centre had issued a circular in this regard. Following this we have decided to permit interstate and inter-district movement," he told reporters here. Travel expenses should be borne by those willing to return and if they want the government can provide buses from the state transport corporations. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday issued orders allowing migrant workers, tourists, students and other people stranded in different parts of the country to move to their respective destinations with certain conditions, giving a big relief to the distressed people. Decision on opening of salons and liquor shops will be taken after May 3, he said.    Madhuswamy said permission would be given for one-time movement of labourers and others who want to go from one district to other for work or any other purpose. Those operating industry or establishment and want to move from place to place for management purpose will be given passes with strict scrutiny and through checks.   Responding to a question, the minister said, "we don't know yet how many are willing to go, where they will go, if some one asks for permission, we will permit." "One family or two or three people want to go, they can use taxi. If too many people want to go, we will provide facility through transport corporation buses," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-allows-one-time-movement-of-stranded-people-831890.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Five judicial officers elevated as additional judges of Karnataka HC||Five judicial officers were on Thursday elevated as additional judges of the Karnataka High Court. A notification was issued by the Law Ministry appointing Shivashankar Amarannavar, Smt M Ganeshaiah Uma, Vedavyasachar Srishananda, Hanchate Sanjeevkumar, and Padmaraj Nemachandra Desai as additional judges for a period of two years. The Supreme Court Collegium had on April 20 recommended for the elevation of the five judicial officers as judges of the Karnataka High Court. With the latest appointment, the number of judges in HC would rise to 46 against the approved strength of 62 judges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/five-judicial-officers-elevated-as-additional-judges-of-karnataka-hc-831925.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Rs 30 lakh relief if Karnataka personnel die||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday announced an ex-gratia of Rs 30 lakh to anganwadi workers, helpers, pourakarmikas and police personnel in case they die due to COVID-19.  In other pro-farmer decisions, the government has exempted the Animal Husbandry & Fisheries department from the tender process in order to directly procure maize from farmers at Rs 1,760 per quintal for one year. The maize will be given to the Karnataka Milk Federation to prepare fodder for animals.  Karnataka also announced purchasing tur dal from farmers (7 quintals per acre up to 20 quintals per farmer) and bengal gram (5 quintals per acre up to 15 quintals per farmer) under the minimum support price scheme.  This will benefit farmers in Dharwad, Gadag, Belagavi, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Bidar, Raichur, Chitradurga, Bagalkot, Koppal, Ballari and Davangere.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-rs-30-lakh-relief-if-karnataka-personnel-die-831967.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Citizens in Karnataka to get pass via WhatsApp to visit sub-registrar office||Citizens, who want to visit sub-registrar offices for property registration work, will be issued passes via WhatsApp, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said Thursday.  All sub-registrar offices are now functional, the minister said, except those located within a COVID-19 containment zone. The sub-registrar offices in Bengaluru and Mysuru opened Wednesday, whereas others opened Friday last.  “One person will be given a half-hour slot. In total, the sub-registrar offices will work for about eight hours. Arrangements have been made for citizens to be given passes. They need to call the sub-registrar office and the pass will be sent via WhatsApp, which can be printed. A copy of the pass will be sent to the police also,” Ashoka said.    Citizens can book an appointment for property registration online by visiting kaverionline.karnataka.gov.in Water crisis With some parts of the state staring at water scarcity, the government has decided to treat 49 taluks across 18 districts as “drought-affected” for one more month, Ashoka said.  These 49 taluks were declared drought-affected in October last. These taluks are located in Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagara, Kolar, Chikballapur, Tumakuru, Chitradurga, Davangere, Chamarajanagar, Ballari, Koppal, Raichur, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Belagavi, Bagalkot, Vijayapura and Gada districts.  “Rainfall hasn’t occurred as expected in some parts of the state. Therefore, the drought situation and drinking water problems continue, especially in north Karnataka,” Ashoka said. “We have decided to extend the notification for these 49 taluks for one more month so that drought-related works and drinking water supply can continue.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/citizens-in-karnataka-to-get-pass-via-whatsapp-to-visit-sub-registrar-office-831984.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: 11 booked for offering mass prayers in Karnataka's Kolar||The police on Thursday booked 11 people for violating lock down guidelines by offering mass prayers at Bha-Ki Masjid near Doddapet market here. “Religious meetings and mass prayers have been banned due to Covid-19 lock down. Certain restrictions have been imposed on religious centres. However, the 11 people violated the guidelines by conducting the mass prayers,” Shobitha, tahsildar, told reporters. On a tip-off, the tahsildar and the police rushed to the masjid for inspection. “All 11 have been handed over to the City police. Deputy commissioner and superintendent of police have been informed about the development,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-11-booked-for-offering-mass-prayers-in-karnatakas-kolar-831990.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||All 11 Covid-19 patients in Uttara Kannada district recover||All 11 people in the district, who suffered from Covid-19, have now completely recovered with the 11th patient being discharged from the Indian Naval Hospital Ship Patanjali here. The second report of throat swabs of the 11th patient turned out to be negative. The district reported the last Covid-19 case on March 14. There are no fresh cases since then. All 11 Covid-19 victims are members of a family from Bhatkal and they had returned from Dubai. The pregnant wife of the man, discharged on Thursday, was treated at a hospital in Udupi. According to deputy commissioner Dr K Harish Kumar, district in-charge minister would soon announce relaxation of lock down guidelines as there were no fresh cases of Covid-19||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/all-11-covid-19-patients-in-uttara-kannada-district-recover-831993.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Victoria, Surathkal facilities role models: Central team||A team of doctors deputed by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare ended its 13-day fact-finding and advisory visit to the state on Thursday. According to a statement, the team’s agenda was to assess the state’s Covid-19 response and provide required assistance. Jawaid Akthar, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, said the team discussed the state’s preparedness during the pandemic and reviewed fever clinics, exclusive Covid-care centres and swab collection facilities at taluk and district levels.  “The team was also apprised of the measures put in place to strengthen universal surveillance using available databases of TB, HIV and other vulnerable patients. The team was informed that the per day testing capacity was being increased successfully,” Akthar said.  In the city, the team visited fever clinics and Covid-designated hospitals such as Victoria Hospital. The team also visited Nimhans, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, besides the National Institute of Virology, Bengaluru.  "They were updated on various innovations of the Government of Karnataka to strengthen health systems and surveillance, including the Critical Care Support Team and tele-ICU unit, the BBMP War Room and the Media Bulletin Room,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare. The Commissioner said the team had declared that the Victoria Hospital and Surathkal quarantine facilities had model practices to be followed by all.  “They also gave suggestions on medium- and long-term measures like strengthening human resources at health institutions, training and mass counselling,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/victoria-surathkal-facilities-role-models-central-team-831996.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Cabinet approves new sand policy||The Cabinet on Thursday approved a new sand policy that allows extraction of sand from patta land and lakebeds in rural areas. The government is identifying and auctioning sand blocks in river beds. In the same manner, sand can be extracted from patta land and lake-beds for local use, Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said, adding that the measure would ensure sand at affordable prices in rural areas. The sand will be sold at Rs 700 per metric tonne, and will likely generate an additional royalty of Rs 60 crore. Government currently earns Rs 180 crore as royalty by auctioning sand blocks, he said. Local tahsildars will identify the sand blocks for auctioning, Madhuswamy added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cabinet-approves-new-sand-policy-831999.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: Karnataka decides to allow interstate transport||The Cabinet on Thursday decided to allow one-time interstate, inter-district movement of people and labourers stranded due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The Karnataka government also appointed nodal officers to 'facilitate the smooth and orderly movement of people' as per the standard operating procedure prescribed by the Ministry of Home Affairs. The move will also benefit students and others who have been seeking permission to move to their native states or districts during the lockdown.  However, people from containment zones will be allowed to travel to their native districts or states only after they are tested for the virus.  The government will allow people from Karnataka residing in other states to return if they test negative for COVID-19, Law Minister J C Madhuswamy said, briefing reporters after the Cabinet meeting.   "Expenses should be covered by those wishing to travel. The government is willing to arrange buses for their benefit," Madhuswamy said. The government will provide a permit to anyone who wishes to go, he said. An order issued by Chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar deputed IAS officers Rajkumar Khatri and Arun Jeji Chakravarthy as overall incharges for movement of stranded people to Karnataka from different states. Manjunath Prasad and PS Sandhu will oversee the movement of people from Karnataka to other states. Other IAS officers have been deputed to coordinate with their counterparts from other states to facilitate the travel. The order also directed district administrations, KSRTC, NWKRTC and NEKRTC, and all other concerned departments to facilitate the process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-decides-to-allow-interstate-transport-832000.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||VTU provides e-resource support to students||Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) is providing e-resource support from VTU Consortium through a mobile app for students to make up the loss of their classroom lectures of their teachers by downloading articles and e-books to their desktops, mobile phones and study. In a press release, the university said it has decided to extend its e-resources through the mobile app as the students and teachers are forced to stay at home in this lockdownperiod.  The VTU Consortium, the first and stable technological university consortium in the country, has access to a huge proprietary intellectual content. Efforts have been made to consolidate all the user IDs and passwords given to the students and teachers from their respective colleges. The students and teachers may download the m-Library App from their Android mobile phones and install it. They can also access the website through their computers using the URL: <http://vtuconsortium.org>. They can log in using their credentials. If they do not have the credentials, they can get the same from their college. The teachers of different colleges have also been advised to suggest suitable titles of articles and e-books to their students through emails and engage them academically from theirhomes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vtu-provides-e-resource-support-to-students-832002.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown upends lives of Bagalkot weavers; 62,000 looms fall silent||The ongoing lockdown clamped to mitigate virus spread has upended the lives of thousands from the weaving community in the district Over 62,000 handlooms and powerlooms in Rabakavi-Banahatti, Chimmad, Mudhol, Lokapur, Kamatagi, Kerur, Ilkal and Guledgudd in the district have gone silent following the lockdown, hitting hard the lives of skilledlabourers. Amateppa Koppal a veteran weaver from Guledgudd and a leader of the Nekara community, poured out his woes to DH, “The famed handwoven sarees, blouse piece and other products from the region have a good market in Karnataka and Maharashtra while the powerloom fabric/products have market in most of the states. With the curbs on the interstate movement, the finished products are lying idle with the weavers. The traditional weaving industry in the region has come to a standstill.” Spare a thought for the craftsmen working in handlooms/powerlooms. “The situation is grim for the handloom weavers - both the owners and the workers. Skilled labourers employed in handlooms normally weave six metres of fabric a day and ear somewhere around Rs 180 to Rs 200. Those in powerloom earn a tad better then their counterparts in handlooms. But even that better is not good enough to lead a decent life in normal days. And it is hard to imagine their lives without work and wages in these testing times,” the weaver from Guledgudd lamented. Now, there is neither supply of raw materials nor is market for the finished products due to nationwide lockdown. Not just weavers and labourers, even the traders, middlemen, suppliers of raw materials, transporters have become jobless, rues Amateppa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-upends-lives-of-bagalkot-weavers-62000-looms-fall-silent-832003.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Belagavi dist reports big surge in infections, 14 contract virus||In a big single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in the district, 14 people, including three children, contracted virus on Thursday. The spurt in cases has taken the district tally to 69. Among the 14 new cases, Hirebagewadi alone has accounted for 11 while three from Sankeshwar in Hukkeri taluk, including a nine-year-old boy and eight-year-old girl, contracted the Covid-19. All Hirebagewadi cases reported on Thursday are secondary contacts of the infected persons. Three cases from Sankeshwar are contacts of Patient 293. According to the district authorities, most of the Covid-19 cases reported from Belagavi district are either who attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi or their primary and secondary contacts.  Davangere reported its fifth Covid-19 case, second in less than 24 hours, on Thursday. According to Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi, “A 69-year-old man, resident of Jaalinagar in the city, has tested positive for novel coronavirus on Wednesday. The elderly man with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) was admitted to the District Hospital on April 28. The man’s throat swab sample has returned positive today (April 30).” On Wednesday, a staff nurse from a community healthcare centre had tested positive for virus. The 35-year-old woman was believed to have contracted virus from her son, whose report on swab sample is awaited. The primary contacts of the elderly man and the nurse have been placed in isolation at the district hospital Efforts are underway to trace the secondary contacts of both the patients, the DC said. The district administration has sealed Bashanagar and Jaalinagar in the city and incident commanders have been appointed to monitor the situation in the said areas. There is no let up in Covid-19 situation in Vijayapura town. Two more, including a 33-year-old woman, tested positive for the virus as the total count of cases went up to 43 in the district with Vijayapura town accounting for lion’s share. With two deaths and 6 discharges, the district now has 35 active cases. According to the health bulletin, apart from the woman, a 62-year-old man also tested positive for the illness. Both are the relatives and primary contacts of P-221.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/belagavi-dist-reports-big-surge-in-infections-14-contract-virus-832028.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Rs 30 lakh relief if personnel die of coronavirus||KArnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday announced an ex gratia of Rs 30 lakh to anganwadi workers, helpers, pourakarmikas and police personnel in case they die due to COVID-19.  In other pro-farmer decisions, the government has exempted the Animal Husbandry and Fisheries department from the tender process in order to directly procure maize from farmers at Rs 1,760 per quintal for one year. The maize will be given to the Karnataka Milk Federation to prepare fodder for animals.  Karnataka also announced purchasing tur dal from farmers (7 quintals per acre up to 20 quintals per farmer) and bengal gram (5 quintals per acre up to 15 quintals per farmer) under the minimum support price scheme.  This will benefit farmers in Dharwad, Gadag, Belagavi, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Bidar, Raichur, Chitradurga, Bagalkot, Koppal, Ballari and Davangere.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-rs-30-lakh-relief-if-personnel-die-of-coronavirus-832032.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Register online, get pass on WhatsApp for sub-registrar office||Citizens who want to visit sub-registrar offices for property registration work will be issued passes via WhatsApp, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said on Thursday. All sub-registrar offices are now functional, the minister said, except those located within Covid-19 containment zones. The sub-registrar offices in Bengaluru and Mysuru opened on Wednesday, whereas others opened Friday last. “One person will be given a half-hour slot. In total, the sub-registrar offices will work for about eight hours. Arrangements have been made for citizens to be given passes. They need to call the sub-registrar office and the pass will be sent via WhatsApp, which can be printed. A copy of the pass will be sent to the police also,” Ashoka said. Citizens can book an appointment for property registration online on kaverionline.karnataka.gov. in With some parts of the state staring at water scarcity, the government has decided to treat 49 taluks across 18 districts as “drought-affected” for one more month, Ashoka said. These 49 taluks were declared drought-affected in October last. These taluks are located in Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru  Rural, Ramanagara, Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru, Chitradurga, Davangere, Chamarajanagar, Ballari, Koppal, Raichur, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Belagavi, Bagalkot, Vijayapura and Gadag districts. “There has been no rainfall as expected in some parts of the state. Therefore, the drought situation and drinking water problems continue, especially in north Karnataka,” Ashoka said. “We have decided to extend the notification for these 49 taluks for one more month so that drought-related works and drinking water supply can continue.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/register-online-get-pass-on-whatsapp-for-sub-registrar-office-832034.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KSRTC carries 15,000 migrant labourers across state||Nearly 15,000 migrant labourers from within Karnataka stuck in their place of work have returned to their home towns over the last one week with the KSRTC running 518 buses for them. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has been running buses on casual contract starting from April 4. Till Thursday, 510 buses were operated from 14 divisions carrying 14398 workers to various places across the state. Migrant labourers, most of them daily wagers, have been suffering for the last one month as the COVID-19 lockdown has effectively put an end to their jobs. The government had made efforts to stop them from leaving their places fearing that they may spread the disease to interior areas.   However, keeping them in community halls and maintaining social distancing has become a challenge. Workers were made to stand in kilometre-long queues to get food packets distributed by the government. As many as 8561 labourers, most of them from north Karnataka, travelled from Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts in 192 buses operated by the corporation's Mangaluru and Puttur divisions. In Chikkamagalur division, 3363 migrant workers were transported to various parts of the states, in a development indicating that the coffee plantations may face a labour crisis in the coming days. Similarly, 805 workers left Bengaluru, followed by Mysuru (462), Shivamogga (381), Tumakur (338), Hassan (198) and other areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ksrtc-carries-15000-migrant-labourers-across-state-832040.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||PG medical, dental course fees in pvt colleges increased||A day after the government ordered the private schools to not hike the school fees for this year, citing the coronavirus-driven lockdown, the Medical Education department on Thursday increased the fee for the medical and dental PG courses for 2020-21. According to the order, while the fee hike for both the medical and dental PG courses under institutional quota has been increased by 30%, the same has been hiked by 20% for the government quota seats available at the private medical and dental colleges across Karnataka.  However, the fee structure at the government colleges has remained unchanged. Sources in the department confirmed to DH that the admission notification has also been issued by the colleges as per the new fee structure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pg-medical-dental-course-fees-in-pvt-colleges-increased-832044.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||First PU results to be announced on May 5||The results of first year Pre-University courses for which the examinations were held in the month of February / March will be announced on May 5. The results will be sent directly to students and parents through the registered mobile number and email address and colleges have been directed not to display the results on the notice board. This is to avoid gathering of people during the Covid-19 lockdown and to avoid spreading the same. For students who could not clear the exams, a supplementary examination will be conducted at the college level, and the details of the same will be shared with respective colleges by the department of Pre-University Education in future. After the declaration of results, colleges can conduct online classes for students who are eligible to attend second year PU classes. No hike in fee The department of Primary and Secondary Education which directed schools not to hike tuition fee for 2020-21 academic year, has also said the same to PU colleges. In the circular issued, the department has directed the colleges not to increase the fee and asked them to maintain the fee collected during the previous year, or even lesser than that could also beneficial for parents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/first-pu-results-to-be-announced-on-may-5-832048.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KSRTC carries 15,000 migrant labourers||Nearly 15,000 migrant labourers from within Karnataka stuck in their place of work have returned to their hometowns over the last one week with the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) operating 518 buses for them. The KSRTC has been running buses on casual contract from April 4. Till Thursday, 510 buses were operated from 14 divisions carrying 14398 workers to various places across the state. Migrant labourers, most of them daily wagers, have been suffering for the last one month as the Covid-19 lockdown has effectively put an end to their jobs. The government had made efforts to stop them from leaving their places fearing that they may spread the disease to interior areas. However, keeping them in community halls and maintaining social distancing has become a challenge. Workers were made to stand in kilometre-long queues to get food packets distributed by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ksrtc-carries-15000-migrant-labourers-832061.html
30-04-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Women’s NGO, police tie up for 3Hs: Give hope, render help, end hunger||The members of the Mahila Dakshata Samiti, an organisation that helps women and children from dysfunctional families, have now extended support to those in distress during the lockdown. The Bengaluru-based NGO is part of the Disaster and Emergency Management team set up by the Karnataka government to carry out Covid-19 lockdown relief work. The members have volunteered to help in the distribution of medicines, essential supplies as well as caring for the homeless. They have also initiated the ‘Feed the daily wager’ project in association with the Vidyaranyapura Police Station. “As part of the project, we provide 100 meals a day to slum dwellers,” says Saranya Hegde, president of the Samiti. A group of four women, all survivors of domestic abuse, prepare the food in the organisation’s kitchen. The police distribute the food with the aid of volunteers, especially Rotary Club members. “The meals include lunch and dinner. Each day, we prepare different varieties of nutritious food,” says Lalitha H R, the person in charge of the kitchen. “As far as possible, we try to help migrants who are not covered under various government schemes,” says Praveen Kumar, Inspector of Vidyaranyapura Police Station. Apart from cooked food, the police have also made arrangements to supply dry ration and cooking gas. “Empty stomachs can make people resort to crime. So, it is important to ensure that people’s hunger is sated,” says Praveen. The members are also providing emotional support to the vulnerable. With increased instances of domestic violence reported during the lockdown, the NGO’s family counselling centre does telephonic counselling, to reach out and provide psychological support to people in distress. The residents of the short stay home run by the organisation have been making two-layered masks from cotton fabric. The masks are supplied to the Department of Women and Child Development. “We are glad that we are able to help others in some way,” says Radha M, who along with three other women, stitches up to 200 masks every day. For more information and to support, log on to www.mahiladakshatasamiti.org.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/women-s-ngo-police-tie-up-for-3hs-give-hope-render-help-end-hunger-832070.html
30-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||COVID-19 positive cases increase to 69 in Belagavi||All tested positive are secondary contacts of COVID-19 positives from Hirebagewadi and Sankeshwar with some coming in contact with multiple patents tested positive earlier.  Among the 14 positive cases, 11 were from Hirebagewadi village in Belagavi taluk and three from Sankeshwar town in Hukkeri taluk. They include seven male and seven female including an 8-year-old girl and 9-year-old boy both from Sankeshwar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/covid-19-positive-cases-increase-to-69-in-belagavi-831810.html
30-04-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Two more recover from COVID-19 in Belagavi||Two women, who recovered from COVID-19, were discharged from the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences District Hospital on Thursday, thus the total number of patients recovered to 10. Director Dr Vinay Dastikopp said that P 149, a female aged 67 years, and P 147, a female aged 36 years, from Kuduchi town in Raibag taluk were discharged after they recovered. They had been admitted in the hospital for treatment on April 1 and March 31 respectively. Until now, 10 COVID-19 positive patients have recovered and one death has been reported in Belagavi district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/two-more-recover-from-covid-19-in-belagavi-831866.html
30-04-2020||West||Man booked for 'derogatory' post against Maharashtra CM, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi||A case has been registered against a man for allegedly uploading a "derogatory" post against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, a police official said on Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Pushparaj Meshram, a resident of Kamptee, the official said. "He had uploaded a derogatory post about these political leaders on Facebook. Based on a complaint, a case was registered against Meshram under IPC sections 505 (2), 500 (defamation), 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy)," inspector Narendra Hiwre of Lakadganj police station said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-booked-for-derogatory-post-against-maharashtra-cm-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-congress-leader-rahul-gandhi-831653.html
30-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Online therapy for patients with neuromuscular disorders||To cater to the needs of these patients, SynPhNe, a digital neurological therapeutics company, has adopted a telehealth initiative to provide virtual therapy/online sessions to their patients.   Based on the assessment of the patient’s past and current condition, a trained therapist from SynPhNe guides them through an exercise routine that has been specially customized keeping in mind the improvement goals that are mutually set. Stroke is one of the leading causes of disability in India. People who survive a stroke suffer from acute to severe functional movements and cognition related disorders.  Many stroke survivors find difficulties in Activities of Daily Living (ADLs) such as eating with their own hands, maintaining personal hygiene, wearing clothes by themselves etc.  These patients require continual and prolonged therapy for both, improving function and to prevent regression. A lot of these stroke patients have comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, etc., which necessitates doing some level of physical exercise; the online sessions help address this need as well. The patients suffering from cognition deficit are asked to do tasks like reading, writing alphabets, doing a simple puzzle, etc. Emphasising on the importance of online sessions, Abhijeet Pandit, Director & CEO, SynPhNe India Pvt Ltd, VP Global Network Dev & Marketing, says, “The current and future need is to adopt the concept of telehealth and telemedicine in delivering care and therapy to our patients. Since the lockdown, we have initiated, with great success, online consulting and therapy."  According to him, SynPhNe technology has been made commercially available on two platforms - the SynPhNe Xpert (for franchisees, hospitals and clinics) and the SynPhNe eNabl (for home users). In the current scenario, post lockdown, depending upon the requirement, the patients can either purchase or rent the device and use it at home with the SynPhNe therapists monitoring their progress online with the help of the data being generated during every therapy session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-online-therapy-for-patients-with-neuromuscular-disorders-831679.html
30-04-2020||West||Amidst coronavirus lockdown, critical surgery performed on infant in Pune||A rare arterial switch surgery has given a fresh lease of life to a month-old who was brought to Jupiter Hospital in Pune. The patient was in critical condition when his family members brought him to the hospital. The 28-day-old boy was diagnosed with transposition of great arteries and had to undergo a complex neonatal cardiac surgery of arterial switch. He was admitted to the hospital under Dr Abhijeet Naik. “Such a defect happens to 1 in 3,300 newborn infants. In the Western world, there is 3% mortality, while in the developing world it stands at 15%. It was a difficult decision for us to carry out the operation,” said Dr Naik, Consultant Paediatric Cardiac Surgeon, Jupiter Hospital. “The first challenge we had to face was that the baby was beyond four weeks of age and it is difficult for the regressed left ventricle to support the systemic circulation. It involves transferring very tiny millimetre-sized coronary arteries onto the new aortic root. Secondly, we had to successfully complete the surgery without the ECMO machine and lastly, the surgical and ICU team had to take precautions of the highest order to prevent infection and in the situation of lockdown, the parents were also told to maintain social distancing from the baby.” “To see all the associated personnel committed and working for saving a tiny baby's life in extreme conditions of risk and difficulty was a heart-warming situation," he said. “Babies with this premature level are very small and very fragile," said Dr Shrinivas Tambe, Pediatrician, Jupiter Hospital. “At the time of admission, the baby came to us in a very blue condition, with oxygen saturation measuring between 35-40%. Normal saturation is more than 95%. The baby was feeling very breathless and this condition was a true paediatric cardiac emergency. The seven- to eight-hour surgery was successful and the baby was shifted to PICU. However, the next 72 hours were the most critical for the baby,” he further stated. The baby boy went home after such a critical surgery on the eighth postoperative day, which was a measure of the quality of surgery and the ICU care. "We would like to thank and specially mention the baby's parents, who trusted us with their baby's life in such a difficult situation for them.” said Dr Rahul Saraf, Consultant Paediatric Cardiologist, Jupiter Hospital. The child’s father said, “It was an immensely distressing experience, having to witness our newborn child go through so much trauma. The happiness of his birth was overshadowed by his ailment. We are grateful to the doctors, due to the tireless efforts of which we have our son back with us."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amidst-coronavirus-lockdown-critical-surgery-performed-on-infant-in-pune-831693.html
30-04-2020||West||Malegaon emerging as a new COVID-19 hotspot in Maharashtra||In Malegaon, over 170 COVID-19 positive cases have been reported and 12 people have died, according to records of the Public Health Department. Around 20 days ago, Malegaon had reported its first positive case and by Wednesday, the cases had shot to a whopping 171.  On Wednesday, Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and Food and Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal, who is the guardian minister of Nashik, held a meeting to review the situation. Nashik Divisional Commissioner Rajaram Mane, Commissioner of Police Vishwas Nangre-Patil, Inspector General Nashik Range Cheering Dorje, District Collector Suraj Mandhare, civic chief Radhakrishna Game, Superintendent of Police Arti Singh were present at the meeting. Dhule MP Dr Subhash Bhamre, under whose jurisdiction Malegaon falls, has written to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, warning that Malegaon could emerge as a virus hotspot and also highlighted the law and order situation.A few days ago, a mob had attacked cops in Malegaon."I appeal to the people of Malegaon to be indoors and be in home quarantine," said AIMIM MP from Aurangabad Imtiaz Jaleel.  "We know there are issues, there is a large working class. We have requested the government that food is provided, besides,  we would also request the rich people to be the pillar of strength for the poor," he added.  Malegaon has a population of nearly six lakh and over 75 per cent constitute Muslims. The government has plans to give hydroxychloroquine tablets to high-risk contacts in Malegaon under strict medical supervision. Additional security forces are being deployed - and police have been asked to ensure that social distancing is followed. Additional medical and paramedical staff have also been rushed to Malegaon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/malegaon-emerging-as-a-new-covid-19-hotspot-in-maharashtra-831720.html
30-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown Russian family stranded in Dwarka, but say they feel safe||A Russian couple and their three-year-old son, stranded at Dwarka in Gujarat since last month due to the lockdown, say they are feeling safe in the temple town, where no COVID-19 case has been found so far, and would return home only when things become normal. Zyuzin Vitaly, the Russian man, said his wife is pregnant and he is grateful to the local administration for the care and support provided by them. "Since my wife is pregnant, the administration has made arrangements for our food and medical checkup. We feel safe here and wish to leave only after things get normal. We thank the government for taking our care amid the lockdown," a government release said quoting Vitaly. There has been no coronavirus case so far in Gujarat's Devbhumi-Dwarka district. Local revenue officer Vivek Barhat said Vitaly, his wife Galina and their son Sviatoslave are happy in Dwarka and do not wish to return to their country in the present situation. The family came to India on October 13 last year on a tourist visa and went to several pilgrim and tourist sites in the country before reaching Dwarka in the first week of March. "They were supposed to leave from Dwarka on March 26 and catch a flight to Russia from Delhi on April 1, but got stranded after the lockdown was announced. A local travel agent gave the first floor of his house to the family for their comfortable stay," Barhat said. "They are also in touch with the Russian Embassy and we are also taking care of their daily needs," he said.  Since no coronavirus case has been reported from Dwarka so far, the Russian family actually feels safer here, especially when the woman is six months pregnant, said Barhat, who visitsthe family regularly to know their welfare. Vitaly goes to the market to buy vegetables and groceries and the family cooks their own meals, he said. "Looking at the COVID-19 situation in Delhi and Russia, they told us that they will not leave Dwarka in the present situation even if the embassy makes special arrangements for their return," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-russian-family-stranded-in-dwarka-but-say-they-feel-safe-831763.html
30-04-2020||West||Stranded migrants in Gujarat gear up to return to home states||The migrant workers in Gujarat, who have been finding it difficult to survive as they were left with no source of income ever since the lockdown came into force over a month ago, are now gearing up to go back to their native places after the Centre decided to allow them to do so. The Centre's decision has brought cheer to the migrant workers, who were stuck in the state and facing different kinds of hardships. Many of them struggled with loneliness and became homesick as they were away from their loved ones. Officials said that following the issuance of guidelines for the inter-state movement of stranded people by the Centre on Wednesday, the Gujarat government stepped up its efforts to send back the migrant labourers, who are mostly from Uttar Pradesh. In Ahmedabad, the stranded migrants have already started packing their bags to return home. "Life became very difficult for me and my family after the lockdown as I was left with no money. I used to earn around Rs 13,000every month. But, there has been no income since over a month now," said Shyam Singh, a native of Morena in Madhya Pradesh, who is currently living in Ranip area of Ahmedabad. "Though we were eager to go back home, it was not possible. I even borrowed money from my friends to meet the daily expenses," Singh, who sells children's apparel on his bicycle, said. He said he was glad that they were now allowed to go back to their home state. "I can at least do some farming there to help my family. I have already packed the luggage for the journey. If I find some better work in my home state, I do not wish to return here," he added. Kulbhushan Sharma, a native of Agra in Uttar Pradesh, sells panipuri in Chandlodia area of the city. He said he has been surviving on whatever savings he had kept aside. "I once thought of walking to Agra. But, my family back home asked me to wait. I am glad that the government has now understood our pain. It's not always about money. Many of us are actually feeling lonely here. We can deal with such situation in a better way if we have the company of our relatives and family members," he said with tears in his eyes. According to officials, apart from such migrants scattered in different parts of the state, around 4,000 others are kept in shelter homes, who are waiting for their return. Additional Chief Secretary, Labour and Employment, Vipul Mitra, said that around 4,000 migrant workers kept at various shelter homes in the state will be sent back to their home states soon. Of them, around 2,300 are from Uttar Pradesh alone, while others are from neighbouring states like Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. "We have already started the process to send 500 labourers to Maharashtra in the coming days. We will drop them at the border, from where, authorities of that state would ferry them into their buses. District collectors are also issuing permits to shift such workers in private buses with the help of local NGOs and industries," Mitra said. "Since UP is far from Gujarat, we have urged that state to send thier own buses to shift 2,300 migrants. We have planned to send all the stranded migrants to their respective places in coming days," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stranded-migrants-in-gujarat-gear-up-to-return-to-home-states-831784.html
30-04-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Industries may resume soon in areas not hit by COVID-19, says Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday said he is sure that steps will be taken soon to resume business activities in parts of Maharashtra which are not hit by COVID-19, to bring the state's economy on track and restore normalcy after the lockdown ends on May 3. In his address via Facebook Live, Pawar said different decisions on movement restrictions may be taken in connection with coronavirus hotspots like Mumbai and Pune. Pawar said steps to relax curbs should be taken on the condition of adhering strictly to social distancing norms to keep the deadly coronavirus at bay. He expressed concern over the rise in number of COVID-19 cases in Mumbai, Pune, Malegaon, Aurangabad and other parts of Maharashtra, noting that the cases are mainly from densely-populated areas. "The lockdown period will end on May 3. We are all ears towards what future steps Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) will announce. But I am sure, barring areas which are badly hit, steps will be taken to resume activities/businesses elsewhere (in areas not hit by COVID-19) soon," he said. Such instructions have been given to district collectors and care will be taken to restore normalcy, the former Union minister said. Noting that the state is facing an economic crisis, Pawar said there is a need to resume operations of factories/ industries and people need to go to work. "Enough of sitting inside. It needs to be seen how factories resume operations and steps are taken to bring the economy back on track, he added. The veteran leader said the Maharashtra government also wants industries to resume operations as factories and industries are important for (the growth of) the state. He, however, cautioned people to not defy social distancing norms even if restrictions on movement are relaxed after May 3 in certain areas. Pawar said the lockdown has affected Maharashtra's economy badly and it is set to suffer in terms of revenue income collection during the ongoing fiscal.  He said as per the 2020-21 budget estimates, the Maharashtra government was expected to get around Rs 3.47 lakh crore revenue income. But, due to the economic activities coming to a halt in the state following the lockdown, a revenue deficit of Rs 1.40 lakh crore, or loss of 40 per cent, is expected, he said. "This will have a bearing on the developmental works of the state. So, there is a health crisis and also an economic crisis, Pawar said. Referring to the letter he wrote to Modi a few days back to apprise the prime minister about the economic situation, Pawar said both the Centre and state governments should together find a way to overcome the difficult times. He said the Centre should strengthen the states economically to overcome the present challenge. Pawar also talked about the agrarian distress triggered by the COVID-19 outbreak, and called for taking measures like restructuring farm and crop loans, giving concessions in payment of interest rates by farmers. The interest rate on crop loans should be brought down to zero to help peasants, he added. Pawar also demanded steps to address the issue of unemployment resulting from the lockdown. He praised the state machinery, particularly doctors, nurses and policemen, for working hard to fight COVID-19. Expressing concern over the attacks on doctors and policemen, he said strict action will be initiated against those engaged in such acts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-industries-may-resume-soon-in-areas-not-hit-by-covid-19-says-sharad-pawar-831793.html
30-04-2020||West||2 more COVID-19 deaths, 86 new cases in Rajasthan||The death toll due to the novel coronavirus pandemic rose to 57 in Rajasthan on Thursday with two more fatalities, while the number of cases climbed to 2,524 after 86 people tested positive, an official said. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said the two deaths occurred in Jaipur, which accounted for 32 of the total 57 fatalities in the state. As many as 86 new cases, including 59 in Jodhpur and 14 in Jaipur, have been reported. Four infections were detected in Ajmer, three in Chittorgarh, two in Tonk and a case each in Alwar, Baran, Dholpur and Kota districts, the Health Department official said. The state now has 2,524 confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), out of which 592 have been discharged from hospitals. There are 1,662 active cases, Singh said. Jaipur has reported the highest number of cases with 892 infections, followed by 472 in Jodhpur.  The COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan includes two Italian citizens and 61 people brought from Iran, who have been put up in Army health centres in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The state is under lockdown since March 22 and a massive survey and screening is underway to track the people infected with the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/2-more-covid-19-deaths-86-new-cases-in-rajasthan-831797.html
30-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: 23 new coronavirus cases reported in Thane city||As many as 23 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Maharashtra's Thane city, taking the tally here to 279, an official said on Thursday. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation and Kalyan Dombivli Municipal limits recorded 18 and 13 new cases respectively, while no fresh cases were reported from Mira- Bhayandar area in 24 hours, the official said. At least six children, between the ages of six and 17, have tested positive for COVID-19 in Thane city, he said. Of the 279 cases in the city, Mumbra recorded the highest number with 50 patients, while Lokmanya Nagar and Wagle Estate areas had over 40 COVID-19 patients, deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malavi said.    Thane district reported new 64 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 867, an official release stated.   Meanwhile, MLA Sanjay Kelkar and BJP's Thane president Niranjan Davkhare urged municipal commissioner Vijay Singhal to provide subsidised treatment to COVID-19 patients. They demanded that the civic corporation declare the rates for each service, including ambulances, as patients were charged exorbitant amounts for the same. Speaking to reporters, Kelkar said the civic commissioner has agreed to maintain standard rates for all services provided by COVID19 hospitals in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-23-new-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-thane-city-831800.html
30-04-2020||West||Seven persons test positive for coronavirus in Maharashtra's Amravati||At least seven persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Maharashtra's Amravati district on Thursday, taking the count of coronavirus cases here to 35, an official said. The new cases were reported from Hanuman Nagar and Kholapuri Gate localities of Amravati city, the official said. The patients who tested positive included three family members of a resident of Kanwar Nagar, who had died of the deadly infection, he said. All seven patients were undergoing treatment at the dedicated COVID-19 hospital, he added. Meanwhile, the Amravati Municipal Corporation has sealed localities where COVID-19 cases have been reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/seven-persons-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-maharashtras-amravati-831856.html
30-04-2020||West||Maharashtra appoints nodal authority for movement of stranded people||The Maharashtra government on Thursday issued a notification designating all the district collectors as the nodal authority for the movement of stranded people into or outside the state and also within the state. The nodal authorities shall register the names of the people stranded within their districts and submit the detailed list to the collectors of the districts, where they desire to travel. The group of stranded persons will have to carry the copy of the letter given by the nodal authority. For the inter-state movement, the sending and receiving states and union territories shall consult each other and mutually agree to their movement by road and its schedule, the notification said. "No movement shall be permitted into or outside Maharashtra unless the group of stranded persons has obtained a letter from the appropriate district collector or the director of the state disaster management," it said. "Persons desiring to move shall be screened and only those who don't show COVID-19 symptoms will be allowed to proceed. The letter of the district and state shall clearly mention that the persons have been screened and are found to be asymptomatic," it added. All the persons, who wish to travel by making their own arrangement, can proceed on the basis of the letter of the sending and receiving states and districts. The vehicles to be used or deployed for transport will carry a transit pass issued by the sending state or the district authority. The pass will be for a fixed route with specific validity along with names of the travelling persons. The vehicles and buses used for transport shall be sanitized before and after use and social distancing norms shall be followed in the seating arrangements, the notification said. On the arrival at their destinations, the people shall be assessed by the local health authorities and kept in home quarantine unless they require institutional quarantine. They would be kept under watch with frequent health check-ups. They will be encouraged to use Aarogya Setu app, through which their health status can be monitored and tracked. The notification said that Additional Chief Secretary (Revenue) Nitin Kareer and Principal Secretary Woman and Child Welfare, Idzes Kundan, along with Director of state Disaster Management, Abhay Yawalkar, will coordinate the movement of stranded people. People can e-mail at controlroom@maharashtra.gov.in and call 022-22027990 and 022-22023039 for assistance. The notification has been issued as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) regarding the movement of stranded migrant workers, pilgrims, tourist students and others in different parts of the state. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the authorities to ensure implementation of the standard operating procedure (SOP) with care.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-appoints-nodal-authority-for-movement-of-stranded-people-831898.html
30-04-2020||West||Maharashtra: 64-year-old COVID-19 patient dies in Nanded||A 64-year-old COVID-19 patient succumbed to the infection in Maharashtra's Nanded city on Thursday, becoming the first coronavirus casualty in the region, an official said. A resident of Pirburhan Nagar, the patient had tested positive on April 22 and was undergoing treatment at Shankarrao Chavan Civil Hospital, the official said. The results of the patient's second test had come out negative, but he died on Thursday afternoon because of co- morbid conditions, he said. Nanded has reported three COVID-19 cases so far, while 21 persons have tested positive for the infection in neighbouring Hingoli district. Of the 21 patients in Hingoli, 16 are personnel from the State Reserve Police Force. Among other districts, Latur has 16 cases, Osmanabad and Jalna have three each, while Beed and Parbhani have one case each, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-64-year-old-covid-19-patient-dies-in-nanded-831902.html
30-04-2020||West||COVID-19 cases in Dharavi up by 25 to 369||With 25 more persons testing coronavirus positive in Dharavi in Mumbai on Thursday, the tally of such patients in the densely-populated slum area grew to 369, a civic official said. The new cases were found in Shiv Shakti Nagar, Shastri Nagar, PMGP Colony, Dhorwada, Transit camp, Indira Nagar, Muslim Nagar, Chaugule Chawl and some other localities in Dharavi, the official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. So far, 18 persons have died due to the infection in Dharavi, he said. Dharavi is one of the biggest slums in Asia where nearly 15 lakh people live in small shanties, making it one of the most congested areas of the metropolis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-in-dharavi-up-by-25-to-369-831923.html
30-04-2020||West||Fear of coronavirus infection always in mind: Hospital staffer||Dhondiba Sangle, who has spent 16 years working at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here, says he never felt any kind of fear while serving the patients in the past. However, the situation is no more the same for him. He says that he is constantly under fear while working in the hospital wards, where COVID-19 patients have been undergoing treatment. "I have seen every type of patient till date and never felt any kind of fear. But this is not the case now. I have a fear in my mind when I work in the COVID-19 wards, although we are provided with all kinds of safety gears," Sangle told PTI. "During the six hours of duty at the hospital everyday, I clean the floors of the wards at least thrice. We clean dustbins, give food to patients from a certain distance. We get co-operation from these patients, but the fear of contracting infection always exists in mind. This fear helps us to take extra care," he said. "It is my duty and I perform it wholeheartedly. Defeating coronavirus is a team job and I am a part of it. I have asthma, yet I am proud that I am working in this challenging phase with our team," Sangle said. His daughter Sakshi helps him once he gets back home from duty. "When my father returns home I stand at the door with a bottle of sanitizer. I am always worried for him. In the past, we used to chat whenever he came home after work. But the COVID-19 outbreak has changed the things. I have to wait for an hour before we start talking to each other," she says. Sangle's wife Archana, who suffered a paralysis attack a few months ago, is unable to move much. "I was paralysed four months ago. My husband has to help our daughter in the household work after he comes back from the hospital. Hope this COVID-19 situation ends quickly," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fear-of-coronavirus-infection-always-in-mind-hospital-staffer-831938.html
30-04-2020||West||Lockdown: Man uses fake MLA car sticker to drive around||An offence was registered against a 54-year-old businessman for allegedly using a fake MLA sticker on his car to enjoy free movement during the COVID-19 lockdown at Matunga in central Mumbai, police said on Thursday. Kamlesh Shah and his son were apprehended by the police while driving by Maheshwari Udyan on Wednesday evening, an official said. When the police intercepted the vehicle and asked Shah for identification, they found that the sticker on the car was a photocopy and he was using it to enjoy free movement during the lockdown, he said. A case under sections 465 (forgery), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and other relevant provisions of the IPC was registered and the duo was allowed to go after being served notices, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-man-uses-fake-mla-car-sticker-to-drive-around-831949.html
30-04-2020||West||Maharashtra coronavirus cases cross 10,000 mark||Maharashtra's COVID-19 cases crossed the 10,000- mark on Thursday.  The total number of positive cases now stands at 10,498 and deaths at 459. On Thursday, 583 new cases and 27 deaths were reported in the state. A total of 180 patients were discharged on Thursday, taking the total to 1,773. Out of 1,45,798 laboratory samples, 1,34,244 were negative and 10,498 have been tested positive for coronavirus till Thursday. The state's first case was confirmed on March 9, when a Pune couple who had returned from Dubai tested positive.  The first death was reported on March 17,  when a 64-year-old Mumbai resident,  who had a travel history to Dubai,  died.  As far as Mumbai is concerned,  the total cases are 7,061 and toll 290. As per the guidance from Government of India, cluster containment action plan is being implemented in places where clusters of patients have been found in the state.  There are 733 active containment zones in the state currently.    Total 10,092 surveillance squads worked on Thursday across the state and surveillance of 42.11 lakh population was done. Currently, 1,68,266 people are in home quarantine and 10,695 people are in institutional  quarantine.  The worst-affected area is the Mumbai-Pune belt including the larger Mumbai metropolitan region  and Pune metropolitan region.  Another area of concern is Nagpur city but now the textile town of Malegaon has emerged as one of the big hotspots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-coronavirus-cases-cross-10000-mark-831979.html
30-04-2020||West||Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari requests EC to declare elections for 9 vacant Council seats||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Thursday requested the Election Commission to hold polls to fill the nine seats of the legislative council of the state vacant since April 24, ‘at the earliest’. Maharashtra Chief Minister, Uddhav Thackeray, is likely to contest for one of the seats. He will have to relinquish the chief minister’s post if he cannot get elected to any of the two Houses by May 28. The Election Commission is likely to hold a video-conference on Friday to assess the feasibility of holding polls to the nine vacant seats of the Legislative Council of Maharashtra, as the nationwide lockdown enforced to contain Covid-19 pandemic may not be completely withdrawn after May 3. Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora is at present stranded in the United States due to the ban on the arrival of any commercial passenger aircraft to any airport in India. He is likely to hold a video-conference with the two other Election Commissioners, Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra, on Friday, sources in New Delhi said. They are expected to discuss the possibility of holding the polls for the nine vacant seats of the Legislative Council of Maharashtra amid the lockdown. Koshyari pointed out in his letter to the EC that the Union government had already announced certain relaxation to the lockdown in the country. He requested the poll-panel to consider holding the polls with certain guidelines to be adhered to stop COVID-19 virus from spreading. Sources said that the EC was studying the special arrangements which had been made to hold national elections in South Korea recently. The EC had earlier deferred the polling to fill up the 18 vacancies in the Rajya Sabha in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The polling to elect the 18 members of the Rajya Sabha from Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya and Rajasthan had been scheduled to take place on March 26, but the EC had on March 24 had postponed it in view of the lockdown imposed by the Centre and the State Governments to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. Thirty-seven seats in the upper House of Parliament have already been filled up uncontested without requiring polling. The poll-panel had on April 3 further postponed the election process “beyond the prescribed term(s)” of the respective Rajya Sabha seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshiyari-requests-ec-to-declare-elections-for-9-vacant-council-seats-832053.html
