02-04-2020||  ||Residents seal village entry points to keep Covid at bay||Balwant Garg  Tribune News Service  Faridkot, April 1   As the fear of the coronavirus continues to grow, residents of Bahamanwala village, 15 km from here, have set up checkpoints and banned the entry of outsiders in the village.  “As people are defying the curfew orders and we don’t know how long the situation will prevail, we have put barricades at all entry and exit points of the village so that no one can enter,” said Nirmal Singh, sarpanch of the village.  “Though this is not an official checkpoint, we have sealed our village with the makeshift naka and signboards saying the entry of visitors is prohibited as a precaution against the coronavirus. All youngsters in the village are helping us check the unwarranted entry into the village,” he said.  “Before allowing anyone to enter, we are collecting all details of an individual, his or her relatives in Bahamanwala and from where he or she comes. We are using masks and sanitisers for the safety of residents in the village. These masks are mandatory for every person who gets permission to enter the village,” said the sarpanch.  He added that as people were not taking the prohibitory orders seriously, they were forced to put up these nakas at all four entries and exit points of the village. They did not want others to visit the village until the situation got normal.  “Apart from preventing outsiders from entering the village, these nakas are helping us restrain the movement of our villagers as well. We will allow residents of the village to go outside in only emergency situation,” said the sarpanch.  Deputy Commissioner Kumar Saurabh Raj said, “There is nothing wrong if residents of a village use their own ways to restrain the movement of people in this time of crisis. When there is no cure, prevention with strict restrictions is the only available option.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/residents-seal-village-entry-points-to-keep-covid-at-bay-64439
02-04-2020||---||Ashtami pujan remains low-key affair in Muktsar||Muktsar, April 1Amid the coronavirus scare, Ashtami pujan remained a low-key affair here on Wednesday.Some people worshipped ‘kanjaks’ (little girls) through a video chat. The Hindus consider it auspicious to perform puja by inviting seven or nine girls and one boy and serve them food to seek the blessings of Goddess Durga.However, this year, temples remained closed during the Navratra festival. Esha, a local resident, said, “We observed fasting during the Navratras. Earlier, we used to serve food to little girls in our neighbourhood daily during the Navratras. But this time, due to the coronavirus scare, we did not visit any house in the neighbourhood and no girl came to our residence.”Usha, another local resident, said, “We could not buy any gift for the ‘kanjaks’ this time as shops were closed. Now, we will perform Ashtami pujan again when the curfew will be lifted.”Notably, in view of the Covid outbreak, the management of some temples and priests had also appealed to local residents to celebrate ‘Ashtami’ and ‘Navami’ at their houses and not to invite little girls from their neighbourhood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/ashtami-pujan-remains-low-key-affair-in-muktsar-64438
02-04-2020||---||Will emerge as victorious in this war: Manpreet||Bathinda, April 1Finance Minister Manpreet Badal on Wednesday said they all were working together amid the Covid-19 crisis. In a sentimental appeal to the Punjabis, Manpreet said, “This is a challenge for the entire nation. We will overcome it and emerge as victorious in this war.”Manpreet said, “Hunger and stress are two major concerns on the occasion. To counter these, we at the government level are making many efforts. Besides, our society is also contributing to it as per the tradition of Punjab. The government had to impose curfew to ensure that the health of its people doesn’t get affected. All-out efforts will be made at the government level to help people.”The Finance Minister said around 13,000 people were provided with packed food on Tuesday whereas more than 5,000 dry ration packets had been made available to needy people so far.According to the Finance Minister, many people in the city, including 200 in Hans Nagar, 200 in Guru Nanak Nagar, 100 in Guru Ki Nagar, 200 in Dhobian Basti, 200 in Sanguana Basti, 200 in Lal Singh Basti, 350 in Janta Nagar, 150 in Parasram Nagar, 150 in Sanjay Nagar, 50 in Gopal Nagar, 60 in Guru Gobind Singh Nagar and 50 in Power House Road area, were provided with food on Tuesday.He said on Wednesday, 200 people in the Sukhpeer Road area, 300 in Kahniya Nagar, 150 in the Parinda Road area, 200 in Subhash Basti, 150 in Sucha Singh Nagar, 200 in Dhobiana Basti, 150 in Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, 150 in Bala Ram Nagar and 200 in Sanjay Nagar got food.He said ration was provided to 200 people in Khet Singh Basti and Kachi Colony, 200 in Gopal Nagar and 200 in Paras Ram Nagar.He said, “Besides the entire administration, our social workers are also giving their valuable support in this time of crisis. With the same spirit to help the needy, we all have to work further so that the danger to humanity can be avoided.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/will-emerge-as-victorious-in-this-war-manpreet-64437
02-04-2020||Muktsar||3 booked for defying order||16 booked for assaulting copsMuktsar: The police have booked three persons for allegedly assaulting, abusing and tearing the uniforms of ASI Paramjit Singh and Home Guards jawan Ravinder Kumar. The suspects have been identified as Manga Singh and Sona of Udekaran village. The third suspect is yet to be identified. In a similar case, the police have booked 13 persons for allegedly abusing, threatening and tearing the uniform of ASI Balwinder Singh at Adarsh Nagar on Kotli Road here on Tuesday. TNSThree vegetable sellers heldMuktsar: The police have arrested three vegetable vendors for allegedly overcharging residents during the curfew. A case under Section 188 of the IPC and Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act has been registered in this regard. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/3-booked-for-defying-order-64436
02-04-2020||---||Admn providing fodder to stray animals||Bathinda, April 1The district administration has started providing fodder to stray animals roaming freely in different parts of the city.While life has come to a standstill in the wake of Covid-19 scare, things are not going down well with stray animals.The district administration has taken steps to ensure that stray animals get fodder/green grass to eat in these testing times. Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said: “We are in constant touch with gaushalas in the district to ensure that there is no shortage of fodder for animals. As of now, there is adequate fodder available for animals in gaushalas.”Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry Department, Amrik Singh said: “In all gaushalas in the district, there is sufficient stock of fodder for now and we have taken steps to ensure uninterrupted supply of fodder in the coming days as well.”He said apart from the Municipal Corporation, help extended by social service organisations have played a significant role so far. “To ensure that stray animals get fodder to eat, we have made arrangements of vehicles to carry it to the interior roads in the city. Apart from Verka, the supply of milk from villages by milkmen has also been streamlined now. Apart from that, the supply of eggs and other products has also been started,” Singh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/admn-providing-fodder-to-stray-animals-64434
02-04-2020||  ||Vendors sell veggies, fruits sans protective gear||Sameer Singh  Tribune News Service  Bathinda, April 1  Showing disregard to the directions of the government, many vendors are selling vegetable and fruit  to residents without protective gear such as masks and gloves, making them vulnerable to Covid.  Vegetable vendors can be seen selling items without gloves and masks (some dangling below the face). Exercising precautionary measures, a majority of the residents can be spotted wearing masks and gloves, but after coming in contact with vendors, who have not put on protective gear while collecting money or handing them veggies, they also become vulnerable to the Covid transmission.  Gurleen Kaur, a city resident, said, “Though the administration is taking all precautionary measures to ensure safety and convenience of residents, it must also ensure that things are actually being followed at the grassroots level. Vendors are simply selling vegetable  without gloves and some of them do not even put on masks. I don’t feel safe or comfortable while exchanging money or veggies from them. My mother even rebuked one vegetable vendor citing government's directions and asked him to wear mask, following which he put it on.”  Another resident Bikkar Singh said, “This is a common sense and especially the pandemic have been in news for over two months. It is not difficult to understand and exercise some measures for their safety and others in general. Moreover, the district administration also needs to act tough to ensure that directions are followed in letter and spirit. Otherwise, the real purpose the curfew will be defeated.”   Meanwhile, confusion prevailed among city residents as two different rate lists of vegetables and fruits were circulating in the city on Wednesday. While the rates of veggies on the list issued by the administration were lower, residents were being charged up to 50 per cent more for a few vegetables and fruits.  The rate lists displayed on vehicles selling veggies in different parts of the city were different from the same issued by the district administration.  Later, the Public Relations Officer rectified the issue by issuing a new list of retail rates of vegetables and fruits to avoid the confusion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/vendors-sell-veggies-fruits-sans-protective-gear-64433
02-04-2020||---||Swiggy to deliver items on doorstep||Bathinda, April 1 The district administration has roped in Swiggy as well to deliver ration on the doorstep of residents in the city. On the occasion, Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan on Wednesday flagged off a team of Swiggy outside his residence for this service. Speaking on the occasion, the Deputy Commissioner said now the supply line of all the basic commodities in the district had been fully restored. He said so far, two dozen stores in the city were supplying ration, but now two mobile apps had also started giving ration on the doorstep. He said Zomato and Swiggy had been roped in and they would be delivering goods at people’s homes. He said the step had been taken to ensure that people did not face any problem. He assured the people of the district that the administration was making every effort to facilitate them, but the people should keep self-control and stay indoors in times of Covid. The DC told the district residents that a few days spent at home would save us from a major crisis. He appealed that everyone should follow curfew restrictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/swiggy-to-deliver-items-on-doorstep-64432
02-04-2020||Archit Watts||6 students from Kashmir stuck in Muktsar hostel||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, April 1Six students from Kashmir, who are pursuing BSc Nursing in a private college on Kotkapura Road here, have been stuck in their hostel for the past 10 days due to the curfew.Speaking over phone on Wednesday, Shakir Sheikh, a student, said, “We are just six students left in the hostel. The mess is closed and there is no eating joint open near the college. We had purchased some eatables from the market a few days ago, but these too are about to end. Nobody has come to us to provide any help. Once, we had gone to the Deputy Commissioner’s office to get permission to go back to Srinagar, but nobody entertained our request. We just want to go back. Please somebody help us.”Meanwhile, these students even approached the Chief Minister’s office through Twitter and tweeted their photograph. They tweeted, “@CMOPb Sir, we are Kashmiri students studying in Adesh College of Nursing, Sri Muktsar Sahib, Punjab. We are suffering a lot and we can’t buy anything to eat. Mess is also closed. We want to go home, but there is no transport facility available for us. We are requesting you please help us.”Meanwhile, Mohsin Shahzad, a resident of Bihar, tweeted to the Chief Minister, “What arrangement Sir. We are here at village Lambi, Malout sub-division, district Sri Muktsar Sahib and we have no arrangement of ration or any kind of food and ‘112’ telephone facility don’t respond. Plz help us.”Further, Rajan Kapur tweeted, “Sir, my posting is in Navodaya, Muktsar, Punjab. My wife is in Delhi with two kids. One daughter of 6 years and one newborn 1 month old baby boy. I need to come to Delhi as they need me. I was in self quarantine in JNV campus from 9th March. Plz issue some doc to travel.”Raj Kumar tweeted, “@capt_amarinder medicine availability in rural Muktsar is zero. Poor village patients have no medicine supply. Muktsar DC very competent officer but zero for rural area. Please look into the matter.”However, the district administration has appealed to the public to apply for curfew passes online. “The number of complaints has been going down every day. For instance, we got 400 complaints through our helpline numbers on Tuesday, which reduced to 250 on Wednesday,” said PS Dhanju, incharge, curfew control room, Muktsar.Seek Chief Minister's help to return home@CMOPb Sir, we are Kashmiri students studying in Adesh College of Nursing, Sri Muktsar Sahib, Punjab. We are suffering a lot and we can't buy anything to eat. Mess is also closed. We want to go home, but there is no transport facility available for us. We are requesting you please help us. — Tweet by students||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/6-students-from-kashmir-stuck-in-muktsar-hostel-64431
