03-04-2020||Bathinda||Police strict on curfew violators||Villages seal entry pointsMuktsar: In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, a number of villages in Muktsar district are sealing their entry points. For instance, residents of Akalgarh, Kothe Hazura, Manianwala, Gandhar, Sohnewala and Assa Buttar villages have sealed the entry points of their villages. They said when no outsider would be allowed to enter the village, they would remain safe. TNSSweepers given rousing welcomeMuktsar: Residents of Malout town on Thursday applauded sweepers, who were working even during the curfew and lifting garbage. Some residents even showered petals on them in the morning. They said it would boost the morale of the sweepers and all other corona warriors. TNSCUP faculty, staff donate Rs 8.1 lakhBathinda: Faculty and staff members of the Central University of Punjab (CUP) have contributed their one-day salary to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund to combat Covid-19. The finance office of the university said all CUP employees unanimously supported Vice-Chancellor RK Kohli’s appeal to voluntarily contribute their one-day salary to the relief fund. The CUP has contributed Rs8.10 lakh.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/police-strict-on-curfew-violators-64823
03-04-2020||---||Balwinder Singh Lakha joins as GHTP Chief Engineer||Bathinda, April 2Balwinder Singh Lakha on Wednesday joined as Chief Engineer at Guru Hargobind Thermal Plant (GHTP), Lehra Mohabbat, in the district. Lakha has served at various positions in his 33 years of service.The newly appointed Chief Engineer was born on June 10, 1962, at Dasuha village of Hoshiarpur district. He completed his engineering from Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, in 1986.His first joining was at Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant, Bathinda, in 1987.He remained posted at different positions in different parts of the state. Earlier also, Lakha has served as Chief Engineer in Ludhiana.Balwinder Lakha appealed to the people of Punjab and the country to cooperate with the government to contain the outbreak of coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/balwinder-singh-lakha-joins-as-ghtp-chief-engineer-64822
03-04-2020||Archit Watts---||Cops creating awareness about Covid through catchy graphics||Tribune News Service Muktsar, April 2 Apart from distributing free ration, the Punjab Police have been spreading awareness about the eradication of the coronavirus among the masses.  For this purpose, the police have made some catchy graphics that have gone viral on social media and are being liked by netizens. Police personnel of a number of districts have found some catchy slogans for this purpose. For instance, the Ludhiana police have made a graphic with a slogan “Ludhiana – Thode dina tak gharo bahar nahi aouna”. Similarly, the Patiala police’s graphic reads as “Patiala – Kuch din outings te lagao taala”. The graphic of the Jalandhar police says “Jalandhar – Raho apne ghar de andar”. Further, the graphic of the Mohali police is “Mohali – Bas ghar vich hai khushali”. The graphic of the Fatehgarh Sahib police says “Fatehgarh Sahib – Corona te fateh pao par ghar reh ke”. The Faridkot police have also made a graphic showing a bus filled with the coronavirus plying on the road and a constable, along a doctor, is standing to stop it. These information graphics are being liked and shared widely by social media users.    “During the curfew, social media is the best platform to spread awareness. A majority of the people are spending most of the time surfing the Internet. These graphics will definitely prove to be helpful in spreading the message. Further, the slogans are catchy and are being liked by public,” said an IPS officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/cops-creating-awareness-about-covid-through-catchy-graphics-64820
03-04-2020||Muktsar||Four foreigners found staying in Muktsar hotel, owner booked||The Muktsar (City) police have booked a hotel owner after they found that four women from Thailand had been staying there for the past 15 days. These women have been isolated in the hotel for the next 14 days. Officials have also collected their samples for the mandatory coronavirus test. The police said acting on a tip-off, a raid was conducted on the City Hotel. A case under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC has been registered against hotel owner Gagan Goyal. He, however, is yet to be arrested. Sources said in the preliminary investigation, these women were found asymptomatic of the coronavirus. “As per the District Magistrate’s order, hotels have been ordered to remain shut during the curfew period. However, the hotel owner defied the order. He further did not inform officials about the presence of foreign nationals,” said the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/four-foreigners-found-staying-in-muktsar-hotel-owner-booked-64819
03-04-2020||---||Sealing of entry points by villagers helping great deal, says Mansa SSP||Bathinda, April 2 Officials of the district administration and the police reviewed the situation during the curfew by visiting various locations in different areas of Mansa district on Thursday. They were accompanied by doctors. Mansa SSP Narindar Bhargav said the police had constantly been appealing to the public of Mansa district by way of announcements as well as through social media that they should not defy curfew for their as well as others’ safety. People should keep themselves inside their houses. They should not move out unnecessarily and must not allow the outsiders to visit their houses, wards or villages to keep a check on the spread of the deadly virus.” He expressed gratitude to the public for extending help to the police department. He encouraged the police force on duty by visiting areas personally along with a medical team on Thursday. During his visit, he distributed fruit among them and appreciated them for their dedication to duty. He appealed to the self-help groups (SHGs) as well as the general public to continue extending their cooperation because it was the only solution to control the pandemic. “Sealing entry points by villagers is helping a great deal in complete adherence to curfew provisions,” said Bhargav. The SSP further said day-and-night duties were being performed by the Mansa Police to fight Covid-19. He appealed to the public to strictly comply with curfew restrictions and maintain law and order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/sealing-of-entry-points-by-villagers-helping-great-deal-says-mansa-ssp-64818
03-04-2020||---||OOAT patients to face no registration issue: Administration||Muktsar, April 2After a report “OOAT patients face problems in getting cards, medicines” carried in these columns on Thursday, highlighting the plight of some drug-addict patients, who had gone to the Civil Hospital at Gidderbaha and Malout, the health centre at Doda village on Tuesday for their registration at the outpatient opioid assisted treatment (OOAT) clinic and getting the de-addiction medicine, but their request was not entertained, the civil administration and the police has assured such patients that they would get the registration cards on their next visit.Meanwhile, the authorities concerned conveyed a message to Gurusar village anti-drug committee member Ranjit Singh that if anyone wanted to get registered at the OOAT clinic, he would not face any problem in the future.Ranjit said, “The SDM, Gidderbaha, has assured me that there would be no problem to those who are willing to get registered with the OOAT clinic. The SDM told me that he had instructed Health Department officials in this regard.”He added, “An SP, Muktsar, told me that the anti-drug committees can bring the matter to his issue so that those willing to quit drugs do not face any problem at any OOAT clinic.”Kirpal Singh, a guardian of governance appointed by the state government at Badian village in Gidderbaha subdivision, had motivated eight persons to quit drugs and get medicine from the OOAT clinic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/ooat-patients-to-face-no-registration-issue-administration-64817
03-04-2020||Faridkot||‘Farmers will get seed, fertilisers on doorstep’||To ensure a regular and necessary supply of medicines to needy persons, Faridkot Deputy Commissioner Kumar Saurabh Raj on Thursday visited various places in Faridkot, Kotkapura and Jaito subdivisions of the district. Saying that the required drugs were reaching needy persons every nook and corner of the district, the Deputy Commissioner said the district administration would not let any person suffer in the absence of medicine or ration.Despite the lockdown and curfew imposed in the district, he said they were ensuring that medicines, grocery items, vegetables and milk were made easily available to every family in the district.The DC said apart from government departments, many voluntary organisations were working overtime to ensure that no person was made to sleep empty stomach. Even cooked food was being distributed among migrant labours. To fight coronavirus, people’s cooperation was of utmost importance. In the absence of public support, all efforts of doctors, the state and the Union Government would not succeed in their fight against the pandemic, said the DC.He said special arrangements to provide medicines in emergency were already in place wherein drug stores were open 24 hours inside every government or private hospital.He reiterated that all the complaints, suggestions and information received at the district control room phone numbers were discussed at length every day. The district Agriculture Department had also set up its control room as a helpline for the farmers. As the wheat harvesting will start in the next 15 days and farmers are in need of fuel for their tractors and other agriculture equipments, seeds and fertilisers for paddy saplings and fodder for animal, seeds of paddy and other crops, so these would be supplied to needy farmers on the doorstep by pesticides and seed dealers on the pattern of grocery and medicines.The dealers of the district would be bound to supply seeds, insecticides and fertilisers on the doorstep of famers as per their demands. They would not take any additional charges from farmers. They could open the shops from 6 am to 9 am in the district for the purpose.Farmers were also allowed to visit petrol pumps of the district to refill their vehicles from 6 am to 12 noon as per their needs. They could go to petrol pumps by maintaining the mandatory social distance.There is no restriction on the movement of the combine harvesters in the district as well during the harvesting season and farmers could work in their fields from 6 am to 9 pm, the deadline before which they must reach home.The custom hiring systems and other agriculture-related outlets were allowed to open from 6 am to 9 am to facilitate the farmers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/farmers-will-get-seed-fertilisers-on-doorstep-64816
03-04-2020||Sameer Singh||Amid curfew, BSNL users upset over poor network||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 2Amid curfew restrictions, BSNL customers who have mobile and broadband connections have been complaining of poor quality of network. According to them, they are finding it tough to work from home as the government-owned telecommunication company is providing poor mobile and broadband services.Much to their dismay, cyber cafes are shut due to the curfew restrictions. Left with barely any other alternative, some BSNL customers changed their mobile networks and others are left to bear with the poor quality of network.Some customers said despite registering complaints with the BSNL authorities after their broadband stopped working, officials had failed to take any corrective steps to resolve their problem.Harmeet Singh, a city resident, said, “Around 10 days ago, I had registered a complaint at the BSNL office after my broadband stopped working. Moreover, I took up the issue with senior officials in the region, but to no avail. How can anyone work from home when the Internet does not work?”“Making calls to clients has become a jittery affair as the call suddenly gets dropped or voice starts breaking-in midway. The government has assured that the Internet services will remain uninterrupted during the curfew restrictions, but the scenario for BSNL customers is completely different,” he added.An employee of the BSNL said they had not been able to get curfew passes. Therefore, the field work was affected.Another BSNL customer, Harvinder Sharma, a resident of Mehma Sarja village, said, “The network quality has become a big concern for me these days. Call drop is quite frequent and I have been facing a tough time due to disturbance during the ongoing calls. My clients have been expressing concern that they are not able to make calls especially during afternoon hours. The BSNL needs to fix the problem otherwise in these testing times when people have been asked to stay indoors, the work of its customers will be affected.”Rahul Ashokayan, General Manager, BSNL, Bathinda range, said, “Field activities have been reduced a bit due to the curfew restrictions. But our employees are visiting the field and carrying out repair works wherever required. The speed of broadband might be low, which can be sorted out by the Centre.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/amid-curfew-bsnl-users-upset-over-poor-network-64815
