04-04-2020||---||Man held for demanding Rs25L ransom from bizman||Bathinda, April 3The police have arrested a person who was demanding a ransom amount of Rs 25 lakh from Mittal Group of Companies CMD Rajinder Mittal on phone. The miscreant also warned the industrialist of a bomb blast in his BCL factory on Hajiratan Road if he did not give him the money.After attending his threatening phone call, industrialist Rajinder Mittal informed the Bathinda police of the incident. When the police started investigation, the call was traced to a woman living in Sanjay Nagar. On further investigation, the police detected that it was the woman’s husband Ajay Kumar, who had made the ransom call to the industrialist. Ajay, who is working as a daily wager, had been arrested by the police.When the police questioned the accused, it was discovered that he worked as a cleaning servant in the Civil Line Club of Bathinda, while Rajinder Mittal is a senior member of the club, so he was able to get his personal phone number from there.According to Sub-Inspector Karamjit Singh, the accused told the police that as he himself and his son were ill and when he could not find the money to treat his son, he made a call to the industrialist for Rs 25 lakh ransom money.Sub-Inspector Karmajit Singh said the accused was also a drug addict. No case had been registered against him in the past. The police have registered a case against the accused and sent him to jail.However, Mahindar Singh, security in-charge of the industrialist, had lodged a complaint with the police on April 1 that the accused called on Rajinder Mittal’s personal phone number and demanded to give him Rs 25 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/man-held-for-demanding-rs25l-ransom-from-bizman-65454
04-04-2020||As many as 17 subsidiary health centers||To meet shortage, health centres supplied with essential drugs||While in urban areas, the district administration relaxed curfew norms for the purchase of medicines. Though chemists were supplying medicines at doorstep by accepting orders online, rural residents were facing problem in getting essentials and drugs.Faridkot Deputy Commissioner Kumar Saurabh Raj said the Covid pandemic had not caused any shortage of drugs in the nation so there was no need of panic buying. “Temporary shortage of certain drugs was reported in some rural areas so the medicines were supplied to these dispensaries,” he said.The Block Development and Panchayat Officers (BDPOs) and Rural Medical Officers were provided with the supply of medicines as per requirement, who further have distributed them to dispensaries, said the DC.A chemist from Faridkot said stock-piling medications and panic buying will further aggravate the pandemic crisis in the nation. “People must refrain from this practice as due to this many shops will run out of stock,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/to-meet-shortage-health-centres-supplied-with-essential-drugs-65451
04-04-2020||Muktsar||Three booked for spreading rumours||Acting tough against those spreading rumours about the coronavirus pandemic, the district police have booked three persons in the past two days. The Malout (Sadar) police booked a person for allegedly spreading rumors about a Covid patient in his village. The suspect has been identified as Daljit Singh of Aulakh village. A case under Sections 188, 269 and 505 of the IPC, Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act has been registered against him.Similarly, the Malout (City) police booked an unidentified person for spreading rumours by allegedly circulating an audio clip on WhatsApp about a Covid patient in Malout town.The Malout (Sadar) police arrested a man for allegedly spreading rumours that the Health Department was unable to control the coronavirus. The suspect has been identified as Bunty Lal of Khunde Halal village.Meanwhile, the administration said all 10 samples taken from the district came negative for Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/three-booked-for-spreading-rumours-65447
04-04-2020||Archit Watts||Son of Dy Speaker attends work review meet, triggers row||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, April 3Malout MLA-cum-Deputy Speaker Ajaib Singh Bhatti’s son Amanpreet has triggered a fresh controversy by attending the district administration’s anti-coronavirus work review meeting along with his father at the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here. Notably, Amanpreet is not having any constitutional post in the state government. Notably, Amanpreet sat on a chair next to his father, which was placed prior to other senior officers of the district administration. Those present in the meeting included Deputy Commissioner, both Additional Deputy Commissioners and other senior officers of the district administration engaged in anti-coronavirus duty.On asked Amanpreet said, “My father had recently undergone a surgery, thus I went along with him to attend the meeting on March 30. I am not having any constitutional post, but an office-bearer of the PPCC.”On this, MK Aravind Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Muktsar, said, “He had come along with his father as support. He neither addressed the meeting nor made any comment on any activity.”Notably, earlier Amanpreet’s name was inscribed on an inaugural plaque of a community shed at Phoolewala village in Malout assembly segment, mentioned as ‘halqa in-charge’.In 2018, Amanpreet had presided over the sub-divisional Republic Day function in Malout town. Thereafter, again in 2018, Amanpreet along with the SDM Malout had honoured some people at the sub-divisional Independence Day function in Malout town.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/son-of-dy-speaker-attends-work-review-meet-triggers-row-65433
04-04-2020||Bathinda||Home delivery of books begins in Mansa district||As stationery shops are shut because of the curfew, the Mansa district administration has started home delivery of books for the next academic session. Arun Mittal, IG, Bathinda Range, and Narinder Bhargav, SSP, Mansa, launched started the service on Friday.The IG was in the district to review the implementation of curfew. He also released a pamphlet, appealing the people to stay indoors and main distance from others to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “The police are worried not only about the accelerating spread of Covid-19 but also the school students whose sensitive minds can easily accept the negativity around them,” he said.Keeping this in mind, the scheme to provide children books on their doorstep has been launched, the IG said. This would help them prepare for the next class while remaining at their homes, he said.Mittal also inaugurated an education portal at Police Public School in Mansa that will provide study material to students. The online education facility will also be made available to other government and private school students soon, added the IG.Home delivery of eggs soonThe district administration will soon start delivering eggs on the doorstep of the people.Officials of the Department of Animal Husbandry (DAH) said the move was aimed at allaying fear among residents that they might get infected by coronavirus by eating eggs. It would also help boost the sale of poultry product, they said. Sale and supply of eggs had taken a deep hit with the outbreak the disease.Amrik Singh, the Deputy Director of the DAH, is reaching out to the people through social media platforms such as Facebook to raise awareness. “There are rumors on the social media that intake of eggs may cause Covid-19. These have immensely hit the poultry industry,” Singh said.Losses of poultry farmers are mounting as they continue spending on feed and other maintenance works even in the times of lower sales. The dampened sale has also hit the employment of thousands of workers in the industry, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/home-delivery-of-books-begins-in-mansa-district-65429
04-04-2020||Bathinda||Despite Covid threat, people violate social distancing norm||The lockdown advisory went for a toss on Friday as hundreds of people gathered outside banks in the city to withdraw their pension money. People started gathering outside banks 9.30 am onwards.Those visiting the banks had to not only stand in long queues, but also go through several checkpoints on their way due to the curfew.Banks in rural areas usually see a good number of retirees visiting banks to withdraw money in the first week of every month. A majority of them are not comfortable with using digital channels and therefore, visit the bank branches in person. Moreover on Friday, banks opened after a gap of several days, so the huge crowd was not unexpected.While some banks made sure that customers maintain social distance while standing in queues, others ignored it totally. Though two cops were deployed outside all banks, they proved helpless in managing the huge rush of customers. Gurdeep Singh, a retired official, said: “I have come here to get withdraw my pension money. The huge rush reminded me of the demonetisation days when people stood in long queues outside banks.”Chairs put up outside banksMuktsar: After reports that Covid safety guidelines were not followed by people a few days ago, some banks on Friday put up chairs at some gap for customers waiting for their turn in queues. A number of people appreciated the step and thanked bank officials. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/despite-covid-threat-people-violate-social-distancing-norm-65427
04-04-2020||Faridkot||Faridkot civic body starts disinfecting jail, streets||To check the spread of coronavirus in public places, teams of the Faridkot Municipal Committee are constantly disinfecting vulnerable spots and streets in the town. Employees of the civic body can be seen using fogging machines loaded with disinfectant spray are trying to disinfect the highly touched surfaces and streets in the town.Besides, MC teams are collecting garbage and spraying disinfectant so that the spread of the deadly virus could be stopped from spreading its tentacles. Seven teams, comprising 14 members, two supervisors, one fire tender and two firemen, started sanitising residential and commercial areas of the town, starting from slums on Friday. The teams also sanitised the Central Jail, all government employees’ residential quarters and residential areas of doctors and paramedical staff.Harwinder Singh Bhullar, sanitary inspector, said 250 sweepers of the civic body had started collecting garbage from door to door in 25 wards of the town. “We have cancelled the leave applications of all employees,” he said.“Studies suggest that coronavirus may persist on the surface for a few hours or up to several days, so one of the most effective ways to check the spread of coronavirus is to disinfect the surface, which carry germs,” said the sanitary inspector.Doctors at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, said basic public health measures like washing the hands, avoiding touching your face, and staying away from sick people were the best ways to protect oneself from contracting the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/faridkot-civic-body-starts-disinfecting-jail-streets-65425
04-04-2020||---||Coop societies providing seeds, fertilisers to farmers||Bathinda, April 3The Cooperative Department has come forward to help farmers in the district. Cooperative societies of the department have been providing seeds, fertilisers, pesticides and livestock feed to the farmers in villages.Giving this information, Deputy Registrars of the department Anil Murari and AR Rupinder Singh, said cooperative societies in the district were assisting the farmers. They said the farmers were being explained about the compulsion of the curfew and social distancing. They added that farmers could buy essential commodities from the societies.Deputy Commissioner B Srinivasan said cooperative societies had been opened keeping in view the welfare of farmers, but they should visit these only to purchase seeds and fertilisers. The DC said the farmers must stay indoors for maximum time.He added that it was a difficult time for the entire society and they should play their role in breaking the cycle of Covid by staying indoors.AR Rupinder said cooperative societies were providing quality products at reasonable prices. He said the department was also providing all necessary items for agriculture. The department was preparing fertilisers, pesticides and other materials for the coming days.After several days, banks were opened to the general public in the district on Friday. All necessary arrangements were made by banks for social distancing.Officials painted circles outside banks for customers for maintaining social distancing. Besides, sanitisers were also kept in banks.Moreover, sodium hypochloride was sprayed at Mandi Kalan village. Executive officer Bharatvir Singh said public places had been sanitised and ration was also being distributed among needy families in the area with the help of social organisations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/coop-societies-providing-seeds-fertilisers-to-farmers-65422
04-04-2020||---||Water supply, sanitation workers  on duty without protective gear||Bathinda, April 3Scores of water supply and sanitation workers have been working without safety kits. They demanded that the government must provide them with safety kits on a priority basis. They said they have been cleaning and supplying potable water without safety kits. With no protective gear, the threat of Covid spread looms large.According to information, there are 6,000 regular and 4,000 contractual workers employed under the Water and Sanitation Department in the state. Besides, there are approximately 800 workers who have been attached with panchayats under various developmental schemes.Malaghar Singh, vice-president, Technical and Mechanical Employees’ Union, said, “On one hand, the government claims that it has been taking all precautionary measures to check the Covid spread, while on the other hand its efforts seem to be half-hearted at the grassroots level. There are more than 10,000 employees and workers in the Water and Sanitation Department in the state and they were not provided with any safety gear by the government till now.”“We have reached out to senior officials in the state government and brought the gravity of the situation in wake of Covid to their notice, but to no avail. While some employees have been managing things on their own, others have simply chosen to work without any protection gear. It is a dangerous scenario as only one infected worker can infect many if proper safety and precautionary measures were not practiced at the grassroots level,” he added.“Leave aside providing us with protective gears, the government has even failed to provide curfew passes to all contractual workers till now. As a result, they have to face difficulties during their field work. Moreover, the department did not even issue identity cards to few of them,” he said.Jaspreet Kaur Talwar, Principal Secretary, Water Supply and Sanitation Department, said, “It is not mandatory to provide safety kits to all workers and employees. Wherever these are required, we have been providing these to workers. It will take some time. Officials in all districts have been asked to maintain proper hygiene standards. Employees and workers are being apprised of these as well.”Sanitation and water supply workers have also demanded that there must not be any salary cut, especially for class III and class IV employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/water-supply-sanitation-workers-on-duty-without-protective-gear-65416
