05-04-2020||---||AAP demands relief in power bills for 3 mths||Bathinda, April 4Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state spokesperson Neel Garg has asked the Capt Amarinder Singh government that due to the coronavirus outbreak, the power department should give relief to the state people by waiving their power bills of three months.Neel Garg on Friday said owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, people’s businesses had collapsed and millions of private-sector employees and labourers were sitting idle in their homes. Even if the Covid crisis came to end, they would be facing an economic crisis for the next several months, so waiving the electricity bills would be a major relief.Garg urged the owners of private schools not to charge fees from students, belonging to ordinary or middle-class families, for the next three months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/aap-demands-relief-in-power-bills-for-3-mths-65951
05-04-2020||Muktsar||Police form 225 panels in villages||Sukhbir donates Rs10L for covid-19Muktsar: Acting upon the proposal of Ferozepur MP Sukhbir Singh Badal, who is also the SAD chief, the Fazilka Deputy Commissioner has transferred Rs10 lakh from MPLAD funds to the bank account of the Muktsar Deputy Commissioner to purchase a ventilator and medical kits for the Muktsar Civil Hospital. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/police-form-225-panels-in-villages-65950
05-04-2020||---||Muktsar residents for strict implementation of curfew||Muktsar, April 4 After one Covid patient has been detected in neighbouring Faridkot district and three in Mansa district, residents on Saturday appealed to the district administration to impose the curfew more strictly. Notably, 14 persons, who had come to Mukstar after attending Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi, have also been isolated at the local Civil Hospital and their reports of their Covid tests are awaited. However, some people are still roaming on roads and defying the curfew orders issued by the District Magistrate under Section 144 of the CrPC. Though cops are deployed, people are still taking the pandemic lightly. Naresh Kumar, a local resident, said, “We should follow the Covid safety guidelines issued by the government. The Covid graph is going upwards day by day in the country. Earlier our region was safe, but now some coronavirus positive patients have been found in neighbouring districts. The administration should also take strict action against those who still roam on roads. These people are not just putting their lives at risk, but others as well. We should simply stay at home to stay safe.” Another local resident Pawandeep Singh, said, “This is the right time to act against curfew violators. Some neighbouring towns like Abohar have started acted tough against unnecessary movement from Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/muktsar-residents-for-strict-implementation-of-curfew-65946
05-04-2020||Sameer Singh---||Locals flout social distancing norms outside chemist shops||Tribune News Service Bathinda, April 4 It seems that city residents have not taken social distancing norms seriously. Scores of residents can be seen standing outside chemist shops in clusters in different parts of the city these days.  While showing scant regard for social distancing, the residents not only make themselves but others vulnerable to the transmission of Covid. Last week when the curfew was imposed, residents faced difficulties in getting medicines as chemist shops were closed. Thereafter, chemists and residents had demanded a time slot for opening shops in the city. Following which the district administration had allowed opening of retail chemist shops from 5 am to 7 am and wholesale shops from 7 am to 9 am. A senior official of the Health Department said the decision to open chemist shops during a time slot was taken for the convenience of city residents. But it seems the decision had not helped the administration as a large number of people could be seen standing in clusters outside chemist shops in Mall Road area and Hospital Bazaar. The official said the entire purpose of curfew restrictions would be defeated if people continued to ignore social distancing norms at public places.    “The number of Covid cases has been increasing in the country as well as in the state. If proper precautionary measures are not taken or followed, the situation can be worse in the coming days. Therefore, we exhort people to exercise some sense of responsibility and avoid coming out of their homes. If there is any emergency, they must ensure social distancing,” he added.    Drug Inspector Ramandeep Gupta said, “The issue of has come to our notice and clusters of people were seen standing outside chemist shops in Hospital Bazaar. There are a number of chemist shops in the area and people from almost all parts of the city come there to purchase medicines, resulting in chaos. We will issue directions to the chemist shop owners to ensure that people maintain proper distance while buying medicines. We will ask them to ensure proper marking or buyers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/locals-flout-social-distancing-norms-outside-chemist-shops-65945
05-04-2020||---||Man returned from Thailand admitted to isolation ward||Muktsar, April 4A 25-year-old man, who was home quarantined after he returned from Thailand on March 18, was admitted to the isolation ward at the Civil Hospital here on Saturday.Officials of the Health Department said the Canal Colony resident informed them on Saturday that he had fever on Friday night. The officials said his sample had been sent for the Covid test. They said the resident did not have fever on Saturday.Meanwhile, the district administration on Saturday converted the local Civil Hospital into the Covid hospital. “Mission Hospital on the Malout road here will provide other medical faclities,” said Sandeep Kumar, ADC (General), Muktsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/man-returned-from-thailand-admitted-to-isolation-ward-65944
05-04-2020||Archit Watts---||Man gets curfew pass within three hours for wedding||Tribune News Service Muktsar, April 4 Sukhpiar Singh of Chhateana village in Gidderbaha subdivision here is scheduled to get married with a girl from Zira subdivision in Ferozepur district on Monday. Till Saturday morning, he was worried about how things would take place in the ongoing curfew.   However, his just one tweet to the DGP Punjab worked and within three hours, he got permission to visit the bride’s residence with five persons for wedding.   Speaking over the phone, Sukhpiar said, “I had tweeted my request to the DGP Punjab in the morning. Within minutes, he forwarded it to the local police. Thereafter, I got a call from the SSP’s office to visit there along with the Aadhaar card to get the pass. In the afternoon, I got the pass validating five persons, including myself, to visit there. I am thankful to the police for this quick action.”   He said, “Earlier, it was decided that the wedding was to be held at Kotli village here. But now due to the curfew, it will be held in a simple manner at the would-be-bride’s residence. Even her family members have got permission from the local authorities.”   Notably, the state government has also introduced an online facility to get curfew passes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/man-gets-curfew-pass-within-three-hours-for-wedding-65943
05-04-2020||---||Extend last date of fee payment: DC tells schools||Extend last date of fee payment: DC tells schools  Tribune News Service    Faridkot, April 4  The Deputy Commissioner on Saturday directed all private schools in the district to extend the last date of paying fee till April 30. The Deputy Commissioner’s directions came after many parents had lodged a complaint with him. They alleged that some private schools were asking them to pay the fee by March 31 or pay penalties for any delay. “There is curfew in the state and we are not able to go out, but schools are asking us to pay online. But at the time when the nation is battling to break the coronavirus chain and most of the people are running short of funds, the demand for the fee by fixing the March 31 deadline is not genuine,” rued the parents.   “We are extending the last date in a way that parents and students do not suffer in the given constrained situation,” said Deputy Commissioner Kumar Saurabh Raj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/extend-last-date-of-fee-payment-dc-tells-schools-65942
05-04-2020||Sameer Singh---||Amid curfew, liquor being sold secretly in rural areas||Tribune News Service Bathinda, April 4 In clear violation of curfew restrictions, liquor is being sold secretly in many villages of the district while the authorities concerned have failed to initiate action against the violators till now. Liquor does not fall in the category of essential goods, therefore, liquor vends must be closed during the curfew. Owing to no check by the authorities, the illegal practice has been continuing unabated. The Health Ministry in its advisory on Covid-19 had directed to stay away from selling and consumption of liquor and tobacco, besides other intoxicants. But liquor contractors in the district seem not to have taken it seriously. The workers at liquor vends do not have any safety kits or protective gears on therefore, the threat of community transmission of COVID-19 looms large. As per residents of various villages in Goniana block, drunkards start reaching liquor vends after the sunset and there is a lot of activity around these vends till late in the night. BKU Ugrahan block secretary Sukhjivan Singh Babli said, “Village borders have been sealed by residents in the block. On the other hand, with drunkards roaming around freely and liquor contractors selling liquor without any safety measures, the threat of the spread of coronavirus looms large in the area. People can take care of their health and safety amid curfew restrictions if the government adopts a strict stance and gets these liquor vends shut on priority.” Nehianwala police station in-charge Buta Singh said strict action would be taken if any liquor vend was found to be opened in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/amid-curfew-liquor-being-sold-secretly-in-rural-areas-65941
05-04-2020||Balwant Garg||Faridkot reports first Covid-19 case||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, April 4A resident of Harindra Nagar here has tested positive for Covid-19, said officials of the district administration on Saturday.After receiving the report of the 35-year-old patient on telephone from Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratories (VRDL), Amritsar, on Friday late evening, the police sealed all entry and exit points of Harindra Nagar, where office of the person is also located. He is in the business of currency exchange and booking of air tickets.He was admitted to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) on April 2 with symptoms of Covid-19, where his samples were taken and sent to VRDL in Amritsar. Samples of his wife, four-year-daughter and mother have been collected and sent for testing, the officials said.The officials said the Health Department was working overtime to ascertain how the person contracted the disease he has no travel history to any foreign country. The authorities are working to trace all those persons who came in contact with the patient in the past about 20 days. They are analysing his call records and questioning him for help in the task.As part of precautions, doctors are following all protocols for suspected cases such as contact listing and quarantine of contacts, said Dr Rajinder Kumar, Faridkot Civil Surgeon. Sources at the GGSMCH said the patient was under treatment and was breathing without ventilator. Deputy Commissioner Kumar Saurabh Raj said the patient had been kept in isolation ward and his condition was stable.The Health Department is also trying to trace those who had come in contact with the patient during a family function at a resort in Faridkot on March 15 where 250 guests were present. The department has asked 31 employees of a branch of a nationalised bank here to remain in isolation as the patient had made a number of visits to the branch in the past about 20 days.A senior Health Department functionary said: “We are collecting contacts and addresses of those persons who visited the bank branch in the past 20 days and will test them if they show symptoms.”In total, about 150 persons have asked to remain in home quarantine for coming into contact with the patient, the functionary said.Seeking cooperation from the public, Dr Rajinder Kumar said those who had met the patient after March 12 must come forward voluntarily to prevent the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/faridkot-reports-first-covid-19-case-65940
