06-04-2020||Balwant Garg||Samples of 61 suspects collected in Faridkot||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, April 5Hours after a coronavirus case was detected in the town, the district Health Department with the help of the administration and the police has collected samples of 61 suspects in the district in the past 24 hours. Of the total suspects, 14 are members of the Tablighi Jamaat. It is believed that the rest of the 47 suspects came in contact with the Covid patient here.Apart from collecting samples of these 47 persons, the Health Department has informed the authorities about 22 persons of Ferozepur, Rampura Phul, Jalandhar and New Delhi as they are believed to have come in contact with the district’s first Covid patient in the past 20 days.Sources in the Health Department said after extensive contact tracing of the patient, it had found that apart from meeting 47 persons in the district since March 12, the patient had met five persons of Ferozepur, four of Rampura Phul, six of Jalandhar and seven of Delhi.“We have sent a list of these persons to their respective districts and New Delhi so that the health department authorities can take preventive measures as per the protocol,” said a senior official of the Health Department here.Besides collecting the samples, the Health Department has been quarantined 180 persons, who came in contact with the patient, at their homes.“The patient is stable and in good health and taking a normal diet. So, there is no need for anyone to be panicked. We just demand cooperation of the public. Anyone who had come in contact with the patient in the past 20 days must voluntarily come forward so that the Health Department can keep a tab on his or her health,” said Dr Rajinder Kumar, Civil Surgeon Faridkot. “All those persons who have been quarantined and whose samples have been collected are in good health without any visible symptom of the coronavirus,” said Dr Rajinder.“Eight teams of the Health Department under the supervision of Senior Medical Officer Dr Chander Sekhar have been assigned the task of carrying a door-to-door visit in Harindra Nagar, the residential locality of the patient, to enquire about the health of people. We have already sanitised this whole locality and requesting people to contact us immediately if they show symptom of Covid,” said the Civil Surgeon.“The Health Department has collected samples of 14 persons who are believed to be members of the Tablighi Jamaat. Without taking into account whether they had participated in the congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz or not, we have taken their samples as a precautionary measure,” said a senior officer in the district administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/samples-of-61-suspects-collected-in-faridkot-66410
06-04-2020||Dr Arvind SahniGastroenterologist||Facts regarding Covid-19||IntroductionThe latest name for this virus is SARS-CoV-2 (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome-Corona Virus 2). Currently, this virus is causing a pandemic. Up to 30 per cent of the cases may be asymptomatic but scientific evidence suggests that they have a significant transmission potential of disease. The transmission of this virus may occur early in course of infection.Identification of chains of transmission and subsequent contact tracing are much more complicated if many infected people remain asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. Thus one infected person has the potential to infect several thousand people within a short span of a few days.It is these asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic infected people who may potentially infect their family members and the community at large. The infected patients who are sick, who need hospital care can spread the virus to health care workers.Modes of transmissionThe commonest mode of transmission is by droplet infection. These droplets could spread from an infected person to a distance of approximately 1 to 1.5 metres. This is the basis of social distancing.To break the person-to-person transmission of this virus apart from doing social distancing, it is also important to have a complete lockdown strategy as is being done in our country.When an infected person coughs, different size droplets (usually less than 10 microns) are expelled into the surrounding environment as an aerosol. Scientific experiments have suggested that this SARS-CoV-2 virus may persist for up to 3 hours in the aerosol. This virus can also persist on fomites like cardboard and stainless steel for 24 hours and on plastic for three days. Hence, the need to disinfect these fomites, which are also an important means of spreading the infection.Spectrum of presentationApproximately 80 per cent patients will have mild symptoms, 15 per cent develop pneumonia and 5 per cent will need ICU care.Vulnerable populationElderly people, diabetics, people with underlying heart, lung and kidney diseases and people with weak immune system. However no age is exempt.Drugs and vaccinesThe WHO has begun a trial regarding the efficacy on drugs against this virus. India is one of the countries that is participating in this global trial. The prospects of developing a vaccine on a mass scale are at least one to one and half years away. To reinforce the words of Dr David Nabarro, special envoy to the WHO on CoVID-19, “Respect the virus.”Take home messageLet us all join hands to fight this global health emergency and pandemic. This is a highly infective virus. Practise social distancing and follow the complete lockdown instructions in an effort to break the human-to-human chain of transmission. Do not forget your basics of frequent hand washing with soap and water. Avoid touching your eyes, nose and face with your hands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/facts-regarding-covid-19-66049
06-04-2020||Open House||Joint efforts can help mitigate Covid||Deploy more police personnel, set up nakasIn the evening when police personnel come for patrolling in our lane, people who unnecessarily stand on the road run inside their houses and the street becomes empty. But the moment the cops go away, they again come out of their houses to walk and cycle. They start talking to each other in groups. This shows the lackadaisical attitude of the people towards the ongoing curfew. The authorities need to deploy more police personnel who can do round-the-clock patrolling even in residential areas. Besides, the police must install checkposts at the entry points of residential areas. Even during the relaxation in the curfew, only people with genuine issues must be allowed to step out, along with those who supply essential items. Essential item suppliers who give their curfew passes to others and people who defy curfew orders must be penalised. Their vehicles must be confiscated and a case must be registered against them.Simran SidhuAdopt humane attitude towards publicRecently several videos have gone viral on social media in which police personnel were seen beating up curfew violators. Are the police dealing with ultras, anti-social elements or hardened criminals? We all need to keep in mind that the curfew has not been imposed in apprehension of any law order and order problem. The step has been taken to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Instead of merciless beating people, and posting such disgusting videos on social media, the police should adopt a soft and humanistic attitude towards the public. Physical punishments given by cops to people have certainly brought a bad name to the police who are otherwise doing a good job. As pointed out by the Chief Minister, action of the police is nullifying all good work being done by them during these difficult times. Public should also keep in mind that restrain is mandatory to protect ourselves and remain healthy. We should also understand the gravity of the situation and extend a helping hand to the police force by following safety guidelines. We must all show self-discipline and not try to not violate the curfew restrictions. Our safety lies in saving ourselves from Covid by observing social distancing.Pursharth JoshiPolice must counsel curfew violatorsCurfew has been imposed across the state to contain the spread of Covid. But the way the police handled those who violated curfew has made people angry. The government must understand that the curfew was imposed all of a sudden and it has caused a disruption in the daily routine. All major countries of the world have been affected by the coronavirus, but in no other country people have been thrashed by the police to keep them indoors. First of all, people need to understand that this extreme step has been taken for their safety and to break the chain of Covid. In the interest of their personal safety, people must obey government directions and not to try to move out as far as possible. Even if someone defies curfew orders, there are several legal means. Youngsters who violate the curfew restrictions can be detained at police stations for a day or so. Legal proceedings can be initiated against those who repeatedly violate orders in this regard. Brutal thrashing of people is not acceptable in a democratic set up under any circumstances. The police should be directed to adopt a counselling and convincing strategy to handle the situation.NK GosainDeliver essential items on doorstep of peopleIn this hapless situation, we all need to follow government instructions. We do not try not to come out of our houses unnecessarily because this will create a problem for the police to control the situation. Moreover, we will put everyone in danger. People must follow social distancing norms and contact grocery stores, vegetable vendors and others for the supply of essential items on the doorstep. We must sanitise your main door time and again and avoid touching the face more frequently. While staying indoors, we should do something productive which we always wanted to do in our life. This is the best time to enhance our self in any particular field. Make the best use of time and if possible try to donate some money according to the needy. If one doesn't know how to help them, he or she should contribute towards he PM's Relief Fund online.Gautam AggarwalFind alternative ways to deal with violatorsIt is not police personnel, it is the government which is beating up the public in disguise. It has failed in educating, training and supervising them. They are on duty even for longer period without any rest. As they are also human being, fatigue and frustration is natural. As beating up anyone is illegal, so they should find certainly other ways to deal with curfew violators.MP SharmaQUESTIONWhile the state government and the district administration have been putting in all-out efforts to ensure the safety of the public by asking them to stay indoors, liquor vends in many areas in the district are selling booze in violation of the curfew? How can the administration stop the sale of liquor during curfew? What steps can be taken to ensure effective implementation of the curfew?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to btitribune@gmail.com or post it to Bathinda Tribune, SCF-117, Opposite Harchand Cinema, Goniana Road, Bathinda, by April 12.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/joint-efforts-can-help-mitigate-covid-66048
06-04-2020||Blurb||Free medical camp for slum dwellers||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 5A free medical check-up camp was organised at Amarpura Basti by social organisations along with Dr Vitull Gupta on Sunday. Apart from free medical consultation/examination, needy patients from slum areas were also provided with free of cost medicines. Dr Gupta said we have been organising such camps for the past couple of days with the assistance of a city based NGO and some Congress leaders in the city.Dr Gupta who is also the chairman of Association of Physicians of India (Malwa Branch) on the behalf of the API appreciated the initiative of Congress leader Anil Bhola and his team for organising medical check-up and medicine distribution camps.He said, “These camps are being organised at urban slums and colonies to help those who do not have access to medical consultation and medicines in the difficult times of curfew because of Covid-19 pandemic.”Anil Bhola said these camps were being organised under the guidance of Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and district Congress president Arun Wadhawan. Bhola said, “Poor and deprived sections of the society have no access to medical consultation and medicines as all the routine OPD service have been halted leading to suffering among poor people. These camps will benefit such sections of the society.”Dr Vitull said, “Till now more than 2,000 people benefited from the four camps organised in different areas of city. The camps are organised taking full precautions of social distancing, face masks and frequent hand wash to eliminate any chance of spread of Covid. No patient has come with suspected symptoms of Covid and people with mild medical problems are visiting here.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/free-medical-camp-for-slum-dwellers-66047
06-04-2020||---||Mass organisations protest on rooftops||Bathinda, April 5Members of various organisations staged a protest by standing on top of their terraces. They raised slogans against the state and Centre governments for failing to ensure required measures amid curfew restrictions in the wake of Covid-19 spread. Protesters rued that workers and leaders resort to politics while providing services to people in villages.Members of as many as 15 organisations, including Powercom Department workers, contractual employees of different departments, student organisations and farmer organisations among others, staged a joint protest against the government.Members of BKU Ugrahan, Khet Mazdoor Union and other unions in villages such as Khemuana, Sivian, Kotha Guru, Balhar Mehma, Kothe Natha Singh wala among others stood atop the terraces of their homes and raised slogans.Jora Singh, state president of Khet Mazdoor Union, said: “The state as well as Centre governments instead of ensuring concrete action at the ground level were taking measures which fail to translate to the bottom-rung of society. The police were also using force against people who are fighting for their daily struggle (of food, medicines and livelihood) to stay alive.”“If the government has imposed curfew, then it must ensure that essentials including ration and medicines reach people of all sections of society without any politicisation,” Singh said.The protesters said if the government had imposed curfew, then it must ensure that every household receives essential items and also demanded ration and other essential items for urban as well as rural mazdoors.CAPTION: Members of various mass organisations protest by standing on top of their terraces on Sunday. A Tribune photo||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/mass-organisations-protest-on-rooftops-66046
06-04-2020||---||Rs 150 cr given to combat virus till now: Manpreet||Bathinda, April 5Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Sunday said the state government had given districts Rs150 crore to combat Covid.He said in this time of crisis, the government was standing with the people of the state and all necessary arrangements had been made to provide adequate relief material to the needy. Manpreet said Rs50 crore had been given for purchasing medical equipment. He said as a precautionary measure, the Purchase Committee headed by the Additional Chief Secretary had been authorised to make all procurements related to Covid.The Finance Minister said within a week, the districts would get all kinds of equipment and there would be no shortage of essential items.Manpreet added that despite the Covid crisis, government employees would get full salary.“We are fighting a war at the national level and no one should politicise it. Around 25,000 people are getting cooked food every day in Bathinda. Dry ration has been distributed among 7,900 people. In addition, 1,000 families, which were given a one-week ration seven days ago, received dry ration for a week on Sunday.On the purchase of wheat, Manpreet said Rs22,000 crore had been approved in the state. He said adequate arrangements were being made for the purchase of wheat from farmers and the entire wheat crop would be purchased.He said the purchasing time would be extended so that social distancing norm was followed in the markets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/rs-150-cr-given-to-combat-virus-till-now-manpreet-66045
06-04-2020||Sukhmeet Bhasin||18 booked for curfew violations||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 5The Bathinda police are continuously taking action against curfew violators in the district. On Saturday, the police booked 18 persons for curfew violations.Kotwali police station ASI Jagdeep Singh said they were were present near Gol Diggi on Saturday, when some people were seen roaming freely on road near Nai Basti defying the district magistrate's orders. The police team reached the spot and arrested Baljinder Singh of Guru Nanakpura, Kirandeep Singh of Hazi Rattan Chowk, Kala Singh of Sanjay Nagar, Gurmeet Singh of Sanjay Nagar, Tarun Arora of Molviya Wala mohalla and Vikas Sharma of Mehna Chowk and registered a case against them.Similarly, ASI Rajpal Singh at Cantt police station also registered a case against Pappa Singh, Jagdeep Singh of Chandsar Basti, Rajesh Kumar, Irfan Khan of Bharat Nagar, Shivnath of Green Avenue for roaming on road at Bharat Nagar without any reason and defying curfew orders.Dyalpura police station ASI Balwant Singh on the basis of a tip-off registered a case and arrested Jacky Kumar, Chamkaur Singh, Baksish Singh of Bhai Rupa village for defying district magistrate’s orders by roaming on roads in Dyalpura Bhaika village.Even Sangat police station ASI Karamjit Singh has registered a case against Niranjan Singh, Ravinder Kumar and Jagsir Singh of Jassi Baghwali for defying curfew orders. They were arrested. ASI Karamjit Singh said three accused were roaming on a motorcycle near Jassi Baghwali bus stand. They were stopped by the police, but they failed to show any curfew pass, after which a case was registered against them.Apart from this, Phul police station has registered a case against one shopkeeper for selling items at high rates and has even arrested him. ASI Sarabjit Singh said in a complaint to the police, Lovepreet Singh of Salebrah village alleged that accused Jagsir Singh had opened his shop and was selling ration at high rates. The police conducted a raid and arrested him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/18-booked-for-curfew-violations-66043
06-04-2020||Muktsar||Sarpanches authorised to seal link roads in Muktsar||As some residents of the neighbouring Faridkot district tested positive for Covid-19, the Muktsar District Magistrate (DM) on Sunday authorised sarpanches to seal link roads in the district. The DM, however, told them to keep 19 inter-state roads. The police, too, have begun imposed the curfew strictly by using drone cameras.Pensions to be disbursedOfficials of the district administration said bank executives would disburse pensions among beneficiaries of the state government’s social welfare schemes by visiting villages and the people should worry about visiting bank branches.Villagers use drone to enforce curfew normsTo support the efforts of the police, some residents of Samagh village here are using a drone camera to keep a vigil on unnecessary movement of residents in the village during the curfew. Rupinder Singh, a youngster from the village, said: “The drone is helping us to prevent the people from coming out unnecessarily. We have also sealed the village border by setting up four checkpoints.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/sarpanches-authorised-to-seal-link-roads-in-muktsar-66041
06-04-2020||---||Granthi booked for spreading rumours||Faridkot, April 5The Kotkapura police on Sunday registered a criminal case against a granthi of a gurdwara at Dhilwan Kalan village, about 16 km from here, for spreading rumours regarding coronavirus and fanning communal sentiments.The granthi had allegedly made an announcement on a loudspeaker from a gurdwara around 8.30 pm on Saturday, asking residents to come out of their homes to prevent the entry of some alleged Covid-19 patients from New Delhi. “The outsiders are trying to find a shelter in the village,” the granthi allegedly said in his announcement.On getting information, the police swung into action and registered a case under Section 505 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act against Sandeep Singh, the granthi. The police asked the villages to not get panicky.Sources in the village revealed that after a person from a community was rounded up by the police in daytime in the village on Saturday, rumours started doing rounds about the possibility of outsiders taking shelter at a religious place in the village.After the incident, youths and elders of the village put up nakas on all entry and exit points of the village on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/granthi-booked-for-spreading-rumours-66039
06-04-2020||---||Divisional Commissioner reviews situation in Mansa after 3 cases||Mansa, April 5 After three Covid cases were reported from the district two days ago, Divisional Commissioner, Faridkot Division, Ravinder Kumar Kaushik on Sunday held a meeting with senior officials of the administration. During the meeting, Deputy Commissioner Gurpal Singh Chahal said the Covid patients had come from the Nizamuddin Markaz and were staying at a mosque in Budhlada.    He said all of them had been kept in the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital here. The DC added that other six persons, who accompanied them, had tested negative and had been quarantined at ITI in Budhlada. Civil Surgeon Dr Lal CHand Thakral told the Divisional Commissioner that a team of doctors was keeping a close watch on the patients. He said the quarantined persons were also undergoing medical checkup daily. The Divisional Commissioner appreciated the administration for its efforts to stop the spread of Covid in the district.  At the meeting, ADC (G) Sukhpreet Singh Sidhu, ADC (D) Gurmeet Sidhu, Assistant Commissioner Navdeep Kumar, Mansa SDM Sarabjit Kaur and Sardulgarh SDM Rajpal Singh were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/divisional-commissioner-reviews-situation-in-mansa-after-3-cases-66038
