07-04-2020||Archit Watts||Residents complain of contaminated water supply in curfew||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, April 6The supply of water laced with sewage during the ongoing curfew has left residents worried residents. Notably, a number of areas, including Bathinda Road, Jalalabad Road and Tibbi Sahib Road, are getting contaminated water these days.The residents said they had informed officials of the Water Supply and Sanitation Department a number of times, but to no avail.Sandeep Kumar and Harpal Singh, both residents of Bathinda Road area, said, “We have even lodged a written complaint with the Deputy Commissioner in this regard about one year ago. Later in August, we also lodge a complaint. Some online complaints were also lodged on the department’s official website. The officials concerned had just visited the areas, but they did nothing for potable water supply. Now, the problem has increased once again and that too during the curfew.”Chhinderpal Kaur, a local resident, said, “Sewerage and water supply pipes have ruptured at a number of places in the town and that’s why we are getting contaminated water. We are left with no other option but to take a legal remedy.”Roshan Lal, a resident of Jalalabad Road area here, said, “The water being supplied these can’t even be used to wash clothes. The administration should swiftly ensure the potable water supply to residents during the curfew.”PS Dhanju, Executive Engineer, Water Supply and Sanitation Department, Muktsar, said, “I will try my best to resolve the issue at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/residents-complain-of-contaminated-water-supply-in-curfew-66821
07-04-2020||---||People making fake distress calls, stocking ration||Muktsar, April 6While many people are finding it tough to manage one meal a day during the ongoing curfew in the state, some residents are befooling the officials distributing free ration by hoarding it.An MLA from Muktsar district said political leaders were facing difficulties while distributing ration. “We have been getting several phone calls from residents for ration. Many a time, we found that the people already had enough stock at their homes. But we can’t even reject their demands because we have to go to them for votes later. They are taking unfair advantage of the opportunity.”The district administration, too, is getting a number of calls from people, claiming that no relief material has been sent to their colony or street. Some people have been booked for in the past few days for making false claims regarding delivery of ration.A senior official, who is engaged in the task of distributing relief material, said: “Some people do not understand the situation and are giving a band name to society. They should realise that those distributing ration also have families and are putting their lives at risk to help the needy.”A police official said some people misbehaved with the police personnel while they were serving langar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/people-making-fake-distress-calls-stocking-ration-66820
07-04-2020||Muktsar||Growing poppy plants: 1 held||1 held for selling liquor illegallyMuktsar: The Lakhewali police on Sunday arrested a man of Chak Madarassa village for allegedly defying the ban order issued by the District Magistrate and illegally selling liquor. The suspect has been identified as Jaswinder Singh. A total of 250 bottles and 88 half bottles of liquor have been seized from his residence, the police said. A case under various sections of the NDPS Act has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/growing-poppy-plants-1-held-66819
07-04-2020||Sameer Singh||Farmers not happy with wheat procurement arrangements||Tribune News ServiceBathinda April 6Clouds of uncertainty have been hovering over the farming community amid restrictions imposed in the wake of Covid-19, as it is time to harvest wheat. The farming community in the region is deeply perturbed over the arrangements at the mandis. Notably, the procurement of wheat by the government would start from April 15 onwards, but lack of proper arrangements at mandis has become a cause for concern for them.There are 10 market committees and 180 mandis (grain markets) all across the district, but no cleaning arrangements in place by the Mandi board so far.During a visit conducted by a team of Bathinda Tribune to Mehma Sarja, Nehianwala, Ablu, Jandanwala, Goniana Kalan, Aklia, Mehraj, Balluana and Dan Singhwala and other villages, heaps of garbage and stray animal dung cakes could be seen lying in the open.Notably, farmers from 314 villages in the district were ready to harvest wheat crop, but were quite anxious at the moment with regard to procurement this season amid Covid-19 fear. They were apprehensive about their six months’ hard work, which they said should not go waste.Even as the government has promised to provide bonus to farmers for storing their agricultural produce at their homes this season, farmers, especially marginal ones, were perturbed over the prospect of storage procurement of wheat produce from their homes.“Labour shortage problem which has been triggering tardy procurement of wheat over the past few years is set to aggravate this season due to coronavirus and curfew restrictions,” said a farmer from Mehma Sarja village.While manual harvesting had already started in some parts of the region, farmers were worried about the procurement of wheat this season.District Mandi Officer Kanwarpreet Singh Brar said: “The cleaning work at mandis has been started and in the wake of Covid-19, the number of mandis in the district would be increased up to 400 from existing 180 this procurement season to ensure social distancing during procurement. The procurement season will also be extended from 20 to 60 days this year.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/farmers-not-happy-with-wheat-procurement-arrangements-66818
07-04-2020||Bathinda||All 44 samples test negative in district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/all-44-samples-test-negative-in-district-66817
07-04-2020||---||Kanwar Grewal extends helping hand to needy||Bathinda, April 6 Punjabi singer Kanwar Grewal has extended support to over 210 financially-weaker families residing at his Mehma Sawai village by providing them ration and other essentials.  He is being assisted by members of Chadhdi Kalan Club in his task. Grewal is also reaching out to people to exhort them to follow the government’s directions regarding Covid-19 prevention. Gursewak Singh, a resident of the village, said: “While singers who glorify guns, violence and drugs are nowhere to be seen in these times, Good Samaritans like Kanwar ji are helping in every way they can.” Another resident said it is in such times that the true character of the people is revealed. “While there are numerous celebrity singers in the state, only a handful of them such as Grewal have philanthropic spirit. What makes Kanwar ji different from other donors is that is working shoulder to shoulder and carrying ration and other essential items by himself to the needy, unlike many others who donate money by sitting in the comfort of their own homes,” he said. Talking to Bathinda Tribune, Grewal said: “How can I leave the people alone to bear the pain. It would be unfortunate of me to do so. I am doing my bit to ensure that they do not sleep hungry.” He said he would continue helping the poor in the coming days as their livelihood as been hit by the restrictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/kanwar-grewal-extends-helping-hand-to-needy-66815
07-04-2020||Balwant Garg---||Drones used to warn people against going outside in Faridkot||Tribune News Service Faridkot, April 6 As a Covid case has triggered panic in Faridkot and over 180 persons of Harindra Nagar, residential locality of the patient, have been quarantined, the police have started using drones to warn people against going out of their homes. The drones, which are being used to ensure the effective enforcement of the quarantine and restrain the movement of the people, hovering above Harindra Nagar here on Monday asked people to stay indoors. “We have been asking people to stay indoors, particularly in Harindra Nagar, but many people still roam outside. Now with the help of drones, we want to give a message to the defiant that we are watching them and they will be prosecuted for violating the curfew and quarantine protocol. We are forced to use drones after many persons were not cooperating with us in dealing with the situation. The drones are used to monitor and force the people to adhere to their quarantine norms,” said a senior official. “The police have put barricades on all 10 entry and exit points of Harindra Nagar. Besides, we are keeping a watch on any person strolling around his or her house. No social gathering is allowed at this crucial point of time,” said the officer.    “As every seasonal influenza or flue is triggering panic of coronavirus among people, the Health Department has set up a special ward at the Civil Hospital here for persons complaining of flu symptoms. As every symptom such as fever, dry cough and tiredness are similar for both coronavirus and influenza. The only way to know the cause of the infection is the laboratory test of throat swab. So, we have set up the special ward to attend particularly the patients with flu symptoms. Testing is not recommended for all patients because most of the cases are mild,” said Dr Rajinder Kumar, Civil Surgeon, Faridkot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/drones-used-to-warn-people-against-going-outside-in-faridkot-66814
07-04-2020||---||Finance Minister expresses gratitude to frontline workers||Bathinda, April 6Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal reached the Civil Hospital here on Monday morning and expressed gratitude to medical and paramedical staff who are engaged in fight against Covid. To appreciate their efforts and services in these testing times, a guard of honour was given to them by police personnel.Manpreet said, “The guard of honour is meant for the bravest of the brave. We have presented it to doctors, medical and paramedical staff for their extraordinary bravery. I think everyone in the country will follow this practice of arranging a special guard of honour to express their appreciation and gratefulness. This is perhaps the first-ever guard of honour in the country meant exclusively for medical and paramedical professionals.” The Finance Minister said he was expressing the gratitude of all Punjabis to medics, police personnel and sanitation workers for their outstanding and extraordinary commitment and performance.The Finance Minister added that he was following the directions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and he stood in front of all frontline workers and first responders on behalf of the state government as well as the entire people of the state to thank them for their extraordinary work.He said, “Every war is followed by the grant of military honours. This practice will be followed at the end of the war against the coronavirus outbreak as well. The brave soldiers who fought against Covid will be awarded medals and certificates of appreciation.”He also complimented the police personnel for their inspiring work and appealed to residents to support them. “If a policeman tells you to sit inside your home, please do not feel offended. Please listen to them,” Manpreet urged residents.Addressing sanitation workers, Manpreet said they were battling it out so that the nation could stay safe and to help them thwart the further spread of the coronavirus. “You too have kids at home, but you have decided to work for the betterment of the nation. I salute you,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/finance-minister-expresses-gratitude-to-frontline-workers-66813
07-04-2020||Archit Watts---||Returned from Hazur Sahib, driver, cleaner flee from quarantine centre||Tribune News Service Muktsar, April 6 The Lambi police have booked a truck driver and a cleaner for allegedly fleeing from a gurdwara at Sikhwala village. Both of them were quarantined in the gurdwara after they returned from Gurdwara Hazur Sahib in Nanded on March 27. Notably, they had brought a ‘jatha’ back from there. Complainant Kiran Bala, community health officer, Sikhwala block, told the police that when she went to the village gurdwara on Sunday for the checkup of truck driver Hakam Singh and cleaner Vicky of Mansa district, they were found missing. She said, “They were directed to stay in the village gurdwara, but they defied the orders of the district magistrate and ran away.” A case under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the IPC has been registered in this regard.  Notably, those returning from other states have been directed to quarantine at home for 21 days.  Further, a team of the Health Department on Monday conducted health check ups of such 35 persons in various villages. Three held for roaming      The Malout (City) police on Sunday arrested three persons for allegedly roaming on city roads during the curfew.  A case under Sections 353, 186, 188 and 269 of the IPC has been registered against Vijay, Veeru and Tony, all residents of Ward-7 in Malout. All 44 samples test negative  Bathinda: Samples of 44 persons, who had a travel history to Delhi, which were collected on Saturday tested negative for novel coronavirus in Bathinda. Prior to this, samples of six persons which were collected on Friday were also found negative in the district. As per records of the Health Department in Bathinda, samples of 60 persons had been collected so far and all of them tested negative. Civil Surgeon Dr Amrik Singh Sandhu said, “Samples were collected as per the directions of the government as precautionary measures and persons whose samples were collected do not have any symptoms of Covid-19.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/returned-from-hazur-sahib-driver-cleaner-flee-from-quarantine-centre-66812
