09-04-2020||Patiala||Corona-screening corners to be set up||Amidst Covid-19 pandemic, to restart general OPDs, all hospitals, including private, will have corona-screening corners at their entrance.All patients entering any hospital will first be screened at said corners as a precautionary step to safeguard doctors and paramedical staff. The staff at these corners would be equipped with personal protective equipment (PPE) kit.“By setting up these corners at the hospital entrance, the authorities will be able to identify suspected Covid-19 patients at the gate itself,” said the Health Department.Thereby, vulnerability of doctors, paramedical staff and patients could be reduced to a great deal, the department added.Patients with influenza-like symptoms and severe respiratory illness, identified at these corners, would directly go for Covid-19 testing, the department said.At these corners, each patient entering the hospital complex would first wash his/her hands with soap, the department added.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Harish Malhotra, insisted that any hospital without functional flu corners would not be allowed to run OPDs. Patients with cough and fever would not be allowed to mix up with general patients to avoid the spread of disease at the hospital, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/corona-screening-corners-to-be-set-up-68754
09-04-2020||---||Bathinda school served notice for demanding fee||Bathinda, April 8The Education Department on Wednesday issued a show-cause notice to St Xavier’s School here for demanding fees during the lockdown period.Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla has been personally ensuring strict compliance of the government’s order that has prevented schools from demanding fee during the lockdown period. The minister has asked the parents to send complaints against erring schools on his email (vijayindersingla@gmail.com). He stated 38 schools have been served notices so far.The Cabinet Minister said the schools should also not charge transportation fees and book charges from students for the next academic session till the lockdown period is over.“The Education Department issued an order on March 23, asking private schools in the state to reschedule their admissions for the Session 2020-21. The schools have been directed to provide atleast 30-day window for submission of fees after the situation turns normal. They have also been instructed not to charge any late fees or fine from the students for the lockdown period.”He said violators of the orders have been served notices and given a seven-day time to reply. If they failed to give satisfactory reply, their affiliation or no-objection certificate would be withdrawn, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-school-served-notice-for-demanding-fee-68753
09-04-2020||Bathinda||Rs 51,000 donated to Covid fund||Three held with poppy husk, pillsMuktsar: The district police arrested three persons with two-kg poppy husk and 1,000 sedative pills in two separate incidents in the past about 24 hours. In the first incident, Dharam Singh of Tarntaran district was arrested with two-kg poppy husk from Kabarwala village. A case under various sections of the NDPS Act has been registered in this regard. Similarly, Sandeep Kumar and Sunil Kumar of Kotli Road area here were allegedly caught with 1,000 sedative pills. A case under various sections of the NDPS Act and IPC has been registered against them. Notably, in the past few days, some people were caught selling liquor illegally. Moreover, thieves struck at 10 shops near the Muktsar (City) police station and decamped with cash and goods worth about Rs1.5 lakh. Though the police claimed that the thefts would have occurred in the past few days, these came to light on Wednesday. A senior police officer said they were keeping vigil and that’s why people selling liquor or carrying contraband were arrested. TNSDoc volunteers for helplineMuktsar: A local medical practitioner, Dr SK Jindal, has set an example for others to follow. Despite his busy schedule, he has become medical volunteer for ‘104 medical helpline’. Dr Jindal said: “As I am MD (medicine), I offered my service to the Health Department in the tough times. I approached the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) with a request. Later, the local Indian Medical Association (IMA) and the CMO recommended my name. I am addressing 20 to 30 health-related queries daily.” He said he gives medical help through a mobile app. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/rs-51-000-donated-to-covid-fund-68752
09-04-2020||Sameer Singh||Bir Talab zoo on alert after tigress tests positive in US||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 8After a tigress tested positive for Covid at the Bronx zoo in the US recently, the authorities in the country are on high alert. Following the directions of the Central Zoo Authority, officials at the Bir Talab zoo here have made elaborate arrangements to ensure the safety of animals, especially those from the cat family.Notably, there are three big cats and leopards in the zoo here. According to Forest Department officials, arrangements were already made when the curfew was imposed. But after a recent directive from the Central Zoo Authority, arrangements have been ramped up now with a round-the-clock intensive vigil through CCTV cameras. Moreover, officials are also visiting enclosures in the day. They have also been using disinfectants on the enclosures of animals and other areas inside the zoo.Caretakers use protective gear such as masks and gloves while attending to animals in the enclosures. Even food items, including grass and fodder, and water are being served after using disinfectants such as potassium permanganate. More than 350 animals of several species are living in the Bir Talab zoo.Talking to Bathinda Tribune, Pawan Sridhar, range officer, Forest Department, said, “We have already taken the required steps to keep our animals safe and in shape. As per the directions of higher officials, the zoo was closed for the public on March 19. Recently when a tigress tested positive for Covid in the US, the Central Zoo Authority also issued directions. Everything has been taken care of and apart from carrying out disinfection activities, animals are kept under intensive vigil round the clock.”“Caretakers use protective gear while feeding animals and cleaning enclosures. Moreover, caretakers even with mild symptoms of cold cough or fever are being asked to stay at home. We have been keeping a regular watch on the activities of animals,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bir-talab-zoo-on-alert-after-tigress-tests-positive-in-us-68750
09-04-2020||  ||Six held for stealing water motor wires||Tribune News Service  Bathinda, April 8  Six members of a gang involved in stealing water motor wires from fields have been arrested. However, two members of the gang have managed to give the police the slip.  The police said the suspects used to recce their targets before striking at night.  The suspects have been identified as Avnesh Kumar of Bathinda, Rajesh Kumar Yadav, Parkash Kumar, Ramanand Shah, Sudesh Kumar and Balwant Singh, all residents of Goniana.  Gurmeet Singh of Harraipur village told the police that the suspects had stolen water motor wires from his fields on April 6. He said they had also struck at fields of Jagwinder Singh, Amrik Singh and others.  Acting the complaint, the police arrested the suspects and seized 25m motor wire, 40-feet 4-face wire, 33-feet 2-face wire, two 10 feet motor wires, 1.5-kg copper wires and one kg almunium wire from them.  A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at the Nehiawala police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/six-held-for-stealing-water-motor-wires-68749
09-04-2020||---||SAD leader’s fast enters second day||Muktsar, April 8The hunger strike by SAD councillor Parminder Singh ‘Pasha’, who is also the party’s district president of the SC wing, entered second day here on Wednesday. Pasha, son of former Malout MLA Baldev Singh Ballamgarh, has accused the district administration of having a biased approach in distributing ration among needy people.“In my ward, nearly 500 families are yet to get ration. But the administration is neither ready to provide them ration nor conduct an independent inquiry into the distribution work. Some people have been approaching me to join me in the hunger strike. But I have stopped them just due to the curfew and the pandemic,” said Pasha.He added, “Nobody from the administration has approached me so far. Before I started the hunger strike, officials had threatened me to face the treason case. I have simply been observing a hunger strike in an inn located on Goneana Road. I will continue to observe it till the ration is distributed among all needy people.”MK Aravind Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Muktsar, on Tuesday had said, “We have covered almost entire area and helped needy people. Besides, police personnel and volunteers of some NGOs have been doing good work. Some people are just doing politics and they will be dealt strictly. Further, the district leadership of all political parties is satisfied with the relief work. Earlier, some people had raised questions over the distribution of ration by the District Red Cross Society, but I have personally checked the records and found nothing wrong.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/sad-leaders-fast-enters-second-day-68747
09-04-2020||Bathinda||Drones keep tab on violators||Despite clear instructions from the Punjab Government and the district administration, some people are still venturing out of their homes without any genuine reason. Now to deal with the violators strictly, the police have started using two drones to keep an eye on them.On being caught roaming on roads without any genuine reason, the violators will be booked and spent to the makeshift open jail at SSD Girls School near Goll Diggi for a day. SSP Dr Nanak Singh said, “Drones are being used to keep a watch on violators in the city. They will not be spared on flouting norms. We have been initiating steps for the safety and health of residents. They should understand this.”He added that at present, two drones were being used in the city and if required, more drones would be used in the coming days. On Wednesday, the police arrested over 20 persons for roaming on roads without curfew passes. They were sent to the open jail. Besides, four cases were registered against 20 persons for violating the curfew orders in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/drones-keep-tab-on-violators-68745
09-04-2020||---||50 PPE kits distributed among frontline staff in Bathinda||Bathinda, April 8Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Wednesday provided personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to medical staff in Bathinda. He handed over 50 PPE kits at the Civil Hospital and assured that 200 more kits will be supplied soon. Notably, the matter of PPEs and face masks was also raised by Bathinda Tribune a few days ago.Stressing on providing every necessary safety gears to the medics fighting against Covid-19, Manpreet Singh Badal said: “The state government is fully committed to extend every possible help to the frontline warriors battling against this deadly pandemic.”Expressing gratitude to the Indian Medical Association for providing these kits, the FM said that a stock of more than 200 PPE kits was already available in the Civil Hospital, but these kits were being provided as per the demand of the medical staff.He said, “The supply of essential commodities such as ration, milk, fruits, vegetables, medicines was going smoothly in the state and Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh personally overseeing the relief works and situation.”Dr Navjot Singh Dahiya, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), said, “The IMA is continuously working with the state government in this difficult time and these PPE kits have been provided with the help of the Khalsa Aid.Manpreet promises smooth procurement of wheatThe Finance Minister said all arrangements have been made for smooth procurement and the state government would purchase every grain of the wheat. The government is ready for the wheat procurement season starting from April 15 and the Punjab Mandi Board and procurement agencies have already been instructed to make all arrangements in this regard well in time, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/50-ppe-kits-distributed-among-frontline-staff-in-bathinda-68742
09-04-2020||Balwant Garg||Faridkot reports 2nd Covid case||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, April 8Ventilator-Fitted Ambulance Donated To Medical VarsityLast week, the MP had announced Rs15 lakh for Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital from the MPLAD funds.A 53-year-old man tested positive for the coronavirus here on Wednesday, taking the district count to two. He is one of the contacts of the first patient.The condition of both patients is stable and they are under treatment at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital here.Sources in the Health Department said it was believed the first patient, who had tested positive on April 3, had received the virus from the second patient, a resident of Mistrian Wali locality here.They added that on March 17, the first patient had received the second patient at the Amritsar airport and both of them had travelled to Faridkot in a private vehicle. Officials believe that the second patient might have been infected from Mumbai or in the flight. Mistrian Wali locality has been sealed.Last week after the foreign money exchanger had tested positive, the Health Department had collected samples of 47 persons who had come in contact with him. Except for the 53-year-old man, all of them, including four family members of the first patient, tested negative.Not taking any chance with the sampling of family members who have been tested negative, the Health Department on Wednesday again collected the samples of six persons. The Health Department also collected the samples of 24 persons, who came in contact with the second patient.Besides, samples of 16 members of the Tablighi Jamaat were also collected on Wednesday. Sources said two days ago, the department had received information about 67 Tablighi Jamaat members, who were staying at Mallan village of Faridkot and complained of mild fever. All of them were screened and they were put under isolation at Bajakhana.Last week, the Health Department had collected the samples of 14 members of the Tablighi Jammat and all of them had tested negative.Meanwhile, AAP MLA from Kotkapura Kultar Singh Sandhwan on Wednesday went into self-quarantine at his residence in Sandhwan village as the second Covid patient is known to him. They had some meetings in the recent days and not taking any risk, the MLA decided to go into self-isolation. AAP MLA goes into self-quarantineAAP MLA from Kotkapura Kultar Singh Sandhwan on Wednesday went into self-quarantine at his residence in Sandhwan village as the second Covid patient is known to him. They had some meetings in the recent days and not taking any risk, the MLA decided to go into self-isolation as a precautionary measure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/faridkot-reports-2nd-covid-case-68741
