29-04-2020||Muktsar||Delayed test reports have officials worried||Despite the state government’s efforts to scale up testing for Covid-19, the reports are getting delayed. At least 485 samples were sent from the district for testing in the last eight days, but the reports of only 187 persons have been received and the remaining 298 are pending.Local health officials had sent 49 samples on Thursday, 69 Friday and 72 Saturday, four Sunday, 102 Monday and 100 on Tuesday to the laboratory. However, just five reports were received on Thursday, 14 Friday, 18 Saturday, 64 Sunday, 11 Monday and 75 on Tuesday.A health official said they were in a fix as the state government had asked them to increase the pace of sampling, but the reports were getting delayed. “People with symptoms like cold, cough and fever are not easily getting ready to give their sample. We have to pursue them. When the test report doesn’t come within 24 hours, they get panicky and start calling us. ” he said.Dr HN Singh, CMO, Muktsar, said, “We are acting as per the state government’s guidelines and sending samples daily for testing. There might be some problem at the laboratory.”A majority of the samples are being sent to the Covid-19 testing lab at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot.The sample of the lone Covid-19 patient of Muktsar district was again sent for testing today. The 18-year-old boy from UP’s Meerut, who had come here after attending the Tablighi event, was first tested positive on April 8. Thereafter, he tested negative on April 21. But on April 23, he again tested positive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/delayed-test-reports-have-officials-worried-77680
29-04-2020||Sameer Singh||Bathinda doctor reaches out to poor||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, April 28Going beyond the call of duty, a city-based doctor, along with six volunteers, has been providing free medical consultation, besides distributing medicines in slum areas for the past one month.While doctors from a majority of the private hospitals have opted to provide medical services over the phone due to the Covid-19 outbreak, Dr Vitull Gupta is reaching out to those living on the margins.More than 4,000 patients living in slum areas have so far been benefitted from medical camps organised by Dr Gupta in the past one month.The volunteers, accompanying him, say if one follows the guidelines issued by the WHO, one can minimise the risk of catching the virus.Dr Gupta, MD, Medicine, said, “If you do not take precautions, you are at risk of virus transmission even while sitting at your home. Prior to organising medical camps in slums, we have put in place a proper mechanism to ensure that every patient takes precautions.”“Calls started pouring in both from acquaintances and medical practitioners in the region after the first camp, asking me to drop the idea of camps and stay at home to stay safe. But we did not give up and managed to hold these camps with vigour and motivation,” added Dr Gupta.Anil Bhola, a city-based social worker, who has been organising and funding these camps, said, “A day after the lockdown, I got a call from a woman, who pleaded for help to get medicine for her son who had high fever. She narrated how doctors refused to examine or give medicines to her son. I contacted scores of private doctors in the city for the cause, but nobody agreed to my proposal of funding the camps and providing necessary safety equipment. Then I contacted Dr Vitull, who agreed to provide his services for free. The move will also take off the load from the government as well as private hospitals.”Birju Kumar, a labourer from Dhobiana basti, said, “I could not muster courage to visit government hospital for treatment, fearing action by the police. After two days, the doctor and his team came to our area and treated me and other patients in our area.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/bathinda-doctor-reaches-out-to-poor-77677
29-04-2020||Bathinda||Hazur Sahib pilgrims allege poor facilities||A video of pilgrims who returned from Nanded Sahib highlighting poor arrangements at the quarantine centre has gone viral on the social media.In the video, a group of women are claiming they were members of the first group of pilgrims which returned two days back. They are residents of Bathinda city and have been kept in the quarantine centre at the Meritorious School located near the Dabwali road.They said there was no arrangement of proper food and toilets as no bucket and soap were available. The pilgrims complained they were not served tea in the evening and overcooked chapattis were being given to them.They said most of the pilgrims were patients of other ailments, but they were not given due care. DC B Srinivasan said he had not seen the video yet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/hazur-sahib-pilgrims-allege-poor-facilities-77675
29-04-2020||---||20 pilgrims kept in isolation at Faridkot government school||Faridkot, April 28Twenty pilgrims, who returned from Maharashtra’s Hazur Sahib on Tuesday, have been quarantined at a government school in Sandhwan village here.The Health Department has sent the swab samples of the pilgrims for Covid test at VRDL Laboratory at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot. All 20 pilgrims, including 11 women, will stay at the government school till their test report comes, said the authorities.A total of 45 persons of Sandhwan, the native village of late President Giani Zail Singh, had gone to Nanded Sahib in the first week of March this year, but after the lockdown, they got stuck there.About 50 more persons, including 25 from Sandhwan and 12 from Pacca village, are expected to arrive here from Nanded Sahib in the next 24 hours. To quarantine these person, arrangements at government and private schools at Kotkapura and Faridkot, said Kumar Saurabh Raj, DC, Faridkot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/20-pilgrims-kept-in-isolation-at-faridkot-government-school-77674
