01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue control: Get free mosquito killer fish from Chandigarh fisheries dept||After the health department registered 59 confirmed cases of dengue in September, highest in four years, the UT animal husbandry and fisheries department has started providing mosquito killer fish (Gambusia) for free to residents to put into stagnant bodies of water.A drive was started on Friday at Nagar Van near Sukhna Lake and the fish were released into the water bodies here. Deputy conservator of forests Abdul Qayum, director of the department of animal husbandry and fisheries, Manish Kumar Lohan, and joint director Dr Kanwarjit Singh were present on this occasion. The Gambusia fish will also be released in other stagnant water points in the coming days.Speaking about how the fish work, joint director Dr Kanwarjit Singh said, “The Gambusia adult fish eat 100 to 300 mosquito larvae per day. The fish are small and inedible, which makes them an excellent biological tool for mosquito control. The larvae are consumed before they have a chance to develop into adult mosquitoes. This prevents the spread of diseases like dengue, malaria and chikungunya.”Call or visit fish farmThe department has already supplied the fish to those in northern sectors who have ponds or fountains in their houses. However, anyone can now approach them to get the fish free of cost.A call can be made to the joint director’s office at 0172-2700092 or people can directly go to the Government Seed Fish Farm, set up at the regulator end of the Sukhna Lake near the Garden of Silence. The fish farm, as per department director Manish Kumar Lohan, is the only such farm in North which breeds this rare fish and supplies it to other departments.“People must make sure that the water body is stagnant. The fish are not to be kept in aquariums. Someone from the department will visit the place before the fish are provided to ensure that they are not wasted,” Dr Singh said.So far in 2021, 78 cases of dengue have been reported in Chandigarh, with the health department claiming zero fatality due to the disease. Six confirmed cases of malaria were also logged this year against last year’s seven. No chikungunya case has been reported in Chandigarh in the last three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-control-get-free-mosquito-killer-fish-from-chandigarh-fisheries-dept-101633112978466.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Cotton: Poor farm practices led to bollworm attack in Punjab, say experts||Even as the Punjab government, following the pink bollworm attack, has ordered a probe to find whether farmers were supplied spurious BT cotton seeds, agriculture experts attribute the crop infestation in the state’s Malwa region to poor farm practices.  “There is not much merit in claims on seed quality,” said Vijay Kumar, principal entomologist at Punjab Agriculture University (PAU), Ludhiana, while pointing to varied incidence of infestation in different districts. “Even as area affected by pink bollworm (PBW) In Bathinda district, where the infestation was first reported on a small patch in 2018, has been increasing over the years and extended to the adjoining areas of Mansa district as well, field surveillance has found that pest severity is limited to three blocks: Bathinda, Sangat and Talwandi,” said Kumar. Meanwhile, Fazilka has not reported any case, and in Muktsar it was found at only three to four spots, said Kumar, who has been engaged in containing bollworm attacks for the past five years.“Bollgard 2 (BG-2), a second-generation insecticidal technology for cotton, has now grown resistant to PBW. But chemical treatment is highly effective to control it,” he said.According to experts, other major cotton-growing states, such as Karnataka and Maharashtra, have been reporting PBW over large areas since 2015. It entered Punjab and Haryana more recently with the unchecked transportation of cotton from other states by the oil extracting mills and ginning units. ‘Cotton growers did not follow instructions’In June this year, the state agriculture department had cautioned about infestation and advised farmers to use low-cost pheromone traps in fields to contain pest attacks. A capsule in the trap lures male pests, and regular monitoring indicates pest population in the fields through the trapped pests.SK Verma, head of Sirsa-based Central Institute for Cotton Research, said field studies indicate that farmers did not follow the instructions that resulted in wide infestation in Punjab and Haryana.“Farmers must ensure that cotton residue, which is commonly used as firewood, is not kept in fields. This moth can survive in any climatic condition and lives only on cotton plants or its residue. Between sowing in April-May till harvesting in November, three generations of bollworm took birth at a huge rate,” he said.Verma said it is a myth that infestation can damage crops in the entire field. In case of pest attack, only those flowers or boll of a plant get affected that have its larvae, he said, adding that PBW can be controlled by ensuring that no crop waste is kept in or around fields.“Government should adopt an organised approach to curb bollworm with the same spirit that was adopted to control devastating whitefly infestation in Punjab in 2015,” said Verma.This year, 3.3 lakh hectare area is under cotton cultivation, an increase of 17% from the 2020-21 Kharif season.Rakesh Rathi, director, Indian Cotton Association Limited, said in spite of the pest attack, the industry is hopeful of Punjab reaching last year’s production of 50 lakh quintals.“Our assessment suggests a bumper crop this time and a good yield may overcome the loss incurred by farmers due to bollworm infestation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cotton-poor-farm-practices-led-to-bollworm-attack-in-punjab-say-experts-101633112864074.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: AAP launches campaign to highlight pro-poor policies||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday launched a state-level campaign dedicated to upliftment of the poor and disadvantaged sections of society. Punjab goes to the polls in another four months.Under the campaign named “Babasaheb Ka Sapna Adhura, Kejriwal Karengey Pura”, party workers will go from door to door in every village and town in the state to inform people about steps taken by the Delhi government, led by AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal, to uplift the poor. Harpal Singh Cheema, leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly, made the announcement while addressing a press conference along with deputy leader of legislature party Saravjit Kaur Manuke and scheduled caste (SC) wing state president Lal Chand Kataruchak. Cheema accused the successive Akali-BJP and Congress governments in Punjab for exploiting poor people belonging to SC and backward classes. “AAP has given equal opportunity to all sections of people. There is no place for discrimination in AAP like in other conventional parties in Punjab,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabaap-launches-campaign-to-highlight-pro-poor-policies-101633112861311.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab is in safe hands: Randhawa on Pak threat||Warning against an “alarmist narrative” being created about peace and security in Punjab, deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Friday said that it will lead to unnecessary fear among citizens. “Rest assured, Punjab is in safe hands,” said Randhawa, who holds the home portfolio, after conducting surprise checking at the state police headquarters in Chandigarh.Though Randhawa named no one in particular, recently senior Congress leaders, including former chief minister (CM) Captain Amarinder Singh and Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari, have raised concerns about the border state’s security.The deputy CM said that while it is a fact that Pakistan and its intelligence agencies are always trying to create trouble in India and Punjab being a border state is at a greater risk, “Punjabis are prepared to thwart any challenge with all their courage and might”. “There is nothing new about this threat... What has changed within less than two weeks?” said Randhawa, while questioning the timing of concerns being raised after a regime change in the state. Targeting the critics, the deputy CM also questioned as to whom they were they trying to help by adopting an alarmist approach.“Let me assure all those who are concerned about peace in Punjab, whether fake or genuine, that no sacrifice will be deemed too big to safeguard the peace and amity in the state and unity and integrity of the country,” he said.Surprise checking at police headquartersEarlier, accompanied by acting director general of police Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota and ADGP (law and order) Gaurav Yadav, Randhawa reached the police headquarters at 9am and visited various branches to check the presence of employees. Randhawa also visited offices of a senior officers, some of whom were found to be absent. He said he conducted the surprise check on the directions of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who has asked employees in government offices to report on duty on time to ensure people face no hassles in getting their work done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-is-in-safe-hands-randhawa-on-pak-threat-101633112859821.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Three booked for illegally stocking paddy at Kapurthala mill||Three people, including a rice sheller owner, were booked for allegedly illegally stocking over 5,000 quintals of paddy brought from other states in Kapurthala on Friday evening. The accused have been identified as Devki Nandan Aggarwal, Sameer Aggarwal and Krishan Kumar, all belonging to Kapurthala. During a raid at Gopal Rice Mill, owned by Krishan Kumar, teams of the central vigilance committee of the Punjab food and civil supplies department recovered nearly 5,362 quintals of paddy, meant for public distribution system in other states. The teams also recovered nearly 4,800 bags, with stamps of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. According to the FIR, the trio prepared bogus bills of three firms and brought paddy stock from other states, which was kept at Gopal Rice Mill. Police said they planned to sell the paddy stock purchased on lower prices during the upcoming procurement and earn a huge profit. They have been booked under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.MORE PUNJAB NEWS IN BRIEFSNorthern Railways launches AC cargo trainThe Northern Railways on Friday operated its first air-conditioned parcel express train from Sahnewal in Ludhiana to Yeshwanthpur in Bengaluru. Comprising 20 AC coaches, the train is carrying refrigerated cargo, including edible snacks and sauces, weighing 121 tonnes, said Ashutosh Gangal, general manager, Northern Railways.Awareness campaign on legal servicesPunjab State Legal Services Authority will conduct a campaign from October 2 to November 14 to make people living in rural, tribal and remote areas aware about availability of free legal services, and their legal rights and entitlements guaranteed under the Constitution and other welfare legislations. As part of the launch of the six-week drive, legal aid volunteers will organise ‘Prabhat Pheri’ on Gandhi Jayanti. Focus on job creation, not freebies: PYCPunjab Youth Congress (PYC) president Brinder Singh Dhillon on Friday sought fresh impetus to high education and employment generation in the state instead of freebies and doles. Dhillon said that where other parties were promising freebies, it was highly crucial to work for job creation and lifting the economic status of people of the state. He also expressed concern over the state of higher education, comparing the number of colleges and lecturers with neighbouring states.‘Ensure proper implementation of RTI Act’ State RTI commissioner Kushwant Singh on Friday directed officials of various departments to ensure proper implementation of Right to Information Act in their respective offices so the applicants do not face any hardship. Chairing a district-level meeting, the commissioner said that suo motu declaration of information was the need of the hour, thus every department should declare certain information on their websites including the names and address of Public Information Officers and their appellant authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-three-booked-for-illegally-stocking-paddy-at-kapurthala-mill-101633112858676.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM halts dairy shifting project in Patiala||Hanging fire for 17 years, the dairy shifting project in Patiala missed another deadline after chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday directed to halt the process till all necessary facilities are made available at the new site. The chief minister’s orders came after a delegation of dairy owners met him on Thursday night. In a phone call made to the Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit past midnight, Channi said the interest of dairy owners must be taken into consideration.“No one should be made to forcibly shift their business to the new site. The administration should put all facilities, including proper road network, water supply connections, sewage treatment plant and other requirements, in place before shifting the dairy owners,” said the chief minister (CM).The Patiala municipal corporation (MC) had set September 30 as the deadline to shift 141 dairy farmers operating within the city to a 21-acre site at Ablowal village on the outskirts.Presently, the site is without a biogas plant, sewage treatment plant and veterinary hospital, as proposed under the ₹13.5-crore project. The dairy owners also complained that they were offered only 150-square-yard plot, which would be not adequate to run their units.On Friday, the deputy commissioner met the dairy owners and listened to their grievances and demands. “All facilities will be provided according to the mandate. The dairies will be shifted only after the Patiala MC ensures all required facilities are available at the site,” he said. Meanwhile, Patiala mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu said the dairy owners kept a one-sided story before the CM.“We will send a fresh presentation to the CM, briefing him about arrangements made at the site. The dairy owners are reluctant to shift their businesses and are creating unwarranted hindrances,” he said.The presence of dairies within the city limits has been leading to frequent choking of sewers and resultant waterlogging in Patiala. The project to shift them was initiated in 2003, but it gathered pace only after former CM Captain Amarinder Singh provided funds in 2017. In the first phase, of the total 257 dairies, 141 were to be shifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-halts-dairy-shifting-project-in-patiala-101633112857272.html
01-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Kular elected member of PHDCCI’s managing committee||Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) president Gurmeet Singh Kular was elected into PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s (PHDCCI) managing committee during an event in Delhi on Thursday. Kular said that PHDCCI was established in 1905 and is a national body which works to promote industry, trade and entrepreneurship. He added that it has around 69,000 members and only 15 are elected into the managing committee. Congratulating Kular over being elected, industrialists from Ludhiana said that a businessman from the city has been elected as the member of the managing committee after 116 years. Prominent industrialists like All India Cycle Manufacturers Association president Onkar Singh Pahwa, FICO chairman KK Seth and United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association general secretary Manjinder Sachdeva congratulated Kular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-kular-elected-member-of-phdcci-s-managing-committee-101633112802448.html
01-10-2021||Other||Woman booked for abetment to suicide of husband in Ludhiana||Ludhiana A day after a woman filed a police complaint against his husband for harassment, the 35-year-old man ended his life by hanging. His mother has claimed that he was depressed over these false harassment claims. On her complaint, the Tibba Police have lodged booked the man’s wife, her aunt and cousin for abetment to suicide. The complainant, of Atal Nagar at Rahon Road, said, “The relationship between my son and his wife were strained; four months ago, she had left her house, leaving their two children behind. She left again on September 27, only to file a complaint on September 29. The police had even summoned us for questioning.” Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sukhdev Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (acts done by common intention) of the IPC has been registered against the accused. An audio message, reportedly left by the victim, before committing suicide has emerged, in which he has accused his wife, her two relatives and a Khanna-based medical practitioner of forcing him to end his life. The note accuses the ASI of throwing him in the lock-up and releasing him only after taking a bribe. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP east) Davinder Chaudhary said investigation was on and action will be taken based on its report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-of-husband-in-ludhiana-101633112738766.html
01-10-2021||Lucknow||CM Yogi warns DMs, police chiefs against giving Janata Darshan a miss||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday told all district magistrates and district police chiefs to be present in their respective offices between 10 am and noon for Janata Darshan, to attend to public problems and complaints and redress them. He also told the chief minister’s office and offices of the chief secretary, additional chief secretary (home) and director general of police to regularly monitor this system in districts. “Action will be taken against those officers who are found absent from Janata Darshan,” said Yogi. Speaking during the Covid-19 review meeting on Friday, the chief minister reiterated that UP had no place for people engaged in illegal activities and corrupt conduct and said that a list of such tainted officers and personnel should be made so that action was taken against them as per the rules. He said that officers and personnel found involved in very serious crimes would face dismissal from police service. Talking about Covid, Yogi said that 33 districts did not have any active Covid case while 22 had active cases in single digit. “In the tests done during the past 24 hours, not a single case was recorded in 64 districts. Twenty-four fresh cases of Covid were found in the rest of the districts. The state has a total of 159 active Covid cases at present,” he said. Yogi said that the state had administered 10.68 crore doses of the Covid vaccine so far. “Fifty-eight per cent of the state’s population in eligible age groups has got at least one dose of the vaccine,” he said and added: “In September, the state administered more than 3 crore doses of the vaccine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cm-yogi-warns-dms-police-chiefs-against-giving-janata-darshan-a-miss-101633112737306.html
01-10-2021||Lucknow||From Gandhi to Mahatma: Documenting Bapu’s journeys by train||The spark for Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi to become the Mahatma was lit at the Pietermaritzburg railway station in South Africa on June 7, 1893 and the moment was etched in history when he was evicted from a first-class train compartment leading to the birth of Satyagraha. Despite that experience, he appeared to nurse a lifelong fondness for trains.Now, the railways is set to observe Mahatma Gandhi’s 152nd birth anniversary by making people aware of his attachment with trains.This exercise will be apart from paying floral tribute to the Father of the Nation or carrying out cleanliness drives this Gandhi Jayanti.The railways has directed all its zones, including North Eastern Railway (NER), North Central Railway (NCR) and Northern Railway (NR), to dig out all the archives related to Gandhi and his journeys to Uttar Pradesh via train. The three zones largely cover the entire Uttar Pradesh.Besides, the railways has asked all the station masters and station superintendents to take out detailed records of the trains, which Gandhi boarded while spearheading multiple freedom movements in the country.“We are looking for the archives. We are also looking for any (of) Gandhiji’s journey related pictures in our photo section, which is one of the oldest photo sections,” said Pankaj Singh, chief public relations officer (CPRO) of NER.Sharing one such instance, Singh said Mahatma Gandhi had arrived at the Gorakhpur railway station on February 8, 1921 from Nagpur. As his train touched the station, the Mahatma de-boarded and received a warm welcome amid the roars of “Bharat Mata Ki Jai”.“Gandhi soon came out of the station and addressed the gathering. During his address, people also donated money that was collected in a white cotton cloth sheet spread out before him. He appealed to the masses to maintain Hindu-Muslim unity and the farmers of Awadh region to observe non-violence,” Singh said.He further said that Gandhi then addressed another rally at Bale Miyan Ka Maidan in Gorakhpur and around 1.5 lakh attended. Late in the evening, Gandhi departed for Varanasi.“We are still looking for some more information related to Mahatma Gandhi’s visit to any of the stations in our jurisdiction,” he added.Northern Railway officials are also on the job. Lucknow’s Charbagh railway station, too, had witnessed the arrival of Mahatma Gandhi about 105 years ago.As per the record, on December 26, 1916, Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru arrived at Lucknow railway station from Allahabad and met Mahatma Gandhi in front of the Charbagh railway station. The place where this historic meeting took place still bears a plaque and the history of Gandhi-Nehru park. However, the officials said that they are yet to find out by which train the duo reached the state capital.Senior NCR officials said that, according to reports, Mahatma Gandhi’s Zenith watch got stolen at Kanpur Central Station while he was onboard. Officials said that according to the Collected Works of Mahatma Gandhi, he wrote in a note dated May 28, 1947, about the theft at Kanpur railway station on May 25.“I may add that it had a radium disc... and also a contrivance for alarm. It was a gift to me. The cost then was over ₹40. It was a Zenith watch,” the Mahatma wrote.The footnote further stated, “The reference is to Gandhiji’s watch, a present from Indira Nehru, which he had been using for about 20 years, and which was stolen at Kanpur station on May 25.”Officials further said that the incident upset him. The thief felt remorse and returned it after six months. The officials are now trying to track more details.Officials said once collected, the information would be made available in the public domain in order to make the present generation aware of Gandhi’s journeys by train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/from-gandhi-to-mahatma-documenting-bapu-s-journeys-by-train-101633112559576.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: AAP manifesto ‘guarantees’ free, 24x7 water supply, no new taxes||Ahead of its first municipal corporation (MC) elections, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday announced its manifesto called “AAP Guarantees”.A host of freebies and mohalla clinics will be on offer if AAP is elected to power, stated AAP state in-charge and MLA from Delhi Jarnail Singh while releasing the manifesto.Addressing the media, Singh said, “On the lines of Arvind Kejriwal’s government in Delhi, we have included all important facilities in our manifesto, including free and 24-hour clean water supply and free Wi-Fi hotspots.”No new taxes will be imposed and increased taxes will be withdrawn, states the AAP’s manifesto.“Street lights will be installed at dark-spots, CCTV cameras will be installed at different places to make the city safe and the roads will be made pothole free,” said Singh.‘Will win all seats’Along with this, mohalla clinics will be set up in every sector where people can get free treatment. Singh claimed that this time AAP will make its mayor after winning all the seats in the upcoming MC elections.Last month, AAP convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had given the go ahead for the party to contest from all 35 wards in Chandigarh. The AAP had entered the Chandigarh electoral scene in 2014 with a strong performance in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections.After losing the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, AAP’s ranks had depleted, but in recent months, a slew of new joinings have taken place, particularly from former Congress leaders and workers; the most prominent being former city Congress chief and former mayor Pardeep Chhabra.“A more detailed manifesto will be released closer to the MC elections,” said Chhabra.To boost its chances in the MC elections, the party has brought back former MP Harmohan Dhawan to active campaigning. Dhawa, who was present during the launch of the manifesto, was politically dormant for nearly two years.Membership drive startedThe party also kick-started its membership drive from Sector 27. Singh and other party leaders including co-in-charge of Chandigarh AAP Pradeep Chhabra, convener Prem Garg and president of election campaign committee Chandramukhi Sharma, went door-to-door in Sector 27 and enrolled new members.Singh said, “We have resolved to reach out to lakhs of people in the city by running a membership drive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-aap-manifesto-guarantees-free-24x7-water-supply-no-new-taxes-101633112497036.html
01-10-2021||Lucknow||International Day for Older Persons: Take out time for the elderly at home, say experts||Spending a few minutes with the elderly in the house can actually benefit in two ways – overall good health of the elderly and reduced expenditure due to avoidable health problems, said experts during an event to mark the International Day for Older Persons, on Friday.“Loneliness is a key factor for mental illness, which also brings physical illness. If the elderly are given time or are engaged in some work they (elderly) feel self-respect for themselves and keep away from mental illnesses such as depression,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, Head of the Aastha Centre for Geriatric Medicine and Hospice, where a programme was held on International Day for Older Persons (Oct 1).“Similarly, good oral/dental health will keep a lot of other illnesses such as poor digestion away. Youngsters should spend some time with the elderly instead of spending on medicines for them (elderly),” said Dr Pooran Chand, HoD, prosthodontics at the King George’s Medical University, addressing an event for elderly patients.“If the young generation has the energy to work, the elderly have the experience. So, use their experience and keep the elderly busy for their good health,” said prof Pooran Chand.During a programme at Aastha Hospice, several events including yoga, tambola and quiz were held to make the elders feel happy. Volunteers, who reached early in the morning, remained busy grooming the senior citizens, giving them haircuts and shaves. “The elderly should live healthier, purposeful and longer lives and they also have the potential to contribute to the younger generation in old age,” said Dr Shukla.“There are medicines available but we should not make the stomachs of the elderly a medical store. Instead, give them a chance to live an active and productive life as long as they wish,” said Prof Pooran Chand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/international-day-for-older-persons-take-out-time-for-the-elderly-at-home-say-experts-101633112437156.html
01-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Day after waste collectors’ protest, alternative dumping sites finalised||A day after garbage collectors raised an agitation over shifting of the secondary dump site behind Vardhman mills, MLA Sanjay Talwar along with the area councillors conducted a meeting with them and the municipal corporation (MC) officials at Zone B on Friday and resolved the issue.Alternative sites have been finalised for the dumping of garbage. A decision was also taken to use MC vehicles to resolve the issues being faced in the door-to-door lifting.As per officials, the garbage collected from wards 13, 14, 15, and 16 will be dumped at the compactor site near Central Jail, while the garbage of wards 18 and 19 will be dumped at the compactor site near Vardhman mills at Chandigarh Road. Until a permanent solution is found, the garbage of wards 7, 9, 10, 11, and 12 will be dumped at the vacant government land near the Central Jail.Talwar said, “Alternative sites have been identified and the garbage collectors have also given their consent for the same. The MC will ensure proper and regular lifting of garbage from the houses,” he said.Talwar calls agitation ‘politically motivated’Meanwhile, Talwar slammed the opposition party leaders for allegedly provoking the garbage collectors to stage a protest against the ruling government and MC. He said they had spread rumours that he had got the dump shifted from the site even though the decision was taken by the authorities for the betterment of the residents living in the vicinity.Earlier, on Thursday, waste collectors protested against the municipal corporation and blocked Tajpur Road for around six hours. They opposed the shifting of the dumpsite behind Vardhman mills to a point near Central Jail on Tajpur Road and rued that it is difficult for them to pull their cart to that point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianaday-after-waste-collectors-protest-alternative-dumping-sites-finalised-101633112377208.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dr Suman Singh joins as new director of health services in Chandigarh||A 1991-batch Punjab Civil Medical Services (PCMS) officer, Dr Suman Singh, has joined as the new director, health services, Chandigarh, on Friday.After Dr Amandeep Kang retired on September 30, Dr Suman who was last posted as deputy director (vigilance) in Ludhiana took over the charge.Dr Suman graduated from Government Medical College, Patiala, in 1989, and has served in various capacities: as senior medical officer (SMO) at Urban Primary Health Centre (PHC), Ludhiana; on deputation in Chandigarh for two years from 1993 to 1995; besides, serving in various cities of Punjab including Phagwara, Hoshiarpur, Bathinda, Nawanshahr.While talking to HT, Dr Suman said, “Implementing all the national health programmes and ensuring the reach of their benefits to every section of the society are among my top priorities. Also, focus is on controlling the Covid-19 situation in Chandigarh, besides dengue and malaria. Due to the pandemic, the non-Covid patients had suffered a lot and since the situation is under control this time, the non-Covid medical services will be scaled up.”“To control the spread of Covid infection, strategies will be made to speed up the vaccination drive in Chandigarh. UT has already achieved the 100% target of vaccinating the adult population with the first dose and efforts will be made to vaccinate people with the second dose, as early as possible. Also, people must follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, especially wearing of masks and social distancing to avert another surge,” Dr Suman said.She further said that the Union government and the UT health department were already scaling up infrastructure in Chandigarh’s government hospitals in preparation for the third Covid wave. “After the second wave, health facilities have been improved, including medical oxygen, essential drugs and ICU beds, and I will work towards providing more facilities to the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dr-suman-singh-joins-as-new-director-of-health-services-inchandigarh-101633112317286.html
01-10-2021||Lucknow||Conversion racket:UP ATS arrests one more from Kanpur||Lucknow The Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Friday arrested another person Dheeraj Jagtaap from Kanpur for his alleged involvement in the religious conversion racket claimed to have been busted after arrest of Maulana Umar Gautam on June 21 earlier this year. So far, 15 people, including Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui of Meerut, have been arrested in the matter and further probe is on. A senior police official privy to the investigation said Jagtaap, a resident of Maharashtra, converted to Islam nearly ten years ago after coming in contact with Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui and he was actively involved in luring others to embrace Islam. He said Jagtaap worked in close association with Siddiqui and operated three WhatsApp groups meant to lure other people to embrace Islam. The official said Jagtaap used to make people convert to Islam on the pretext of helping unprivileged and poor people. He said Jagtaap’s name surfaced during interrogation of Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui and his three aides, Mohd Idrisi Qureshi, Mohd Saleem and Mohd Atif alias Kunal Ashok Chowdhury, who are presently in ATS custody for further questioning about their links. He said Jagtaap would be produced before the competent court on Saturday and further custody remand would be sought to interrogate him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/conversion-racket-up-ats-arrests-one-more-from-kanpur-101633112137276.html
01-10-2021||Pune||Centre’s irregular supply caused syringe shortage in PMC: Ajit Pawar||Pune: Commenting on the shortage of syringes for the anti-Covid vaccination reported in Pune city a few days ago, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that disproportionate supply of the vaccine doses and syringes by the central government caused the situation. The Pune guardian minister said that syringe shortage is experienced at the vaccination drives conducted through CSR funds. He said that the situation has been resolved as local bodies have been instructed to purchase required number of syringes and funds would be made available. “Syringes come with vaccine doses supplied by the Centre. For the vaccination drive in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), vaccine doses were supplied but syringes did not come in that proportion. PMC decided to buy 0.1 million syringes and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) followed suit. But for the vaccination drives through CSR, they said that if we are providing vaccines then local authorities should take the responsibility for syringes,” Pawar said. ‘Positive about extending the timings of restaurants’ “Covid relaxations would be carried out in phases. We are positive about extending the timings of restaurants beyond 10 pm. If the declining trend of Covid cases continues then the decision would be taken next week,” said Ajit Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/centres-irregular-supply-caused-syringe-shortage-in-pmc-ajit-pawar-101633111959584.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Four aides of KTF operative held with weapons in Moga||Moga police have arrested four associates of Canada-based Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) operative Arshdeep Singh, alias Arsh Dala, a close aide of KTF’s Canada-based chief Hardeep Singh Nijjar, with thee sophisticated weapons, 14 live cartridges and 300 grams of heroin. The Union government has notified Nijjar as a “designated terrorist” under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). The accused have been identified as Amandeep Singh, alias Machher, of Ferozepur, Jaswinder Singh, alias Jassu, of Kokri Klan village, Balraj Singh and Arun Sarwan of Moga. They were booked under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and 25 (6) (7), 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Mehna police station. Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said they arrested Amandeep with a Beretta M9 pistol, four live cartridges and 300gm of heroin. Arsh Dala contacted Amandeep through Facebook, where he lured and manipulated him to get his work done. Later, Arsh told him to collect the Beretta pistol from Jaswinder Singh. “During investigation, Jaswinder revealed that apart from Amandeep, he had given two more Beretta pistols and 10 live cartridges to Balraj Singh and Arun Sarwan of Moga. “Acting on the information, we arrested Balraj and Sarwan with two pistols, 10 live cartridges and a Mahindra Scorpio SUV,” he added. “Preliminary investigation reveals that Arsh had provided these weapons to his associates. We are trying to figure out how and from where he got these weapons,” said the SSP. Police said Arsh, along with KTF’s Canada-based chief Nijjar, is co-conspirator behind targeted killing in Punjab, including murder of Dera Sacha Sauda follower and firing on a priest in Nijjar’s village. Besides, he was also the prime accused in murder of gangster Sukha Lamme and a trader in Moga. Currently, he is hiding in Surrey (BC) Canada. “We have been making all efforts to deport him to India and put on a criminal trial,” said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-aides-of-ktf-operative-held-with-weapons-in-moga-101633111958530.html
01-10-2021||Lucknow||UP govt recommends CBI probe into Kanpur bizman’s death||LUCKNOW The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday recommended a CBI probe into the death of Kanpur businessman, Manish Gupta, allegedly after being thrashed by the police during a raid at a hotel in the Ramgarh Tal area of Gorakhpur on Monday night.A recommendation to this effect was made to the central government on the directives of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, said additional chief secretary (home) Awanish K Awasthi, in a press statement.Till the time the CBI takes over the inquiry, the special investigating team set up for the purpose will probe the matter, transferring the case to Kanpur from Gorakhpur, the statement said.The government also ordered appointment of the businessman’s wife Meenakshi Gupta as an officer on special duty (OSD) in the Kanpur Development Authority.The chief minister issued an order for economic assistance of ₹40 lakh to Manish Gupta’s family..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-recommends-cbi-probe-into-kanpur-bizman-s-death-101633111956971.html
01-10-2021||Other||Cycling, fitness expo kicks off in Ludhiana||The 12th edition of the Cycle, Fitness and Outdoor Sports Expo (CFOSE) kicked off at Government College for Girls (GCG) on Friday, with a focus on e-bicycles and vehicles.The organisers stated that over 80 participants from all over India showcased their products at the expo. They informed that the exhibition is held every year but could not be organised last year due to the restrictions imposed amid the pandemic.Sonia Prashar, deputy director-general, Indo-German Chamber of Commerce and president of the Indian Exhibition Industry Association, along with other industrialists, inaugurated the three-day-long expo.With cycles, e-bikes, e-rickshaws, cycle parts, gym, and fitness equipment on display, more than 1,500 visitors and dealers from Maharashtra, Gujrat, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi, etc. visited the exhibition on the opening day.Surinder Brar, MD, CFOSE, said the expo aims to bridge the gap between dealers and manufacturers and apprise them of the new technology and equipment available in the market. High-end bicycles are also on display. The focus is on e-bikes and the ‘Make in India’ campaign, he added.Vishal Khar, business head of E Motorad, said,” People talk about e-cycles being the future ride, but we believe that the time has already come. The exhibition is a good platform to reach out to dealers and customers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cycling-fitness-expo-kicks-off-in-ludhiana-101633111837016.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu’s greed for power has been exposed: Punjab BJP||Chandigarh Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma on Friday said the facade of moral high ground of Navjot Singh Sidhu has been exposed as the entire country has witnessed the politics of greed practised by the state Congress chief. Addressing a press conference at party headquarters in Chandigarh on Friday, Sharma said shenanigans of Sidhu were his desperate attempt to bring the Gandhis to tow his political line. “He is feeling left out as he was not made the chief minister of the state,” said Sharma. The Congress is crumbling in the country due to the remote control-style of functioning and Sidhu did not resign, as claimed by him, over appointment of certain people. “He resigned because Charanjit Singh Channi was made the chief minister and his entire game plan got scuttled,” said Sharma. The state BJP chief declared that on coming to power party will give electricity at reasonable rates and there would be no power cuts. “The state will be rejuvenated by an economic policy which will take all segments of society together. Specifically, farmers’ income will be doubled as always advocated by the BJP,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhus-greed-for-power-has-been-exposed-punjab-bjp-101633111779526.html
01-10-2021||Pune||Pune schools gear up to reopen from October 4||Pune: As the state government directed schools to reopen from October 4, many educational institutes from the city have started sanitising premises. Archana Panch, vice-principal, Ramanbaug English School, said, “On Friday, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials visited the school. The premises are sanitised and ready for October 4 reopening. Students will be back after almost after one and a half years and everyone is excited. All Covid protocols are followed to ensure safety of the students and staff.” Speaking about the school reopening, Harishchandra Gaikwad, president, Pune District Principals’ Association, said students and teachers faced many hardships during the Covid pandemic. “Online teaching affected students’ learning and offline classes is a welcome move. Schools will follow safety protocol wherein students will be seated as per social distancing norms and temperature checks and hand sanitisation will be carried out. Teachers and non-teaching staff are already vaccinated,” said Gaikwad. Varsha Gaikwad, Maharashtra education minister, organised an online meeting ahead of reopening of schools from October 4. In a tweet, Gaikwad said, “The webinar covered topics related to practical application of back to school, standard operating procedures (SOPs), mental rehabilitation of students, guidelines to teachers and schools. Our department reiterates its commitment towards providing quality education in a safe atmosphere to students rejoining physical classes after 1.5 years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-schools-gear-up-to-reopen-from-october-4-101633111657169.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 27 fresh Covid cases||Chandigarh Punjab on Friday reported 27 fresh Covid cases taking the infection tally to 6,01,662, according to a medical bulletin. The positivity rate was 0.07 % on Friday, the bulletin said. With no Covid-related fatality reported in the state last the 24 hours, the death toll stood at 16,518. Among fresh cases, Gurdaspur and Patiala reported five each and Amritsar three. The number of active cases in the state dipped to 279, the bulletin said. With 33 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,84,865, it said. A total of 1,45,71,421 samples have been collected for testing in the state so far of which 36,932 were tested on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-27-fresh-covid-cases-101633111597258.html
01-10-2021||Other||BJP seeks FIR against Ludhiana Improvement Trust chairman over ‘encroachment’ on park land||Seeking FIR against the chairman of Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) Raman Balasubramaniam for allegedly encroaching upon a public park situated behind his house in Inder Nagar, Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on Friday submitted a complaint with the Punjab chief secretary, director general of police (DGP), Ludhiana deputy commissioner and commissioner of police.BJP leader Vineet Monga alleged that the chairman is using the park as his personal lawn and has established an entry gate to the park from the rear side of his house. Further, he alleged that the chairman’s staff keeps the park entry gate locked from inside and no resident of the area is allowed to enter it. He has even kept two generator sets in the park, added Monga.“The chairman is the custodian of LIT properties and he is only encroaching upon the park by misusing his power. It is illegal and we have sought an FIR against him. Further, we have also demanded that the encroachments should be removed and the park be opened for the public,” said Monga.A copy of the complaint was also forwarded to the offices of the Prime Minister, the chief minister’s office, and the governor of Punjab, among others.Despite attempts made to reach chairman Balasubramaniam, he was not available for comments. However, an official of LIT, requesting anonymity, stated that it was a vacant/redundant plot that was later developed as a park. The entry gate remains open and the generator sets that are kept there are owned by some other person, who had sought permission for the same before a park was developed, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-seeks-fir-against-ludhiana-improvement-trust-chairman-over-encroachment-on-park-land-101633111542767.html
01-10-2021||Lucknow||Savarkar’s contribution to freedom struggle can never be erased: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said Vinayak Damodar Savarkar’s contribution to India’s freedom struggle can never be erased.Yogi Adityanath expressed this view while releasing Vikram Sampath’s book in Hindi “Savarkar ek Bhoole Bisare Ateet Ki Goonj”. Its English version is “Savarkar: Echoes from a Forgotten Past 1883-1924”. “Historians did not do justice to Veer Savarkar. They tried to wipe out his contribution from the independence struggle. But no one can erase his contribution,” said Adityanath.He also blamed the Congress party, without naming it. “People for their own political gains tried to undermine Veer Savarkar’s contribution to the society,” the chief minister said. Adityanath also pointed out Savarkar’s association with Digvijay Nath, the late Mahant of the Gorakhnath Math, Gorakhpur. He said Savarkar always fought against the caste system prevalent in the society and supported Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar in this connection. The chief minister also apprised the gathering about his visit to the cellular jail in Andaman and Nicobar Islands where Savarkar was imprisoned by the British. He said August 5 was an important date in the country’s history.“On August 5, 2019, Article 370 was repealed from Jammu and Kashmir and on August 5,2020, PM Narenda Modi had presided over bhoomi pujan of the Ram temple in Ayodhya,” said the CM.During his address, he also talked about several other freedom fighters, including Shyamji Krishna Varma of Gujarat. Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (information) Navneet Sehgal, members of the Prabha Khaitan Foundation and Madhuri Halwasiya were prominent among those present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/savarkars-contribution-to-freedom-struggle-can-never-be-erased-yogi-adityanath-101633111541303.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt joins hand with corporate houses to plant 17mn trees in Thane, Raigad||The Maharashtra government has signed a tripartite agreement with leading corporate houses for the plantation of trees on 65 hectares (ha) in Thane and Raigad districts from their corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds. Three companies that signed the agreement are expected to plant 17.39 million plants and maintain them for the next seven years.Deepak Nitrate Limited will plant trees on 50ha in Shelwali in Thane, while Croda India will take up the plantation of trees on 10ha in Warap in the same district. Pacific Organics Ltd has entered into agreement for the plantation of trees on 5ha in Palegaon at Thane. “The ownership of the land will remain with the government, while the companies will shoulder the responsibilities of maintenance and conservation of the trees,” a statement by the chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray’s office read. CM had chaired the meeting of the high-power committee appointed for the plantation on degraded forest land with the help of private players. Thackeray has also directed the forest department to identify land in various other regions to bring more area under forestation by roping in more corporate houses. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government had in the past signed four such proposals and planted 47,250 trees on 73ha. A total of 1.43 million trees have been planted on 1,849ha under this drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-joins-hand-with-corporate-houses-to-plant-17mn-trees-in-thane-raigad-101633110818694.html
01-10-2021||Pune||Pune’s Covid R-naught stays below 1, cases drop||Pune: Post Ganeshotsav, the number of Covid-19 cases has slightly dropped further and the count of hospitalised patients in Pune has also reduced. Home isolations have also come down after the 11-day festival. The district’s R-naught (R0) has come down below 1 which indicates the spread of infection from one Covid positive person has come to less than one person. After 14 days of the festival, which is the incubation period for the virus, the number of new cases continues to drop. From September 9 to September 20, 2021, the week of Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations, the district reported 9,223 new Covid-cases of the 278,108 tests conducted, taking the positivity rate to 3.31%. Also, 85 deaths were reported in the district by the district health department Between September 21 and September 30, the district reported 6,548 new Covid cases from the 232,081 tests conducted which took the positivity rate to 2.82%. Also, 71 deaths were included in the period. R-naught is an epidemiological indicator which shows the spread of the infection from one infected person to n number of people. As per the district health office, on September 5, both Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations reported that the R naught figure is 1 and 1.09 respectively while at rural Pune it was 0.96. As of September 29, this respective number was 0.96, 0.94 and 0.98. With lesser spread of infection, the number of active cases has dropped and hospital and home isolation cases have come down to 40-60%. Last week, Deenanath Mangeshkar reported only 48 active Covid hospitalised cases, Bharati Hospital 12 and Noble Hospital 33. Dr HK Sale, executive director at Noble hospital, said, “Most of our serious patients hail from exterior limits of Pune city and have not taken the vaccine. The burden on hospital infrastructure due to Covid has come down and the hospital has now opened up to non-Covid OPDs and surgeries. We expect further drop in Covid cases” As of September 30, the district has 6,094 active Covid cases of which 2,450 were in hospital isolation and 3,644 home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-covid-r-naught-stays-below-1-cases-drop-101633110696962.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra signs MoU worth ₹2,823 crore to manufacture electric vehicles||The Maharashtra government on Friday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with an automobile firm for the setting up of a zero-emission electric vehicle-manufacturing facility, which is the first big-ticket investment under the recently announced Maharashtra Electric Vehicle (EV) Policy 2021. The MoU signed with Causis E-Mobility Pvt Ltd, a joint venture of United Kingdom (UK)-based Causis Group, is expected to help Maharashtra transform it into a leading state in terms of adoption of EVs in the country, officials said. The firm will make an investment of ₹2,823 crore and is expected to generate 1,250 jobs.The MoU was signed for phase-1 to manufacture three-wheelers for passenger transport. The facility will come up at Talegaon, Pune. In phase-2, the automobile firm will set up its battery Gigafactory to manufacture and supply batteries for EVs.In July, the state government had unveiled a comprehensive EV policy that aims to boost the demand for such vehicles and improve their supply through incentives. The government believes that incentives for automobile companies and subsidies for buyers will help in encouraging its manufacturing and increase demand among the buyers.The new policy aims to electrify 10% of all the vehicles by 2025. Also, public transport and last-mile delivery vehicles will see 25% electrification under this policy. From April 2022, all new government vehicles – be it owned or leased –operating within major cities will be EVs, stated the policy.“Taking our commitment to make Maharashtra the leading state in electric mobility in the country, the state government and Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) have signed an MoU with Causis E-Mobility to set up an electric vehicle production unit in Talegaon. The investment of ₹2,800 crore will generate 1,250 employment opportunities and help in climate action,” said state environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray. The MoU for phase-1 was signed in the presence of the environment minister, industries minister Subhash Desai, minister of state for industries Aditi Tatkare, Causis Group chairman Peter Kenz, founder and director Ram Tumuluri and JV Company chairman BS Chaddha, among others.Nagpur is the first city in the country to pilot electric mass mobility with a fleet of 200 EVs. The use of one electric car saves an average of 1.5 million grams of carbon dioxide (CO2), which is equivalent to four return flights from Mumbai to Delhi, stated a release issued by the environment minister’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-signs-mou-worth-2-823-crore-to-manufacture-electric-vehicles-101633110636917.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||ISIS-K claims killing of Sikh physician in Pak’s Peshawar||The Islamic State’s Afghanistan affiliate, dubbed Islamic State Khorasan or ISIS-K, has claimed responsibility for the killing of a well-known Sikh “hakeem” in Pakistan’s restive northwestern city of Peshawar.‘Hakeem’ Sardar Satnam Singh Khalsa, 45, was at his clinic on Thursday when unidentified gunmen barged into his cabin and opened fire at him, police said. The killers managed to escape from the crime scene.Singh, who practised Unani medicine, received four bullets, died instantly, police said.In a message posted on social media late on Thursday, the ISIS-K claimed the killing of Singh.The ISIS-K, which has stepped up attacks in several Afghan cities since the Taliban seized power in Kabul on August 15, had also claimed the deadly suicide attack at Kabul airport on August 26 that killed nearly 170 Afghans and 13 US military personnel.According to police, Singh had arrived in Peshawar from Hassan Abdaal a day earlier.Singh, a well-known figure in the Sikh community, was running his clinic “Dharmandar Pharmacy” on Charsadda Road in Peshawar. He had been living in the city for the past 20 years.Singh is survived by his wife, three daughters and two sons.About 15,000 Sikhs live in Peshawar, mostly in the Jogan Shah neighbourhood of the provincial capital. Most of the Sikh community members in Peshawar are involved in business, while some also run pharmacies.Khyber Pakhtunkhwa chief minister Mahmood Khan strongly condemned the killing of Singh and directed the police to take immediate steps to arrest the killers.In 2018, Charanjit Singh, a prominent Sikh community member, was killed by unknown men in Peshawar. Similarly, news channel anchor Ravinder Singh was killed in 2020 in the city. In 2016, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf’s National Assembly member Soren Singh was killed in Peshawar.According to the 2017 census, Hindus constitute the largest religious minority in Pakistan. Christians make up the second largest religious minority. The Ahmadis, Sikhs and Parsis are also among the notable religious minorities in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/isisk-claims-killing-of-sikh-physician-in-pak-s-peshawar-101633110576939.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Proximity with Shah puts question mark on Capt’s secular credentials: Rawat||All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat on Friday hit out at former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, stating that his proximity with BJP leaders like Amit Shah puts a question mark on his secular credentials. Rawat, whose was part of a three-member committee set up by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to end the factional fight in the state unit, said that Amarinder is playing into the hands of people with whom he had no ideological ties. “He (Amarinder) should have stood with Sonia Gandhi leadership to save democracy,” he said, asking him not to walk into BJP’s trap and become its “mukhauta” (mask) in Punjab. Rawat is the first senior Congress leader to train his guns at the former chief minister after he met Shah and declared that he will end his 52-year-old association with the Congress. Amarinder was forced to resign from the CM’s post two weeks and his ouster was the culmination of his six-month long tussle with former minister (now Punjab Congress chief) Navjot Singh Sidhu. No humiliation, Cong gave him respect Rebutting the two-time former CM’s statement that he will leave the Congress because he has been humiliated, Rawat said the party always gave him respect, claiming that this (humiliation) theory is being furthered under someone’s pressure. “Amarinder was Punjab Congress chief thrice and chief minister twice. Is this humiliation? He should compare himself with other senior party leaders who had got much less than him in term of opportunities,” the former Uttarakhand CM said in a statement. Capt believed he needs no advice Raising questions over the former Punjab CM’s working style, Rawat said he (Amarinder) was of the belief that he does not need any advice from anyone, including his own ministers, legislators and party leadership. He was controlling both the government and the party from his farmhouse and never paid any attention to the suggestions given by the party committee, the former Uttarakhand CM said in a statement. Failed to keep election promises Rawat said that despite continuous reminders from his colleagues and the leadership, Amarinder failed to keep his promises on important issues such as Bargari, drugs and electricity. “There was a general perception throughout the state that Captain and the Badals are helping each other, and they have a secret understanding. I discussed these issues with him at least five times but with no result,” he said, adding the Bargari issue was not deftly handled by his (Amarinder’s) trusted lieutenants. He further accused the former CM of not implementing even one out of the 18-point agenda suggested by the party to him. Rawat said when there was a demand for a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP), he sent the message to Capt through one of his (Singh’s) well-wishers, but there was no response from him. “He did not call me. It was then decided to call the CLP meeting. I then officially informed Capt Amarinder and requested him to attend the meeting. He called a separate meeting at his separate meeting at his residence. Before that, Congress president spoke to him about the complaints signed by 43 MLAs and the CLP. He himself offered to resign,” Rawat said, recalling the sequence of events that led to Capt’s ouster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/proximity-with-shah-puts-question-mark-on-capt-s-secular-credentials-rawat-101633110217456.html
01-10-2021||Lucknow||UP minister files defamation case against AAP MP Sanjay Singh||Uttar Pradesh Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh on Friday filed a defamation suit of ₹21 lakh against Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh in the court of civil judge (senior division), accusing the AAP leader of levelling fake corruption charges against him.On August 8, Sanjay Singh had levelled allegations of corruption against Mahendra Singh at a press conference in the state capital. Shraddha Bharti, the civil judge (senior division), Lucknow, issued a notice to Sanjay Singh directing him to file reply by November 25. The court fixed December 12 as the next date for further hearing of the case. During the hearing of the case, lawyer Prashant Singh, who is representing the minister, stated that defendant (Sanjay Singh) has a habit of making derogatory and defamatory statements against his political rivals and reputed people of the society. “We have filed a defamation suit of ₹21 lakh against Sanjay Singh. We have also asked the court to restrain him from further posting and sharing derogatory material against my client (minister) on social media and remove those which have already been posted,” said the minister’s lawyer Prashant Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-minister-files-defamation-case-against-aap-mp-sanjay-singh-101633109557106.html
01-10-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad high court asks for fair investigation into torture of ex-soldier||The Allahabad high court on Friday directed the Uttar Pradesh government and the UP police to ensure fair investigation in a matter of alleged humiliation and brutal torture of an ex-soldier of the Indian army by the Uttar Pradesh Police.“Harassment of a common man by public authorities is socially abhorring and legally impermissible. It may harm him personally but the injury to society is far more grievous,” the court observed.It directed the state government to take immediate action in accordance with the law against the accused policemen.Allowing a writ petition filed by Resham Singh, an ex-soldier of the Indian army alleging humiliation and brutal torture by the Uttar Pradesh Police, a division bench comprising Justice Surya Prakash Kesarwani and Justice Piyush Agrawal also directed the state government to conclude the investigation and departmental proceedings expeditiously, preferably within three months.The petitioner alleged the incident took place on May 2 when he, along with his mother and two sisters, was going from Pilibhit to Lakhimpur Kheri and they were stopped by the police officials at around 9am. The police then asked for the papers of the car in which they were travelling.The police later took him and his mother and sisters to the police station without taking the assistance of any woman police officer, the petitioner alleged.At the police station, the ex-soldier was tortured, the petitioner alleged. Thereafter, he lodged an FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-high-court-asks-for-fair-investigation-into-torture-of-exsoldier-101633109077354.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||4,273 MDR-TB patients benefit from Bedaquiline in Mumbai||Bedaquiline has given a new hope to hundreds of patients diagnosed with multidrug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) in Mumbai. Civic health officers said the drug has helped improve the recovery rate from 40% to 70% among TB patients with drug resistant strains since its launch in 2018. Till date, 4,273 MDR-TB patients have been given the drug in Mumbai. Bedaquiline is a diarylquinoline antimycobacterial used in combination with other anti-bacterials to treat patients with MDR-TB— when the TB bacteria develops resistance to a few medicines that are used for the treatment of TB. The government has a restrictive policy of giving Bedaquiline under the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme (RNTCP).Data from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) shows that since 2018, 4,273 patients with MDR-TB have benefited from Bedaquiline drugs. In 2018, only 273 MDR-TB patients were enrolled for the drug. In the following year, the number increased to 1,089. In 2020, amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, a total of 2,068 MDR-TB patients benefited from it. “Earlier, the recovery rate among the MDR-TB patients was around 40-50%. Now, with the introduction of the drugs, we have observed that the recovering rate has increased to 70%. This has also helped to fight against the fear that TB is incurable,” said Dr Pranita Tipre, in-charge of TB department in the BMC.Dr Jalil Parker, pulmonologist at Lilavati Hospital, Bandra, has also made similar observations. “We have seen better recovery among MDR-TB patients who are being given Bedaquiline compared to who aren’t part of the regime,” he said. India still hasn’t allowed commercial sales of Bedaquiline, fearing overuse could lead to drug resistance. Only public hospitals can write out Bedaquiline that is given free as a part of the Revised National TB Control Programme. In 2018, 5,594 patients of MDR were detected in Mumbai, followed by 5,673 in 2019, 4,367 in 2020. Health activists believe that the detection and treatment of MDR-TB patients has been affected due to the pandemic. “TB is one of the biggest killers in India. Despite this, the diagnosis of the TB patients was shelved away in the first and second wave of the pandemic. Many MDR-TB patients missed out on their medications due to its unavailability. It will be reflected on the anti-TB programme in the long run,” said Ganesh Acharya, a TB activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4273-mdr-tb-patients-benefit-from-bedaquiline-in-mumbai-101633109016884.html
01-10-2021||Lucknow||AU to hold convocation function on Nov 8||Allahabad University (AU) has started preparations again to hold its convocation on November 8. Earlier, the convocation was proposed to be held on September 23 but was postponed just a couple of days before the proposed date owing to the inability of the UP governor, who is also the chief rector of AU, to attend the event. “We would be holding our convocation on November 8 now. Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan would be the chief guest,” said AU vice chancellor prof Sangita Srivastava. A total of around 304 meritorious students are to be awarded medals at the ceremony. Besides, 550 students will also be awarded PhD degrees during the function. The convocation would witness award medals and degrees to meritorious students of the session 2018-19 and 2019-20. Of these, 146 students of academic session 2018-19 and 158 students of academic session 2019-20 would be conferred medals.According to the list of medallists released on the official website of AU, 146 meritorious medals are to be awarded for the 2018-19 session. Of these, 66 medals would be conferred on girl students. For 2019-20 session, a total 158 meritorious medals are to be given. Out of them, maximum 67 girl students will be awarded meritorious medals, said varsity officials. “In the convocation ceremony, well known poet/lyricist Gulzar will be conferred an honorary degree of DLitt. He has already given his consent to attend the ceremony although AU is still waiting for the approval of the ministry for conferring the honorary DLitt on Gulzar but we hope the same would be given to us in coming days,” said AU PRO, Jaya Kapoor. Special guest of the function would be chairman, University Grants Commission, prof DP Singh. The function will also be attended by chancellor of AU Ashish Chauhan and chief rector UP governor Anandiben Patel. The PRO said Dronacharya award for teachers and Meghnad Saha award for best research scholar would also be awarded at the convocation ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/au-to-hold-convocation-function-on-nov-8-101633108956724.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||KEM Covid cluster: Samples sent for genome sequencing||A day after 30 undergraduate students from GS Medical College attached to the KEM Hospital tested positive for Covid-19, a few of their samples have been sent for genome sequencing at the Kasturba Hospital. Since 29 students were fully vaccinated and only one was unvaccinated, doctors said that genome sequencing may help identify if a specific variant had caused the cluster of infections. Nearly 200 samples of students and their close contacts were sent for testing after two students tested positive. “We had sent another 145 samples for testing but none of them returned positive,” said Dr Hemant Deshmukh, dean of KEM Hospital. “Since a majority of the students had breakthrough infections, we have sent some of their samples to the laboratory in Kasturba Hospital for genome sequencing,” he said. Infections that occur 14 days after full vaccination are known are breakthrough infections. A UG student who did not wish to be named said that all students have been asked to get tested as a precautionary measure. “While in the hostel, we have been asked to compulsorily use masks, even in the rooms,” he said adding that their classes are now being held online. He said that convocation was held on September 26 for students who have completed their internships, but UG students had not attended the event. A similar cluster of infections was detected in the TN Medical College attached to the BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central. “Nearly half a dozen UG students had tested positive and about six of them were fully vaccinated,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of the hospital. “We had sent their samples for genome sequencing at Kasturba Hospital. We have not been informed if there was a specific variant that was responsible for the cluster of infections,” he said. Since the vaccination began in January this year, many senior doctors and resident doctors in the city have suffered from breakthrough infections. “All these cases have been mild or asymptomatic,” said a resident doctor from Nair Hospital. He said that some of the infections had surfaced after the centenary year celebration events. “Our convocation event was cancelled by the dean as a precaution,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kem-covid-cluster-samples-sent-for-genome-sequencing-101633108656907.html
01-10-2021||Lucknow||Senior leaders leaving Congress ahead of UP polls||When Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) vice president and former MLA Gayadeen Anuragi, along with another former party MLA Vinod Chaturvedi, joined the Samajwadi Party here on Friday, he was not the first of the senior leaders of the present UPCC team to do so ahead of the Utttar Presh assembly polls His move came hours after Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra left Lucknow for New Delhi, winding up her five-day visit to review the party’s poll preparedness. “I was not satisfied with the functioning of the Congress. My voice was not heard in the Congress,” said Anuragi, who had met Priyanka during her visit to Lucknow. Chaturvedi is also learnt to have met her this week. Besides Anuragi, those who left the Congress to join the SP include Manoj Tiwari, whose family member is chairperson of an urban local body in Mahoba. Laliteshpati Tripathi, another UPCC vice-president, former MLA and grandson of former chief minister the late Kamlapati Tripathi, had also resigned from the Congress early this month after he attended a meeting with the party general secretary. If those watching the Congress developments are to be believed, many others are weighing their options and may switch loyalties in the coming weeks. A number of other leaders have already left the party for greener postures. “Yes, the coming weeks will witness an upward trend in the “aya Ram- gaya Ram” phenomenon. Those who may not get the Congress ticket may also cross over while those who are denied tickets elsewhere may join the Congress,” said a Congress functionary on condition of anonymity. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) spokesman Ashok Singh said the Congress is fighting a battle for political ideology and to save the country. Anybody leaving the Congress would not make any impact and the fight will continue, he said. UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu said the Congress is going through a phase of struggle and the party leadership is fighting for the cause of people. Only such leaders who are afraid of fighting under the prevailing scenario are leaving the Congress and the party will continue its fight with the support of its workers, he said. Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science (Lucknow University) commented, “If Priyanka continues to make efforts to strengthen the party organization and develop some local leadership, the party may find itself in better position. Those leaving the Congress may have many factors in mind like the party’s organisation, support base and financial resources. The Congress has financial resources, but there is a problem with its organisational structure. The Congress need not bother about some leaders leaving the party as such a phenomenon is common during any election.” “We understand the next lot of leaders to leave the Congress may be from western Uttar Pradesh. Senior Congress leader Imran Masood has already given indications that he is not satisfied with the prevailing state of affairs. Masood has pockets of strong support in Saharanpur and at least two Congress MLAs owe their allegiance to him. If Masood leaves the Congress, this will be a big setback,” said another Congress leader. Masood has, however, denied reports and said he was only in favour of an alliance with the Samajwadi Party for the 2022 UP assembly election. Former Union minister Jitin Prasada, ex-UPCC president Rita Bahuguna Joshi and former minister Jagdambika Pal are among other prominent Congress leaders who have left the party to join the BJP in the last few years. Prasada, who joined the BJP about five months ago, has been recently inducted as a minister of Yogi Adityanath cabinet. Joshi, who was also inducted as a cabinet minister in Yogi Adityanath government after 2017 assembly elections, is now a BJP MP as is Pal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/senior-leaders-leaving-congress-ahead-of-up-polls-101633108476934.html
01-10-2021||Other||Uttar Pradesh: 7 IPS officers, including 4 district police chiefs, shifted||Lucknow The state government on Thursday night transferred seven Indian Police Services (IPS) officers, including police chiefs of four districts. The police chiefs of Badohi, Aurraiya, Budaun and Ghazipur districts had been shifted in the reshuffle, said a senior official of the home department, Uttar Pradesh, on Friday. The superintendent of police (SP) of Ghazipur, OP Singh has been shifted as senior superintendent of police (SSP), Budaun and Ram Badan Singh, who was SP Badohi, has been made Ghazipur SP while Anil Kumar -ll, who was posted as additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) in Kanpur police commissionerate, has been made new SP of Badohi. Aurraiya SP Aparna Gautam has been transferred as SP to DGP headquarters, Lucknow, and Abhishek Verma has replaced her. Budaun SSP Sankalp Sharma has been made deputy commissioner of police at Kanpur police commissionerate while deputy inspector general, Railway, Dharmendra Singh has been shifted as DIG Rules and Manuals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttar-pradesh-7-ips-officers-including-4-district-police-chiefs-shifted-101633107816638.html
01-10-2021||Other||Two Prayagraj bar owners apply for licences to set up microbreweries||PRAYAGRAJ Soon, beer lovers of Sangam city too would be able to enjoy freshly brewed lagers at select joints in Prayagraj. For the first time, two bar owners of the city have applied for licences to the state excise department for setting up microbreweries on their premises, according to senior state excise department officials. The applications for the licences have been made under a June 2019 state government’s decision, allowing hotels, restaurants and clubs to set up microbreweries for serving draught beer. The decision aimed at increasing revenues of the Uttar Pradesh government and also providing a boost to employment and tourism in the state, they added. “As soon as the plants get installed and become functional, licences for running them would be issued as per the set norms,” the officials said. Confirming the development, district excise officer, Prayagraj, Jitendra Kumar Singh said that so far cities having high tourist large footfalls or business centres in the state had applied for setting up microbreweries like Lucknow, Agra and Ghaziabad among others, but now for the first-time interest in this regard has been shown by two bar owners of Prayagraj city. “We hope that more will come forward in coming days wishing to make use of the state government’s initiative in this regard,” he added. Officials said that in stark contrast to various liquors for which “older the better” is the mantra, in case of beer “the fresher the better” is the buzz word. “Beer freshness has an immense impact on the brew’s flavour, which is why the beer poured from a keg is likely to be fresher and tastier than what you would sip from the bottle,” they explain. A microbrewery is a small unit that produces beer in limited quantity for captive consumption, and is found mostly in establishments such as hotels and restaurants located in tourist hotspots. The state cabinet meeting chaired by the UP CM had cleared the proposal for amending the UP-Brewery Rules-1961 with UP Brewery (6th Amendment)-2019 to incorporate relevant changes to facilitate setting up of microbreweries. Many states like Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Haryana, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh etc also have the provision of microbreweries in major cities and towns. So far, 12 licenses have been issued in UP. The economics of setting up beer plant Setting up a small beer plant requires ₹50 lakh while a bigger one can cost ₹90 lakh and one needs a minimum of 250 sq feet of space. In 2019, the state increased the annual license fee for microbreweries from ₹25,000 fixed in 1974 to ₹2.5 lakh and has also hiked the renewal fee. Besides, ₹1 lakh also needs to be deposited as guarantee amount. Current holders of licenses for hotel, resort, restaurant and commercial clubs are eligible to apply for microbrewery with the state excise commissioner through the respective district magistrate offices. The excise commissioner can permit microbreweries based on the recommendation of the district magistrate. Each microbrewery would, however, be allowed to produce only 600 litres of beer a day and taking 350 as average number of working days annually, 210,000 litres of beer can be produced each year. There is a penalty of ₹5,000 per day for violation of microbrewery rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-prayagraj-bar-owners-apply-for-licences-to-set-up-microbreweries-101633107037347.html
01-10-2021||Lucknow||Kanpur realtor case: Netizens express outrage as accused cops still at large||letters@htlive.com:GORAKHPUR Even as angry netizens took to social media condemning the alleged police brutality against Kanpur realtor and political parties staging protests seeking immediate arrest of the accused, all the six policemen booked on charges of murder in the Manish Gupta case, continued to remain at large even four days after the incident. Gupta, 36, had died in a Gorakhpur hotel during a police raid late on Monday night, prompting the authorities to suspend six policemen and book them on the charge of murder. He was staying in the hotel along with two friends.“Why have the Gorakhpur police failed to arrest the accused charged with murder despite assurance of strict action by the CM,” read a message posted by a social media on the wall under the Indian law. When contacted, the SSP did not respond to calls in this regard. “In Gorakhpur, protectors have turned tormentors. Height of brutality,” read another post. The murder of wine shop salesman Manish Prajapati under the same police station area (Ramgarh Tal) also led to widespread anger on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kanpur-realtor-case-netizens-express-outrage-as-accused-cops-still-at-large-101633106676780.html
01-10-2021||Other||2 held for RTI activist’s murder in Bihar||Two persons have been arrested in connection with the recent murder of RTI (right to information) activist in Bihar’s East Chamapran district, superintendent of police (SP) Navin Chand Jha said on Friday.He said the two have confessed to have killed RTI activist Vipin Agrawal at Harsidih.“They told police during interrogation that there were five people involved in the crime. Three others are still at large. Search is on for them,” he said. Police have seized one mobile, two motorcycles, a pistol and three live cartridges from the two arrested suspects. Agrawal, 46, who had exposed several cases of encroachment of government land, was shot dead by armed assailants at Harsidih on September 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-held-for-rti-activist-s-murder-in-bihar-101633106376611.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab is in safe hands: Deputy CM Randhawa in veiled attack on Amarinder Singh||After former chief minister Amarinder Singh's repeated barbs over security concerns, Punjab's deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Friday reassured everyone that the state is “in safe hands” and that there was no need to create panic.Randhawa said that an "alarmist narrative" was being created by certain people with vested interests about peace and security in Punjab. Warning against such designs, he said that these statements only create an unnecessary sense of fear and insecurity among the people."Rest assured, Punjab is in safe hands," said Randhawa, dismissing concerns about threat from Pakistan amid a change of regime in the border state.The political crisis in Punjab took a worrying turn when long standing chief minister Amarinder Singh resigned on September 18, accusing the Congress leadership of humiliating him.Singh accused newly-inducted CM Charanjit Singh Channi's right hand Navjot Sidhu of having a close relationship with anti-India forces and said that “misgovernance in Punjab would give Pakistan an opportunity to create trouble in the state and in the country”. He had added that his meeting with National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval and Union Home Minister Amit Shah after resigning had centred around this issue.Randhawa, who also holds the home portfolio, questioned why Singh's meetings in Delhi were not held earlier to raise state-related issues. "Whom are you trying to help or benefit with such alarmist hue and cry? Facing the challenge is one thing and creating panic and alarm is something else,” Randhawa told news agency PTI."And if Punjab is really in danger or trouble right now, then the seeds of that trouble must have been sown much before, certainly not within a week's time," he rebuked.Earlier, Randhawa conducted a surprise check at the Punjab Police Headquarters in Sector-9 of Chandigarh had a brief interaction with reporters subsequently.Terming Punjab as the sword arm of the country, the deputy chief minister further said: "It is a fact that Pakistan and its intelligence agencies are always trying to create trouble in India and Punjab being the border state is at a greater risk, at the same time, Punjabis are prepared to thwart any challenge with all their courage and might.""There is nothing new about this threat as it existed before as well and it will continue in future also. What has changed in the last two weeks?" he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-is-in-safe-hands-deputy-cm-randhawa-in-veiled-attack-on-amarinder-singh-101633103491270.html
01-10-2021||Other||Vehicular movement resumes through Indo-Nepal border||Vehicular movement along the Indo-Nepal border resumed on Friday morning, nearly 18 months after it was suspended following the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic in March last year. The development comes days after the Nepalese cabinet gave its nod to the decision. Confirming the same, Khem Prasad Adhikari, in-charge of immigration department at Nepal’s Birganj told mediapersons that entry in Nepal required a slew of formalities, including a negative RT-PCR test report, to be followed. “A visitor is required to show a negative RT-PCR report, issued not late than 72 hours before entering in Nepal,” said Adhikari. The Bharat-Nepal Maitri Pul in Raxaul, the main artery connecting national capital New Delhi with Kathmandu, wore a festive look, as a posse of Nepalese nationals and authorities welcomed visitors with garlands at Shankaracharya gate between Raxaul and Birganj. “Nepalese authorities lent all possible cooperation to ensure our entry into Nepal. We had to go through formalities, both at customs and immigration department, besides a health check-up in Nepal,” said Munesh Ram, a resident of West Champaran district.India opened its own side of the border on October 22 last after it was sealed in March 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vehicular-movement-resumes-through-indo-nepal-border-101633106196714.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra home dept officials believe Param Bir in India, suspension process starts||Maharashtra home department officials on Friday said they do not think that former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh would have fled the country as the lookout notice against him was issued in July, which could make it difficult for him to escape out of India. The home department has asked for an official communication from the Ministry of Home Affairs about the Indian Police Service (IPS) officer whereabouts and has initiated the procedure of the suspension of the officer. Highly-placed officials in the home department have said that the lookout notice against Singh was issued in an extortion case filed against him by a businessman. “The central agencies have informed us unofficially that Singh has fled the country. Leaving the country after the issuance of the lookout notice is not possible. He must have either fled before it or might have adopted illegal means to slip out of the country,” an official said after a meeting of senior home department officials convened by state home minister Dilip Walse Patil on Friday. The state government has begun the procedure for his suspension but wants the case to be fool-proof to stand legal scrutiny. “There are multiple criminal cases filed against Singh in the past few months. He has not appeared before the state-appointed Chandiwal commission of inquiry. He has not intimated the state government after his medical leave was over 30 days ago. The suspension has been proposed but the director general of police has been asked to make the case fool-proof by giving reasoning that stand the legal scrutiny,” the official said. The decision over the suspension in expected to be taken in the next few days. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole has alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government has helped Singh flee the country. “It has come to the fore that Singh’s last location was Ahmedabad, which is under BJP rule and considered as the epicentre of the ruling party. The Central government under BJP has been using IAS (Indian Administrative Service) and IPS officers against the Opposition and their governments to defame them. In the Sachin Vaze (Antilia explosives scare) case, the investigation was taken over by central agencies, when the Centre realised that Singh could be arrested for his involvement in the Mansukh Hiran murder case and after the CCTV footage went missing from the commissioner’s office. By transferring the probe to central agencies, the Centre has saved Singh from arrest and covered up the fact that there was Centre’s hand behind the conspiracy to defame the state government.”Leader of opposition in state and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said, “Patole keeps speaking senselessly on sensitive issues. I don’t feel necessary to take his cognisance.” Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil had said on Thursday that investigating agencies were looking for Singh who was incommunicado for two months. “A civil service officer needs the approval of the Central government (to leave the country). The Union home ministry is also finding his whereabouts. We have no clue about his whereabouts and we, too, are searching for him,” he said. The minister said it was not appropriate of Singh if he has fled the country. “There will be action taken against him. It could be under the various provisions of the law. It could be disciplinary action for remaining absent from duty without informing the authorities. The action is not important, his appearance before the agencies is. The action against him by the state government is not owing to any vendetta but it is a routine procedure which will be followed,” Walse Patil said in Mumbai. Singh was removed as Mumbai’s top cop on March 17, following the Antilia explosives scare and the subsequent murder of Hiran. He was shifted to the Maharashtra home guards on March 22.On April 7, Singh appeared before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to record his statement in connection with the two cases. Later, he was summoned by the federal agency, but he did not respond to the summons. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole questioned whether the Centre had helped Singh to flee the country. “Had he been detained by the central agencies investigating Antilia explosive scare case, significant information could have been extracted from him. The investigating agencies have raised doubts about his whereabouts but the question remains unanswered if the Centre facilitated him to go out of the country,” he said. Singh had last attended his office on May 4 and went on leave from May 5, on account of health issues. It is believed that Singh had gone to his hometown in Chandigarh. In between, he had communicated with the Maharashtra government, requesting for extension of his leave due to health issues. He has also claimed that he had undergone a surgery. In mid-August, he requested an extension for the leave over health grounds. But, thereafter, no request has come from him, said a police officer requesting anonymity. An inquiry commission headed by retired Bombay high court judge, justice (retired) Kailas Uttamchand Chandiwal in early September issued a bailable warrant against Singh for not appearing before it. A team of the state crime investigation department (CID) that went to three of his (Singh’s) known residences in Chandigarh and Mumbai did not find him there and could not serve the warrant. As he failed to appear before the commission, it re-issued the warrant on September 21. The next hearing of the commission is on October 6. The commission earlier had imposed a fine of ₹50,000 on Singh twice for not appearing before the commission. Three days after his removal as commissioner, Singh on March 20 had written an explosive letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray, accusing state’s former home minister Anil Deshmukh of instructing Vaze and other police officers to extort monthly ₹100 crore from bars, pubs, hookah parlours and other establishments in Mumbai. Singh also approached courts with his complaint, following which the Bombay high court ordered CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-home-dept-officials-believe-param-bir-in-india-suspension-process-starts-101633106136665.html
01-10-2021||Patna||Cases of power theft emerge in eastern Patna||Eastern Patna has emerged as the hot spot of power theft and non-payment of energy bills, prompting the Patna Electricity Supply Undertaking (PESU), which maintains electricity in the state capital, to focus its attention on anti-theft drive, said officials. Most such cases are being reported from the six electricity divisions of eastern Patna, which includes Rajendranagar, Kankerbagh 1 (north of Patna bypass), Kankerbagh 2 (rural areas to the south of Patna bypass), Bankipore, Gulzarbagh and Patna City in Patna. The PESU, in the last two months, has lodged 1,521 FIRs, of which 1,062 have been against consumers for power theft in Patna east alone, said Dilip Kumar Singh, PESU general manager. Nearly 6.5% of the 11,421 households inspected in August were found to be pilfering power in PESU East circle. The figure dropped to less than 2% of the households inspected next month, as consumers became wary of the power firm’s spirited drive and its promptness to register police complaints against errant power consumers. “Patna City and Gulzarbagh divisions are vulnerable to power theft. These are narrow and congested areas, inhabited by old Patnaites, inclined to pilfering power. These are the areas having highest aggregate transmission and commercial loss,” said Singh. Instances of power theft were comparatively much less in PESU West circle, comprising the electricity divisions of New Capital area, Ashiana, Danapur, Khagaul, Dak Bungalow, Patliputra and Gardanibagh in Patna. Only 3.5% of the 9,041 households inspected in PESU west circle were found to be indulging in unfair means in August. The figure dropped to 2.19% next month, said Arvind Kumar, electrical superintending engineer, PESU West. “The Phulwarisharif area in Khagaul division, Digha locality in Danapur division and diara areas along the river Ganga are prone to power theft, but the magnitude is less as compared to old Patna in Patna east,” said Kumar “People have become cautious after our intensive anti-theft drive over the last two months. We find only around 2% of the households to be indulging in power theft now,” he added. Similarly, disconnections of energy connections, due to non-payment of bills have also been more in Patna east as compared to Patna west. Of the total 42,935 disconnections in PESU till September 25 this year, 23,753 were reported from Patna east and 19,182 from Patna west. With more number of power thefts and FIRs, the PESU East circle had realised ₹6.89 crore by way of penalty through FIRs, while PESU West contributed to ₹2.94 crore of PESU’s total realisation of ₹9.83 crore till September 25 this year. Of the total penalty realised, the PESU mopped up ₹8.77 crore in the last two months of August and September, with PESU east circle contributing ₹5.71 crore ( ₹3.82 crore in August and ₹1.89 crore in September) and PESU west ₹3.06 crore ( ₹1.97 crore in August and ₹1.09 crore in September).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cases-of-power-theft-emerge-in-eastern-patna-101633105902889.html
01-10-2021||Patna||Bihar Archive makes public reports on Gandhi tour to quake-hit state in 1934||On the eve of Gandhi Jayanti , Bihar State Archive on Friday made public records on “Gandhi’s tour to Bihar in 1934”, a collection of confidential reports by the British intelligence of his visit to the state after it was struck by a devastating earthquake.On March 11,1934, Gandhi arrived at “Dinapur (the present day Danapur)” railway station in Patna where he was received by Dr Rajendra Prasad.Gandhi undertook an extensive tour to the quake-hit districts like Chhapra, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Madhubani, Sitamarhi, Katihar, Araria Forbesganj, Munger and Bhagalpur.At every public gathering, Gandhi reminded people that the earthquake was the “punishment for the sin of untouchability” the people practised and told them that the way to repentance was to make contributions to the Harijan Fund, as is mentioned in State Archive records.“We have got these secret records uploaded on the website of the State Archive. Now anybody can go through it at any point of time, “ Dr Mahendrpal, the state archive director, saidDr Rashmi Kiran, an official of the state archive, said those who cannot visit the office may go through the content online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-archive-makes-public-reports-on-gandhi-tour-to-quake-hit-state-in-1934-101633105776711.html
01-10-2021||Patna||Bihar bypolls: NDA names candidates||The ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar on Friday announced its candidates for bypolls for Kusheshwarsthan and Tarapur assembly seats. Both are from Janata Dal (United), which had won the seats in 2020 elections. For Tarapur, the alliance has decided to field Rajiv Kumar Singh, who had unsuccessfully contested the 2005 election for the seat on JD(U) ticket. In Kusheshwarsthan, the NDA candidate will be Aman Bhushan Hazari, son of late Shashi Bhushan Hazari who won the seat in 2020.“We wanted to field late Mewalal Chowdhary’s son from Tarapur, but he expressed his inability as he is abroad,” said BJP’s state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal. Chowdhary had won the seat in 2020.Meanwhile, Lok Janshakti Party’s faction led by Jamui MP Chirag Paswan has decided to field candidates for both the seats, its officer bearer Hulas Pandey said. However, the party’s other faction, led by Chirag’s uncle and union minister Pashupati Paras, has announced to support NDA candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bypolls-nda-names-candidates-101633105416710.html
01-10-2021||Patna||Allies Cong, RJD set for face-off over assembly bypolls in Bihar||Ahead of the bypolls for two assembly seats in Bihar scheduled for October 30, Opposition alliance constituents Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Congress seem set for a face-off, with both staking claim on Kusheshwarasthan constituency in Darbhanga district, which is reserved for scheduled caste candidates.A team of observers from the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC), led by Anand Madhab, on Friday held consultations with party workers in Darbhanga over the poll strategy for Kusheshwarasthan assembly seat, from where RJD has already announced its plan to field its candidate.Bypolls for Kusheshwarasthan and Tarapur seats, both won by Janata Dal (United) in 2020 polls, were necessitated following the death of their respective elected MLAs, Shashi Bhushan Hazari and Mewalal Chaudhary.Nomination papers are to be filed by October 8.A few days ago, RJD’s spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari had said the party was preparing to field its candidates on both Tarapur and Kusheshwarasthan (SC) seats as Congress might not be able to win the seats. In 2020, Congress’s Ashok Kumar had contested Kusheshwarasthan seat and lost to JD(U)’s Hazari by a margin of over 7,000 votes. In Tarapur in Munger district, RJD’s Divya Prakash had lost to JDU’s Mewalal Chaudhary by a little over 7,000 votes. BPCC chief Madan Mohan Jha said Congress had started its preparations to fight Kusheshwarasthan seat, which was allotted to the party in 2020 under the seat adjustment among the allies. “There will be no issue in seat allocation as long as the RJD chief Lalu Prasad or opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad doesn’t ask for it. Congress is preparing for Kusheshwarasthan seat following direction from our AICC in-charge Bhakta Charan Das,” said Jha.Senior Congress leader Kishore Kumar Jha said it was ridiculous on part of the RJD to stake claim on Kusheshwarasthan. “Former Congress legislature party leader Ashok Kumar is a towering scheduled caste (SC) leader, who lost the polls by almost an equal margin by which RJD’s Divya Prakash was defeated by JD(U) in Tarapur,” he said.In the 243-member Bihar Assembly, RJD current has 75 seats and Congress 19. The Opposition alliance, which comprise the two parties and Left parties, has a total strength of 110 in the House, 12 short of the simple majority figure of 122.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/allies-cong-rjd-set-for-face-off-over-assembly-bypolls-in-bihar-101633105176507.html
01-10-2021||Other||Allies RJD, Congress trade barbs over Kanhaiya||PATNAFormer JNU students’ union leader Kanhaiya Kumar’s recent induction into the Congress has apparently upset Bihar’s main Opposition party Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), which on Friday ridiculed both its ally and its new catch.Senior RJD leader Shivanand Tiwary, a former Rajya Sabha member, on Friday took a swipe at the Congress and dared the party to make Kumar its national president. Tiawari said Kanhaiya, who recently switched from Communist Party of India (CPI) to Congress, was an “expert in the art of delivering speeches”.“At one point of time, leftists were seeing their future in Kanhaiya Kumar. Now Congress is seeing its future in them. Congress should make him (Kanhaiya Kumar) its president. For the last two years, there is no permanent president in the party,” he said. Tiwary trashed suggestions that Kanhaiya Kumar posed a threat to RJD scion Tejashwi Yadav. “During 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Kanhaiya worked to defeat the RJD candidate from Begusarai by helping BJP divide secular votes,” he said.Kanhaiya had lost to BJP heavyweight and union minister Giriraj Singh from Begusarai in 2019 parliamentary polls. RJD had finished third in the seat.Tiwary said he had full sympathy with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. “Congress trusts outsiders more. Party has not been able to choose its permanent president for the last two years. I myself want Congress to be strong. This will strengthen the Grand Alliance,” he said. Congress was quick to hit back, alleging that Tiwary “was being guided by RSS ideology”. “Instead of strengthening the Grand Alliance, he is trying to weaken it by toeing a different ideology,” said Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allies-rjd-congress-trade-barbs-over-kanhaiya-101633104817886.html
01-10-2021||Other||Burglary at state Cong chief’s house||PATNAThieves struck at the house of Bihar Congress president Madan Mohan Jha in the state capital Thursday evening and decamped with cash, ornaments and other articles, police said on Friday, adding that three persons have been detained for questioning. Jha’s son Madhav said all family members were asleep on the first floor of the house when burglars ransacked the ground floor room of his father, who is currently out of town. “They searched everything and decamped with some valuables they could find,” Madhav said. The incident came to light when Madhav woke up around 5am and found his room bolted from the outside. He somehow managed to break open the door and found that the main grille was broken open and his father’s room ransacked.Police said an FIR (first information report) has been lodged with the Airport police station, under which Kautilya Nagar, where Jha’s house is located, falls.Arun Kumar, station house officer of the Airport police station, said, “We are examining CCTTV footages and forensic teams and dog squads have been pressed into service.” Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore told media persons that though Jha has Y-category security cover, not enough guards were deployed with him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/burglary-at-state-cong-chief-s-house-101633104816595.html
01-10-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad high court grants protection from arrest to former Uttar Pradesh governor Aziz Qureshi||The Allahabad high court on Friday granted protection from arrest to former Uttar Pradesh (UP) governor Aziz Qureshi, who was booked for sedition last month for allegedly making derogatory remarks against chief minister Yogi Adityanath.The bench comprising Justice Pritinker Diwaker and Justice Mohd Aslam passed the above order in a petition filed by Qureshi seeking quashing of FIR (First Information Report) filed against him by local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Akash Kumar Saxena at the Civil Lines police station in Rampur district on September 5.During the hearing, the state counsel requested the court that he may be given three days’ time to seek instructions and to summon the case diary.Senior advocate Salman Khurshid appeared for the petitioner through video conference and said that he had no objection to this proposition.He submitted, “Considering the facts and background of the case and the facts that the petitioner is a former governor of Uttar Pradesh, including two other states, had held various important assignments, one of the most prominent figures of the country and an old aged person of about 82 years, be protected by some interim order, so that he may not suffer an irreparable injury and may not be harassed.”On this, the bench fixed October 6 as the next date of hearing and observed, “At the request of state counsel, list this case on 6.10.2021. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, protection from arrest to the petitioner is granted till the next date of hearing.”In his complaint against Qureshi, Akash Kumar Saxena had alleged that after visiting Azam Khan’s house and meeting his wife, Qureshi made derogatory statements against the state government and the statements could create tension between two communities and create unrest in society.Aziz Qureshi was booked under Sections 153A (promoting enmity between two groups on grounds of religion, race), 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration), 124A (sedition), and 505(1)(B) (intent to cause fear or alarm to the public) of the Indian Penal Code.Aziz Qureshi, a senior Congress leader, had served as the governor of Mizoram from 2014 to 2015. He also had charge of Uttar Pradesh for some time in June 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-high-court-grants-protection-from-arrest-to-former-uttar-pradesh-governor-aziz-qureshi-101633103856661.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||Schools in MMR prepare for October 4 reopening||Two days after the BMC announced that schools within the city will reopen for classes 8 to 12, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region has followed suit. Thane District Collector, Rajesh Narvekar, announced that schools will reopen from October 4 for classes 8 to 12 in the cities of Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Ulhasnagar and Bhiwandi among others, while rural areas will reopen for class 5 onwards.“A meeting was held with the task force and the respective civic authorities, after which a decision to reopen schools was taken. Everyone has to strictly follow the Standard Operating Procedure. Teachers have to first ensure to get fully vaccinated and also sanitise the premises properly,” said Narvekar. Schools have to strictly take the parents’ consent before reopening. “Health clinics are a must in all schools, if possible. These health clinics shall make a note of the temperature and health status of each student and staff. In rural areas, the schools can coordinate with local health clinics and ensure a representative is present to monitor the students and staff,” said Sheshrao Bade, education officer, Thane Zilla Parishad.Likewise, the respective municipal corporations including Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli and Navi Mumbai have also issued directives to both the government and private schools within their jurisdictions to reopen on Monday. Preparations have begun in schools to reopen from next week after 18 months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/schools-in-mmr-prepare-for-october-4-reopening-101633103084172.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||India’s air travel decelerated by 44.8% in August: International air transport body||Demand for India’s domestic travel fell by 44.8% in August but improved from July when it had declined by 58.9%, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) said on Friday. IATA has attributed the improvement in passenger demand in August to growing vaccination rates and less stringent international travel restrictions in some regions. However, globally, air travel had decelerated in August from July. “India and Russia were the only large markets to show a month-to-month improvement compared to July,” IATA’s statement read.According to IATA, the global passenger traffic in August – measured in revenue passenger kilometres (RPKs) – was down by 56% as compared to the same month in 2019. In July, it was 53% below the 2019 level. IATA said the domestic markets were down by 32.2% as compared to August 2019, while in July, the air traffic had declined by 16.1% as compared to the same month in 2019.According to the trade association of world’s airlines, the global international passenger demand in August was 68.8% below August 2019, which is an improvement compared to the 73.1% decline recorded in July.“August results reflect the impact of concerns over the Delta variant on domestic travel, even as international travel continued at a snail’s pace towards a full recovery, which cannot happen until governments restore the freedom to travel. In that regard, the recent US announcement to lift travel restrictions from early November on fully-vaccinated travellers is very good news and will bring certainty to a key market,” said Willie Walsh, director general, IATA. “But challenges remain; September bookings indicate deterioration in international recovery. That’s bad news heading into the traditionally slower fourth quarter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indias-air-travel-decelerated-by-44-8-in-august-international-air-transport-body-101633102476568.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||NCP leader and former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh now untraceable?||Former Maharashtra home minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Anil Deshmukh is said to be “untraceable”. He is an accused in a money laundering case and has skipped several summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the past two months. The central investigation agency had also issued a lookout notice against him last month. Deshmukh, however, has moved the Bombay high court (HC), seeking that the summons against him be quashed. He has also sought directions to ED to permit him to appear through video-conferencing.The NCP leader is facing charges of bribery, extortion and money laundering, which are being simultaneously probed by ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), following accusations made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh has already claimed his innocence and maintained that the allegations were made only after Singh was removed from the Mumbai Police chief’s position. Ironically, Singh, who is faces extortion cases, is also missing now. Deshmukh could not be reached on his cell phone and or on the number of his office in his hometown Nagpur. His son Salil was also not available for a comment. NCP said that Deshmukh is trying to explore legal remedies provided by the Constitution to every citizen of the country. He is also ready to record his statements virtually, but ED is not doing so, alleged NCP. “I think Anil Deshmukhji is trying to get relief through the legal options available to him. Every individual has the right to explore legal remedies in the court of law and he is doing the same. As far as the investigation is concerned, he is ready to record his statement virtually. This will be more authentic as it can be recorded. ED should start the probe at least by recording his virtual statement. After that, they can proceed for action if they do not find it [the statement] satisfactory,” said NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik.Malik, however, said that he would not be able to answer on Deshmukh’s whereabouts as he is not aware of it.NCP state president Jayant Patil in Nashik said their leaders are being targeted to defame the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “[Previous] BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) government had put (senior NCP leader) Chhagan Bhujbal behind the bars and he was exonerated by the court. Now, the BJP’s mechanism is after Deshmukh. Singh, who had made allegations [against Deshmukh], fled the country. In this scenario, why should ED and other investigation agencies believe him (Singh)?” Patil questioned.While there were reports on Thursday that Singh may have fled the country, BJP alleged that MVA government helped Deshmukh leave India. BJP state vice-president Madhav Bhandari said, “Deshmukh did not appear before ED despite several summons. He is also not saying that he is unwell. A virtual statement can be recorded from any part of the world. He should disclose his whereabouts. It is a shame for MVA government if a former home minister goes untraceable like this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-leader-and-former-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-now-untraceable-101633101937242.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||Khopoli police arrest 5 for kidnapping businessman from Pune||A chance encounter with five persons in a car during night patrolling led the Khopoli police to uncover a kidnapping case of a Pune-based businessman.The five accused have been arrested for kidnapping him for a ransom of ₹25 lakh. Cops on night patrol on Thursday found a car suspiciously parked with mud pasted on the number plates on both the sides. The team found six people in the car. On questioning, they did not give a proper answer and hence were taken to Khopoli police station for interrogation.“While questioning each of them, one of the six pleaded with us to save him from the others. That was when we realised that the five accused had kidnapped him from Pune and were on the run for three days. The accused had confined him in Ambernath and were taking him to another place when they got caught,” senior police inspector Shirish Pawar from Khopoli police station said.The five men had kidnapped the businessman three days back and were demanding a ransom of ₹25 lakh from the family. The Pune police were still looking for the kidnappers.The arrested accused have been identified as Vaaman Maruti Shinde (39 yrs), Yogendra Prasad (25), Dileep Sattan Paswan (32), Dhurupchandra Yadav (33) and Sandeep Prakash Sonawane (35). While the one rescued is Digambar Indalsingh Chitodiya (32). Chitodiya is into the making of Ayurvedic medicines and owes some money to Shinde.Shinde and the others hired for kidnapping, abducted Chitodiya from Hinjewadi in Pune. The accused have been handed over to Hinjewadi police by Khopoli police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/khopoli-police-arrest-5-for-kidnapping-businessman-from-pune-101633101879510.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||BMC allows reopening of places of worship in Mumbai from Oct 7 at 50% capacity||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday allowed reopening of places of worship at 50% capacity, starting October 7.This comes after the Maharashtra government last week announced reopening of all places of worship from October 7, the first day of Navratri festival. The state had earlier this week allowed reopening of religious places provided they follow strict safety protocols.The state had kept the religious places shut throughout the first wave, but had reopened post Diwali in 2020. However, they were shut again after the second wave hit the state in April 2021.The BMC has kept all restrictions put by state government like no offering of prasad and sprinkling of holy water on visitors to be followed. Managements of religious places have also been asked to allow visitors in slots and to not have large gatherings.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal in an order said, “Based on the state government’s orders, all places of worship and religious places in BMC can allow only 50% devotees and all Covid-19 protocols must be followed.”According to the state’s guidelines, it has asked entry of only those visitors who are wearing masks and social distancing has to be maintained. It has restricted giving of prasad/holy water.The state has said staggering of visitors and slots should be fixed based on size of the premises. Frequently sanitising the premises and no touching of idols, holy books or other items is also mentioned. Religious events and congregations have still not been allowed.The state has also ruled common prayer mats should be avoided, people should get their own mats, and people above 65 years and under 10 years old should avoid visiting, as per the SOP. Hand sanitisers are also to be made available.Meanwhile, the BMC has also allowed reopening of schools for Class 8 to 12 for all schools across public and private sector. For other classes, the BMC said the decision might be taken in November post Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-allows-reopening-of-places-of-worship-in-mumbai-from-oct-7-at-50-capacity-101633101516563.html
01-10-2021||Lucknow||Another incident rocksGorakhpur as wine shopsalesman beaten to death||GORAKHPUR A salesman of a liquor shop in Gorakhpur’s Ramgarh Tal area was beaten to death late on Thursday night allegedly by the brother of a criminal and his associates for refusing to give them complimentary booze, police said on Friday. The incident occurred within 72 hours of Kanpur businessman Manish Gupta’s alleged murder at a hotel here during a police raid.Taking cognizance of the incident, SSP Vipin Tada sent the SHO of the local police station to the Police Lines and transferred the circle officer.A probe was initiated in the matter and a case of murder had been registered against the brother of Pankaj Rai along with 14-15 other unidentified persons, said police. Rai is a former DAV Degree College student union president who has several criminal cases registered against him in different police stations of the district.Cops detained six people in connection with the murder while NSA will also be imposed on the miscreants, according to the twitter handle of the Gorakhpur police. According to cops, employees at the shop said the miscreants wanted to have free liquor and when Manish objected to it, he was beaten up by them. Manish’s colleague, Raghu, who came to his rescue, was also thrashed.On getting information, the police reached the spot and got Manish admitted to a hospital, where he succumbed to injuries. Raghu suffered injuries and was undergoing treatment at a hospital. “A model shop employee was beaten up by some miscreants over a financial dispute. On getting information, the police reached the spot and got him admitted to a hospital, where he succumbed to injuries. The forensic team collected evidence from the spot, including CCTV footage, and soon the accused will be nabbed,” said SP (city) Sonam Kumar. The CCTV footage showed five to six men first dragging Manish and then beating him mercilessly with batons and kicking him repeatedly. When another staff came to his rescue, he was also assaulted while the rest of the employees at the wine shop escaped from the spot fearing for their lives, said police. Kanpur realtor Manish Gupta, 36, had died on Monday night after he was allegedly thrashed by some policemen, who raided the hotel. Initially, the cops had maintained that he had died of a head injury after falling on the ground. Later, the authorities suspended six policemen and booked them in a murder case.The Kanpur realtor’s death had also occurred under the jurisdiction of the Ramgarh Tal police station. Following Manish Prajapati’s murder, SSP Vipin Tada took action against the cops here. CO (Cantonment) Rahul Bhatia was replaced by Bansgaon CO Shyam Vind while SHO (Ramgarh Tal) KK Rana was attached to the Police Lines. He had taken charge three days ago after former SHO JN Singh and five other policemen were suspended and booked on charges of murder in Manish Gupta case. Inputs from agency||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/another-incident-rocksgorakhpur-as-wine-shopworker-beaten-to-death-101633100197733.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||Naupada police in Thane arrest 5 incl 4 women for burglaries||The Naupada police have arrested a gang of five accused, including four women, who allegedly used to burgle commercial establishments late at night. The police said that the first crucial clue in the investigation was obtained after tracking the movements of the accused for four kilometres in CCTV cameras, leading to 100% recovery of the stolen valuables.According to the Naupada police, investigations in the matter were initiated earlier in September, when the accused broke into a store in Thane and stole 25 water pumps.“We checked CCTV footage in and around the spot and saw three to four women moving in a suspicious manner and an auto rickshaw parked near the store. However, it was raining at the time of the burglary and the footage was unclear. We were still working on the case when another burglary occurred at a store near Teen Petrol Pump, where industrial aluminium plates were stolen. CCTV footage once again showed three to four women and an auto rickshaw,” senior police inspector Sanjay Dhumal, Naupada police station, said.The investigating team checked for more clues on CCTV footage around the scene of the second burglary and tracked the auto rickshaw all the way to Shivaji Chowk in Kalwa, where they finally obtained a clear enough image of its licence plate.Using the registration details of the auto rickshaw, the police made inquiries with its owner, who said that he had employed Akash Kachchhi (27) to drive the vehicle. Kachchhi was subsequently picked up from his Kalwa residence and questioned at length, after which he allegedly confessed to being involved in both the thefts.Based on his interrogation, the police went on to arrest Kachchhi as well as his mother Suman (50), wife Sheetal (24) and two other women from the same locality, identified as Rukmini Kamble (35) and Nandini Gaikwad (32).“The accused have also committed more thefts in the Kalwa and Mumbra areas in the past. They purposely used women to move the stolen goods as they are less likely to be stopped in police checks. We have recovered all the stolen goods from their possession,” Dhumal said. All the five accused have been charged with burglary under the Indian Penal Code and remanded in police custody till Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/naupada-police-in-thane-arrest-5-incl-4-women-for-burglaries-101633099838838.html
01-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath distributes appointment letters to naib tehsildars||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath distributed appointment letters to newly selected naib tehsildars in Lucknow on Friday. “Today, appointments are not made looking at the caste, religion, region or the face of an individual. Employees are now appointed solely on the basis of talent, qualification and merit in a transparent matter,” he said at the programme at Lok Bhavan in the state capital. Fifteen of the 110 naib tehsildars received the appointment letters from the chief minister himself. “The state government has conducted the selection process fairly, so we expect all of you will also work with honesty and remain accountable to the common man. In the last four-and-a-half years appointment letters have been given to 4.5 lakh youths. The state is now getting the benefit of their talent and energy,” Yogi Adityanath added. He also said Uttar Pradesh, which was in the 16th or the 17th position in the national rankings earlier, was now second in the ease of doing business. It was also the second largest economy of India, Yogi Adityanath added. “We are committed to making Uttar Pradesh the country’s biggest economy,” he said. Calling for people’s support, Yogi Adityanath said the state government alone cannot take the state to new heights. He also said the role of naib tehsildars had become more important as most of the cases were first reported at the tehsil level. Earlier, people had to wait for many years for mutation of land in their name, but the present government ensured mutation of around 13 lakh plots of land in a special campaign, he said. Ninety per cent of disputes can be solved through mediation and tehsildars have a role to play in this, he said. Stating that five expressways were being constructed in Uttar Pradesh, he said these would form the backbone of the economy. Yogi Adityanath said , “Uttar Pradesh has the same system and the resources that it had before 2017, but the functioning of the government has changed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-distributes-appointment-letters-to-naib-tehsildars-101633098696531.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||Daily positivity rate in Thane at 2.34% is more than Maharashtra state’s 2.10%||In the last ten days, Thane city has had a positivity rate of 2.34%, which is higher than the Maharashtra State’s daily average of 2.10%. Despite this, the city continues to conduct merely between 2,000 and 3,000 tests on a daily basis.The State Public Health Department has stated that although the weekly positivity rate has not increased in the state after two weeks of Ganesh Chaturthi, the number of daily testing should not reduce, especially in the days before Dussehra and Diwali.However, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has claimed that the response from individuals to come forward for testing is also less. TMC has not made testing mandatory unless one has symptoms. This probably seems to be the reason for increased positivity rate. Currently, the city is at an overall positivity rate of 6.98%.“The provision for testing continues to be the same in the city. Hardly a handful turn up at the testing centres. Only those who have symptoms or have come in contact with a positive patient are forced to test. All others can only be requested to come forward and test. This has led to less number of tests in the city. But, all through, we have maintained to conduct more than 2,000 tests on a daily basis,” said Sandeep Malvi, additional commissioner, TMC.TMC was testing more than 4,000 till June. During the peak of the second wave, it conducted 10,000 tests on a regular basis. In February, just before the advent of the second wave, the testing was reduced to less than 4,000 when the number of positive cases saw a spike. Despite this, TMC is conducting fewer tests, while its neighbouring cities of Kalyan-Dombivli and Navi Mumbai have both increased their number of daily tests.Testing centres in the city have noticed an overall lack of interest among the people to get tested, especially after increasing number of people getting fully vaccinated.“High risk contacts, people who have to travel or those with symptoms recommended by the doctors are the only ones who visit testing centres. If we request some who have mild symptoms, many times they refuse saying they are fully vaccinated. We cannot force anyone to get tested but unlike earlier, there are less people who come forward to get tested,” said a pathologist at a testing centre in Kolbad.During the peak of the second wave, the overall positivity rate was 7.30%. Until February, the positivity rate had gone below 2%. However, at present, the positivity rate continues to be stagnant between 2% and 2.50%. “The number of daily positive cases and the positivity rate is consistent, and on some days goes lower too. Hence, we have not increased the testing within the city. Only if a considerable spike is noted will we increase the daily number of tests,” said a senior official from TMC.Currently, Thane district has an overall positivity rate of 2.40%. This is higher than the State average too. Thane comes under the nine districts in the State that are of a concern. In the last ten days, Thane district has had more than 2,000 new positive cases.Although plans for lockdown relaxations are going on, Thane district officials are conducting special meetings with the District Collector to discuss how to handle the festival period in a better manner. “We are working on further relaxations amidst the pandemic such that the number of testing and vaccinations are not hampered across the district,” said an officer from District Health Department. Santosh Kadam, president, Indian Medical Association, Thane Chapter, said, “Testing is essential to understand the growth rate of cases, especially with the festive season approaching. With further relaxations in rules, more people should be tested. However, Thane’s positivity rate continues to be steady. Hence, there is nothing to panic about. We are also well prepared with facilities in case of a surge in cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/daily-positivity-rate-in-thane-at-2-34-is-more-than-maharashtra-state-s-210-101633097322072.html
01-10-2021||Kolkata||‘This is a crime’: Mamata Banerjee’s shrill attack over floods in 9 districts||KOLKATA: At least two persons were killed and more than two million people across nine districts have been affected as West Bengal faces the second floods this monsoon season since July. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged that it was a ‘man-made flood’ as the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) authorities and Jharkhand government didn’t inform the West Bengal government before releasing huge amount of water from the barrages. “This is a man-made flood. Water was released without informing us. This is a crime. We condemn this. This is not the first time that such things have happened,” said Mamata Banerjee while speaking to the media. A low pressure system has triggered extremely heavy rainfall in some districts of south Bengal since September 29. Asansol in West Burdwan district and Bankura district received 434mm and 354mm rain, respectively, in one day - the heaviest rainfall the districts ever received in one day.“This is the second flood to hit the state this season. According to preliminary reports, more than 2.2 million people have been affected and around 400,000 have been evacuated. Around 200,000 people have taken shelter in relief camps,” said West Bengal chief secretary HK Dwivedi.The state government has deployed eight columns of army, 25 teams of NDRF and 24 teams of SDRF for relief and rescue operations.In July-end and first week of August, the same districts were hit by floods when there was heavy rain and water was released from the barrages. Banerjee had then also called it a man-made floods. At least 16 people were killed then. West Bengal government officials said DVC drastically increased the amount of water being discharged from the Panchet and Maithan dams into the Damodar river. They released around 49,000 cusecs on September 30 and by early October 1, this figure went up to 150,000 cusecs. Another 80,000 cusecs was also released from the Sikatiya barrage in Jharkahnd late on September 30, which was increased to 120,000 cusecs by Friday morning.“This huge volume of water gushed down the rivers Damodar and Ajoy inundating many blocks in multiple districts downstream. In some blocks, the water level of the last flood was yet to recede when this water came,” said a senior official.DVC, however, refuted the allegations that it acted unilaterally.“DVC alone doesn’t decide when and how much water would be released. The Damodar Valley Reservoir Regulatory Committee decides it. A chief engineer-ranked official from the West Bengal government is a member of the committee,” a senior DVC official said.He added that the committee was forced to release water since DVC area and the area downstream heavy rainfall on September 29 and 30. “The water released by the DVC together with the heavy rainfall downstream, triggered the flood. It was not in our hands,” the senior official said.The chief minister is likely to undertake an aerial survey of some of the flood affected areas on Saturday. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) mounted a counterattack on the Mamata Banerjee government.West Bengal BJP chief Sukant Majumdar said: “The chief minister is making baseless allegations. The state was informed about the release of water and yet they did nothing. Actually the flood was made by the chief minister so that she can get some money from the centre. When the central funds come, she would use it to give doles to clubs”.Even though south Bengal has received heavy rains over the past few weeks, officials said there was a huge difference in rainfall across the states this year. While at least nine districts in Wes Bengal, including Kolkata, have received excess rain, seven districts received normal rain. Three districts – Malda, South Dinajpur and North Dinajpur have received deficient rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/this-is-a-crime-mamata-banerjee-s-shrill-attack-over-floods-in-9-districts-101633097316109.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||CIDCO gives eviction notice to 97 families of 3 villages on land meant for Navi Mumbai International Airport project||Ninety seven families of Ulwe, Kombadbhuje and Targhar villages that are a part of the upcoming Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA) project, are yet to vacate their homes. These families have now received a notice from the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) asking to evict the homes and demolish them in 24 hours.The notice was issued on Wednesday, and on Thursday, CIDCO and a team of police had reached the spot asking the families to vacate the homes.“After we spoke and negotiated with CIDCO officials, they gave us three more days for vacating. Our only demand was that CIDCO should give verdicts on the hearings that they had conducted before the pandemic. Many had issues with the compensation, some were identified as non-eligible. All of those had hearings conducted by CIDCO and people don’t want to leave their homes without knowing the verdict,” advocate Prashant Bhoir, a resident of Ulwe village, said.He added that CIDCO now has told them that it will apply the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (LARR) Act.“As per this, if we do not leave our homes and go, they would not compensate us with the land that we are eligible for and instead would only give the compensation money. Due to this, now people are literally forced to leave without waiting for the decision on the hearings,” Bhoir said.Meanwhile, another villager, Pundalik Mhatre, said, “We do not have an option now and we are slowly making up our minds to leave. Some still have speculations as to what if the CIDCO does not give out a hearing in favour of them after they leave. Those people have decided to stay back.”Another villager confirmed that he and his family would stay back till the CIDCO gave its final decision on the hearing.A CIDCO official said “The houses are being demolished by the villagers themselves and they are vacating the homes after we gave notices. All the eligible villagers would be compensated as per the promise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cidco-gives-eviction-notice-to-97-families-of-3-villages-on-land-meant-for-navi-mumbai-international-airport-project-101633096357172.html
01-10-2021||Noida||Feasibility report sought for extending Metro’s Red Line with Gzb railway stn||Officials of the Ghaziabad development authority (GDA) said on Friday that they have written to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) asking them to prepare a feasibility report for extending the Metro’s Red Line from its last metro station at New Bus Adda to Ghaziabad railway station. The only obstacle standing in the way of the proposed route is the Thakurdwara flyover, which is constructed on the median of Grand Trunk (GT) Road, said officials. The Red Line of the DMRC terminates at New Bus Adda metro station in Ghaziabad. Officials said they want to improve the connectivity of the last station on the Red Line with the Ghaziabad railway station, which is proposed for redevelopment and will unfold into a model city centre station at an estimated cost of about ₹1,000 crore. The proposed project will have all modern amenities for passengers, besides commercial facilities, said officials. “We have decided to extend the Red Line of the Metro to the railway station keeping in mind the future developments at the station. In this context, we have asked the DMRC to give us a feasibility report on whether the extension is possible, and if possible, whether the connectivity will be elevated or underground,” said Krishna Karunesh, the authority’s vice chairperson. Currently, the Red Line of the Delhi Metro has eight stations in Ghaziabad and constructed on an elevated section built on pillars at the median of GT Road. “The Thakurdwara flyover (also constructed on the median of GT Road) is standing in the way of extending the Metro till Ghaziabad railway station. Hence, a feasibility report has been sought. It is a point of concern that the point where the metro will terminate (after the extension) is at some distance, about 300-400 metres, from GT Road,” said the vice chairperson. Officials said the estimated cost of extending the Metro per kilometre will be around ₹300-400 crore while an urban passenger ropeway system would cost around ₹90-100 crore. “We are considering the ropeway system too as it has a deeper reach and will help passengers get down near the railway station. We are just waiting for the feasibility report from the DMRC,” said Karunesh. In September, the GDA also got a detailed project report prepared for installing the urban passenger ropeway system for connecting the Mohan Nagar metro station on the Red Line to Vaishali metro station on the DMRC’s Blue line. The ropeway system is estimated to cost about ₹487 crore for connecting the 5.1km route between the two metro stations. Officials said they were going ahead with the ropeway system as it is more cost effective than Metro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/feasibility-report-sought-for-extending-metro-s-red-line-with-gzb-railway-stn-101633096176271.html
01-10-2021||Lucknow||4 killed, 10 injured in explosion at factory manufacturing firecrackers in Uttar Pradesh||Four people died and 10 were injured in an explosion at a factory manufacturing firecrackers illegally in Shamli district on Friday evening, police said.The explosion took place at a pickle factory in Kairana town, and some of the injured people are in critical condition, they added.The police said a rescue operation is underway, and four bodies have been recovered so far.Senior police and administration officials are at the spot, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/4-killed-10-injured-in-explosion-at-factory-manufacturing-firecrackers-in-uttar-pradesh-101633095664910.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Emblems of Empowerment| Stitching together a legacy of independent women||From learning the basics of chain stitching from her aunt to training young girls in the craft, Gowhara Gulzar, 30, has come a long way in life.Married off at the age of 19, while also having the responsibility of providing for five younger siblings, the stitching and embroidery work helped Gulzar earn a meager earning in the initial years.Soon she realised that her work could fetch much more than what she was actually being paid. “In 2009, I received a payment of ₹5,000 for my work. This was a major boost for my confidence but at the same time, I realised that I could have earned much more if a part of my earning hadn’t gone to the middlemen and commission agents,” she said, adding that it was the turning point of her life.“I began thinking of ways to increase profits for artisans,” says the 30-year-old who used that payment to set off on her entrepreneurial journey. Now, almost a decade on, Gulzar is the proud owner of five handloom centres in south Kashmir. The centres train young girls in chain stitching and crewel work. At present, she employs around 100 girls. “Once these girls pick up the skill, we provide them work at their doorstep,” she says.Helping the young girls support themselves and their families makes Gulzar proud as she had once found herself in the same place.“I was the oldest of six siblings. My younger sisters and brother looked up to me. My earnings from stitching helped my siblings get educated. Three of them have now secured government jobs,” says Gulzar.“My youngest sister Nelofar pursued a course in fashion designing. She now helps me keep up-to-date with the latest trends in the market and also helps us expand our business,” she says proudly.She found an ideal partner in her husband, who supported her in her endeavours and later went on to set up his own business in Anantnag, inspired by her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/emblems-of-empowerment-stitching-together-a-legacy-of-independent-women-101633094796312.html
01-10-2021||Kolkata||‘He was sent show cause notice,' Suvendu Adhikari on Krishna Kalyani's exit||Hours after Krishna Kalyani, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Raiganj district of West Bengal, announced his resignation saying that he has decided to dissociate himself from the party, Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari on Friday said that Kalyani was sent a show cause notice for “abusing” the saffron camp’s leadership.Kalyani has said it was impossible for him to work for common people with former Union minister Debasree Chowdhury "running the show" in the region."Raiganj MP Debasree Choudhury has been conspiring against me for a long time now. She has called me a traitor, but in reality she is the one to have hatched a conspiracy to ensure my defeat from Raiganj as it suited her personal agenda," Kalyani was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. “It is in the fitness of things that I dissociate myself from the party,” he said, adding that the party had "disregarded" his grievances.In contrast to this, BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari said that the saffron party does not compromise on its system and discipline for anyone.“A show cause notice was sent to Raiganj MLA (Krishna Kalyani). He was abusing the BJP leadership. The party will not compromise on its system and discipline, rest who stays and who leaves is not our priority,” Adhikari told news agency ANI.The TMC was quick to extend an invitation to Kalyani to join the fold but he said he has no plan to join the ruling Trinamool Congress as of now. He added that his only wish is to serve the people of his constituency, “which seems impossible in the BJP with that one person (Choudhury) running the organisation here”.Veteran Trinamool Congress MP Sougata Roy, reacting to the development, said that he has found out that Kalyani was not getting due respect in the BJP. "We would like to welcome him to our party," he said.Several known faces of Bengal politics have jumped ship from the saffron camp since mid-May to September, including Mukul Roy and Babul Supriyo, to join the Mamata Banerjee-led party. TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee recently said that BJP leaders were queuing up outside the ruling camp’s office but there will be a thorough “screening” before the party inducts anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/he-was-sent-show-cause-notice-suvendu-adhikari-on-krishna-kalyani-s-exit-101633092974098.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||24-year-old burglar from Kalwa in Thane arrested for molesting woman, stealing cash||A 24-year-old burglar from Kalwa in Thane was arrested by the police on Friday for allegedly molesting a woman and stealing some cash and a mobile phone from her Turbhe house.According to the police, the accused, Aditya Gupta, entered the complainant’s house at around 3am on September 9 and touched her inappropriately when she was fast asleep. He later ran away with ₹1,000 and a mobile phone from the house.Rajendra Awahad, senior inspector of Turbhe police station, said, “After technical analysis of the evidence, we arrested the accused from Thane. He also confessed to have committed the crime. We have recovered stolen goods worth ₹45,000 from his possession.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/24yearold-burglar-from-kalwa-in-thane-arrested-for-molesting-woman-stealing-cash-101633093835897.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Mirroring The City||As a water body, it is no more than a drop in the ocean of Mumbai’s concrete jungle, but perhaps through its many phases of ruin and restoration, degradation and development, splendour and squalor, the Bandra Talao reflects the story of the city itself. Spread across 7.5 acres, it was colloquially known as Lotus Tank and is said to have been constructed by a wealthy Muslim resident of the area, around 200 years ago, as a scenic spot where water lilies, boating and fishing were a common sight, and families with their kids would gather to feed geese or paddle languidly, while ardent anglers would congregate to catch guppy and fighter fish and the East Indian community would converge for their wedding ritual known as ‘Umbra cha Pani.’ Boating and fishing and traditional water rituals in the middle of the city? How very bucolic. And how very Bandra. Yes indeed, those were the days. Neighbourhoods and cities die gradually, through neglect and apathy, and no one can give you the exact date when things began to go pear-shaped for the Talao, but from a spot which had been regarded as a tourist attraction, it fell in to disrepute and neglect, attracting its share of drifters and drug users, derelicts and drunks. For many years, commuters passing through the junction of SV Road could tell you that the way in which they knew they were approaching the Talao was by its fetid acrid smell that would assail their nostrils while in its vicinity, and late night commuters coming off Bandra station would speak of how they would quicken their steps, their heads down, their collars up, hoping they would not be accosted by an unsavoury intruder on its borders. A sorry state indeed for a lake which had always been the first handshake that commuters on the city’s south-north axis used to make with Bandra, on their journey northwards: a muddy, stinky apology of a lake, mostly grey and dirty, awash with garbage – a symbol of the rot and the ruin that the city had fallen into… Recently, news of the restoration of Bandra Talao has been making the rounds. Said to have been egged on by local residents and environmental activists, the Grade-2 heritage is said to have finally witnessed beautification and repair through the intervention of BMC’s H-West ward, which took it over in a bid to restore it to its former glory. “It is one of the largest water bodies in and around Bandra, located as it is on the main SV Road, which is the arterial road of the suburbs, and there was a lot of demand from locals to develop it,” said three-term corporator from Bandra constituency and the person said to be instrumental in much of the improvements of the area, Asif Zakaria, when we spoke this week. “It was once a spot for boating and picnics, but as it was not being frequented by citizens, it had turned into a neglected space, with garbage dumped in the water and other nefarious activities around it,” he said, adding, “But recently, with active citizens’ participation, the Talao has been improved upon with walking pathway all around so that citizens can enjoy the open water front. The main idea was to connect it from all sides in order to create useable open space for people to walk, jog etc and enjoy the open water body. There are also better lighting, water aerators, security and regular cleaning of the floating material.” Initially, Zakaria says, BMC had faced many challenges in its maintenance, but with local citizens’ participation, it was able to get a grip on things. What’s more, according to Zakaria, the restoration of the Talao is no flash in the pan. “Bandra has a very vibrant citizens movement which has resulted in various other open spaces being improved like the Joggers park, Part 2 Gardens at Bandstand, the Prof Almeida Park, and the creation of the first urban square at St Stephen’s steps and Mount Mary – which was once a narrow pathway but has now been converted into a large open square for the community for various social cultural activities,” he said. “No, I haven’t seen the Bandra Talao recently. So I cannot vouch for its restoration,” said long-time resident of Bandra and one of the pillars of its community, Owen Roncon, adding, “But as someone who loves Bandra, I commend any initiatives that restore and upgrade it”. For Roncon, who along with wife and former Bandra MP Priya Dutt, is known to have worked hard to transform his beloved Bandra into one of the city’s most welcoming suburbs and a hub for F&B, there is another issue: that of too much of a good thing. “Bandra today is experiencing an unprecedented onslaught of visitors on weekends,” he rued. “If you see Hill Road on a Saturday night, it’s a circus: cars, crowds, shoppers, motorcycles. We Bandra residents don’t venture out on weekends because of the noise and chaos,” he said, adding, “ Yes, the government and authorities can and must improve things, but then it is up to citizens to behave responsibly too…” “The city is certainly witnessing rejuvenation as far as its aesthetics and civic-minded issues,” said industrialist Harsh Goenka, who is currently involved in the restoration of Banganga, another city landmark.” “I have enormous respect for [Maharashtra CM] Uddhav Thackeray and his government who have made the improvement of Mumbai and its facilities for ordinary citizens a key point of their agenda,” he said. “Perhaps it is due to the fact that for the first time we have people heading the state who have grown up all their lives in the city and have its interests at heart…” he added. “There remains much more to be done, but it is a step in the right direction…”I began this column by saying that in many ways, Bandra Talao could be said to be a mirror of the city itself: Once a place of old world glory and charm, then a symbol of its apathy and ruin and recently an example of how things can be restored and revived, with the collaboration of residents and authorities. But will it last? Weeks after its face lift, there are already reports of hiccups and setbacks. The water aerators, which were installed to keep the lake clean and free from algae, are said to have stopped working because miscreants had stolen the wiring according to news reports, and critics say the lake’s eastern borders remain neglected and could do with some trees and lighting so that families and kids could return. So will the recently restored Bandra Talao live up to its promise and remain clean and welcoming? And will it become a tangible symbol of how things can be restored and revived if people set their hearts and minds to the task? Who can tell? But as of now, the mood is of cautious optimism...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-mirroring-the-city-101633093599757.html
01-10-2021||Bangalore||Family evacuated after sinkhole appears due to metro work in Bengaluru||A family residing at a building in Bengaluru was evacuated on Thursday after a 30-feet sinkhole appeared on Tannery Road in the city’s metro network (Namma Metro) during tunnelling work, several media reports stated.The incident occurred at around 7.30am and nearly 100 metres away from Venkateshpura metro UG station where a Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) namely ‘Bhadra’ of the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation (BMRCL) was functioning.A BMRCL release reportedly said that the sinkhole was created after an open well had been closed earlier and a building was built on it. It added that the building, from where the family was evacuated, was beside the sinkhole, and the family has been given alternate accommodation near Nagawara to ensure their safety. A chicken shop on the building’s ground floor was also shut following the sinkhole discovery.The metro corporation has decided to close up the sinkhole with sand and concrete for now, and resume the boring process. It said that once the filling process ends, and the building is secured, the family will be brought back to the building.In August, a house in Bengaluru was flooded with water and mud slurry after it blew up from the ground owing to force implemented by the TBM Bhadra, the News Minute reported.Meanwhile, last month another TBM namely ‘Urja’ achieved a breakthrough at the end of the Shivajinagar station after beginning the tunnelling process in 2020, BMRCL said in a statement. As many as nine TBM are presently doing tunnelling work for the underground construction of the Pink Line of Namma Metro. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has also directed BMRCL officials to complete the phase 2 of the Namma Metro by 2024 instead of 2025.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/family-evacuated-after-sinkhole-appears-due-to-metro-work-in-bengaluru-101633093067500.html
01-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugramwale: Portrait of a couple||Muhammed Shamshuddin stays forever rescued from wondering what might be in his lunch on any given day. “There’s never any suspense,” he says. It’s always the same dish—geeli aloo subzi with rotis. “My wife makes this every morning… it’s the cheapest thing to make.”A “reri walla,” Mr Shamsuddin is in his 50s and hauls grocery products on his wooden trolley in a Gurugram bazaar. “Sitara Begum, my gharwali, cooks it early in the morning, and she serves me the same for breakfast, too.”It is afternoon and the man has taken a break from work. He settles down under a tree, that is already sheltering a few other labourers. Some of them have taken off their shirt due to the heat, and are looking at ease in their vest. Mr Shamsuddin continues the food talk. “My wife used to be a good cook… but now we don’t care how the food tastes. We have grown old and when you will reach my age, you too will no longer worry about things like the flavour of subzi chawal.” The couple lives with their four sons and their families, “but each of us have a separate kitchen.” Despite being warned by a doctor to avoid strenuous labour following a critical surgery, Mr Shamshuddin continues to drag his cart “because I have to feed my gharwali (wife), and I also like to work and stay active.” He quickly rushes to defend his sons from any snap judgements concerning their responsibilities towards him and his wife. They are labourers like him, he explains, and they earn barely enough to support their own wives and kids.The couple married some 30 years ago in their UP village. “My woman didn’t wed a reri walla (at the time). I had a better job.” He was employed in a plastic factory that shut down later. “Since then I’m doing this work.”Now he opens his lunch box—aloo subzi and rotis. Mr Shamshuddin checks the time on his mobile, commenting, “She (Sitara Begum) must also be having this same khana.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugramwale-portrait-of-a-couple-101633090822299.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai court issues process against Anil Deshmukh for not responding to ED’s summons||A metropolitan magistrate court on Friday issued process against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh for failing to comply with the summons issued to him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and has asked him to appear before the court on November 16.After the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader failed to appear before the agency despite several summons, ED has moved the court to prosecute Deshmukh for non-compliance under section 174 (non-attendance in obedience to an order from public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, which prescribes punishment of up to one month’s simple imprisonment or fine up to ₹500.ED’s counsel, advocates Arvind Aghav and Shreeram Shirsath, argued that the agency had summoned Deshmukh five times under section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, on June 25 and 28, July 2 and 30 and August 16.Except for the first summon, all others were for personal appearance, they said. They added that Deshmukh had himself received the first summons and the other summons were received by his family members and lawyer.“The accused, however, wilfully neglected and failed to appear before the agency and thus has contravened section 174 of IPC,” ED’s lawyers said.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate RM Nerlikar accepted their contentions. The court observed that considering the documents on record and submissions made, prime facie, a case was made out, and issued process against Deshmukh. ED has arrested Deshmukh’s personal assistant Sanjeev Palande and secretary Kundan Shinde in the money laundering case against the former home minister and filed a detailed charge-sheet against them, in which dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze – now in jail for Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran cases – is also named an accused.The central agency has alleged that on Deshmukh’s instructions, Vaze had called a meeting of bar owners from Mumbai and demanded a monthly amount of ₹3 lakh from each of them. ED has stated in its charge sheet that Vaze had collected ₹4.7 crore from various bar owners between December 2020 and February 2021 at Deshmukh’s behest. According to the agency, Vaze handed over the extorted money to Shinde and subsequently, a part of the amount was routed to Deshmukh’s charitable trust in Nagpur through various shell companies.The agency claimed that its investigation began after former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had directed Vaze to collect ₹100 crore every month from establishments in Mumbai. Singh approached the Bombay high court (HC) and filed a petition in the matter. Based on HC’s order, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) initially conducted a preliminary inquiry and on April 21 registered an offence under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, after which ED started its investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-issues-process-against-anil-deshmukh-for-not-responding-to-ed-s-summons-101633087837856.html
01-10-2021||Other||Himachal board to hold first-term exam for Classes 9 to 12 by October-end||The Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education (HPBOSE) has notified the term-based examination of secondary classes in the academic session 2021-22 as envisaged in the National Education Policy. Board secretary Akshey Sood said the syllabus of Classes 9 to 12 has been bifurcated into two parts. Also read: ‘Stubborn’ Amarinder Singh thought he does not need advice: Harish RawatAccording to the notification issued on September 29, the first term exam will be conducted in the last week of this month based on 50% of the syllabus prescribed for the term. The paper will have questions of different formats, such as multiple choice questions, case based, assertion, reasoning, situation based, short answer and long question type. The board will provide question papers for the first term and the duration of the test will be three hours. The first term exams of Classes 10 and 12 will be conducted by the HPBOSE. Marks obtained will be uploaded on the board’s portal and will be added to the final overall result at the end of the assessment year. Year-end exam to be offline if situation conducive The year-end exam will be held in March-April 2022 based on the portion of the syllabus prescribed for the second term exam to be conducted offline at designated exam centres/schools if the situation will be conducive to hold exams. Sood said the pattern of exam shall be the same for both terms. Matriculation and Class 12 second term marks will be added to the final overall result. Internal assessment based on four tests For internal assessment, four periodic tests will be conducted throughout the year (two in each term) on the pattern similar to the term exam and year-end summative exam. Multiple assessment of the candidate will be done on the basis of oral test, quiz, class discussion, communication skills, linguistic skills and thinking skills that will be recorded. Candidates will be assessed on the basis of attendance, sincerity, behaviour, values, cleanliness, yoga, sports, cultural activities, health and environment awareness. The maximum weightage for internal assessment is 20 marks each for all subjects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-board-first-term-exam-to-be-held-online-for-classes-9-to-12-by-octoberend-101633087419848.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||Naupada police in Thane arrest serial conman||The Naupada police have arrested a serial conman who allegedly took items like stationery in bulk from retailers, claiming that he was going to donate them to orphanages, and sold them instead, making a 100% profit.According to the Naupada police, a case was registered against the accused on January 15 this year. The complainant, who works at a stationery store in Thane, had received a call from the accused, who identified himself as Sachin Shah. The accused had said that he worked with an NGO and wanted to procure 1,080 boxes of pencils that were to be donated to orphanages. He allegedly received delivery of the consignment in Bhiwandi and promised to pay via netbanking, but went incommunicado instead, after which the complainant approached the police.“We found that the accused had committed several such offences in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane and further received information that he was staying in Malad. Our team reached the location but the accused had already shifted a few days earlier,” senior police inspector Sanjay Dhumal, Naupada police station said.He added that the team kept on tracing the accused, obtaining several addresses for him, checking CCTV footage at all these spots and trying to trace his location through cellular location mapping till they finally received a tip off that he was staying in Virar under an assumed name.The accused, Sachin Shah (40), was arrested on Thursday evening and has been remanded in police custody for two days, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/naupada-police-in-thane-arrest-serial-conman-101633087235978.html
01-10-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: October 1-October 8||High Big Gigs featuring IB Inc Friday night is definitely gonna be lit with IB inc. (aka Bobkat and Ishani) as they take over the decks with your favourite hip-hop bangers. When: October 1; 7pm onwards Where: High Spirits, Koregaon Park Studio artzone The workshop is demo videos on how to do vintage floral gift boxes, flower making and assembly. Fees: Offline: Rs500; Online: Rs300 To register contact 9822254472 When: October 1, 11am to 2pm Where: Studio Artzone, Bhandarkar road Meditation training This training programme provides an introduction to Pranahuti Supported Meditation (PSM). This practice uses is a Yogic process. This workshop contains four experiential guided meditations, and covers the topics of methods of meditation, holistic living, control of mind and concentration. To register go to https://www.meditationtrainingclass.org/ When: Saturday, October 09:30 am to October 3, 6pm Where: Online Cake workshop Try your hand at making anti-gravity cakes, faultline cakes, photo-roll cakes, shimmer cakes, and Origami cakes. To register go to 9503057704 When: Saturday, October 2; 10am Where: Online African art - the workshop African Art has played a significant role in shaping the culture and history of the world. Rock Art is centuries old, while shell beads fashioned for a necklace have been recovered in a cave of the southern peninsula of South Africa that are 75,000 years old. This workshop with Trishna Patnaik will focus on tall stick ‘dancing’ figures. The figures are dynamic and the colours are mostly red, white, grey, and black. Participants will work with acrylic colours, metallic colours and cartridge sheets. Age group: 10-years plus Fees: ₹1,700 per participant (includes all material and refreshments) For registrations please contact Trishna Patnaik on 9867982075. When: October 3; 11am to 2pm Where: Nukkad Cafe, Pune No-vehicle Sunday Ride your cycle this Sunday from Shinde petrol pump, via Chandni chowk, Paud road, Karve road, Shaniwarwada, E-square, Pashan circle and back to Shinde petrol pump Age: 11-years and above (Children must be accompanied by a parent only) Needed: Bring your own cycles, helmet, water bottle To register contact: Dushyant Bhatia on 8180015902 When: October 3; Reporting time: 6am; start time: 6.30am Where: Chandni chowk E-waste collection drive For Rashtriya Swachhata Divas, Rotary International District 3131 invites you to join a mega e-waste collection driv, organised by Rotary Club of Pune, Warje. To register call 9325672177 When: Saturday Oct 2; 10am to 2pm Where: Aditya Garden City, Mumbai-Pune Bengaluru highway Blood donation The number of blood donors going to blood bank has decreased, creating a shortage at many blood banks. On the occasion of the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri on October 2, Lokshahi Utsav Samiti and SM Joshi Socialist Foundation have organised a blood donation camp. For details call 8600212524 When: October 2; 10am-2 pm Where: S M Joshi Socialist Foundation, Navi peth Youth4RoadSafety -pedestrian day This year’s Pedestrian Day theme is “Clean Air”. Let’s come together to make Pune a road-accident free city. Every October 2 we encourage citizens to follow traffic rules for their own safety and pledge to push authorities to give us better road infrastructure. Connect with us on the planned activities at your nearest junction: - Magarpatta & Amanora Junction - - Kalyani nagar junction - Anandnagar, Sinhgad junction - Joti Hotel junction - JM/FC road - PCMC junction To register go to https://t.co/gr7Fhf6Vl0 When: Saturday, October 2; 11am Where: Mutiple locations (see above) Traditional medicine summit This is the 3rd International Traditional Medicine Summit on the occasion of World Arthritis Day. This event will honour all doctors, nurses and NGOs who has served during the pandemic. For registration call 8712312327 When: October 2, 12pm to 6pm Where: Patrakar bhavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-october-1-october-8-101633086155499.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||120 tree fall incidents this monsoon compared to 512 last year, says Navi Mumbai civic body||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has claimed that the tree fall incidents this monsoon have decreased by more than 76% compared to the previous year.According to the NMMC’s disaster management cell, between June and September this year, there were only 120 tree falling cases as opposed to 512 registered in the corresponding period last year.Last year, a man died after a tree fell on him in Airoli. However, no such incident was reported this year. Only four vehicles were damaged after a tree fell on them in Vashi in July.Jaydeep Pawar, deputy municipal commissioner of NMMC (tree authority and garden department), said that the number of tree-falling cases is less this year as there were no cyclones in the four months of monsoon.“There were multiple cyclones between June and September last year and hence as many as 512 trees fell down. But there was no cyclone in the corresponding time this year. If you see, we lost 153 trees during Cyclone Tauktae this year too. But that was in May, much before the onset of the monsoon.”A survey conducted in 2017 revealed that there were 8,57,295 trees in Navi Mumbai. It also revealed that there were 1,88,000 Subabul trees in the city, the largest species found here. Dr. V Shubhalaxmi, an environmentalist and founder of iNaturewatch Foundation, Kharghar, said, “Normally, the shallow-rooted trees such as gulmohar and rain tree fall during monsoon. When the authorities dig up the soil near such trees for different civic works around that time, their roots lose grip and their chances of falling increase. This year, we have observed that there was not much digging work in the jurisdiction of NMMC and that could be a reason why the number of tree-falling cases is less this year. We also agree that had there been more cyclones during the four months of monsoon, more trees would have fallen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/120-tree-fall-incidents-this-monsoon-compared-to-512-last-year-says-navi-mumbai-civic-body-101633086040325.html
01-10-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Ola! (No, not the cab ride)... A dip into the lexicon of humanity||Sometimes it is not the right time for an idea or a direction. And sometimes, the time is just right, but we are not ready. But then, there are times when the time is right, the opportunity arises and we are open to revisiting an old idea and it sort of starts working out.Like my desire to learn Spanish, which dates back to … I don’t know: high school?The past two years have been a good learning experience, especially thanks to Netflix. And a good bit of what I have been watching has been in Spanish.As a general rule, I watch to learn about cultures and people rather than to just get entertained so the content has to be meaningful and engaging, which automatically rules out a bulk of regular and mainstream programming and movies. Spanish movies and serials have been a revelation for me in terms of quality of story-telling, performance and production value. When these three elements are firmly in place, language has never been a barrier.The thing about language is that it is spoken not with the tongue or throat or the lips, but with your whole body. The facial expressions, the gravity of sound, intonation, the depth of the gaze of the eyes, the body language... all of it are the true essence of the communication - the words we speak are the end result of a complex set of communication processes that the mind and the body constructs. And Spanish is a language that is as animated and immersed in human emotions as any other significantly evolved language: I imagine it is a very accurate reflection of the nature of Spanish-speaking people.I have limited direct experience with the people of Spain, and some limited direct experience with Spanish-speaking people from other parts of the world (South America and North America). But, I am fascinated with their passion, zest for life, and ability to connect with the world. My first direct interaction with Spanish came in 1989-90, when I started studying the language at the School of Foreign Languages in Mumbai. From the beginning, it always felt familiar, although I never persevered to achieve fluency.Then in the mid-2000s, my wife and I were on a trip to Ajanta Caves where we met a young Spanish photographer, Marcos Rebollos. Listening to them talk photography and art and travel, was mesmerising for me - it was the first time I had met a native speaker and it confirmed everything I had imagined about the language and the people: they were full of life and fascinating. Marcos was from Santander and I remembered Santander because they had a football club that was at that time in La Liga, Racing Santander. I kept an eye on the club’s progress for many seasons simply because we had met Marcos. And I think human beings are like that: we make connections and feel connected to their places and their lives and their cultures.I am not much of a traveller. In the sense that if life takes me somewhere, I go, but I don’t plan travel or have an intense desire to go and see places. My professional work has been centered around media, technology-based education, aviation and hospitality for the past three decades and it was work that took me to Orlando in Florida in the USA in 2008. Since then (till 2019) I had an annual trip to this delightful, delightful city where you see innovative emerging trends in all these industries thanks to the collaboration of industry, educational institutions, government and citizens. And: most of the locals I meet speak some dialect of Spanish (last I checked 37% of the population is of Hispanic origins).It was also work that eventually took me to Madrid in 2018 for a few days. And while I was staying mostly on the outskirts and didn’t see much because I was attending a trade show and conference, the three days were great because I was able to speak Spanish (haltingly) with the local people I met at the hotel, restaurant, conference and airport.I think I got on to Netflix at around the same time or a little earlier, and the first series I latched on to was Gran Hotel, watching Amaia Salamanca and Yon González. The series, which is set in the early 1900s, was shot on location at the Palacio de la Magdalena. And where is this Palace located? Near the city of Santander. I am a person who believes that there is more to the world and life than what we see and believe, and that it is not necessary that life is a series of coincidences - it is more inspiring to believe there is some reason why we meet the people we meet. Even if it is to feel that we are part of one world, made from the same fabric.In the last two years, I have discovered La Chicas del Cable, Tiempos de Guerra, Velvet, and 45 RPM, the last one about a young musician and the recording business. Music, love, pain, joy, failure, success, death, parting, anguish, food, relationships, disease, death, parting, suffering, recovery, hope ... Life is the same all over the world. Even in pandemic times.And while I am as inquisitive as ever about Spanish, I have realised we all speak one language all across the globe. It is the language of being human.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-ola-no-not-the-cab-ride-a-dip-into-the-lexicon-of-humanity-101633085855910.html
01-10-2021||Dehradun||Robber held a day after shooting and killing Haryana cop||An alleged robber accused of killing a Haryana policeman on Thursday night in Haridwar was arrested on Friday. The policeman was part of a nine-member Haryana Police team that arrived in Haridwar on Thursday night after tracing four men, who allegedly committed a robbery in Faridabad, to a parking area in the city.The team arrested the three accused even as one of them, Anshu, fired on policeman Sandeep Kumar. Anshu fled from the scene while Kumar succumbed to his bullet injury.Senior police superintendent (Haridwar) Yogendra Singh Rawat said they immediately sealed all the inter-district and interstate borders and deployed checking squads. One of the patrolling teams spotted Anshu, who had also sustained bullet injury on his hand, and arrested him before admitting him to a hospital.“Anshu was referred to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (Rishikesh). A case has been lodged...” He added now all the four alleged robbers have been arrested. Rawat said a car, ₹12,000, and six cartridges have been recovered from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/robber-held-a-day-after-shooting-and-killing-haryana-cop-101633085616693.html
01-10-2021||Lucknow||Gayadeen Anuragi, Congress UP unit vice-president, joins Samajwadi Party||Ahead of next year's Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, the Congress' Uttar Pradesh unit vice-president Gayadeen Anuragi joined the Samajwadi Party on Friday and alleged that his voice was not being heard in the grand old party.He joined the Samajwadi Party in the presence of its national president Akhilesh Yadav here.The problem of senior leaders choosing to part ways continues to vex the Congress despite its General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's earnest effort to gear up the party for the polls. She completed her five-day visit to the state on Friday to review the party's poll preparedness.Earlier, Lalitesh Pati Tripathi, the great-grandson of late Congress stalwart Kamalapati Tripathi, bid adieu to the party. This came a few months after ex-Union minister Jitin Prasada, the son of former Congress leader Jitendra Prasad, crossed over to the BJP.When asked about his joining in SP, Anuragi, a former MLA from Rath in Hamirpur, claimed that he was not feeling comfortable in the Congress as he was not heard.On the occasion, Jan Parivartan Dal president J P Dhangarh announced the merger of his party with the Samajwadi Party.Prominent among those who joined the SP included National President of Dali Mahasabha Rahul Bhartiya, former MP from Balrampur and three-time MLA Rizwan Zaheer, and former legislators R P Kushwaha and Vinod Chaturvedi among others.Gondwana Gantantra Party's national president Tuleshwar Singh also announced support to the SP.On the occasion, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said all sections of the society are joining his party and making it strong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gayadeen-anuragi-congress-up-unit-vice-president-joins-samajwadi-party-101633084813072.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||One arrested, another escapes in chain snatching incident in Airoli||A 28-year-old man, who along with an accomplice allegedly snatched a gold chain from a woman in Airoli, was nabbed by a few local residents of the area on Friday. His accomplice, however, managed to escape on the bike and the police are now searching for him.According to the police, the arrested accused was riding the bike and his accomplice was riding pillion. At around 8am, the man riding pillion snatched the gold chain of a woman walking alone at Sector 7.Yogesh Gawde, senior inspector of Rabale police station, said, “After snatching the chain, the accused tried to run away on the bike. The woman, however, raised an alarm and a few local residents nabbed both the accused. But the man who was riding pillion, somehow freed himself from their grasp and escaped on the bike. He also took the stolen chain with him. The residents later took the other accused to the police station and handed him over to us.”The police, however, did not disclose the name of the arrested accused as his accomplice is still on the run.“Prima facie it appears that they had been operating in Navi Mumbai for the past several months,” another police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/one-arrested-another-escapes-in-chain-snatching-incident-in-airoli-101633084835315.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||Vashi residents complain of murky roads near NMMC’s ambitious project site||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s (NMMC) ambitious project of the first-ever Olympic size swimming pool in Vashi has created problems galore for residents.Vashi residents have to grapple with murky roads for the last few weeks due to the ongoing construction work.The road near the pool site is covered with muck when it rains or, on dry days, a lot of dust flies along the road, making it difficult to commute, the residents claim.In the second week of August, the NMMC started developing a sports-cum-commercial complex on a spacious plot at Sector 12, which will also have an Olympic size swimming pool. For developing the basement of the complex, they are now digging the plot and transporting the soil to different places. However, the soil often falls off trucks on the road. Ramesh Sankhe, 36, a resident of Vashi, said, “The condition of the roads becomes so bad during the rainy days that we cannot even walk on them properly. When there is no rain, the soil dries up and the entire area turns dusty. All the residents of Sector 9, 10, 11 and 12 are suffering from this issue.”Monali Salve, 24, another resident, said, “We understand that the NMMC is developing an ambitious project in our area and we are thankful to them for that. But at the same time, they should also ensure that we, the residents, do not suffer due to their carelessness.”A senior NMMC officer said, “We have asked our workers to be careful while transporting the soil. We are also getting the roads cleaned from time to time so that residents do not face any issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vashi-residents-complain-of-murky-roads-near-nmmc-s-ambitious-project-site-101633083818649.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai traffic constable jumps on car’s bonnet to stop violator||A Mumbai traffic police constable went a step further to stop a traffic violator by jumping on the bonnet of the car in an attempt to stop through a vehicle going in the wrong direction at Andheri west on Thursday, officials said.The accused was booked by the DN Nagar police on the complaint of the constable after the driver managed to flee with the car. The incident took place at 11.00 am near Azad Nagar metro station when the constable attached to the DN Nagar traffic division was on duty at the intersection.According to the complainant identified as Vijaysingh Sukh, he was manning traffic below the metro station when he saw a black Hyundai car going towards JP Road from the wrong side.Sukh said he gestured the car driver to stop but the driver just waved some identity card at him and said that he was from the press and proceeded without stopping.Sukh added that he then jumped on the car’s bonnet and sat on it. Officers from the DN Nagar police station said that a ruckus was created but the car driver did not stop and drove in spite of the constable sitting on its bonnet.The police have booked the driver of the car for rash driving and committing an act endangering the life of a public servant under sections 279, 353 and 336 of the Indian Penal Code.“We are trying to trace the driver of the car and will arrest him soon,” said an officer from the DN Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-traffic-cop-jumps-on-car-s-bonnet-to-stop-violator-101633082137225.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Delay in paddy buying won’t affect growers in south Punjab||The Centre’s decision to put off the purchase of paddy in Punjab and Haryana till October 11 due to the recent rains is unlikely to impact farmers of south Punjab as officials in the Malwa belt say the bulk arrival of non-basmati varieties in the grain markets starts after that date in any case. Also read: Punjab CM Channi to meet PM Modi, Congress leaders in Delhi todayPunjab Mandi Board deputy general manager (DGM), Ferozepur division, Kuldeep Singh Brar said on Friday that a few farmers are expected to bring hybrid paddy in the first week, which is not bought by government agencies, but small quantities of parmal rice varieties start arriving in mandis from October 8. Peak paddy arrival after October 10 “Normally, heavy arrival of PR paddy begins from October 10 and peak arrival season lasts for the next 10 days. We are not expecting any major problem with paddy growers in the division due to the delay in procurement plans. The department has made elaborate arrangements for hassle-free purchase,” said Brar. Mandi board’s Ferozepur division covers six districts, namely Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar, Faridkot, Ferozepur and Fazilka. “There is no doubt that the recent rains in Punjab have enhanced moisture level in grains. Clear weather will bring the moisture content to the optimum level and make it a good quality foodgrain,” said a senior functionary of mandi board. Moga expected to top in paddy yield According to the deputy director of the state food and civil supplies department, Mangal Das, this season, south Punjab is expected to produce about 56 lakh metric tonnes of PR varieties. He said state agencies are expecting 14.5 lakh MT from Moga, the highest arrival among Malwa districts, followed by Bathinda (13.5 lakh MT) and Ferozepur (11.7 lakh MT). Farm experts expect a bumper crop as paddy did not see any major pest attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delay-in-paddy-buying-won-t-affect-growers-in-south-punjab-101633081236653.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||Barge tragedy: Court rejects bail pleas of director, employees of shipping firm||A Mumbai court on Friday rejected bail pleas of the director and two employees of a shipping company booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder after one of the firm’s barges (P-305) capsized when Cyclone Tauktae hit in May and left 71 people on board dead. It said the offence was extremely grave. “The applicants, though highly positioned and responsible officers, were callous in duty to protect the life of their crew members who were working in highly dangerous and hazardous operation,” said the court. “Their negligence was culpable with awareness due to several warnings about the Cyclone that there could be a threat to life...”The police booked officials of Afcon and Papaa Shipping Private Limited for culpable homicide not amounting to murder after the tragedy.Lawyers Shrish Gupte and Girish Kulkarni, who appeared for the accused, Nitin Kumar Singh (Papaa Shipping director) manager Prasad Rane, and technical superintendent Akhileshwar Tiwari argued the accused were not on board the barge but at the base. They added the three did not have any weather reports, any alerts.The lawyers said the barge master, who was among those who lost their lives, and Afcons were receiving the reports. “It was the decision of the barge master to keep the barge stationed in high seas and they had no control or role to play in it. The barge could not have been moved without a tug and Afcons was under obligations to provide the same.” The lawyers said one of the accused even sent a message to the barge master to not take any risk while the other two sought help immediately. Assistant public prosecutor Seema Deshpande argued the accused knowingly did not perform their duties even as the cyclone was anticipated. “To save money and expenditure, the barge was not moved. There is evidence against the accused...”Additional sessions judge Deepak L Bhagwat rejected the bail pleas, observing there were continuous warnings from the weather department. “The barge master had taken a decision to stay stationed at the spot. However, it was the duty of the applicants to call back the crew members immediately after the alerts were issued. They can’t claim ignorance of the alerts issued as they were related to the operations.”The court said the barge master initially decided to return but after a meeting with Afcons officials, he changed his decision, which was an error of judgement. “When other barges had returned and only Papaa 305 was anchored in the high-sea, it was their duty to either move the barge or take its crew to safer areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/barge-tragedy-court-rejects-bail-pleas-of-director-employees-of-shipping-firm-101633080096850.html
01-10-2021||Other||Suspended police officer arrested for abetting suicide||Suspended police officer Amaresh Singh Baghel has been arrested in connection with the self-immolation by a 24-year-old woman, who accused jailed Bahujan Samaj Pary Member of Parliament Atul Rai of sexual assault in May 2019. The woman’s friend also committed self-immolation along with her outside the Supreme Court in August. She alleged she was framed in a fake incident for filing the case against Rai. The two later succumbed to their burn injuries.An abetment to suicide case was filed against Baghel after the death of the two. An officer said Baghel investigated the case against Rai and allegedly helped him by preparing an erroneous investigation report. After the matter came to light, Baghel was suspended in December 2020. The woman and her friend were upset with the report.Baghel, who is also accused of providing false evidence, was taken into custody in Barabanki on Wednesday evening. After overnight interrogation, he was arrested on Thursday morning. He has also been slapped with the Indian Penal Code’s Sections including those related to a public servant framing incorrect record or writing to save a person from punishment.Varanasi police commissioner A Satish Ganesh said Baghel was produced before a magistrate after medical examination and sent in 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/suspended-police-officer-arrested-for-abetting-suicide-101633079736327.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder Singh wasn't insulted by Congress, should rethink move: Harish Rawat||Former Uttarakhand chief minister and the in-charge of the Congress in Punjab Harish Rawat said on Friday there was no truth to reports that Amarinder Singh was insulted by the Congress.Rawat, who had made several visits over the past few weeks to the one of the last remaining Congress-ruled states to placate the crisis that now seems in vain, said Singh’s recent statements made it appear that was under some sort of pressure, adding he should rethink and not help the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in any way. Also read | Delhi interlocutors find Captain raring for a political fightRawat’s statements came a day after Singh clearly said he would leave the Congress where he had been adequately humiliated. Singh made the comments during a two-day trip to Delhi, his first since resigning as Punjab chief minister last month, when he visited Amit Shah and national security advisor Ajit Doval.Speaking to reporters in Dehradun, Rawat said, “The theory of humiliation of Amarinder Singh is totally wrong. His meetings with Amit Shah and other BJP leaders are raising questions on his secular credentials which has always been the core of his politics for all these years. The BJP is trying to make him their mask in Punjab which is not his stature.”Also read | Amarinder Singh removes Congress from Twitter bio, all eyes on Captain's next moveHe further said Congress MLAs in Punjab were very upset with Singh for not having taken any action in the desecration case that had happened during the previous Akali Dal government’s reign.Regarding the Congress Legislative Party (CLP) meeting that Singh has repeatedly said was not required as he had already given his word on his exit, Rawat said the MLAs had threatened to take unwarranted action against the former chief minister if the party had not convened the CLP meeting.“All that has been done by the Congress party till now is to protect the respect and dignity of Captain Amarinder Singh and increase the party's chances (in 2022 assembly polls) in Punjab,” Rawat was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The central Congress leadership has been attacked both from within and outside the party over its handling of the crisis in Punjab where the Assembly election is a few months.  (With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-singh-wasn-t-insulted-by-congress-should-rethink-move-harish-rawat-101633075259017.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||Resident doctors in Maharashtra launch indefinite protest over several demands||Resident doctors in Maharashtra, under the banner of the Maharashtra State Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), began on Friday an indefinite strike over various demands, including a complete waiver of academic fees during the ongoing pandemic of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The strike will continue till all the demands are met, MARD said.The full waiver of academic fees is the protesters' primary demand, Dr Akshay Yadav, a member of the doctors’ body said. “Secondly, the hostel conditions should be improved as these are not good across Maharashtra. Third, TDS should not be deducted from the stipend of resident doctors of hospitals under the BMC. Government hospitals throughout the state are yet to receive Covid-19 incentives,” Yadav further said, according to news agency ANI.He also said that the higher authorities had called protesters for a discussion on the matter. “However, we want a written assurance but are yet to receive that. Doctors have sacrificed everything for the people of the country. So, we only want justice for Covid-19 warriors,” Yadav remarked. We want written assurance. We've not shut emergency services so that patient care isn't compromised. Academic fees should be waived off as less academics was going on during COVID. Hostel conditions not good&BMC deducting tax from stipend of doctors: Dr Akshay Yadav, member MARD pic.twitter.com/rVzj8AOQwXSpeaking on the issue, MARD president Dr Dnyaneshwar Dhobale Patil informed that a meeting will take place on Friday with state deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and Amit Deshmukh, who holds the medical education portfolio. He added that talks took place between the union and the director of medical education on Thursday as well, but ended without any resolution. Stressing that MARD has been raising these issues for the last five months, Dhobale clarified that though emergency services will remain open, if the meeting with the deputy CM, too, does not yield any results, doctors will continue their agitation indefinitely and make it “more severe” .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/resident-doctors-in-maharashtra-launch-indefinite-protest-over-several-demands-101633073965980.html
01-10-2021||Bhopal||Seven dead, 13 injured as truck collides with bus in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhind dist||Seven passengers were killed, and 13 others injured when a bus collided head-on with a speeding truck in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhind district on Friday, said police.The bus was going from Gwalior to Etawah-Bareilly when it collided with the truck in the Gohad Chauraha area of the district.Police identified the five of the seven as Harendra Tomar, 46, from Morena, Rajat Rathore, 22, from Gwalior, Gani Adiwasi, 20, from Sagar, Hariom Kaderia, 32, from Etawah, and Shivam Gupta 28, from Kannauj. Two other bodies are yet to be identified.Gohad police station in-charge OP Mishra said the eyewitnesses said the driver of the truck was speeding and lost control of the vehicle. “The accident happened when the vehicle was trying to overtake another truck.”After the accident, the driver fled from the spot. Police are trying to arrest him.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has asked the local administration to extend support to the families of those killed and injured in the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/seven-dead-13-injured-as-truck-collides-with-bus-101633072356562.html
01-10-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta high court likely to hear PIL on Durga puja curbs||The Calcutta high court is expected on Friday to hear a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed last week seeking curbs during the festive season to prevent a surge in Covid-19 cases.“The matter has been listed to be heard by the court today (Thursday). Last week, when the PIL was filed, the state government told the high court that it would inform it what curbs were being imposed during the Dura Puja festival,” said Sabyasachi Chatterjee, a lawyer.The government on Thursday announced relaxation in the night curfew between 11 pm and 5 am in view of the festival. It added other restrictions in place to check the spread of Covid-19 have been extended till October 30.The Centre has directed states to enforce Covid-related guidelines, especially during the festive season. Large scale gatherings in fairs, festivals, and religious events and functions may lead to a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases in the country, the Union home ministry warned states on Tuesday.Durga Puja is the biggest festival in West Bengal. The five-day-long Puja starts this year on October 11. The festival extends for more than a week. Mahalaya this year would be held on October 6 and the immersion process would continue till October 17.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said this year Durga Puja will be held with all Covid-19 protocols mandated by the high court and state government last year.In 2020, the high court banned the entry of visitors into puja pandals due to Covid-19. A cap was put on the number of committee members, local residents, and drummers who could enter pandals as part of the celebrations. Last year, the puja was celebrated in a muted manner which prevented a major spike in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-high-court-likely-to-hear-pil-on-durga-puja-curbs-101633071097681.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab deputy CM Randhawa conducts surprise check at police headquarters||Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who also holds the home portfolio, conducted a surprise check at the Punjab Police headquarters in Chandigarh on Friday morning. Also read: Delhi interlocutors find Captain raring for a political fightRandhawa, accompanied by acting director general of police Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota and ADGP (law and order) Gaurav Yadav, reached the police headquarters at 9am and visited various branches to check the presence of employees. Randhawa visited offices of a few senior officers, many of whom were absent. Later, he said he conducted the surprise check on the directions of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who has asked employees in government offices to report on duty on time to ensure people face no hassles in getting their work done in time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-deputy-cm-randhawa-conducts-surprise-check-at-police-headquarters-101633070615311.html
01-10-2021||Delhi||Religious sites in Delhi reopen, devotees asked to abide by Covid-19 norms||The Delhi government has allowed the reopening of religious places in the city for devotees from Friday with strict adherence to Covid guidelines and standard operating procedures. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority issued fresh Covid-19 guidelines on Thursday. Religious places in the national capital were closed for devotees for over five months, since April 19, following the imposition of a lockdown due to the severe second wave of Covid infections.Also Read | Delhi: For 2nd yr, Chhath Puja celebrations in public banned over Covid-19 fearsAlthough the DDMA order permitted the entry of devotees to religious places, it prohibited large gatherings there. It also directed the district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police to ensure strict compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour in view of the upcoming festivals.The authority in its fresh Covid-19 guidelines stated that fairs, melas, food stalls, jhoolas, rallies, and processions will not be permitted during festivals in Delhi.Also Read | Delhi’s Covid-19 deaths in September the lowest since 1st month of outbreak“Chhat pooja celebration shall not be allowed in public places and people are advised to celebrate the same at their homes,” the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said in official order. The activities permitted and prohibited by the DDMA will continue up to October 15 midnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/religious-sites-in-delhi-reopen-devotees-asked-to-abide-by-covid-19-norms-101633061465537.html
01-10-2021||Patna||Bihar STF arrests arms smugglers; 1000 cartridges, firearms recovered||Sleuths of Bihar’s special task force (STF) on Thursday arrested three notorious arms smugglers at Rajgir in Nalanda district and seized a huge cache of arms and ammunition from them, officials said. The STF recovered 1000 cartridges of 315 bore, two country-made pistols of 7.65mm, two magazines, two motorcycles, four cell phones and ₹3.70 lakh. This huge recovery is significant because cartridges can’t be manufactured locally and are always stolen or smuggled. The arrested were identified as Anil Singh, a resident of Daudnagar in Aurangabad; Prabhat Kumar Singh (Nawada) and Bijay Kumar Singh (Rajgir). The accused have been booked under various sections of the Arms Act and would be sent to jail on Friday. Additional director general (Operations) SM Khopde said that interrogation is going on to know if these ammunition were being procured in view of ongoing panchayat election in Bihar or not. “The three arrested persons confessed that they used to supply arms and ammunition to criminals in Nalanda, Nawada, Patna and Jehanabad districts,” Khopde added.Police said that the kingpin of the racket, Anil Singh, procured ammunition from a Jharkhand supplier and was going to deliver it to conduits in Nalanda, Nawada, Sheikhpura and Patna. Acting on a tip-off, the STF nabbed Anil Singh at Rajgir when he reached to deliver the ammunition consignment. During the interrogation, he revealed about Prabhat and Bijay. Police later raided their places and recovered firearms and magazines from their possession. The police are now looking for the person who was to deliver the consignment to Anil. The STF claimed that they have already identified the person and their teams were conducting raids in Jharkhand to nab him. During the interrogation, they disclosed that they are part of an illegal cartridges supply syndicate. They further disclosed that they used to receive a supply of cartridges from Jharkhand illegally and further supply the same to criminals and gangsters. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-stf-arrests-arms-smugglers-1000-cartridges-firearms-recovered-101633070075943.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to decide on lifting Covid restrictions after a week||With the Covid-19 cases on a declining trend in the state, the Maharashtra government is considering lifting the remaining restrictions after reviewing the situation after the first week of October, officials said.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Tuesday said the state authorities will meet after October 8 and if the cases continue to decline, the government will lift the remaining restrictions that are still in force in the state.Barring a few districts, the daily caseload across the state is on a downward trend. Covid-19 cases in September have seen a 46.64% decline from the previous month. The state logged 85,980 cases in September. In August, the state recorded 161,161 Covid-19 cases. In terms of fatalities, the state has registered a 61.21% drop. In August, Maharashtra reported 4,522 fatalities due to Covid-19, which dropped to 1,754 in September.Pawar, while speaking to media persons on Thursday, said that “gradually” the situation is getting better and the state is looking at reopening all remaining restrictions in the state. The state government started its graded unlocking of restrictions in August.“We will have a meeting after October 8 wherein we will decide whether to allow other activities as well... The chief minister has decided to reopen all activities gradually, like theatres, etc, which were not allowed so far. We are taking stock of the situation and taking steps [to reopen] and if the situation keeps improving then definitely we will see a different picture in Maharashtra,” Pawar said.Last week, the state government announced the reopening of schools and places of worship from October 4 and October 7, respectively. Later, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that the state will allow cinema halls, auditoriums to reopen from October 22. The state government, which is yet to issue guidelines for reopening theatres and cinema halls, is expected to allow it with 50% capacity and also keep it open only for double-vaccinated citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-decide-on-lifting-covid-restrictions-after-a-week-101633069715916.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi to meet PM Modi, Congress leaders in Delhi today||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. He may also meet some of the central leaders of the Congress later in the day.The new chief minister, who took over the reins following a bitter exit of Amarinder Singh, is also likely to take up with Modi the central government's decision to postpone paddy procurement by 10 days. Initially, paddy procurement was scheduled to start from Friday.Channi’s meeting with the PM is tentatively scheduled for 4pm. Soon after taking over as the chief minister, Channi had written to Modi seeking time for a courtesy call. Before this, Channi had made a couple of rounds to the national capital to finalise names for his new cabinet.Also read | Navjot Sidhu-Charanjit Channi meeting. Here's why it is significantChanni’s visit to Delhi comes amid a major turmoil that has gripped the Punjab unit of the Congress with the surprise resignation of Navjot Singh Sidhu as its president. Channi held a meeting with Sidhu, who is reportedly unhappy with some faces in the latest cabinet, on Thursday.Several senior Congress leaders have been hitting out at the central leadership, mainly the Gandhis,over its handling of the crisis in Punjab where Assembly election is due in a few months.Also read | Delhi interlocutors find Captain raring for a political fightSingh’s meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah and his declaration of leaving the Congress where he said he was adequately humiliated have only added to the grand old party’s woes.Punjab is one of the three remaining states where the Congress is in power, the other two being Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh -- both faced with as much power-sharing issues within the ruling camp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-to-meet-pm-modi-congress-leaders-in-delhi-today-report-101633069137794.html
01-10-2021||Bhopal||Deaf-mute girl raped in Madhya Pradesh||Six people, including four minors, allegedly raped an 11-year-old deaf-mute girl in Madhya Pradesh’s Shahdol on Saturday, said police. Police superintendent Awadesh Goswami said the registration of the case in the matter was delayed until Thursday as the girl was unable to explain to her mother about what had happened.Police said the minors aged between 15 to 17 have been held while the two other accused have been arrested and booked for rape and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act. Deputy police superintendent Sonali Gupta said the girl belongs to an underprivileged family. “She was taken to a secluded place...and raped.... The traumatised girl tried to share her ordeal with her mother but she did not understand. Facing health issues, the mother asked her to explain her problem. On Wednesday night, she explained to her mother in the sign language that she was raped by six including two neighbours. The mother showed photographs of all the neighbours to her and she identified the two of them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/deafmute-girl-raped-in-madhya-pradesh-101633067196095.html
01-10-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal witnesses huge disparity in monsoon rain distribution||At least two places in south Bengal – Asansol in West Burdwan and Bankura – received the highest ever rainfall in one day, even as officials from the meteorological department pointed out the huge disparity in the distribution of monsoon rain in the state since June.While Asansol in West Burdwan district received 434.5mm rain between Wednesday and Thursday morning, Bankura district recorded 354.3mm rain during the same time. Bankura received more than 30 times excess rain on a single day. “This is the highest rain the two places have received in any month till date. While the previous high in Bankura was recorded in June 1922 when it received 292.4mm rain, the previous high in Asansol was recorded in July 2018 when it received 192mm rain,” said an IMD official. Even though Cyclone Gulab, which hit the Andhra Pradesh coast on September 26, didn’t have much effect in West Bengal, a cyclonic circulation that intensified into a well-marked low-pressure system, triggered heavy rain in Kolkata and other districts of south Bengal this week.Last week, Kolkata received the heaviest September rain in 14 years. Large parts of the city have been inundated. At least 14 persons were electrocuted to death across the state in waterlogged streets and houses. “The disparity is because monsoon has been vigorous of late in south Bengal. Back-to-back cyclonic circulations are developing over the Bay of Bengal, which on intensifying and approaching the coast, are triggering intense spells of rain,” said a senior official from the meteorological department.Even though south Bengal has been receiving heavy rain over the past few weeks, officials pointed out a huge disparity in the cumulative monsoon rain the state has received this season since June. While at least nine districts in West Bengal, including Kolkata, have received excess rain, seven districts received normal rain. Three districts – Malda, South Dinajpur and North Dinajpur received deficient rain. According to meteorological parlance, rainfall is considered ‘normal’ if the amount is 19% below or above the climatic normal of three decades. In case it is 20% to 59% more, it is called ‘excess’ rain. Likewise, a shortfall of -20% to -59% is said to be ‘deficient’. “One of the primary reasons behind these intense spells is climate change. The water holding capacity of the atmosphere increases by around 7% if there is a rise of one degree in temperature. Across India, incidents of heavy rain spells are increasing. This is just one consequence of climate change,” said KJ Ramesh, former director of the India Meteorological Department.Data available with the Union ministry of earth sciences reveal that while in 2016 around 1864 IMD stations across India recorded very heavy rain and 226 stations recorded extremely heavy rain, in 2020 at least 1912 stations had registered very heavy rain and extremely heavy rain was recorded in 341 stations. In 2018 and 2019 such events were even higher.The ‘Assessment of climate change over the Indian region’ – a report published by the Union earth sciences ministry in 2020 suggests that there has been a shift in the recent period toward more frequent dry spells and more intense wet spells during the summer monsoon season. The frequency of localized heavy precipitation occurrences has increased worldwide in response to increased atmospheric moisture content “Our analysis of 100 years of data of rainfall in West Bengal shows that the overall rainfall in the monsoon season has increased but the number of rainy days has dropped resulting in intense spells. What aggravates the situation is that while on one hand alteration of nature is going on in an unbridled way, we also lack the mitigation and preparedness,” said Tuhin Ghosh, director of the School of Oceanographic Studies at Jadavpur University in Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/disparity-in-monsoon-rain-distribution-in-bengal-south-districts-register-heaviest-rain-ever-101633064436139.html
01-10-2021||Lucknow||Wine shop employee beaten to death over monetary dispute in Gorakhpur||Around half a dozen men allegedly thrashed a 25-year-old wine shop employee to death over some monetary dispute late on Thursday in the Ramgarh Tal area in Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur.CCTV footage showed the men first dragging Maneesh Prajapati and then beating him with sticks and kicking him repeatedly. When a colleague, Raghu, rushed to rescue Prajapati, he was also beaten while the rest of the wine shop staff fled from the spot. Raghu is undergoing treatment at a hospital.Police superintendent Sonam Kumar said a police team rushed to the scene and got Prajapati admitted to a hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. He said their forensic team has collected evidence including CCTV footage and soon all the accused will be arrested.
01-10-2021||Bhopal||Woman kills stepchildren to avenge ‘black magic’ she accused their mother of||A 30-year-old woman was arrested on Thursday for allegedly poisoning her stepson and stepdaughter aged seven and 11 to death before slitting their throats in Madhya Pradesh’s Datia district, said police. The accused, Jyoti, allegedly killed the two to avenge the black magic she suspected their biological mother of subjecting her to.Police superintendent Aman Singh Rathore said that Jyoti married Arvind Mahor a year ago after the father of the two separated from his first wife. “Jyoti got pregnant two months ago but suffered a miscarriage. Jyoti blamed Arvind’s first wife for performing black magic.” He added to avenge this, Jyoti poisoned the kids by mixing poison in their food. “Later, she slit the throat, wrist, and other body parts of the girl and also the private part of the boy with a vegetable knife.” During interrogation, Jyoti confessed the crime. She has been booked for murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/woman-kills-stepchildren-to-avenge-black-magic-she-accused-their-mother-of-101633060715012.html
01-10-2021||Delhi||From today, no private retailing of liquor in Delhi till November 16||From today, private liquor shops in Delhi will shut down their shutters for the next month-and-a-half as mandated by the new excise policy of the Delhi government. Till November 16, only government-run liquor vends will be allowed to function and, a day later, the Capital will complete its transition to the new excise policy, under which only those stores that have new licenses will be allowed to sell alcohol in the city.Also Read | 40% of Delhi private liquor vends to shut from Oct 1 due to new excise policy: 10 pointsThere are 849 such stores in the national capital, of which 276 are run privately, while the Delhi government operates the rest through its agencies. On the seventeenth of next month, the government will fully withdraw from the alcohol business in an attempt to bring in more transparency, revenue and service quality.Under the new policy, all 849 vends have been allotted to private firms through open tenders.Also Read | Private liquor vends in Delhi to shut for month-and-half from October 1 There are 26 municipal wards in Delhi where no liquor shops will open after September 30 as these were catered to only by private shops. Additionally, there are 80 wards that do not have a liquor vend. Under the excise policy, the Delhi government divided the city into 32 zones, and bid the liquor vends there for an equitable distribution of retail liquor business in the city. Each zones comprises 8-10 wards, and will have around 27 vends.The new excise policy was implemented on June 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-today-no-private-retailing-of-liquor-in-delhi-till-november-16-101633045602116.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: SK Tomar takes charge as PU dean research||SK Tomar from PU’s department of mathematics has been appointed as dean research by V-C Raj Kumar. He took charge on Thursday. Tomar has 116 publications in international journals and has delivered more than 125 lectures. Woman loses mobile phone to snatcherA vegetable seller lost her mobile phone to a snatcher in the grain market of Sector 26 on Thursday. Ruby, 41, told the police that she had come with her husband to the market and was targeted when she was browsing on her phone. An FIR has been registered. Citizens’ group meets guv for therapeutic villageThree executive committee members of “Citizens for Inclusive Living”, Neelu Sarin, Dr Simmi Waraich and Aditya Vikram , met Punjab governor and UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit on Thursday to set up a therapeutic village in the city. The “Serenity Therapeutic Village” is aimed at being an inclusive community for senior citizens and persons with mental disabilities, who don’t need acute institutional care, as per the project proposal and representation. Purohit said he will discuss the project with administration officials.Interactive session with Chhattisgarh ministerThe PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry organised an interactive session with Chhattisgarh minister of commerce and industries Kawasi Lakhma on Thursday. Lakhma shared that electronics, engineering, food processing, ethanol, gems, jewellery and forest produce were the priority sectors of the state. He assured that Chattisgarh will offer natural resources, surplus power and ease of doing business to new investors. Madhu Sudan Vij, chair, chandigarh chapter, PHDCCI, briefed the minister about the economic profile of Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana.Andhra man held with illicit liquorChandigarh Police arrested one Karrinanaji, 32, of Andhra Pradesh with 48 bottles of countrymade liquor in his possession near Daria village on September 29. A case under the Excise Act was registered. He was later granted bail.Entrepreneurship project concludesThe Haryana government’s department of skills development and industrial training, along with Medha Learning Foundation, concluded the employability and entrepreneurship project at Kaushal Bhawan. The ceremony was chaired by Sanjiv Sharma, joint director, SDIT. Shop owner arrested for selling adulterated itemIn the case of 4,370 adulterated ‘Tata Tea’ packets, Panchkula police have arrested Sajid Husain, the manager of wholesale shop ‘ Shri Mahabir Sales’. A team from Sector-20 police station had confiscated tea worth ₹15 lakh on Tuesday. A case has been registered against five people.‘World Maritime Day’ celebratedThe Merchant Navy Officers Association (MNOA), Chandigarh, in association with Himachal Seafarers Association, celebrated World Maritime Day at IMA Complex auditorium on Thursday. The main focus of the event, Seafarers: At the Core of Shipping’s Future, was to emphasise on the invaluable role seafarers play in building trade between countries. Punjab U-19 lads lose to BarodaBaroda beat Punjab by 52 runs in their Elite Group D opening match during the Vinoo Mankad Trophy for U-19 played at Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium, Hyderabad, on Thursday. Punjab won the toss and invited Baroda to bat. Baroda scored 275 for nine in 50 overs. Jadav Rajvirsinh (81) and Harsh Desai (54) were the main scorers for Baroda. For Punjab, Uday Saharan (2 for 39), Harshdeep Singh (2 for 52) and Emanjot Singh Chahal (2 for 44) were the most successful wicket takers. Replying, Punjab were bundled out for 223 in 45.4 overs. Uday Saharan (73) and skipper Ridham Satyawan (53) top-scored for Punjab. For Baroda, Priyanshu Moliya (4 for 38) bowled superbly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-sk-tomar-takes-charge-as-pu-dean-research-101633043193005.html
01-10-2021||Delhi||Can highways be kept blocked perpetually: SC on farmer stir||The Supreme Court on Thursday said public roads and highways cannot be “perpetually” blocked, taking a dim view of the Union and state governments’ inability to resolve the protracted problem of farmers blocking highways as part of their ongoing protests against the three contentious farm laws. Main highways into and out of Delhi have been partially blocked since last November inconveniencing local residents as well as travellers.A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh emphasised that it is the “duty” of the executive to implement the law on ensuring agitations do not block movement on public roads before such protests start being viewed as an incentive by one section of society or another.“Courts have to lay down the law. We laid down the law and how to implement the law is the business of the executive. The court has no means to implement it. Now, you cannot tell us to do something. You have to implement the law,” the bench told solicitor general Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor general KM Natraj. The law officers were appearing for the Central government and the Delhi Police.As Mehta agreed with the court that it is the responsibility of the executive to implement the law, the bench continued: “On a lighter side, if we were to encroach upon your domain, you will say the judiciary is transgressing into the executive’s turf, but understand the problem at hand has several ramifications.”The bench added that while a section of society may have some feelings against a particular policy of the government, occupation of highways cannot go on forever.“It cannot be a perpetual problem. Let us assume they have grievances. Then there are some other sections which are stuck on the roads. They have their own set of grievances. Method of redressal of grievances can be through debate; or in the parliament; or even by way of protests; but if it is found to happen perpetually, where does it end?” it asked the law officers.The court pointed out that such protests also create financial issues such as loss of toll on the highways. “Tomorrow, you will have people saying that since you are giving such benefits to one section of people (protestors), we will also not pay toll etc,” it added.Thousands of farmers are camping on the borders of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and on highways along these states since November last year, protesting three controversial laws that aim to liberalise the farm economy. Traffic at many points have been diverted, adding to commuting times, besides affecting commercial activities along these routes.Petitioner Monicca Agarwaal, who works in an information technology firm and is a single mother, approached the top court, complaining it is taking her almost two hours, instead of 20 minutes, to travel from Noida to Delhi due to frequent blockades and protests. She contended that directions by the apex court in several cases to keep roads clear, including the Shaheen Bagh protest in 2019-20, are not being followed.During the proceedings on Thursday, S-G Mehta informed the bench that a three-member committee has been formed to resolve the logjam and it invited the farmers’ groups too but they refused to join on the grounds that they are not parties to Agarwaal’s petition. Mehta requested the bench to also make a few farmers’ organisations parties to the case on his oral request.But the bench asked the S-G to move a proper application in this regard, specifying how making these farmers’ groups parties to the case will facilitate resolution of the issue.Mehta agreed to do so and said that such an application will be filed by Friday. The court, on his request, agreed to hear the case on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/public-roads-can-t-be-blocked-forever-says-supreme-court-101633042372261.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Rural areas of Ambala to get ₹20-crore infra boost in health sector||The Ambala health department has proposed to strengthen the infrastructure in rural areas of the district through the central funds worth ₹20 crore. Under the 15th finance commission, Haryana will receive ₹310 crore for developing health services. The recommendations were presented before Ambala deputy commissioner Vikram, who chaired a meeting on Thursday to discuss proposals and agendas on developing the health infrastructure in the district. Civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said the department has proposed to develop more sub-centres in the district along with increasing the Covid testing facilities.“The report will be submitted by this week and we can provide these services within six months when funds are released,” he added.Ambala currently has a district-level hospital in the city, two subdivisional hospitals in cantonment and Naraingarh, four community health centres (CHCs), 18 public health centres (PHCs), six urban public health centres (UPHCs), one polyclinic and 106 sub-health centres (SHC).The department has recommended adding 15 sub-centres in rural and 16 in urban areas, Dr Sukhpreet, assistant senior medical officer at the civil surgeon’s office, said. “Two block public health units in the rural belt will also be developed that would provide services such as specialist doctors. At least 63 testing facilities on the lines of Ayushman Bharat Scheme will be provided at PHCs by adding at least 15 sub-centres at the block level. The testing facilities at PHC levels will be amplified by adding new machines, manpower and buildings. Focus is to consolidate health services in rural areas,” the doctor said.Construction of a new building of the 200-bed district civil hospital is also underway next to the existing one in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rural-areas-of-ambala-to-get-20-crore-infra-boost-in-health-sector-101633042832775.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 19-year-old who stabbed three friends lands in police net||One of the six persons accused of stabbing three friends near a school in Chandigarh’s Sector 56 has been arrested, police said on Thursday. The arrested accused is Ashu, 19, who had, along with his aides Ganja, Gaurav, Sojal, Noni and Komal, attacked three persons on Monday night. The victims are Akash, Jagtar and Goda. The police have also added IPC Section 307 (attempt to murder) to the FIR considering the nature of injuries inflicted. In his complaint, Pritam, brother of Akash, had stated that the accused started an argument with the victims before attacking them with sharp-edged weapons. The accused fled after locals came out hearing loud cries. The police said that the attack was a result of an old rivalry and both these groups had also engaged in a fight a few days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-19-year-old-who-stabbed-three-friends-lands-in-police-net-101633042472736.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Dera Bassi MLA, SAD leader face farmers’ ire||Demanding apology from Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma and local SAD leader Tony Rana for using ‘unparliamentary language’ against the protesting farmers during the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on September 27, farmers gheraoed the office of Sharma in Zirakpur on Thursday. The farmers laid the siege to the SAD-MLA’s office for about four hours and threatened to boycott all his public gatherings in Dera Bassi constituency if his followers did not tender an unconditional apology. The farmers’ unions were led by Karam Singh, Karam Singh Karkaur and Lakhvinder Singh Lakhi. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhhowal) Karam Singh said, “Sharma’s party workers used unparliamentary language against us during the Bharat Bandh. Tony Rana and his accomplices passed the remarks to women farmers in Mubarakpur. If an unconditional apology is not issued, no public gathering of the MLA will be allowed in this constituency.” The farmers also blocked the entry and exit of the office and did not allow the movement of traffic. The protesters first removed the barricades set up by the police near a dhaba to restrict the movement towards the office of Sharma. There was a heavy deployment of police in and round the Sharma’s office as well inside the Zirakpur town throughout the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-dera-bassi-mla-sad-leader-face-farmers-ire-101633042172779.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sacking of Best Price employees: Farmers hold protest in Zirakpur||Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union Ekta (Ugrahan) on Thursday held a protest in front of Walmart’s mega multi-store Best Price in Zirakpur over alleged sacking of its employees in Bathinda. The protesters did not allow any customer to enter the store. Addressing the farmers, BKU Ekta (Ugrahan) head Joginder Singh said all Best Price stores in Punjab would be closed if the company did not reinstate the sacked employees. He said the company ignored their previous warning and took action in just two days, accepted the resignations of employees and terminated their services permanently by depositing the gratuity and full and final amount in their bank accounts. It may be recalled that a stir was launched in front of Best Price in Bathinda, which caused huge financial loss to the company and forced it to close its Bathinda store permanently and cancel its entire wholesale membership. Company officials fired their local employees by fraudulently taking their resignations, Joginder said. He also condemned the top brass of the company for accepting the resignations by flouting rules. He said they would continue their struggle till the jobs of the employees were restored. If the company fails to do so, the struggle could extend for an indefinite period and the company will be responsible for this, he added. When questioned if any leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha should contest elections, Joginder said, “My organisation has no intention of contesting the elections and no leader has expressed such desire. The repeal of the three farm laws is the only goal of the leaders and once it is done, then anyone could do anything.” Indian Farmers’ Union Ekta (Ugrahan) state vice-president Jhanda Singh Jethuke, Manjit Singh Nial and Patiala district president Jaswant Singh were among those who also addressed the protesting farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sacking-of-best-price-employees-farmers-hold-protest-in-zirakpur-101633041753135.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||38 toilets turn ‘smart’ in Chandigarh||As a part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations, Chandigarh MC held ‘Sarvjanik Sauchalaya Safai Jan Bhagidari Amrit Utsav’ in all 26 wards on Thursday. Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said 38 toilet blocks have been upgraded to smart toilets with separate facility for transgenders. MC chief Anindita Mitra said for the users’ feedback, QR code has been placed at all toilet blocks. Under the new system, citizens will now be able to register their feedback on facilities, maintenance and cleanliness at the toilets through the QR codes. MC officials concerned will act swiftly if any issue arises, she added. The toilet blocks which came up at a cost of ₹15 lakh have provisions for differently abled persons and for women, sanitary napkin dispensing machine and incinerator have been provided. Meanwhile, the three-day ‘placemaking implementathon’ at New Park, Indra Colony, Sector 13, Manimajra, Chandigarh, concluded on Thursday with a ceremony wherein the winners of various contests were awarded. The mayor said the park has been revamped within 75 hours with newly painted gazebos, grilles and pathways. The park has been dedicated to the citizens with newly installed open gym and variety of swings. The park has been divided into various zones, such as Art Zone, Fitness Zone, Elder Zone and Kids Zone, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/38-toilets-turn-smart-in-chandigarh-101633041452616.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||2017 Mohali murder case: Witness to be examined through videoconferencing||Additional sessions judge, Mohali, Sandeep Kumar Singla, on Thursday allowed the complainant-cum-eyewitness in a 2017 murder case to be examined through videoconferencing. The complainant, Lovejyot Singh, had to fly to Canada to ‘save his life’, said his counsel. In September 2017, a murder case was registered in Banur pertaining to a contract killing wherein accused Nirmaljit Singh, alias Nimma, Sukhjit Singh and others had hired members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang to kill Daljit Singh, alias Pinchi, uncle of the complainant . Lovejyot’s counsel Charanjit Singh Bakshi stated that the complainant was repeatedly threatened and forced to even file a writ petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) for security. The same is still pending, he said, adding that due to continuous threat to his life, Lovejyot had to “flee” to Canada to “save his life”. The HC had directed the trial court to record the statement of the complainant on September 24, following which an application was moved before the trial court apprising it of the ‘severe’ threat to his life and his inability to come to India. The court, after perusing numerous guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court and other HCs about the recording of evidence through videoconferencing, held that this was a fit case for the complainant’s testimony to be recorded in such a manner. The court also perused the model rules on videoconferencing received from the apex court that have been duly circulated by the registrar general, Punjab and Haryana high court. A bare reading of the same provides as to how evidence of witnesses or accused is to be recorded through videoconferencing. The next date of hearing has been fixed for October 5, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2017-mohali-murder-case-witness-to-be-examined-through-videoconferencing-101633040912470.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||GMADA begins process to acquire 500 acres in Mohali’s Sector 101||The Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has begun the process of acquisition of 500 acres in Sector 101, two months after a three-member panel placed the said sector in the ‘Red’ category. The development authority will also acquire 250 acres in Sector 103 in a phased manner. GMADA chief administrator Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said, “We have already issued the notice under Section 11 of the Land Acquisition Act, inviting objections from the public. We are hopeful of land acquisition by the end of this year. We are also acquiring land in Sector 103 in a phased manner.” The criteria of categorisation of industrial sectors has been developed based on their pollution load. The ‘Red’ category industrial sectors, with a pollution index of 60 and above, are the most polluting ones. The other categories, in the ascending order of pollution load, are white (up to 20), green (21-40) and orange (41-59). In August this year, ruling out objections by residents of several villages near Sector 101, a three-member committee had decided to assign the sector to the ‘Red’ category while recommending strict adherence to norms set by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB).Another senior GMADA official said, “As Sector 101 is located near the airport, many multinational companies are interested in setting up their units there. The committee has recommended categorising the industrial sector as ‘Red’, as suggested by the PPCB, with strict adherence to all norms.” The GMADA has already started the social impact assessment to acquire 500 acres for industry in Sector 101. Social impact assessment is a process of identification, analysis and assessment of land to be acquired for development of industry. It analyses, monitors and manages the intended and unintended social consequences, both positive and negative, of planned interventions (policies, programmes, plans, projects) and any social change processes invoked by those interventions.Gurpreet Singh, sarpanch of Durali village, which is close to Sector 101, said, “We have already given in writing not to change the master plan of the area. Our village is quite near to the sector. The decision will impact the health of the villagers. As per the original master plan of 2005, both sectors 101 and 103 are under the green category.” Acquisition as per new land pooling policy For the first time on July 22 last year, the state government had introduced a land pooling policy for industrial sectors’ development, according to which for every one acre, landowners would get 1,100 square yards of industrial plots and 200 square yards of developed commercial plot, excluding parking, in lieu of cash compensation. Earlier, the land pooling was only for residential housing schemes.As per the new policy, the validity of the ‘Sahuliyat Certificate’ given to landowners opting for the land pooling policy and providing certain benefits to them during purchase of equivalent value of land would be counted from the date of allotment of plot to the landowner. The previous validity was two years from the date of announcement of award.Between 2001 and 2017, the GMADA acquired 4,484 acres, 2,145 acres of which were through the land pooling policy, which was introduced in the state in 2008 and has been amended from time to time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gmada-begins-process-to-acquire-500-acres-in-mohali-s-sector-101-101633040552587.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||CBI arrests Chandigarh lawyer for accepting ₹80,000 bribe||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Thursday arrested an advocate while accepting a bribe of ₹80,000 at the behest of an assistant commissioner of Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST), Chandigarh. The accused lawyer was identified as Sunil Arora, a resident Panchkula. Further probe is underway to arrest Rajiv Kumar, alias Rajiv Kumar Meherwal, assistant commissioner, CGST, Chandigarh. According to CBI, the complainant stated that their firm was allotted a tender for water supply and sanitation work by the Chandigarh municipal corporation, and the said works were exempted from service tax as per a central government notification. But the firm received a demand notice from CGST, Chandigarh, for service tax dues worth ₹11,44,898. The complainant alleged that Sunil Arora informed him that Rajiv Kumar could get the matter settled in exchange for ₹1 lakh. Investigators said a deal was settled at ₹80,000 and Rajiv asked the complainant to deliver the bribe amount to Sunil. The complainant instead approached CBI that laid a trap and caught Sunil red-handed while accepting the bribe in Panchkula. Following the arrest, CBI carried out searches at the premises of both accused in Panchkula, Delhi and Chandigarh, and is said to have recovered incriminating documents that are being scrutinised. Both accused have been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act and efforts are on to arrest Rajiv. Sunil was produced before a court on Thursday and sent to one-day police remand. Crackdown on corruptionSeptember 17, 2021: CBI arrested a female sub-inspector (SI) of Chandigarh Police, Sarabjit Kaur, while accepting a bribe of ₹10,000 at the Sector-34 police station February 15: CBI arrested assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Harbhajan Singh of the Chandigarh Police for taking bribe of ₹10,000 for not registering a case against a loan defaulterJune 30, 2020: CBI booked inspector Jaswinder Kaur, SHO, Manimajra, for demanding ₹5-lakh bribe from a man to drop cheating charges against him June 19, 2020: Three constables at the Maloya police station were suspended after being booked by CBI for trying to implicate a man in a false caseNovember 27, 2019: A CBI court awarded four-year jail to a former UT sub-inspector in a 2012 graft case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbi-arrests-chandigarh-lawyer-for-accepting-80-000-bribe-101633039844203.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||42-year-old bludgeons friend to death in Panchkula, arrested||A 42-year-old man has been arrested for bludgeoning his friend to death with an iron rod after their drinking session went awry in Panchkula’s Industrial Area, Phase 1, on Wednesday night.Police said the crime came to light after the victim, Pardeep, a labourer, was found dead, with a blood-smeared iron rod lying next to him.Meanwhile, the accused, Sohan Pal, also a labourer, reached the Sector-19 police post claiming that Pardeep had attacked him during a fight.As police confirmed the sequence of events and questioned Pal, he confessed he had killed Pardeep with an iron rod.Pal told the police that while they were having drinks, Pardeep served him lesser liquor, which led to an argument. In a fit of rage, he grabbed an iron rod lying nearby and bludgeoned Pardeep to death.He has been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. He was produced before court and sent to one-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/42yearold-bludgeons-friend-to-death-in-panchkula-arrested-101633039842759.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||₹9 lakh relief for family of Ferozepur man killed in accident||Nearly 10 months after a Ferozepur resident died in a road accident in December 2020, the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), Chandigarh, has awarded a compensation of ₹9 lakh to his wife and three children.The victim, Vikram, hailing from Basti Gurbachan Singh Saini village in Ferozepur district, Punjab, had died after being hit by a truck.His wife, Kok, 38, had filed a petition against the truck driver Balwinder Singh, truck’s owner Suraj Singh and insurer The New India Assurance Company Ltd, regional office, Sector 17, Chandigarh.In court, the two parties reached a compromise and the insurance company offered to pay ₹9 lakh as compensation. “The victim’s wife will be paid 55% and the three children 15% each from the total compensation amount,” tribunal judge Jagdeep Singh observed on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/9-lakh-relief-for-family-of-ferozepur-man-killed-in-accident-101633039841722.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali police book Dhakoli man for bigamy||Police have booked a Dhakoli resident for bigamy following a complaint by his second wife.In her complaint to the Mohali SSP’s office, the complainant alleged that before their marriage, her husband had told her that his first marriage had ended in divorce. However, she later found out that he was still married to his first wife. When she confronted him, he started harassing her for dowry.Investigating officer Sukhminder Singh said the matter was investigated by superintendent of police (headquarters), and following legal opinion, the accused was booked under Sections 376-2(n) (commits rape repeatedly on the same woman), 420 (cheating) and 495 (same offence with concealment of former marriage from person with whom subsequent marriage is contracted) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-police-book-dhakoli-man-for-bigamy-101633039840541.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Multi-storey apartments in Chandigarh: HC reserves judgment on 2016 plea||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday reserved its judgment on a plea seeking directions that construction of multi-storey apartments on residential plots not be allowed in Chandigarh.The plea was filed in 2016, arguing that residential plots in Chandigarh are meant to be single-dwelling units. However, in the recent years, these are being sold floorwise to multiple owners, which will put additional burden on infrastructure. UT has maintained that it does not allow floorwise sale. After hearing all parties, the matter was reserved for final order by the high court bench of justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and justice Vivek Puri. For almost 10 days now, the matter is being heard on day-to-day basis.UT has argued that it does not issue NOCs mentioning particular floor on the basis of share of owner/co-owner, except in the cases which may have been considered on the basis of registered sale deeds executed as per the Chandigarh Apartment Rules 2001, scrapped in 2007. A survey conducted on an HC order had revealed that between 2016 and 2019, as many as 891 sale deeds were registered, where a part of a property was sold outside the family, which petitioners are against.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/multistorey-apartments-in-chandigarh-hc-reserves-judgment-on-2016-plea-101633039839273.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Chandigarh cop booked for trying to grab retired DSP’s house||A former sub-inspector of the UT Police and his wife have been booked for trying to grab a retired DSP’s house that they had been staying in on rent since 2014.The accused, Nazar Singh, and his wife, Balwinder Kaur, were booked on the complaint of Rupinder Singh, the son of Daljit Singh, who retired as DSP from Chandigarh Police.Rupinder, a resident of Sector 70, Mohali, told the police that since the death of his father in 2015, he was the owner of the Sector-41 house in question.The house was allotted to his father by the Chandigarh Housing Board and he had rented it out to Nazar in 2014 for ₹6,000 per month. However, Nazar stopped paying the rent after his father’s death and always gave excuses whenever asked to pay up. Rupinder said he had lodged a police complaint in this regard in 2018, but it was dismissed as a civil dispute. As the rent was still not paid, he lodged another complaint in July last year. He alleged that on March 18, 2020, Nazar’s wife filed a property dispute case in court, using a fake general power of attorney (GPA) and affidavit on his father’s behalf by forging his signature. Police sent this affidavit for forensic examination and a report in January confirmed that the signature was forged. Following legal opion, police have now lodged an FIR against the accused under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code. Before the case was registered, Nazar took voluntary retirement from his police job. Efforts are on to arrest him and his wife, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exchandigarh-cop-booked-for-trying-to-grab-retired-dsp-s-house-101633039837755.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Biker who hit Chandigarh traffic constable arrested||Police have arrested the biker who had injured a Chandigarh Police constable after hitting him with his vehicle in Sector 46 on September 24. The accused, Yuvraj, a resident of Burail, was nabbed from Dehradun, Uttarakhand on Wednesday. Chirag, who was riding pillion, has already been arrested. According to police, constable Harish Kumar, posted with the cycle squad of Chandigarh Police traffic wing, had signalled Yuvraj to stop as he was riding on a cycle track along the Sector 32/46 dividing road. But instead the biker sped up and hit Harish, before fleeing on foot with his pillion rider.An injured Harish was rushed to GMCH, Sector 32, and the accused were booked under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code.According to police, both Yuvraj and Chirag had been arrested previously in separate attempt to murder cases, and were facing several other criminal cases as well. They were produced before a court on Thursday. Yuvraj was sent to one-day police custody, while Chirag was sent to judicial custody. Had also stalked and assaulted a woman With Yuvraj’s arrest, police also solved a stalking and assault case from September 24.A 20-year-old woman had complained to the police that Yuvraj had been stalking her and assaulted her after she snapped all ties with him. She said though she was friends with Yuvraj since 2018, she had stopped talking to him due to his alleged criminal past. When she stopped answering his phone calls, he started calling her mother’s mobile number. On September 24, he assaulted her and tried to molest her near Dev Samaj College in Sector 45. On her complaint, a case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354D (stalking) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered on September 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/biker-who-hit-chandigarh-traffic-constable-arrested-101633039835592.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn forms panel to streamline realty procedures||Following Supreme Court directions, the UT administration has constituted a committee to review and streamline the processes of sanction of mutation, grant of occupancy certificate, no-objection certificate and other citizen-centric requirements, including calculation of unearned profit, under the 1973 or 2007 rules. “The committee shall submit its report to the administrator and Chandigarh administration, preferably within three months. We hope that the learned administrator will take appropriate steps to implement the suggestions made by the committee, including forwarding of the proposed amendments in the statute to the ministry of home affairs, if any, suggested by the committee,” the SC had directed. A bench of justices Hemant Gupta and AS Bopana observed, “The residents of Chandigarh are widely harassed while seeking no-objection certificate for sale of leasehold property, as the procedure for its grant and of deposit of unearned increase is interpreted in different manners by different officials, which the administration has failed to control.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-forms-panel-to-streamline-realty-procedures-101633039834449.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s Covid cases receded in Sept, but fatalities spiked||The downturn in Covid-19 cases, since the second wave ended in June, continued in September. However, health experts have cautioned that widespread complacency is an open invitation to another surge.Against 323 infections in August, the tricity logged 290 cases through September – a 10% drop. But the fatalities shot up by 66% with the toll rising from six to 10 in the same period.With 46,245 cases and 790 deaths, May had proved to be the deadliest for the tricity since the pandemic began in March last year.But following restrictions on public movement and businesses, the curve started winding downwards. In June, the tricity recorded 3,878 cases and 160 deaths, and the figures further slipped to 443 and 13, respectively, in July.Panchkula’s cases saw an uptickThough the tricity’s cumulative figures decreased in September as compared to August, Panchkula’s cases rose.In August, 154 cases were reported in Mohali, 124 in Chandigarh and 45 in Panchkula. A month later, the figure dipped to 128 in Mohali and 109 in Chandigarh, but climbed to 53 in Panchkula.Chandigarh recorded six of the 10 deaths in September, while four were reported in Mohali. In a major respite, Panchkula recorded no death in the entire month, for the first time this year.‘No place for complacency, especially during festive season’Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Mukta Arora said people should take precautionary measures, especially during the festive season. “There is no scope to lower our guard. Masks and social distancing are still crucial in public spaces,” she said.Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services Chandigarh, cautioned that immunity against the virus starts ebbing away after six months: “Therefore, immunity of those infected during the second wave will now start decreasing with each passing week. As public movement will increase during the festive season, people must follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and get vaccinated to avert another surge.”Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur added that the health department was prepared to tackle another surge and testing had also been increased, but people must steer clear of complacency.19-year-old girl becomes Mohali’s latest fatalityA 19-year-old girl from Mohali’s Dera Bassi succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday, pushing the district’s toll to 1,064.She was admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh.No casualty was reported in Chandigarh or Panchkula, where 819 and 377 people, respectively, have died due to the virus so far.Meanwhile, after steady rise for three straight days, tricity’s daily Covid cases dropped to nine on Thursday.The daily infection count had reached 10 on Monday and climbed further to 14 on Tuesday, before shooting up to 16 on Wednesday.Among the nine fresh cases, six were reported from Chandigarh (Sectors 20, 31, 34, 43 and Daria), three from Mohali (Kharar, Dera Bassi and Mohali city), while Panchkula once again recorded no case, the ninth time in September.The active cases continued to remain over 100 for the second day in a row. Both Mohali and Chandigarh have 41 infected patients each, while 21 patients are recuperating in Panchkula.Chandigarh has reported 65,230 positive cases till date. As many as 64,370 patients have been cured.Mohali’s caseload is 68,738, including 67,632 recoveries. In Panchkula, 30,340 of the total 30,738 positive patients have beaten the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-covid-cases-receded-in-sept-but-fatalities-spiked-101633039833410.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Awaiting approvals from Union govt, Chandigarh admn adopts hands-on approach||Several policy initiatives proposed by the UT administration have been stuck for years, pending requisite approval from the Union government.The UT administration has now decided to adopt a more hands-on approach. On UT administrator Banwari Lal Purohit’s instructions, the administration has prepared a list of all issues that are awaiting the Centre’s approval and UT adviser Dharam Pal will be personally taking up the issues with senior officials and ministers of the ministries concerned.This week’s agenda pertains to the ministry of home affairs and the ministry of health. Confirming the development, Pal, said, “On Thursday, I met several MHA officials at Delhi and took up issues such as creation of posts in the police departments and allowing conversion of lease hold to free hold for commercial and industrial properties.”With officials of the health ministry, Pal will discuss upgrading the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, to a medical college, which has been pending for more than two years. Though the administration comes under the jurisdiction of the MHA, other ministries also play a key role on policy matters. “For Union ministries, issues related to Chandigarh are not the top priority. They have to deal with the entire country and more pressing issues. Sometimes there are differing views and a clarification is needed from the UT, which further delays the process,” said a UT official, requesting anonymity.Priority issues to be taken up“The recruitment rules have been awaiting the MHA’s nod for sometime now. The administration had taken up the issue with the MHA, earlier too,” said the official.Similarly, proposals for creating around 5,000 new posts in the administration are pending with the Union government. In 2019, the UT even sent out a composite list of pending proposals to the Cabinet secretariat.Most proposals are from the education, police and health departments. These also include proposals for the revival of posts that had been abolished earlier.“The health department has sent proposals to the ministry of health and family welfare for creating 1,720 posts, most of which are for GMCH-32. The police department has also sent a proposal for creating 1,355 posts to the ministry of home affairs. The education department has been awaiting creation of around 2,000 posts,” said the official. On allowing conversion of the commercial and industrial leasehold properties to freehold, the UT had decided to allow it earlier this year and had written to the Centre for approval, but there has been no response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/awaiting-approvals-from-union-govt-chandigarh-admn-adopts-hands-on-approach-101633039775919.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: September was wettest since 2018||After a dismal monsoon through July and August, Chandigarh received 172.5mm rain in September, which was 19% over the normal of 145.2mm and also the highest precipitation in the month since 2018.Since the onset of monsoon in June, the rainfall went beyond average only in September, making it the wettest month this season, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The rain this September was much higher than 2020 when only 22mm precipitation was recorded the whole month, while 166.4mm rain was seen in September 2019. At 270mm, it was the highest in the past decade in September 2018.Speaking about this, IMD Chandigarh director Manmohan Singh said, “A Low Pressure Area (LPA) formed over the Bay of Bengal, and due to pressure differences around the area, moisture was able to reach right up to the north-west region.”Withdrawal likely from October 6On Thursday, trace rainfall was recorded in the city at the Sector 39 IMD observatory, while 14mm rain was witnessed at the Chandigarh airport.More rain is on the cards in the coming days, while monsoon is expected to retreat from October 6.As per an IMD statement, monsoon withdrawal is likely in the north-west region from October 6 onwards and can be expected in Chandigarh a day or two after that.Monsoon withdrawal is declared when no rain is recorded for four to five days in a row and an anticyclonic movement starts to form over the region.A total of 600.2mm rain has been recorded during the rainy season this year, against an average of 846.5mm, a shortfall of 29%.Meanwhile, the city’s maximum temperature went down from 35°C on Wednesday to 33.1°C on Thursday. The minimum temperature also decreased slightly from 25.5°C to 25.4°C. The day temperature will remain around 33°C over the next three days, and the night temperature between 24°C-25°C.Sukhna floodgate opened againOne of the three Sukhna Lake floodgates was opened once again after the water level touched the danger mark of 1,163 feet on Thursday. Before this, the floodgate was opened on August 9 and 14, and more recently on September 21 and 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhseptember-was-wettest-since-2018-101633039774706.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Liquor smuggling ring unearthed in Zirakpur; 1,601 cartons of imported beer seized||A team of the excise department, along with Mohali police, on Thursday busted a liquor smuggling racket with the seizure of a pick-up truck carrying 201 cartons of imported beer.Two accused, Vishavjeet Singh Dhindsa of Malerkotla, who was escorting the truck in a Mahindra Scorpio, and the truck driver, Somu, were arrested.Following their interrogation, another 1,400 cartons of beer cans were recovered from the gang’s godowns in Lalru and Khizrabad in Mohali district. According to excise officials, the cost of the seized liquor is around ₹20 lakh, and each can of the imported beer, including brands Senior Boke and Moller, cost around ₹200.“The truck was intercepted in Zirakpur on Wednesday night following a tip-off and was found carrying 201 cases of imported beer cans. But the driver could not produce any valid documents,” said Naresh Dubey, joint excise commissioner.Dubey said it was an organised racket of liquor smuggling and the gang’s kingpin was Antarpreet Singh Sidhu, who lives in USA: “They smuggle the liquor from Spain and Romania, store it in Mohali, and further distribute it in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Telangana and Karnataka.”A case under the Excise Act and relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code has been registered. The accused will be produced in court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/liquor-smuggling-ring-unearthed-in-zirakpur-1-601-cartons-of-imported-beer-seized-101633039772858.html
01-10-2021||Delhi||Hate slogans at Jantar Mantar: Hindu Raksha Dal chief Chaudhary granted bail||Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to Hindu Raksha Dal president Pinki Chaudhary in connection with the alleged communal slogans raised during an event at Jantar Mantar in August.Metropolitan magistrate Prayank Nayak said Chaudhary was not required for interrogation and granted him relief, noting that the Delhi high court on September 24 granted bail to Preet Singh —the co-accused in the case.It noted that while granting bail to Singh, the high court had said Singh left the protest spot around 2pm, whereas the alleged inflammatory slogans were raised around 4pm.“Since the present accused/applicant Bhupender Tomar @ Pinki Chaudhary is stated to have left the spot of meeting at 1.29pm and is also not required for interrogation, the court is of the view that he deserves to be released on bail on account of parity with co-accused Preet Singh,” the court said in the order.A video of anti-Muslim sloganeering during a protest at Jantar Mantar was widely circulated on social media, following which the Delhi Police registered a case in connection with the matter. Hundreds attended the protest organised by the ‘Bharat Jodo Aandolan’ at Jantar Mantar on August 8||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hate-slogans-at-jantar-mantar-hindu-raksha-dal-chief-chaudhary-granted-bail-101633037030143.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Recovery of 50 phones in a month exposes chinks in Faridkot jail||The recovery of 50 mobile phones in the last one month from inmates inside the Faridkot Central Jail, which houses over 2,200 prisoners, has put a question mark on security arrangements here. On an average, 12 to 15 mobile phones are recovered from inmates every month but there has been a significant increase in recoveries this September, when 18 cases were registered against 41 inmates. As per the police, September’s recoveries have already taken the yearly count past the 150-mark.In 2019, 98 phones were recovered from the inmates throughout the year, while the figure stood at 100 in 2020, when restrictions had been increased in view of Covid outbreak. Even as the number of recoveries has been going up, authorities have been unable to trace how these phones entered the jail premises.On September 2, as many as 17 mobile phones and accessories were seized from inmates during checking. On September 6, jail authorities recovered a mobile phone from the possession of gangster Navdeep Singh alias John Buttar. He was arrested by police after dramatic a shootout in Kharar last July. Buttar is accused in over 18 criminal cases, including murder, attempt to murder, dacoity and extortion. In March this year, jail authorities had recovered a mobile phone from a murder accused Prince alias Tutti. Police had claimed that Prince had planned to assassinate human rights activist Sushil Kumar Pandit inside the jail and hired two shooters to kill him. Pandit, a Kashmiri, is a prominent activist advocating the rights of Kashmiri Pandits. Prince was continuously in contact with the shooters through his phone from inside the jail. Last October, an assistant jail superintendent in Faridkot Central Jail was arrested by the vigilance bureau for accepting a bribe of ₹15,000 from a relative of a murder accused in lieu of not registering a complaint against the inmate after he was caught using a phone inside the jail. Jail superintendent Joginder Pal said that jail authorities are taking strict action against the violators. “The phones recovered from the inmates are mostly old. We have recovered the phones and lodged complaints to the police. Now, this is the police’s job to investigate how these mobile phones come inside the jail,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/recovery-of-50-phones-in-a-month-exposes-chinks-in-faridkot-jail-101633036952339.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal lease rules: HC issues notice to state govt over petition||The high court of Himachal Pradesh on Thursday issued a notice to the chief secretary and principal secretary (revenue), in a petition seeking abolition of the lease system in the state.A division bench comprising acting chief justice Ravi Malimath and justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua passed these orders on a petition taken up suo moto by the court as public interest litigation on a letter written to chief justice by one Shri Rakesh Kumar of Kangra.The petitioner alleged that the state government had been leasing out its land for a period of 99 years in many cases and this practice was wrong and illegal, since grant of such lease would perpetually mean granting of ownership rights to the lessee for all intents and purposes.Kumar further alleged that it was also illegal that the legal heirs of the beneficiaries inherit the lease rights of the original lessee. If such a system continued, the entire land of Himachal would be taken over by outsiders and the resources belonging to the state would be captured and enjoyed by those who were not entitled to it, which would eventually lead to subjugation of the residents.Kumar also alleged that many people had turned such leases into a source of income as for instance one hospital at Palampur had been granted perpetual lease of ₹1 per year, while the extent of land with it was around 60 kanals.The petitioner stated that it needed to be ascertained that from such leases, how much income the government was earning, how much income was being generated by the beneficiaries, how much taxes were being paid by beneficiaries and how much of the leased land had been denuded of forest cover by the lessees.Further, it also needed to be ascertained whether there was any instance that the land had been reverted back to the Himachal Pradesh government after completion of 99 years.The petitioner has prayed that the practice and system of granting such perpetual lease of government land be discontinued and abolished immediately forthwith, so as to preserve the pristine glory of the “Land of Gods”.The court posted the matter after two weeks and also directed the respondents to file their replies by the next date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-lease-rules-hc-issues-notice-to-state-govt-over-petition-101633036835015.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two brothers held with 10kg poppy husk in Ludhiana||Two brothers were arrested with 10kg poppy husk near Sawaddi Kalan village on Thursday.The accused are Hari Singh alias Haru and Satnam Singh of Gagg Kalan village of Sidhwan Bet. Sub-inspector Chamkaur Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused who were on a bike were stopped for checking and poppy husk was found from the sack they were carrying. A case was registered under Sections of the NDPS Act. Convict held with 416 g heroin A special task force (STF) arrested a Jalandhar resident with 416g heroin on Wednesday.The accused Harpreet Singh alias Harry, 30, of Jalandhar was arrested near Government School, Bhamian, following a tip-off. The accused was crossing the area on a bike, when the STF stopped him for checking, said inspector Harbans Singh. The inspector said that the accused would sell narcotics from his home and addicts would line up outside his rented accommodation at Divya Colony of Bhamian Kalan.A case has been registered under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.Harry has been convicted in a drug peddling case and is already facing trial in four cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-brother-held-with-10kg-poppy-husk-in-ludhiana-101633036592177.html
01-10-2021||Delhi||Boost for ration delivery scheme: Delhi HC allows govt to limit supplies to stores||The Delhi government’s ambitious door-to-door ration scheme received a shot in the arm, with the high court allowing the government to stop supplying foodgrains to fair price shops (FPS) for patrons who have chosen doorstep delivery over physical collection of ration.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh took note of submission by the Aam Aadmi Party government that supplies being made under the existing public distribution scheme (PDS) will have to be curtailed so that foodgrains could be distributed door-to-door for those who want it.Since the government said that “an overwhelming majority has opted for supply of rations at their doorstep,” the bench said that authorities could supply only such quantities of ration to FPS that are required for those who want to collect it from shops, while the rest can be held back by the government for door-to-door delivery.The court asked the government to share the details of ration cardholders who have opted to receive their rations at doorsteps instead of collecting it from shops with the FPS owners.It has also recorded an undertaking by the Delhi government that beneficiaries of door-to-door scheme will also have the option of reverting to the old scheme of collecting their rations from the shops.The Delhi government, in a statement on Thursday evening, said this meant that the scheme, which was being blocked by the Centre, was “greenlit” by the high court.“The Delhi high court has greenlit the Kejriwal government’s doorstep delivery scheme in a setback to Centre and the LG (lieutenant governor). Despite being a much sought after scheme, the Centre through the LG rejected the ration delivery scheme one week before its commencement. This court order came after an overwhelming majority opted for supply of rations at their doorstep,” the statement said.“The ration home delivery scheme ideated by the Delhi government was expected to be a game changer, which would have helped curb the theft of ration and harassment of the poor by the ration mafia syndicates. This scheme, however, was rejected by the central government through the LG a week before its commencement. The Centre never objected to the scheme in court, but it did not let the scheme through, citing frivolous reasons at various points of time,” it added.The high court order, dated September 27 but made public on Thursday, came on a petition by the Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh -- a body of the fixed price shop owners.The ration shop owners moved the court in February challenging the tenders issued for the doorstep delivery scheme. However, the petition was amended on March 18 to challenged the ration delivery scheme with the association demanding that it should be declared ultra vires (beyond the scope of legal power).On March 22, the court directed the Delhi government not to stop or curtail the supply of foodgrains or flour, to the members of the petitioner association, for operationalising the doorstep delivery.However, the court modified its order on September 27, allowing the government to stop supplying foodgrains to FPS to the extent of food grains for those who have chosen doorstep delivery over physical collection of ration.Appearing for the Delhi government, senior advocate Vishwanathan, argued that the scheme has not been stayed by the court. He submitted that the court had only passed an interim order of protection in favour of the petitioner association as it was pointed out that on March 8, the Delhi government had issued an e-mail communication stating that the supplies to be made to the existing PDS distributors was to be stopped, so that food grains could be distributed door to door by another agency.The LG’s office did not comment on the matter.The high court will now hear the case on October 27.Nearly 7.2 million people in Delhi are eligible for subsidised food, including 1.7 million ration card holders and nearly 3 million priority households, besides other food insecure categories identified by the Delhi government.The Delhi government’s doorstep delivery of ration scheme has been stalled due to differences between the Delhi government and the Centre. The scheme was to be launched on March 25, but the Union food and consumer affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 raising two objections— the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), and that any change in the delivery mechanism requires an amendment in NSFA that can be done only by Parliament.The Delhi government, on March 24, passed a Cabinet decision to remove the name “Mukhyamantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna” for the scheme and to implement doorstep delivery of ration as part of the existing NFS Act, 2013.In June, the government sent the file back to LG, contending that its provisions are in accordance with the NFS Act, and that it will simultaneously implement the Centre’s “One Nation, One Ration Card” scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/boost-for-ration-delivery-scheme-delhi-hc-allows-govt-to-limit-supplies-to-stores-101633035896413.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||NCRB report: 2020 saw a 46% dip in drug peddling cases reported in Ludhiana||The industrial hub ranked fourth in drug peddling cases among 34 major cities cross the country in 2020, as per the data released by the National Crime Records Bureau. Despite imposition of a lockdown and restriction on movement due to the coronavirus outbreak in the region,the Ludhiana police lodged 259 drug peddling cases in 2020, which is the lowest in four years. However, it still managed to retain the top spot in Punjab. Another Punjab district, Amritsar, ranked fifth among the 34 cities with 238 cases. Apart from this, the Ludhiana police also lodged 807 cases of liquor smuggling in 2020.As per data released by the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) at 601, Thiruvananthapuram, the capital of Kerala, lodged the highest number of drug peddling cases, while Kollam was on the second place with 481 cases. The Madurai Police lodged 343 cases of drug peddling in 2020 and secured the third place in the list.In 2019, 560 drug peddling cases were reported in the city as compared to 495 cases in 2018. In 2017, when former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had announced the ‘war on drugs’, 502 drug peddling cases were lodged in a year.Ludhiana sixth in drug peddling Ludhiana was sixth among the 34 cities in liquor smuggling with 807 cases. Amritsar lodged 91 cases more than Ludhiana securing the fifth place with 898 cases. Bhopal of Madhya Pradesh is number one in all 34 cities with 3,702 cases.Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh was second in the list with 2,712 cases, Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh lodged 1,146 cases and secured the fourth position. Faridabad in Haryana lodged 1,192 cases, secured the third place.The anti-smuggling cell of Ludhiana police had recovered and destroyed 16 lakh liters of lahan in 2020 under Operation Red Rose initiated by the Punjab government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ncrbreport2020-saw-a-46-dip-in-drug-peddling-cases-reported-in-ludhiana-101633036295431.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC to connect with foreign colleges, universities||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) will establish connections with foreign colleges and universities to facilitate students hoping to study abroad, the gurdwara body’s president Bibi Jagir Kaur said on Thursday.Presiding over the body’s education committee meet, she said, “Schools and colleges of the SGPC have always achieved great heights and worked for the betterment of students. In view of the current trend among the students to study abroad, we will establish contact with foreign colleges and universities to provide opportunities to students to go abroad for higher education. At the same time, foreign students will also be able to take education in the colleges and universities run by the SGPC.”The decision was taken despite concerns being raised by other Sikh institutions over the mass exodus of Sikh youth to foreign countries. The committee also decided to upgrade the libraries of all SGPC schools and colleges and coordinate with various companies for employment of students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-to-connect-with-foreign-colleges-universities-101633036293319.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Indomitable spirit takes Divyang trekkers to Siachen||Eight differently abled trekkers, comprising four visually impaired members, three hand amputees and a leg amputee, created a world record for the largest number of people with disabilities scaling the world’s highest battlefield, Siachen Glacier, up to Kumar Post at the altitude of 15,632 ft. Meet the lone woman and three heroes from the region who found special mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat on September 26. ‘Can scale any mountain if you’re mentally tough’ Shimla: “People often judge you by your physical ability. But you can scale any mountain if you are mentally tough,” says Chongjin Ingmo, 25, the lone woman in the eight-member team of Operation Blue Freedom, a climbing expedition organised by Team CLAW (Conquer Land Air Water) of the Indian Army, that created a world record by trekking to the 15,632-ft Kumar Post in Siachen Glacier, the highest battlefield in the world. Born in Kinnaur, Ingmo moved to Ladakh for studies after losing her eyesight at the age of 8. After clearing her Class 12 from Chandigarh and graduation from Miranda House College, Delhi, she became a banker. Ingmo was preparing for a fashion show for the physically challenged in Goa and had even paid her fee when she came to know about the climbing expedition. “I decided to go for climbing for it was an opportunity to prove myself,” says the gritty woman, who is also an ardent cyclist and pedalled from Manali to the 5,359-metre Khardung La in 2018, one of the world’s highest motorable roads. She is an athlete, a swimmer, practises judo and is also a member of a cricket team for the blind in Delhi. The expedition was launched in Delhi on August 15. Intially, there were 16 members in the team, eight of whom, including Ingmo, were selected based on their performance during the training from August 19 to 29. “Yes, it was a tough challenge. The route involved crossing deep crevasses, icy glacial water streams, hard-ice stretches and undulating rocky moraines,” she recalls. “Life throws many challenges, and it is up to us how we overcome those difficulties. If we can do it, anybody can. There is too much stress in life, but one should not give up,”adds the youngster with a positive outlook. When her friends questioned her decision to take up the risky expedition, she told them that for her, life is boring if there are no challenges. Motivated to the core to create record, they did it Jammu: Lobsang Chosphel, 38, and Irfan Ahmad Mir, 24, from Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir, respectively, are blind since birth but they have nerves of steel. “My friend Tsering told me about the CLAW expedition by veterans from the army’s special forces that aims to rehabilitate people with disabilities through sports and adventure. I applied because I knew it would be an experience of a lifetime,” says Chosphel. It took the team five days to reach Kumar Post from the Siachen base camp. “The endurance training, including 20-km runs, came handy. We didn’t face any problem while climbing, but the descent was a bit difficult. We were motivated to the core to create this world record and we did it!” he says proudly. Chosphel says the differently abled need to be rehabilitated by the government with dignity. “For the past two years, I have no work due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, I made candles and earned ₹7,000 a month of which ₹3,000 was deducted for accommodation,” he says. “We felt over the moon when the Prime Minister mentioned our names on Mann Ki Baat, but we should be given a dignified livelihood. I’m not educated but can be a productive part of society,” he adds. Blind eye to visually impaired hurts: Mir Irfan Ahmad Mir, 24, from Pampore near Srinagar agrees with Chosphel. “I’m a blind cricketer, who has represented the Indian team. The government is quick to recognise cricket players but turns a blind eye to us. We are not recognised for our contribution despite our physical handicap,” he says. “My family is sustaining me. There is no scholarship for me from the government,” he adds. An arts graduate from Delhi University, Mir pursuing a computer diploma from the Blind Relief Association in Delhi at present. Turning to his recent achievement, he says: “CLAW received 143 applications and eight aspirants were shortlisted after being through different stages of endurance tests.” Recalling the trek, he says the squad started its descent on September 13 and returned to the base camp on September 15. “The distance was 60 to 65 km from the base camp to Kumar Post. The temperature was minus 10 to 12 minus degrees Celsius. We had to rope up to cross glaciers, crevices and rivers. Para instructors were with us, and teamwork made this unbelievable feat possible,” he says. Fastest and fittest, soldier amputee battles the odds Chandigarh: True to his name, havildar Ajay Kumar is invincible. A native of Karoli village in Kosli tehsil of Haryana’s Rewari district, the 37-year-old is a proud gallantry award winner who suffered a below knee amputation in the left leg due to grievous injuries sustained in combat. But that didn’t stop him from becoming the fastest and fittest member of the team of differently abled trekkers, who conquered the world’s highest battlefield on September 11. Havildar Ajay believes dreams come true because his did. Two decades ago, he recalls how just four days before his Class 12 exams, the postman called out for him, insisting Ajay receives it himself. The letter was from the Indian Army, confirming his selection as a soldier. “My childhood dream had come true! I stuffed my books at one place and packed my bag to board the next train to report at the training centre,” he says. Cut to the present. His amputation did not deter him from pursuing his dreams. He turned out to be the fastest and the fittest on the expedition despite being the only leg amputee, an army officer organising the mission said. After three weeks of training and acclimatisation, the expedition started from Siachen base camp on September 7 to reach Kumar Post on September 11. The challenging terrain not only tested the physical endurance and mental stamina of the trekkers, but also their ice-craft skills. “We had to climb about 15 km in 8-9 hours on the glacier each day to reach the next camp, where we would halt for the night before resuming the march early in the morning,” Ajay adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/indomitable-spirit-takes-divyang-trekkers-to-siachen-101633035939604.html
01-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The street masseur||Mark the scene carefully. You rarely see it these days. Here’s the low table. It’s covered with a mat. Six small glass bottles are arranged on the top, each filled with a solution of different colour.This is masseur Mangey Ram’s mobile stall. He roams about the Ghalib Street in central Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin Basti, silently offering his services to passersby. Sometimes he’s sighted massaging the bare back of haleem cook Mustakeem. Sometimes he unrolls the mat on the pavement, and is seen treating a client’s tired limbs with a selection of his relaxing oils. Each potion, he says, has a unique characteristic.One early morning the moody Mr Ram, after having finished massaging the knees of vendor Abul Hasan, condescends to identify the various oils in his bottles. “This bottle has jaitoon, this bottle has amla, this bottle has ratan oil that gives thankdak, this one has sarson, and this bottle has noorani tel, which is good for knee pain.”That Mr Ram agrees to talk at all is something to be grateful about. He otherwise remains stubbornly quiet. If one approaches him with queries, he responds with an offended gaze. Even now he deigns to share only the bare essentials of his life. Speaking expressionlessly, like a head of state indifferently reading out a long speech without showing a dot of emotion, he says: “Mother died, father died, wife died…. father had some other occupation…. No, I never feel lonely.”He does open up about his early days as a street masseur. “At that time there were many maalish wale.” Mr Ram briefly describes the years-ago ambiance of this same Ghalib Street—the lane that ends with poet Ghalib’s tomb—as a place teeming with masseurs. “You would see men spread out on chatais in front of Ghalib’s mazar, each being massaged by a maalish walla.” Mr Ram’s face suddenly breaks into a cynical laughter. “All those maalish wale have gone… there was never much money in it.” Pointing to the table, he says he bought it years ago from Muzaffarnagar in UP.Mr Ram works from late evening to early morning—this part of the historic district remains crowded throughout the night. “In the day, I sleep.” Indeed, half an hour after this chat, the street masseur is seen lying sprawled on the pavement, just outside the walls of Ghalib’s mausoleum. His eyes are closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-street-masseur-101633034945808.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC to hire traffic consultant to oversee road infrastructure development||The municipal corporation will soon be hiring a traffic consultant to untangle the traffic snarls that have become commonplace in the city. The appointment process has already been initiated. The traffic consultant will oversee upgrade of the road and junction infrastructure to streamline traffic and reduce mishaps. The idea had been mooted last year when the municipal corporation had decided to develop certain junctions in the city under the Smart City Mission. A proposal for the same has also been included in the agenda of the next meeting of the finance and contracts committee (F and CC).The civic body’s quest for experts is not limited to traffic, the administrative cogwheels are in motion to appoint a horticulture consultant in the city. Punjab Road Safety Council member Rahul Verma said that there is a dire need to appoint a traffic consultant in the municipal corporation, especially when authorities are contemplating developing road infrastructure and decongesting junctions. “The engineers are not well versed with the traffic norms and requirements needed to make the roads safe for commuters. Sometimes, the MC creates bottlenecks by not building slip roads and other components required for the smooth flow of traffic. A lot of work regarding road safety, including installation of sign boards, and cat’s eyes (retro-reflective safety device used in road marking), needs to be done,” he said, adding that the expert will prepare designs for roads, slip roads and roundabouts to ease traffic congestionand will also help synchronise traffic lights to streamline the flow of vehicles. “There are a few points in the city, where the MC may need to acquire land for decongesting the junctions and intersections. This will also be decided by the consultant,” said Verma.Rainwater harvesting systems During the F and CC meet, which will be held next week, the committee will also deliberate upon the proposal to install rain water harvesting systems in all the four MC zonal offices. While authorities have been asking residents to opt for rainwater harvesting due to the depleting ground water levels, the civic body has been facing flak for not practising what it preaches.Repair of musical fountain The agenda also includes repairing the musical fountain at the Rose Garden, which has been lying defunct for a long time. The repair will cost around ₹16 lakh. A proposal for setting up floating barriers at different points of Buddha Nullah to stop the flow of solid waste into the Sutlej will also be discussed. Solid waste has also choked the drain at certain points. A memorial for the ‘Panj Pyare’ and naming different roads after them will also be discussed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-to-hire-traffic-consultant-to-oversee-road-infrastructure-development-101633034916155.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Last day to avail 10% rebate: 5,700 submit property tax, Ludhiana MC collects ₹6 crore||Around 5,700 people paid their property tax on Thursday, which was the last day to avail a 10% rebate for the current financial year. With a large number of people putting off paying the tax until the very last day, a huge crowd was seen outside the MC zonal suvidha kendras, which remained open for three additional hours till 6pm, to facilitate the residents, while many others paid their tax online. The civic body collected around ₹6 crore on the last day. Those who missed the September 30 deadline can still pay their taxes till December 1 without incurring a penalty, after which they will have pay a 10% fine between January 1, 2022 and March 31. The penalty will increase to 20% percent along with an 18% annual interest after March 31. Municipal corporation superintendent Vivek Verma said there are around 2.20 lakh taxable properties in the city, but only around 94,000 property owners had availed the rebate till Thursday evening.Apart from submitting tax returns at MC suvidha kendras, the residents can also pay the tax online at mcludhiana.gov.in, said Verma, adding that the residents should opt for the online option rather than rushing to the MC offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/last-day-to-avail-10-rebate-5-700-submit-property-tax-ludhiana-mc-collects-6-crore-101633034551903.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||DGP orders night-domination ops in all border districts of Punjab||In view of the current security scenario, officiating director general of police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota on Thursday directed all border district SSPs to start “night domination operations” along the Indo-Pak international border from 9pm to 4am. The border districts include Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Batala, Amritsar Rural, Tarn Taran, Ferozepur and Fazilka. The DGP also directed the border SSPs to divide their districts into sectors and depute gazetted officer for every sector, who will be personally out on the night domination. The SSPs will maintain a duty roster of gazetted officers and rotate them for supervision of night domination operations, he added. He said all nakas in the second line of defence and other sensitive locations will be manned at night under the supervision of non-gazetted officers, while additional nakas should be put-up on ancillary roads for checking of vehicles. “Inter-state nakas, especially on the J&K border, should also be strengthened and all vehicles coming from J&K should be thoroughly checked,” he directed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dgp-orders-night-domination-ops-in-all-border-districts-of-punjab-101633034251924.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Offered lift, Ludhiana woman loses gold bangles||The notorious gang, comprising three women and their male accomplice, have struck again and robbed an elderly woman of her gold bangles on the pretext of offering her a lift in their car at Urban Estate on Chandigarh Road on Thursday. The victim, Chandarkanta, 70, of Urban Estate, was returning home after paying obeisance at a shrine , when the victims offered to drop her home in their car. The victim politely refused, but the three women started talking to her and stole her bangles. It was only when they left did the victim realise, she had been robbed. The police are scanning CCTVs to identify the accused.The victim said three women were sitting in the car, while their male accomplice was driving the vehicle. The accused were travelling in a Maruti Suzuki Swift car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/offered-lift-ludhiana-woman-loses-gold-bangles-101633034131934.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Eight-storey building collapses in Shimla||A multi-storey building collapsed in the Kachi Ghatti area of Shimla on Thursday afternoon after a landslide was triggered by heavy rains.Two more buildings were damaged by the collapsing eight-storey structure. The incident was caught on camera and a video has gone viral on social media.No one was hurt or killed in the incident as the authorities had already evacuated the building in the afternoon after the landslide began.The collapsed building had developed cracks a few days ago. District authorities had issued notice to the occupants to vacate the building two weeks ago after efforts to save the structure did not work.Shimla deputy commissioner Aditya Negi said the foundation of the building was weak and eight storeys had been constructed on it.Negi, who was present at the spot, said eight families living in the building had been moved to a safer place. He said police and fire brigade were also present to meet any eventuality.Whether or not the building was legal was being ascertained, Negi said, adding that strict action will be initiated if any irregularity was found.Meanwhile, urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said a probe will be launched to know how such a big building was allowed to come up in such a fragile area. Other such buildings that have come up in Shimla town will also be investigated, added he.Landslides strike other parts of stateThe Mataur-Shimla highway was blocked for hours due to multiple landslides near Kangra bypass on Wednesday. The traffic was diverted through Gupt-Ganga road. One car was also damaged in a shooting stone incident on the highway. However, no one was injured.In Hamirpur, three people were injured after lightning struck a house at Jandru village in Sujanpur subdivision. The injured were shifted to the Sujanpur hospital.The MeT department has issued a yellow warning for heavy rains, thunderstorms and lightning in the state on Friday.Meanwhile, Nahan was the wettest place in the state on Thursday recording 57mm rainfall followed by Nalagarh at 50mm, Paonta Sahib at 44mm, Pachhad at 20mm, Sujanpur Tira at 17mm, Jubbar Hatti at 14mm, Bharari at 13mm, Dharamshala at 12mm, and Jatton Barrage and Mehre 10mm each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eightstorey-building-collapses-in-shimla-101633034012156.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||NHM workers protesting outside Jammu govt hospital clash with police||Hundreds of contractual employees engaged by the National Health Mission (NHM) and who worked as Covid warriors during peak pandemic were, on Thursday, dragged and manhandled by a strong posse of police force outside Government Medical College and Hospital here.The NHM workers were staging anti-government protests against abrupt termination of their services when the police including women constables used force and dragged them into police vehicles and then resorted to lathicharge.According to official reports, the government has terminated over 1,500 such employees from services.Over 1,500 NHM contractual employees, mostly women, were assembled at the gate of GMCH here to protest against the termination of their services. They raised anti-government slogans and blocked the road for hours to press for their demands of regularisation.As the blockade caused heavy traffic jams, police force came into action and tried to forcibly remove the blockade. However, the protesters clashed with them. Later, they were removed from the road.‘We were promised regularisation’“We risked our lives. There were no attendants with Covid patients ... We even picked up dead bodies with our bare hands. What did they do? They terminated us and dumped us,” said one of the protesting female NHM workers.“The government is exercising a ‘use and throw’ policy with us and we condemn it,” said one Sunita Devi, an NHM employee, who was one of the lead protesters. She said they had joined service at GMCH at the peak of the first wave of Covid-19 last year when no one wanted to come out of their homes.“We were promised that if we served in the best way, we will be regularised in the services. But instead of regularisation, they threw us out after using us during the worst Covid period,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nhm-workers-protesting-outside-jammu-govt-hospital-clash-with-police-101633033653227.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Notices served on 2 officials for inaction against illegal mining in Sutlej riverbed||Dharamkot deputy superintendent of police (DSP) and Jalandhar district mining officer have been issued notices for alleged inaction against illegal mining activities being carried out in the Sutlej riverbed.The notices were issued by Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale.Officials privy to the investigation said the while two notices were issued to DSP Shubeg Singh, the third was issued to mining officer Gurtej Singh Garcha. The action came after probe found irregularities and negligence on the part of the officials. As per sources, large-scale illegal mining was being carried out in the area but DSP Dharamkot allegedly turned a blind eye to it. Senior officials of Moga police had even inquired with the DSP about it; however, he allegedly misled them. Later, when SSP Nimbale checked on his own, he found rampant illegal mining activities taking place in the area. Following this, police registered around four cases of illegal mining and arrested over a dozen persons and seized their vehicles from the area.In the two notices issued to him, the SSP has held the DSP responsible for letting illegal mining flourish in the area, and asked him to file an explanation on what corrective measures are being taken.In the notice to mining officer Garcha, pertaining to the theft case registered against MS and Rana Company Kot Ise Khan, the SSP stated, “Despite being the mining officer, you have taken the side of the contractor/owner of MS and Rana Company even as sand is being sold by violating and ignoring instructions of additional director general-cum-enforcement director mining and without weighing or issuing computerised slips.” Confirming the development, Moga SSP Nimbale said he had assigned a probe to SP (investigation) Jagatpreet Singh. “As per the ongoing investigation, I have issued notices to DSP (Dharamkot) and mining officer Jalandhar as the area of Dharamkot falls under his jurisdiction. Further action will be taken against them as per law after receiving their reply,” he added. DSP Shubeg Singh, said, “No illegal mining activity is being carried out in my area. The illegal mining activities which are mentioned are being carried out in the area of Jalandhar district and I am not responsible for the Jalandhar area. Besides, the investigation is already going on and it will clear everything,” Mining officer Jalandhar, Gurtej Singh Garcha, said, “The SSP has no authority to issue me notice or seek explanation from me. Only the deputy commissioner can do this. Besides, I did not take any side and no illegal mining activity was carried out in my area. Therefore, I informed the police and told them to conduct their investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/notices-served-on-2-officials-for-inaction-against-illegal-mining-in-sutlej-riverbed-101633033472073.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jaspal Giaspura is leader of Opposition of Ludhiana MC||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) appointed two-time councillor Jaspal Giaspura as leader of opposition in the municipal corporation (MC) general house on Thursday.Giaspura has replaced senior councillor Harbhajan Singh Dang, who was recently appointed as the party’s district president. Dang, who is also general secretary of SAD, issued an appointment letter to Giaspura on Thursday. Giaspura is the son of former mayor Hakam Singh Giaspura. Dang said that the decision had been taken by party high command as Giaspura had been highlighting the problems being faced by residents and was a senior leader. Giapura said, “Councillors have been facing problems due to delay in developmental projects. Besides, the civic body has also been adopting a pick-and-choose policy, while allotting work in the wards of SAD leaders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jaspal-giaspura-is-leader-of-opposition-of-ludhiana-mc-101633033351806.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: MBD Group celebrates 65th founder’s day||To celebrate its 65th founder’s day, MBD Group on Thursday organised various CSR activities, in which kids from financially-weak backgrounds spent time at a mall and a movie was screened for them.Monica Malhotra Kandhari, managing director of MBD Group, said, “I am extremely delighted to announce our group’s successful completion of 65 glorious years. Over these years, we have become better by following our founder Ashok Kumar Malhotra’s core values of integrity, compassion and courage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mbd-group-celebrates-65th-founder-s-day-101633033235749.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal’s guarantees hold no merit: SAD||Training their guns at the Aam Aadmi Party, the Shiromani Akali Dal leaders on Thursday called Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal an “opportunist” and said Kejriwal’s second guarantee to upgrade the health infrastructure on the lines of the Delhi model was mere lip service to fool the people in the run up to the assembly elections. Addressing a press conference at a private hotel on Pakhowal Road, a few hours after Kejriwal announced the second guarantee, the leaders including SAD core committee member and former Cabinet minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal, district president Harbhajan Singh Dang, said Kejriwal’s model had failed in Delhi, so it was unlikely that they will be successful in Punjab. Grewal said, “Kejriwal is trying to befool the Punjabis by making half-baked announcements. The people of Punjab do not want the Delhi model of health as the highest number of deaths due to shortage of oxygen took place in Delhi and the entire system collapsed during the pandemic. An announcement has been made regarding setting up Mohalla Clinics in every village, but nothing has been said as to how the funds will be arranged.” Grewal said Kejriwal wants to become the Punjab chief minister of Punjab, which is why the AAP has not yet announced their candidate for the top post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwals-guarantees-hold-no-meritsad-101633033051916.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||2022 Punjab assembly polls: First- level checking of EVMs, VVPAT carried out at PAU||In view of the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) directives ahead of the assembly polls next year, district election officer-cum-deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma carried out first-level checking (FLC) of electronic voting machines (EVMs) and voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) at Punjab Agriculture University (PAU), which started on Thursday in the presence of representatives of political parties.He was accompanied by additional deputy commissioner (G) Rahul Chaba and ADC of Khanna, Sakatar Singh Bal.He held a detailed interaction with engineers of Bharat Electric Limited (BEL), who have been assigned the duty of making these machines. Sharma said the primary motive of the inspection is to ensure that polling is conducted in a free, fair and transparent manner.He added that the process of thoroughly checking 6,485 ballot units, 4,339 control units and 4,664 VVPATs to be used during the elections will be completed within a month.To ensure transparency, ECI has decided to hold this exercise well in advance. He said that proper security arrangements along with CCTV/videography have been ensured during completion of FLC.He said that the district administration has already requested political parties to send their representatives during these checks to ensure full transparency in the entire work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2022-punjab-assembly-polls-first-level-checking-of-evms-vvpat-carried-out-at-pau-101633032992050.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana high court adjourns cases listed for October to next year||The Punjab and Haryana high court has adjourned cases listed for October for hearing between January and March next year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The HC also decided to increase the number of judges, who would hear cases through physical mode. Now almost 50% of 45 judges’ present strength will hear the cases physically on a daily basis against a dozen, hearing earlier. An official said the decision to adjourn the cases was taken on the basis of government advisories and opinion of medical and administrative experts and to ensure safety of judges, staff and litigants.The official, however, said the cases of anticipatory bails, regular bails, protection to life and liberty and premature release etc won’t be adjourned and will be taken up on the already fixed date. The cases filed in 2021 and listed in “urgent category” also won’t be adjourned. The cases in which advancing of hearing was allowed this year also won’t be adjourned, the official said, adding that in case of urgency, a litigant can move an application for advancing the hearing in already filed cases. Interim orders passed will also stand extended in adjourned matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-adjourns-cases-listed-for-october-to-next-year-101633032811633.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Unemployed teachers end dharna outside minister Singla’s Sangrur residence after 9 months||Unemployed teachers associated with at least five unions on Thursday ended their dharna outside the Sangrur residence of cabinet minister Vijay Inder Singla after nearly nine months, expressing hope of getting their issues resolved amid a change of guard in the Congress government in Punjab. Members of various unions, who started the round-the-clock sit-in on December 31, 2020, called off the protest after the district administration assured them to take up their demand for a meeting with chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi besides quashing of the FIRs registered against them Sangrur and Patiala districts during protests.The protesters are members of the BEd Teachers’ Union, the 873 DPE Teachers’ Union, the 646 PTI Teachers’ Union, the Unemployed Art and Craft Teachers’ Union, and the Unemployed Multipurpose Health Workers Union, Punjab. Over the last few months, they would also oppose the minister during his visits to villages in the Sangrur assembly constituency. Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan, president, Unemployed BEd Teachers’ Union, said even as the dharna was called off, their struggle for jobs will continue till their demands are not met.“After changes in the state cabinet, the district administration appealed to us to end the protest as the education portfolio (which Vijay Inder Singla held earlier) has been given to Pargat Singh. We also demand that all FIRs registered in Sangrur and Patiala districts against youths during protests should be quashed immediately,” said Dhilwan.“If our demands are not met, we will hold a protest at the same place on October 10. Then we will take a call on whether we will stage protests outside the residence of the CM or the new education minister,” he added.Jagsir Singh, another protester, said in the past nine months they never allowed Singla to enter his residence. “We appeal to minister Vijay Inder Singla to take up our demands with the chief minister and play a key role in resolving the issue,” he added. Sangrur sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Amarinder Singh Tiwana said the protest remained largely peaceful and the activists did not damage government property. “We will take up their demands with the authorities concerned,” added Tiwana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/unemployed-teachers-end-dharna-outside-minister-singla-s-sangrur-residence-after-9-months-101633032751741.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu, Channi buy peace, agree on panel for better coordination||Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was upset over senior appointments made by the new government and resigned from his post two days ago, on Thursday agreed on constitution of a coordination panel for prior consultation on all major policy matters and decisions of the state government. Channi and Sidhu, who has been demanding removal of APS Deol and IPS Sahota from the post of AG and DGP, respectively, hashed out the agreement at a two-hour meeting held here to resolve the crisis created in the state Congress by the latter’s abrupt resignation. The committee is likely to be headed by a central leader – Harish Chaudhary, in all probability — with the chief minister and Punjab Congress president as its members for better coordination between the party and the state government, two persons familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. A senior party leader does not see much advantage in setting up the coordination committee at this stage with hardly any time left for elections. “It will not serve any purpose other than putting balm on someone’s ego and making the decision-making process more cumbersome. In January 2020 also, the AICC set up a coordination committee under the then general secretary but it did not conduct even a single meeting,” he added. Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat is also planning to come to Chandigarh to talk to the warring factions. “After the constitution of the new government, I thought my job was done but then this new situation developed. Things will be okay soon. It is just a matter for 5 to 7 days,” he told reporters. The announcement of the panel and other decisions agreed upon in the meeting will come from the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in the next 24 hours, the person quoted above said. “As for the two appointments, it has been decided that a panel of IPS officers will be sent to the UPSC as per the procedure laid down by the Supreme Court. Till then, Sahota will continue and the new DGP will be named from among the three names received from the commission. The issue of AG’s will be decided after a discussion in the coordination panel,” he said. Cabinet ministers Pargat Singh and Raj Kumar Verka, Punjab Congress working presidents Kuljit Singh Nagra and Pawan Goel, central leader Harish Chaudhary and Amritsar South MLA Inderbir Bolaria were among those present at Punjab Bhawan where the meeting took place. “Sidhu saab will carry on as the PPCC president. All issues raised by him and pending promises that are to be implemented before the elections were discussed in detail and both sides presented their views,” one of them said. The cricketer-turned-politician, who has been upset over not having much say or being consulted in several key decisions, had announced his resignation on Twitter on Tuesday, barely 72 days after he was appointed the state unit chief, plunging the Congress into a fresh crisis in the poll-bound state. Sidhu was particularly peeved as his recommendations for the posts of AG and DGP were overlooked. The induction of former minister Rana Gurjit Singh into the cabinet also riled him. Channi, who is battling his first major political crisis just 11 days after taking over as the chief minister, had on Wednesday invited Sidhu for a sit-down meeting to iron out differences. “Whoever is party president, is head of the family. I had told him (Sidhu) that the party is supreme and the government follows its ideology,” he said at a press conference while stressing on finding a resolution through talks. The chief minister had reached out to Sidhu who defiantly posted a video message on Twitter, announcing to continue his fight and willingness to make any sacrifice. Sidhu responded to his offer on Thursday morning and agreed to meet him in Chandigarh to resolve differences. “The chief minister has invited me for talks…will reciprocate by reaching Punjab Bhawan, Chandigarh, at 3pm today, he is welcome for any discussions,” he tweeted. However, minutes before reaching the venue of their meeting, Sidhu again targeted Sahota over the sacrilege case probe. “DGP IPS Sahota was head of SIT investigating Beadbi case under Badal govt, he wrongfully indicted two Sikh youth for sacrilege & gave clean chit to Badals. In 2018, I along with INC Ministers, then PCC Pres & present Home minister assured them of our support in fight for Justice (sic),” he posted on the microblogging website. Sidhu’s public criticism of the CM’s decision has not gone down well with senior party leaders. His bête noire, former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh hit out at him for trying to interfere in the state government. “Sidhu should run the party and let Channi run the government. There should be no interference. They can talk to each other, but it is the CM who runs the government. I was CM for nine-and-a-half years and had several state chiefs during that period. We used to discuss, but I never faced the kind of situation he (Sidhu) is creating,” he said. Taking to social media, former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar also said enough was enough. “Put an end to attempts to undermine the authority of the CM time and again. Aspersions being cast on selection of AG and DGP are actually questioning the integrity/competence of the CM and home minister to deliver results. It’s time to put the foot down and clear the air,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-channi-buy-peace-agree-on-panel-for-better-coordination-101633032691665.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Rain hinders repair of electricity tower, residents complain of power outage||Afternoon showers played spoilsport on Thursday as it delayed the repair of a 66 KV electricity tower on Gill Road, which was damaged a day earlier after a speeding truck rammed into it. This had resulted in power outages in nearby areas and even though power is being supplied currently through the Dholewal sub-station, residents of nearby areas complained of frequent outages and low voltage.The heavy showers put a dampener on the plans of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) officials, who were reinstalling the tower and disappointed the affected residents and shopkeepers. Mridhul, who owns a shop nearby, said his work has been affected due to the power cuts.Senior PSPCL officials including Bhupender Khosla, chief engineer, Ludhiana; and Sanjeev Prabhakar, deputy chief engineer, west circle, Ludhiana, were also present at the spot to monitor the repairs.Khosla said that since the foundation of the tower has to be rebuilt, it may take a couple of more days .“Our teams are working hard to reinstall the tower as soon as possible, but rain definitely hinders the work. We are hopeful of repairing it in a couple of days,” he said.Prabhakar said, “We are managing to provide 60% load as the supply was taken from Dholewal sub-station. There may be low voltage or power cuts, but we are still supplying as much power as possible in the area.” As per the officials, the impact of the collision also damaged another 11kv tower and cable wires.The driver of the truck was arrested while he was trying to escape the spot after the accident. He has been identified as Jagsir Singh of Sangrur.He was booked for rash driving following a complaint by sub-divisional officer Gurpratap Singh at Division Number 6 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-rain-hinders-repair-of-electricity-tower-residents-complain-of-power-outage-101633032332040.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers defer ‘rail roko’ stir after assurance of meeting with Channi||The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMC) on Thursday deferred its plan to shift its protests from outside deputy commissioner (DC) offices to railway tracks in Punjab after getting an assurance of a meeting with the chief minister.Leaders of the KMC, which has a considerable hold in the Majha and some districts of Malwa, had announced to launch “rail roko” agitation in Punjab if their demands were not met till September 30. On Thursday, farmers gathered outside the Amritsar DC office to press for their demands, including loan waiver. The farmers were called for a meeting with Amritsar DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira and inspector general (IG), border range, SPS Parmar. “During the meeting, the IG informed deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa about our demands. The IG also assured us that the government was willing to listing to our demands. We have also been assured of a meeting with CM Charanjit Singh Channi within the next 20 days,” said KMC’s general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher. The meeting was also attended by KMC president Satnam Singh Pannu. Pandher said: “If our demands are not met at a meeting with the CM, we will launch our rail roko stir.”The demands include repeal of three farm laws, a new law ensuring minimum support price (MSP) of 23 crops, implementation of the Swaminathan Commission report, waiving of farmers’ debt, and government jobs and compensation of ₹5 lakh to the families of farmers who died during the agitation at the Delhi border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-defer-rail-roko-stir-after-assurance-of-meeting-with-channi-101633032272821.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Won’t leave Congress or resign as MP, says Preneet Kaur as Amarinder announces to quit party||Even as former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday made it clear that he had no intention of continuing in the Congress, his wife and Patiala MP Preneet Kaur said she won’t leave the party or resign as a Lok Sabha member.“I will stay in the Congress and will stick to my position (as MP). I have no intention of quitting,” said Preneet, the four-time MP. She, however, justified her husband’s decision, saying, “He is the senior-most leader of the Congress in the country. He brought the party back to power in Punjab when it was losing one after another state. He was humiliated and thus decided to leave the party. It is wrong to maltreat a leader who brought historic victory for the party.” Amarinder on Wednesday met Union home minister Amit Shah, giving rise to speculations that he may float his own party or join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).On plans to join Amarinder in future, she said, “I won’t comment about that, but as of now every worker is upset about whatever is going on in the party’s Punjab unit.” Till her husband was CM, the Patiala MP was taking care of nine assembly constituencies, including Patiala Urban that Amarinder represents in the Vidhan Sabha, and her writ ran large over matters concerning these segments. Some Congress MLAs from Patiala district have also decided not to leave the party. “I will remain in the Congress,” said an MLA close to Amarinder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wont-leave-congress-or-resign-as-mp-says-preneet-kaur-as-amarinder-announces-to-quit-party-101633032091446.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Waste collectors block road for six hours during protest||Irked over shifting of the secondary dump site behind Vardhman mills, garbage collectors in large numbers protested against the municipal corporation on Thursday and blocked Tajpur Road for around six hours. Even though diversions were created by the traffic police, movement of vehicles was hit on Tajpur Road and surrounding areas.The garbage collectors opposed the shifting of the dumpsite behind Vardhman mills to a point near Central Jail on Tajpur road and rued that it is difficult for them to pull their cart to that point. They demanded that MC allow them to continue dumping waste at the old site. Leaders of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also joined the protest and slammed MLA Sanjay Talwar for failing to deal with problems being faced by garbage collectors and residents of the constituency. As per the information, most of the garbage collectors were MC Class-4 employees. AAP leader Daljit Singh Grewal (Bhola) stated that door-to-door collection of waste has been affected in atleast 15 wards due to the ill-planned decision. They demanded that the MC find a solution for the problem at the earliest.Police and MC officials tried to pacify the protesters but to no avail. They finally lifted the agitation after getting assurance from MLA Sanjay Talwar in the evening that an alternative site will be finalised for dumping of waste.Talwar stated that the site behind Vardhman mills is surrounded by hospital, religious places and residential area. Further, a school and community centre is also being constructed in the area and they have also proposed a Ravidas auditorium at the site where garbage was being dumped earlier. He said the opposition is trying to gain political mileage by misguiding the garbage collectors.“A meeting has been scheduled with MC officials on Friday and we will finalise an alternative site for dumping of garbage, so that no one faces any problem,” said Talwar. On September 28, waste collectors had staged a protest in the Dugri area over shifting of secondary dump site. Waste collected from houses is dumped at the secondary dump sites, from where it is transported to main dump site on Tajpur Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-waste-collectors-block-road-for-six-hours-during-protest-101633032032322.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly polls: Lying low for days after SKM diktat, parties start holding political events again||Political parties in Punjab, which were lying low for days following a diktat of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on September 11 against organising mass electoral programmes, have started holding meetings and rallies again in view of the upcoming state assembly elections. The SKM, an amalgamation of 32 farm organisations leading the protest against the Centre’s three controversial laws, had asked the state’s ruling Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to desist from holding political events till dates for the forthcoming polls are announced to honour the sentiment of the protesting farmers. However, the SAD and the AAP have organised five large public programmes in different places of the state in the last one week. Unlike previous occasions, the SKM activists did not try to stop the parties from holding political events. The SAD had taken a lead in mass contact with voters by organising rallies from March 15 under the “Punjab Mangda Jawab” campaign while announcing party candidates from Fazilka’s Jalalabad. Then, party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal launched a 100-day yatra programme ‘Gal Punjab Di’ from Ferozepur’s Zira on August 18 to cover all 117 assembly segments.But the party had to suspend the yatra events after SKM activists created a ruckus at Sukhbir’s rally in Moga on September 3. The Akali leaders have been at loggerhead with farmer unions over holding political activities since.On Thursday, AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal held a well-attended political rally in Ludhiana. The previous day, he addressed a large gathering of industrialists and traders in the industrial city of Ludhiana.Sukhbir on Wednesday led a tractor march in Mohali to demand more compensation for farmers whose land was acquired by the government to develop various road projects.He on September 25 visited about six villages of Bathinda and Mansa that were hit by pink bollworm. Though a group of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) showed black flags to Sukhbir’s convoy at Sekhpura, no effort was made to disrupt his meeting with a number of cotton growers.Besides, he held interactions with industrialists and professionals at various places in Ludhiana on September 26. The SAD has already announced a protest rally in Bathinda on October 3 to demand a compensation of ₹50,000 per acre after pest infested the cotton-growing belt.On Thursday, supporters of the newly inducted transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring organised celebratory programmes at 16 places to welcome their MLA in his constituency of Gidderbaha.Though a group of farmer activists surrounded Warring, no effort was made to disrupt the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-polls-lying-low-for-days-after-skm-diktat-parties-start-holding-political-events-again-101633031793882.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 38 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Chandigarh The number of Covid cases in Punjab reached 6,01,635 after 38 people tested positive for the virus on Thursday, according to a medical bulletin. The state reported one Covid-related fatality, taking the death toll to 16,516, it said. A total of 35 patients recovered from the virus in the state, pushing the number of cured persons to 5,84,832, the bulletin said. The state has 287 active cases. Among the fresh cases, Gurdaspur reported nine, followed by four each in Ferozepur and Jalandhar, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-38-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101633031731636.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal promises free treatment at govt hospitals if AAP voted to power in Punjab||Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced a health bonanza for residents of Punjab if the AAP is voted to power in 2022. Addressing halqa in-charges across the state and the media in Ludhiana, Kejriwal announced six guarantees for health for Punjab residents on the Delhi model. The six-point health agenda includes “pind” or village clinics and ward clinics in urban areas of the state. He said that today barring Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh, all government-run health institutions in the state are in a pitiable condition, forcing the common man to go to private hospitals. “These private hospitals loot people, while in the government sector, there is a serious shortage of staff and infrastructure,” he said. Expanding on the six guarantees, he said: “Firstly, every Punjab resident will get free and best treatment. Secondly, all medicines, all tests, all operations will be free of cost in government hospitals in the state,” he said. “We will ensure all medicines are available and we will ensure all machines are functional. Even costly operations costing ₹15 lakh will be free,” he said. Kejriwal also said that every Punjab citizen will get a health card. That card will have all the information and reports pertaining to the person. Making the fourth promise, Kejriwal said that on lines of mohalla clinic, they will be opening ‘pind clinics’ at every nook and corner while ward clinics will be opened in cities. As many as 15,000 such clinics will be opened in the state, he said. Kejriwal added that infrastructure of all government hospitals in state will be improved and these will be made fully air-conditioned with all facilities readily available. Lastly, if anyone has a road accident, he be rushed to the nearest hospital and the cost will be borne by the Punjab Government irrespective of whether it is a private or government hospital, he said. When questioned as to how the cash starved state will generate funds for free treatment and other policies announced, Kejriwal said they faced the same situation in Delhi when they announced mohalla clinics. “Funds will be generated. The mohalla clinics in Delhi are now an example for everyone while when we first took the initiative, Delhi also had similar funds problem, but we did it” he said. “His idea is good but free treatment for all Punjab residents means catering to over 3 crore population. Free medicines for all also seem a distant reality. Promises made should at least look convincible. Even yesterday, the industry had big expectations that Kejriwal will announce tax reforms that will benefit the industry, but he never announced any. Even electricity rebates promised are not enough as the power tariff for the industry in Punjab right now is almost the same as that of industry in Delhi. There were also not many representatives from prominent industries present. The AAP failed to utilise the opportunity fully,” said Pankaj Sharma, general secretary, Chamber of Commercial and Industrial Undertakings (CICU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-promises-free-treatment-at-govt-hospitals-if-aap-voted-to-power-in-punjab-101633031631249.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt seeks cotton, moong crop damage reports by October 15||The Haryana government on Thursday directed all deputy commissioners to send reports regarding the recent damage to cotton and moong crops due to heavy rains and waterlogging by October 15.The state government had decided to conduct special girdawari to assess the damage to cotton and moong crops due to heavy rains and waterlogging where crop damage was 25% or above.The crop damage assessment for cotton will be done in 18 districts (except Panchkula, Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar) while the crop damage assessment for moong will be done in all districts.As per an order issued by financial commissioner (revenue) Sanjeev Kaushal, details of the special girdawari will be cross-checked with the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Bayora’ (MFMB) portal’s entries before finalisation.“All deputy commissioners have been asked to send the damage report minus those covered under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY),” the order said.To ensuring that compensation is not given in cases where farmers have also applied for crop insurance, a software application has been made to build a database of damage entries, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-govt-seeks-cotton-moong-crop-damage-reports-by-october-15-101633031554641.html
01-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Chattisgarh minister interacts with industrialists||The Punjab state chapter of PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) organised an interactive session between Chhattisgarh minister commerce and industries Kawasi Lakhma and industry representatives from Ludhiana on Thursday. The objective was to discuss business prospects and investment opportunities in Chhattisgarh.Gurmeet Singh Kular, chairman-cum-convener of Ludhiana Zone, Punjab State Chapter, PHDCCI; president of FICO and partner, Kular Sons, welcomed Lakhma and other officials of Chhattisgarh government. He said that PHDCCI is a proactive apex organisation working for promotion of trade, commerce and industry and has partnered with multiple states in the country.He added that Punjab will attract investors on the strength of the enterprising spirit of its people, subsidies provided on capital investment; freight reimbursement and surplus power.Lakhma apprised industrialist of the key features of the Chhattisgarh Industrial Policy 2019-24, which focuses on inclusive economic growth. He also highlighted focus areas of the state such as electronics and engineering, food processing, ethanol, gems and jewellery and forest produce. He stated that development through value addition to natural resources and diversification of industries, led by innovation and technology, has placed the state among the top investment destinations in the country. He invited a delegation from Ludhiana to visit the state to explore investment opportunities.Arun Prasad, managing director of Chhattisgarh State Industrial Development Corporation (CSIDC), shared videos related to investment opportunities in different industrial sectors in Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-chattisgarh-minister-interacts-with-industrialists-101633031552026.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||In Punjab, FCI to start ‘age test’ on grain to check mixing of old rice with new stock||With a view to checking the malpractice of mixing of rice from the previous years with the one shelled from the recently procured paddy, the Food Corporation of India (FCI) has decided to introduce “age test” on the grain this kharif season in Punjab before shipping it to the outside states for public distribution. The system will be made operational in December when the state procurement agencies will start handing over rice to the FCI, which drives public distribution across the country, after shelling of paddy procured in the upcoming kharif season. The paddy procurement in Punjab starts from October 11 and will continue till November. Also, the state food and civil supplies department has decided to analyse data of mandi-wise arrival of paddy in the last three seasons and install CCTV cameras in grain markets and rice mills to maintain vigil on arrival of grain. Besides, there will be physical verification of the existing stock before the onset of the procurement season. Why test the grain?It emerged in the last 4-5 years that rice purchased from outside the state at cheaper rates was being mixed with the newly shelled grain in Punjab and was sold to the central procurement agency to earn higher profits. Officials say it caused losses to the tune of crores of rupees to the state exchequer though the exact figures were not ascertained. The role of arhtiyas (commission agents), rice millers and traders — who allegedly run the illegal trade in connivance with the staff of state food and civil supplies department and state procurement agencies like Markfed, Pungrain, Punsup and the State Ware Housing Corporation besides the FCI — is under scanner. In recently conducted raids at the rice mils, at least 35,000 bags of recycled rice were recovered from Fazilka, Nurmahal, Moga and Bathinda. During his last week’s visit to Punjab, Union food and public distribution secretary Sudhanshu Pandey stressed on checking the malpractice, to which the state official promised to take stringent measures. “We are ready with the new system and every lot of rice handed over to the corporation depots by the four state procurement agencies will undergo the test,” said a senior FCI official. The test involves chemical examination, he added.Hefty penalty will be imposed in case a rice miler is found mixing old rice with the new and the state food and civil supplies department has framed rules for this, it is learnt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-punjab-fci-to-start-age-test-on-grain-to-check-mixing-of-old-rice-with-new-stock-101633031438748.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC gives Gurdas Maan five weeks to join investigation||ChandigarhThe Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday gave five weeks to singer Gurdas Maan to join investigation in an alleged case of hurting religious sentiments. On September 15, the high court had granted him interim protection from arrest. The high court bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan, while confirming anticipatory bail to the singer and disposing of his plea said that as no custodial investigation is required, the interim bail granted is made absolute. The court allowed him to join probe through video conferencing but made it clear that in case he failed, the police would be at liberty to move an application for re-calling the order. Maan was booked under Sections 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code at Nakodar city police station in Jalandhar on August 26. Earlier, Maan had told court that he tested positive for Covid and would join the investigation as soon as he recovers. But he had volunteered to join probe through video conference, if investigating agency so desires. State’s counsel had told court that no recovery is to be made from him and it was also confirmed that he has tested corona positive and that custody is not required. During a religious fair in Nakodar on August 24, Maan described Ladi Shah of Dera Baba Murad Shah as a descendant of the third Sikh master, Guru Amar Das. When a social media campaign started against his statement, Maan had put up a video on social media, offering an apology for his statement. However, an FIR was registered. In plea before the HC, he had argued that no offence under Section 295-A of the IPC can be said to be made out against him. It has to be demonstrated that an act has been committed with deliberate and malicious intention, in order to outrage the religious feelings of any class of citizens and such act insults or attempts to insult the religion or the religious beliefs of that class. In the present case, the FIR prima facie fails to disclose that the essential ingredients of offence, were made out, he had argued. “As a humble Sikh and the sensitive citizen, the petitioner made a widely circulated public apology. His words ought to be interpreted in the total background of his lifelong devotion to venerable Sikh Gurus and to the principles of Sikhism,” it was pleaded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-and-haryana-hc-gives-gurdas-maan-five-weeks-to-join-investigation-101633031431603.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 18 more down with dengue||Eighteen more people were diagnosed with dengue on Thursday, taking the total cases in the district to 184.Of the total cases, 154 were reported from city areas, while others were from Payal, Khanna, Sudhar, and Sahnewal among other areas. Around 123 people have been discharged and 61 are undergoing treatment in different hospitals. Meanwhile, 1,375 suspected cases of dengue have been detected in the district. No confirmed dengue death has been reported in the district this season, as per the health department officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-18-more-down-with-dengue-101633031311471.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||AAP chief lying about health facilities in Delhi: Punjab minister Soni||Chandigarh Deputy chief minister and minister in-charge of health and family welfare OP Soni on Thursday said that before making promises in Punjab, AAP leader and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal should ensure that people of the national capital are provided health facilities. Taking on Kejriwal who was on a two-day visit to Punjab, Soni told reporters that with the arrival of Delhi residents to take treatment in government and private hospitals in every district of Punjab during the second wave of Covid-19, it was clear Kejriwal was putting out fake advertisements about health facilities while the reality was that Delhi residents were not getting satisfactory treatment in their home state. The deputy CM, who held his maiden meeting with all the civil surgeons, directed them to prepare a 100-day plan for further improving health services in the state, stating that he would himself monitor their efforts. Chairing the meeting, Soni, while reviewing the various ongoing works of the health department, said special focus would be laid upon improving healthcare services in rural areas. Applauding the efforts made by the health staff in fight against Covid, Soni said that in view of the coming festival season, all arrangements should be put in place in time, especially the preparations for the possible third wave of Covid. He instructed them to ramp up the health infrastructure and carry out required procurement as per expected caseload. The civil surgeons were asked to ensure that there is no shortage of medicines in the government health facilities. The meeting was also attended by senior officials of health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-chief-lying-about-health-facilities-in-delhi-punjab-minister-soni-101633031252751.html
01-10-2021||Other||BJP leaders face farmers’ protest in Karnal||Leaders of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) faced protest on Thursday as hundreds of farmers managed to breach the barricades and reached the BJP meeting venue in Indri town of Karnal district.Despite the district administration having made elaborate security arrangements and two companies of paramilitary forces being deployed along with cops to ensure the farmer do not disturb the meeting; the protesters broke the barricades and reached the venue.The sloganeering farmers carrying black flags surrounded the marriage palace where the meeting was on.Later, Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia along with Indri SDM Sumit Sihag reached the spot and held a meeting with the farm leaders. The SP said farmers had agreed to hold a protest outside the venue peacefully. The farmers continued their protest till the meeting was over and forced cops to escort out leaders of the ruling party in police vehicles.BJP Karnal district president Yogendra Rana and party’s Indri MLA Ram Kumar Kashyap were addressing the meeting (Tridev Sammelan), in which around 600 booth-level workers of the party were called.“The meeting was called as per the party’s directions and such meetings are being called in every assembly segment,” said Rana.MLA Kashyap said it is the duty of the administration to maintain law and order. “Everybody has the right to protest in a democratic manner but they should not create disturbance in others’ programmes,” he said.BKU (Charuni) Karnal district president Jagdip Singh Aulakh said they had come to protest the BJP meeting on call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha.“It is shameful that leaders of the ruling party are taking shield in police vehicles. It seems the state police is only working for protection of BJP leaders,” he added.He said the administration had deployed police but farmers managed to break their barricades and protest against BJP leaders will continue till the three farm laws are repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-leaders-face-farmers-protest-in-karnal-101633031192083.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Debt-ridden ex-guard extorts ₹2 crore from factory owner||A debt-ridden ex-security guard threatened to blow up his former employer’s factory and kill his 18-year-old son, unless he paid him ₹2 crore. The accused, Kuldeep Singh alias Kala, 42, of Goh village of Khanna, had availed a loan for ₹8 lakh, and decided to extort his former boss, Anirudh Ghai of Khanna, when he was unable to repay it. He used a stolen mobile phone to make the extortion call. He did not name any gangster and spoke in a Bihari accent to make it seem that some Bihari gang was blackmailing him. Deputy commissioner of police (DSP, Khanna) Rajan Parminder Singh said Anirudh contacted the police on Wednesday and the police traced and arrested the accused near Daheru Chowk on Thursday. The accused had worked for the complainant for two years before switching jobs. An FIR was lodged against the accused under Sections 385 (extortion), 506 ( criminal intimidation) and 511 ( attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused . The accused has confessed to the crime and said he stole the phone from a migrant labourer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-debt-ridden-ex-guard-extorts-2-crore-from-factory-owner-101633030956269.html
01-10-2021||Other||Hooda accuses Haryana govt of not buying paddy||Former Haryana chief minister and leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday alleged that there is gross mismanagement in purchase of paddy in mandis across Haryana.Addressing a press conference here, Hooda said around 14 lakh quintal paddy is lying in the open in the mandis but the government is still not carrying out procurement.“The government had announced that it will start procurement from September 25 but there is no clarity on when the procurement will start. Farmers have no other option but to sell their crop below MSP,” he said.He slammed the government for not buying the entire crop of bajra in state.“Earlier, the government had encouraged farmers to leave paddy and grow bajra and now it is not buying bajra. This is an anti-farmer decision,” he said.“The government is promising to protect bajra farmers under the ‘Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana’ but the scheme has pushed vegetable growers to the brink of ruin,” he added.“With this scheme, neither farmers can get Bhavantar nor will their losses be compensated. The government should buy bajra and every grain of all crops according to its promise,” he said.Hooda said waterlogging remains a major problem for farmers as crops have suffered extensive damage due to excessive rain.“Farmers have not received their compensation till now. There are many fields in state that continue to be waterlogged and no arrangement has been made to drain out water from these areas,” he said.“The government should compensate the damaged crops and make arrangements for drainage so that farmers can prepare their fields for the next crop,” Hooda added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hooda-accuses-haryana-govt-of-not-buying-paddy-101633030953280.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sikh medical practitioner shot dead in Peshawar||PeshawarA Sikh “hakeem” (Unani medicine practitioner) was shot dead by unidentified gunmen on Thursday in Pakistan’s northwestern city of Peshawar, police said.Hakeem Sardar Satnam Singh Khalsa, who received four bullets, died on the spot, police said. The killers managed to escape from the crime scene.Singh was running a clinic on Charsadda Road in the city. Police team rushed to the site and encircled the area to nab the culprits. The reason behind the murder was not ascertained yet.The police are investigating the matter from different angles and possibility of terrorism is also being probed.According to the 2017 census, Hindus constitute the largest religious minority in Pakistan. Christians make up the second largest religious minority. The Ahmadis, Sikhs and Parsis are also among the notable religious minorities in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikh-medical-practitioner-shot-dead-in-peshawar-101633030892749.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Sweetmeat shop owner held for milkman’s murder||The sweetmeat shop owner who had murdered his milkman to avoid paying his dues was arrested near his house at Janta Nagar on Wednesday night, while he was trying to flee the city to evade arrest. The accused, Uma Dutt, had washed the utensils used to poison Baljeet Singh, whom he owed ₹2.5 lakh, and the police are questioning him about the poison he used. Sukhwinder Singh, a friend of the victim, had told the police that on September 25, Uma Dutt had called Baljeet to his shop to collect the money. The accused had offered him chhole bhature laced with poison. Baljeet was rushed to hospital after his health deteriorated, where he died on September 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-sweetmeat-shop-owner-held-for-milkman-s-murder-101633030831619.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Centre postpones paddy buying in Punjab, Haryana till Oct 11 due to rains||The Centre on Thursday postponed procurement of paddy in Punjab and Haryana till October 11 as the crop maturity is delayed owing to recent heavy rains. Paddy procurement for 2021-22 kharif marketing season in Punjab was to commence from October 1, while in Haryana it officially started from September 25. The procurement operation is undertaken by the central government’s nodal agency Food Corporation of India (FCI) along with state agencies. “It has been reported that due to recent downpour in Punjab and Haryana, the maturity of paddy has been delayed,” Union food ministry said in a statement. Keeping in view the interest of farmers and to avoid any inconvenience to them, the ministry has decided that the procurement of paddy under the minimum support price would commence from October 11 in these two states, it said. All the agencies have been directed to take necessary action to undertake procurement of paddy with the effect from October 11 in Punjab and Haryana, it added. The Centre has fixed minimum support price (MSP) of ₹1,960 per quintal for grade ‘A’ paddy, while ₹1,940 per quintal for common grade paddy for 2021-22 kharif marketing season. Punjab is a major contributor to the central pool as on an average over 100 lakh tonne of rice is procured from this state. From Haryana, less than 45 lakh tonne of rice is purchased during a kharif marketing season. Channi seeks PM’s intervention Taking prompt cognisance of the letter of the Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution regarding postponement of paddy procurement, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday sought the personal intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to advise the ministry to withdraw its letter forthwith, allowing the state to start paddy procurement from October 1 instead of October 11. The CM said the state is all set to start procurement of paddy from October 1 as scheduled earlier and now these instructions would unnecessarily create confusion and uncertainty in the minds of farmers, who will start bringing their crops in various mandis across the state from Friday. He also informed the PM that Punjab’s food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had already reviewed the arrangements for the paddy procurement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-postpones-paddy-buying-in-punjab-haryana-till-oct-11-due-to-rains-101633030771613.html
01-10-2021||Other||Karnal mandi labourers threaten to go on indefinite strike||Miffed by reduction of labour charges in Haryana from ₹12.72 to ₹8.52 per bag, labourers from mandis of Karnal district have threatened to go on an indefinite strike.Hundreds of mandi labourers from Karnal district gathered at the Karnal grain market on Friday and demanded the government to immediately revoke the orders and demanded that the labour charges be increased to ₹15 per bag.The labourers said they will go on an indefinite strike from October 1 if their demands are not met. After a protest march, they handed over a memorandum addressed to the chief minister through the naib tehsildar.The protesters alleged that a government circular regarding reduction of labour rates from ₹12.72 to ₹8.52 per bag was issued on September 24 and the district officials failed to address their issue forcing them to go on a strike.Jang Bahadur Yadav, district president of the Mandi Mazdoor Sangh, said the government should accept their demands so that procurement can be started in the mandis in Karnal district.Karnal Mandi Sachiv Chander Parkash said preparations to start procurement from Friday have been made and all issues will soon be sorted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnal-mandi-labourers-threaten-to-go-on-indefinite-strike-101633030713346.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt sends panel of 10 officers to UPSC for DGP’s post||In a late-night move after chief minister Charajnit Singh Channi’s meeting with Punjab Congress Chief Navjot Sidhu, the state government on Thursday sent a panel of 10 officials to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for the appointment of a regular director general of police (DGP). According to information, the 10 names sent include 1986-batch IPS officer S Chattopadhya, incumbent DGP Dinkar Gupta (1987), MK Tiwari, VK Bhawra, Parbodh Kumar, Rohit Chaudhary, IPS Sahota, Sanjeev Kalra, Parag Jain (on central deputation) and BK Uppal. As the name of Chattopadhyaya is being strongly pushed by the state Congress chief, the decision to send panel late in the night as it was the IPS officer’s last day to stake his claim for the top post in the state police. The Supreme Court orders mandate that name of any officer having less than six months of service cannot be considered in the panel for the DGP’s post. Chattopadhaya, a hot-favourite of Sidhu, is scheduled to retire on March 31 next year and if the names were not sent on Thursday, he would have been out of the race for the top post.Same is in the case of Rohit Chaudhary, who is also scheduled to retire on March 31 next year. According to the apex court order, the state government will send a panel of senior officials to the UPSC with a request to appoint the new DGP. The UPSC will return a panel of three officials after considering their service record and the other necessary requirements. Of these three, the state has to select one officer for the top job. The government has made up its mind to replace incumbent DGP Dinkar Gupta, who has proceeded on a month’s leave after which the charge of the office was given to IPS Sahota. Sidhu had opposed the government for giving additional charge of the Punjab DGP to Sahota claiming that when the 2015 Bargari sacrilege took place, the SIT led by him (Sahota) indicted two Sikh youth for sacrilege and gave a clean chit to the Badals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-sends-panel-of-10-officers-to-upsc-for-dgp-s-post-101633030651644.html
01-10-2021||Other||Paddy procurement in Haryana postponed to October 11||A day before the paddy procurement was scheduled to start in the mandis of Haryana, the Food Corporation of India (FCI) has written to the Haryana government to postpone the procurement to October 11.As per the letter accessed by the Hindustan Times, due to the recent heavy downpour in Haryana and Punjab, maturity of paddy has been delayed and the moisture content in the fresh arrival at present is beyond the permissible limit.Keeping in interests of farmers in mind and to avoid any inconvenience to them, it has been decided that the procurement of paddy under the minimum support price (MSP) will commence from October 11, reads the letter written to additional chief secretary, Haryana food and civil supply and consumer affairs department, by the under secretary to the ministry of consumer affairs food and public distribution department.The state government was requested to advise the procurement agencies to dry the paddy that has already arrived at the mandis and further produce may also be brought to the mandis after proper drying. All agencies may gear up their machinery and take necessary action to undertake paddy procurement from October 11, the letter further read.Haryana’s additional chief secretary (food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department) Anurag Rastogi has confirmed that he has received a letter in this regard and that the FCI has decided to postpone procurement.“Now we have to postpone the procurement as per the central government’s guidelines,” he added.Farm leaders slam decisionThe decision has evoked a sharp reaction from farm leaders. Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Charuni has called district-level meetings against the government’s decision.Charuni has warned the BJP-JJP leaders to start procurement from October 1 as per earlier plan or farmers will gherao residence of all BJP-JJP MPs and MLAs on October 2.“Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala should immediately resign as he had claimed that the procurement will start from September 25, then it was delayed to October 1 and now they said it will start from October 11,” said BKU (Charuni) spokesperson Rakesh Bains.He said thousands of quintals of paddy is already lying in the mandis and further delay in procurement will cause huge losses to farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/paddy-procurement-in-haryana-postponed-to-october-11-101633030413476.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Tracking six months of virus spread: Covid on downward trajectory in Haryana since mid-May||Going through the roof with over one lakh infections in the first week of May, the Covid-19 infection trajectory in Haryana has been on a constant decline for 20 consecutive weeks now.The second wave of virus transmission during the devastating six-week period in April and May had thrown more than 4.21 lakh cases and over 4,200 fatalities in Haryana. As per data, while the virus took 249 days to hit peak in November 2020 during the first wave, it took just 93 days to peak during the second wave this May, primarily due to the virulence of the highly-contagious delta variant of the coronavirus.The decrease in transmission of the droplet viral infection began in the second week of May and the dip has continued since then. In fact, the per week infection count has seen record low from time-to-time.Last week (September 20 to 26), for instance, the state registered a record low of 85 infections surpassing the 88 infections recorded in successive weeks before (September 6-12 and September 13-19), the health department statistics show.The number of persons infected with the virus was 137 in the first week (August 2-8), 129 (August 9-15), 139 (August 16-22) and 109 (August 23-29).As on Thursday, there are eight districts having not a single active case while 12 districts have less than 10 active cases. The active case count on Thursday was 99.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said though the virus is on a continuous decline, the health department is not taking any chances.“We have commissioned 39 pressure swing adsorption oxygen plants of the 40 allotted by the central government. We are also focusing on neo-natal intensive care units and paediatric wards, reviewing the RT-PCR labs and referral transport and have stepped up vaccination,” Arora said.The state has so far inoculated about 2.29 crore persons including 1.65 crore with the first dose. Around 81% of the eligible population has received the first dose and around 31% are fully vaccinated.The ACS said an all-time high of 65.53 lakh doses, including 43.55 lakh first doses, were administered in September.“We have started a three-day mega vaccination drive starting from September 30 to October 2 with the aim to administer three lakh doses every day. Around 2.31 lakh doses were administered on Thursday,” the ACS said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tracking-six-months-of-virus-spread-covid-on-downward-trajectory-in-haryana-since-midmay-101633030172898.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Blockade at Delhi borders: Farmer unions to be made party in SC case||The central government will move an application in the Supreme Court (SC) to implead the farmer unions steering the protest over the enactment of three central agri-marketing laws and squatting at the doorstep of the national capital.Hearing a petition which sought unblocking of the highways leading to the Delhi, the apex court had on August 23 said that the central, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments should coordinate to ensure that inter-state roads and national highways do not remain blocked due to the farmers’ protest.The protesting farmers, on September 19, had stayed away from holding talks with a Haryana government committee set-up to impress upon them to clear the blockade at the Kundli-Singhu and Tikri borders.Bhog Singh Mansa, a farm leader, had said that the SC did not give directions to the farmers and they were not a party to the court case. The apex court had only directed the Centre and states to give passage to the common man,” he said.An apex court bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul on Thursday ordered that the matter be listed for October 4 as solicitor general Tushar Mehta has made a request to enable him to move an appropriate application to implead some parties.Following the August 23 observations of the apex court, the Sonepat deputy commissioner had held a meeting with the farmers’ representatives.Later, a committee headed by additional chief secretary (ACS), home, Rajeev Arora had invited office-bearers of 43 farm organisations to attend the meeting on September 19. However, no headway was made as the farmers failed to turn up for the meeting.The apex court, on a petition filed by a Noida-based woman, Monicca Agarwaal, had said that the solution lay in hands of central and state governments concerned. The bench said they should coordinate to ensure that if the protests are on, at least the inter-state roads and national highways are not blocked in any manner whatsoever so that to and fro on those roads does not cause inconvenience to other people who use the roads.Agarwaal had petitioned the apex court contending that though she stays and works in Noida, she has to travel to Delhi as she is in a marketing job. Aggarwal told the court that she is a single parent and has some medical issues. It has become a nightmare to travel to Delhi where it is taking two hours instead of normal 20 minutes, she had said.She had contended that despite directions passed by the apex court to keep the to and fro passage clear, the same still does not happen.Meanwhile, a delegation of over 20 villages around the Singhu and Tikri borders on Thursday met Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to apprise him of the problems faced by them due to closed border roads.An official spokesperson said Khattar told them that the government is making every possible effort to reopen the borders. “The villagers told the CM that there is resentment among people of the area over the blockade. The business has suffered, patients requiring emergent medical attention have died, kids have been unable to attend school and there have been frequent brawls,” the spokesperson said. The CM said the state government intended to open the roads by maintaining peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/blockade-at-delhi-borders-farmer-unions-to-be-made-party-in-sc-case-101633029936267.html
01-10-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir untraceable, minister says agencies trying to find whereabouts||Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse-Patil on Thursday said that investigating agencies were looking for former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who has been incommunicado for the past two months, amid reports of his leaving the country in a section of the media, adding the state government was in touch with the Centre on the issue.“Any civil service officer needs the approval of the central government (for leaving the country). The Union home ministry is also searching for his whereabouts. We have no clue about his whereabouts and we too are searching him,” he said.The minister said it was not appropriate if Singh has fled the country. “There will be action taken against him. It could be under various provisions of the law. It could be a disciplinary action for remaining absent from the duty without informing the authorities. The action is not important, his appearance before the agencies is important. The action against him by the state government is not out of any vendetta but it is a routine procedure which will be followed,” he said in Mumbai.Singh was removed as Mumbai top cop on March 17, following the Antilia explosives scare and subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran. He was shifted to the Maharashtra home guards on March 22.On April 7, Singh appeared before the National Investigation Agency for recording his statement in connection with the two cases. Later, he was summoned by the federal agency, but he did not respond to the summons.State Congress chief Nana Patole questioned whether the Centre had helped Singh to flee the country. “...The investigating agencies have raised doubts about his whereabouts but the question remains unanswered if the Centre facilitated him to go out of the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-untraceable-minister-says-agencies-trying-to-find-whereabouts-101633029674702.html
01-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ellenabad bypoll: Joint nominee of BJP-JJP to be from saffron party||The joint nominee of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) for the October 30 Ellenabad bypoll in Sirsa district of Haryana is set to be from the saffron party which is expected to announce its candidate on October 3, it has emerged.The high-powered 11-member election committee of Haryana BJP will meet in Chandigarh on October 3 to either shortlist or select the candidate for the Ellenabad bypoll. The nomination filing exercise begins on Friday and October 8 is the last date to file papers for the bypoll.“The BJP convening the meeting of its election committee on October 3 is a clear signal in itself... the candidate (for Ellenabad bypoll) will be from BJP,” Haryana BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar said, when contacted over the phone.Among leaders of the 11-member panel meeting on Sunday will be Haryana BJP affairs in-charge Vinod Tawde, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, state BJP chief OP Dhankar, former state BJP chief Subhash Barala, former cabinet ministers Ram Bilas Sharma and Captain Abhimanyu.On Thursday, Dhankar held a meeting of Sirsa district core group of the party to seek feedback and prepare the strategy. Barala was appointed in-charge for the bypoll and Dhankar said alliance partners BJP and JJP will contest the Ellenabad bypoll jointly.The Ellenabad slugfest will be a keenly contested tussle where the challenge before the ruling BJP-JJP is how to reach out to the electorate in view of the farm agitation.The Jat-dominated assembly seat in Sirsa district had fallen vacant after Abhay Singh Chautala, the lone MLA of the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) resigned in January from the assembly in protest against Centre’s three farm laws.During October 2019 Haryana assembly elections, Abhay Singh Chautala had won the seat by nearly 12,000 votes as he got 57,055 votes of 1,49,947 valid votes polled.His nearest rival in the fray BJP’s Pawan Beniwal was polled 45,133 votes and Congress’ Bharat Singh Beniwal had received 35,383 votes.But the worry of the BJP is that its nominee Pawan Beniwal had deserted the party to support the ongoing farmers’ agitation and joined the Congress recently.Another major concern of the ruling BJP-JJP alliance partners is the opposition they are facing from the restive farmers who have been stopping the ruling party leaders from holding government as well as party functions.Meanwhile, Haryana Congress leaders will also go into a huddle in Delhi on Friday to discuss bypoll-related issues. Haryana Congress affairs in-charge Vivek Bansal will chair the meeting in which Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda, AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala and a battery of other leaders will also be present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ellenabad-bypoll-joint-nominee-of-bjp-jjp-to-be-from-saffron-party-101633029693206.html
01-10-2021||Pune||Contractor booked as falling brick kills labourer on Pune site||PUNE: An unidentified labour contractor was booked for causing the death of a construction labourer by not providing safety equipment. A brick fell on the 27-year-old woman’s head on Tuesday afternoon at a site in Santoshnagar area of Katraj, causing her death. The deceased was identified as Anjubai Narayan Pawar, a resident of the camp set up on the construction site near Swami Samarth math in Santoshnagar, Katraj. Around 2:15pm on Tuesday, she was walking on the site, carrying material. The site was undergoing brick and plaster work for which bricks were being transported vertically in huge quantities. One of the bricks fell from the carrier bucket and landed on the head of the victim, causing severe head injury and eventual death, according to the police. A case under Section 304(a) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. Senior police inspector Jagannath Kalaskar is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/contractor-booked-as-falling-brick-kills-labourer-on-pune-site-101633029511219.html
01-10-2021||Lucknow||Trucks impounded for defaulting on EMIs sold by forging details; STF arrests two||The UP Special Task Force (STF) claimed to have unearthed an inter-state gang involved in the sale of trucks that defaulted on loan EMI payments and arrested two key members of the gang, on Thursday.The gang used to prepare fake registration papers and changed chassis numbers and then sold the vehicles. The STF officials said seven trucks, three different chassis number plates and fake registration papers were recovered from them.A senior STF official said those arrested were Mainpuri resident Gautam Singh and Agra resident Raghvendra Singh. “Gautam revealed during interrogation that some scrap dealers, truck body makers and insurance as well as loan agents were part of their gang. They arranged such EMI-defaulting trucks, prepared fake registration papers and arranged fake chassis numbers,” he added.He said the gang is mainly active in west UP and they bring such trucks by purchasing them at low prices from different states and park at different spots. He said insurance and loan agents help them identify the trucks seized at different yards while scrap dealers helped them in providing chassis numbers of different trucks that have been scrapped by them.“The chassis and registration numbers of such scrapped trucks are placed on the EMI-defaulting trucks and fake registration papers are prepared by some agents in Jaipur, Rajasthan and later sold off in open market for reuse,” the official explained.He said the other active gang members were identified as Chandra Sekhar, Vikendra alias Vijendra alias BK Thakur, Jameel, Bacchu Bodywala, Banwari, Rajesh Kabadi, Pappu Chasma and Surjeet Kabadi. He said police teams were making efforts to track down these people and recovery of more trucks is likely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/trucks-impounded-for-defaulting-on-emis-sold-by-forging-details-stf-arrests-two-101633029451691.html
01-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s east corporation to appoint single agency for bio-mining, reclamation||The standing committee of East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has cleared the proposal on Thursday to appoint an agency for carrying out bio-mining of 50 lakh tons of legacy waste accumulated in Ghazipur landfill site. The agency, which will be selected after inviting open bids, will also be responsible for disposal of excavated material, reclamation of land and development of new engineered landfill facility on the same site.EDMC spokesperson Rakesh Gupta said that a time period of 27 months has been fixed for the entire process. The dumpsite was established in 1984 and it is one of the major landfill sites in the country that has accumulated over 14 million tons of legacy waste. The landfill site is spreads over 70 acres of area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-east-corporation-to-appoint-single-agency-for-bio-mining-reclamation-101633029211489.html
01-10-2021||Pune||Dabholkar murder trial: SPP submits list of witnesses, documents||PUNE: The special public prosecutor (SPP) Prakash Suryavanshi submitted a list of documents and witnesses on whom he will be relying on during the murder trial of slain rationalist Dr Narendra Dabholkar. Among the documents are spot panchanamas, forensic laboratory in Mumbai and 11 others. The first hearing in the case after the charges were framed was held in the court of additional sessions judge SR Navandar with SPP Suryavanshi and defence lawyer Prakash Shalsingikar. Among the accused, Sanjeev Punalkear was exempted from attending, Vikram Bhave was present in the court, Virendrasinh Tawade and Sachin Andure from Yerawada central jail and Sharad Kalaskar from Arthur road jail joined through video conference. The judge had ordered Aurangabad jail and Arthur road jail officials to send Andure and Kalaskar, respectively, to Yerawada central jail for ease of production. Advocate Shalsingikar asked for the case dairy in the investigation to be submitted in the court. He cited a Bombay High Court order that mandated the prosecution to submit the case dairy which was then sealed and taken in custody of the court. Meanwhile, the judge called upon the official of Mumbai jail to ask why Kalaskar had not been lodged in Yerawada even after express orders by the court. The Mumbai jail official said that the court received the order today (Thursday) and could not respond in time. “Send the accused to the Yerawada jail immediately,” said judge Navandar. Attend father’s memorial online: Judge to Tawade Tawade had asked for permission to attend his father’s first annual memorial on October 5. The judge asked him to make arrangements and attend it online between 11am and 3pm on October 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dabholkar-murder-trial-spp-submits-list-of-witnesses-documents-101633028731450.html
01-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Tariffs same, but power bills to go up marginally||Electricity bills in the national capital will increase by 2 percentage points from October 1, as the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) on Thursday announced the new power tariff order for 2021-22.In its order, DERC, like last year, kept all other rates such as per unit energy cost and fixed charges on the sanctioned load of every household constant. However, the pension trust surcharge was increased from 5% to 7%.Delhi has at least 5.5 million domestic power consumers.Apart from the goods and services tax, two surcharges are levied on every electricity bill in Delhi. These are the pension surcharge, which goes towards paying pension to former employees of power utilities before the electricity sector was decentralised, and the regulatory assets surcharge, which goes to power distribution companies (discoms) to make up for their revenue deficits. Both surcharges are levied on the fixed charges and energy charges of every electricity bill. Under the new order, the regulatory asset surcharge will remain unchanged at 8%.
01-10-2021||Pune||Ahead of elections, all parties except Congress oppose Taljai hill development plan||PUNE: The Taljai Hill Development Project submitted to the standing committee by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for approval has caught the attention of all political parties ahead of the civic polls even as the Congress finds itself cornered. Besides residents and environmentalists, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) too have opposed the project. Earlier on Wednesday, residents met and requested state environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray to save the Taljai hill as PMC plans to execute the hill project at a cost of Rs120 crore. The minister promised to study the project and take necessary action. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Subhash Jagtap, who has been opposing the proposal for past two years, said, “I took steps to develop the hill and will not allow PMC to execute the plan and ruin the green belt. The 107-acre land was acquired during my tenure and we carried out extensive plantation on the hill.” On the other hand, Congress leader Aba Bagul said, “The project is presented by the municipal commissioner. Post the inauguration of Sa Du Shinde cricket stadium, the project proposal report has been put up at various spots on the hill and nearby area. Even as the plan awaits PMC’s approval, yet some people are saying that many trees will be cut. The work at Pachgaon Parvati hill is carried out by the forest department and not PMC.” The stand of Congress has not convinced other parties and residents. Sensing growing opposition from locals, MNS submitted a letter to municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar urging him not to execute the project. BJP corporator Mahesh Wable has also opposed the proposal and joined a signature campaign carried out last week by citizens. He said that while carrying out any work, citizens and local members should be taken into confidence.” The land mass The land protected by fence is owned by the forest department. The area in front of Taljai temple, including the temple, Sa Du Shinde stadium, Taljai water tank is falling under the 107-acre acquired by PMC. How the land got acquired According to NCP member Subhash Jagtap, there were 130 bungalow plots and 66 amenity plots approved in the 1942 layout. In 1982, this area was declared as hilltop hillslope (HTHS) with permission of four per cent construction. Jagtap said, “When I was the PMC standing committee chairman, I put up a proposal to acquire this HTHS land by PMC and make it Taljai hill to keep the area green. The then district collector Madhukar Kokate was not ready to publish the order. Guardian minister Ajit Pawar instructed Kokate to acquire the land and issue the order.” PMC started land acquisition process in 2003 and completed it in 2005 by paying Rs27 crore as compensation as per the HTHS rule. However, seven plot owners went to court. Later, PMC developed an oxygen park reservation on the plot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ahead-of-elections-all-parties-except-congress-oppose-taljai-hill-development-plan-101633028551758.html
01-10-2021||Delhi||20% circle rate rebate to go on till December 31, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||The Delhi government’s current scheme of 20% reduced circle rates for all categories of properties, which was to be in effect till September 30, was on Thursday extended till December 31, said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.He said in a tweet, “The 20% rebate on circle rates would continue. We will not let Delhi residents suffer during the pandemic. We stand with them.”Circle rates are the minimum price at which a property can be bought or sold. The move is aimed at boosting the real estate market and increasing government revenue.Earlier in the day, state revenue minister Kailash Gahlot shared a copy of the order extending the scheme till December 31, and said: “With the city slowly recovering from the aftermath of Covid-19, here is another good news for Delhiites: We have further extended the 20% slash in circle rates till December 31, 2021.”On Wednesday, Hindustan Times published a report saying the scheme will most likely be extended till December 31.On February 5, the Delhi government reduced circle rates for all categories of properties for a period till September 30. Circle rates were reduced by 20% for residential, commercial and industrial properties across all categories of localities.Circle rates vary in each state and are revised from time to time depending on demand, supply and other development indicators pertaining to the area concerned.Delhi broadly has eight categories of localities – from A to H – with Category A being the most affluent and Category H being the most economically weak.For instance, in a Category A locality, the circle rate for a residential property so far was ₹7,74,000 per square metre and for one in a Category H locality was ₹23,280 per square metre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/reduced-circle-rates-to-continue-in-delhi-till-december-31-says-cm-kejriwal-101633028432242.html
01-10-2021||Pune||Qualify for 2024 Olympics to get ₹5 lakh from PMC||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will offer cash prizes to sports-persons who will qualify for the 2024 Olympics, which will be held in Paris.“The announcement of the cash prize award is to boost the confidence of young athletes from the city, who dream of representing their country in the Olympics. It will motivate many athletes as they are already training hard to achieve success at the international level,” said Ajay Khedekar, president, PMC sports committee.“The players who qualify will get ₹ 5 lakh, with cash incentive increasing for a medal won,” added Khedekar.“It is a really very motivational announcement from the PMC. Financial support plays a very important role in the career of athletes. Many athletes will strive to perform better,” said Purva Barve, ranked ninth by the Badminton Association of India.Sprint queen from the city, Avantika Narale, who won the 100m sprint gold medal at the Asian Youth Athletic Championship in 2019, said, “Announcement of cash rewards helps athletes focus as they are assured of getting rewarded. It is a very good announcement by the PMC and they should keep motivating athletes.”Wall of fameTo honour all 35 Olympic medallists from India, PMC will construct a brick wall in front of the upcoming sports museum at Baburao Sanas Ground.“Each brick will have the name of a athlete, and the year in which s/he won a medal. The project has been approved by the standing committee,” added Khedekar.PMC’s incentives for 2024 Olympics Qualification: ₹5 lakhGold medal: ₹50 lakhSilver medal: ₹25 lakhBronze medal: ₹15 lakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/qualify-for-2024-olympics-to-get-5-lakh-from-pmc-101633028311542.html
01-10-2021||Pune||Gang of six, including woman, in custody for night robberies in Pune||PUNE: A gang of robbers who strike at night was busted by the Pune police crime branch by arresting five men and one woman who were remanded to police custody on Thursday. The six were identified as Arun Shivaji Gaikwad (38), Mohan Ganesh Jadhav (30), Shivraj Arjun Vadekar (22), Prashant Mithu Thorbole (22), Bhimbai Ramesh Bantraji (45), and their woman accomplice Sheetal Srinivas Wadekar (29), according to the police. The arrest was made by a team led by sub-inspector Sanjay Gaikwad of Unit 1 of Pune police crime branch. They were arrested on Wednesday and produced in court on Thursday and remanded to police custody till October 4. “The accused roamed around in the city to find secluded spots where they robbed pedestrians during night by threatening them with deadly weapons. They also use of crowd in buses to cut women’s purses, jewellery like bangles,” read a statement by Unit 1 senior police inspector Shailesh Sankhe. Among the accused, Sheetal has a history of 11 cases in various police stations, including Mundhwa, Bundgarden, Deccan, Swargate, Bibwewadi and Warje Malwadi. The gang is found to be involved in at least 10 cases, including three at Vishrambaug, two each at Dattawadi and Deccan police stations, and one each at Shivajinagar, Bharati Vidyapeeth and Kothrud police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gang-of-six-including-woman-in-custody-for-night-robberies-in-pune-101633028251335.html
01-10-2021||Pune||Pune to Lonavla route: Six local trains to run from October 1||The Pune railway division has decided to add one more local train between Pune and Lonavla starting October 1. Six local trains will now operate between the two destinations.Train number 01566 will depart Pune at 15.00 hours (3pm) every day and will reach Lonavla at 16.20 hours (4.20pm). Train number 01565 will start from Lonavla at 17.30 hours (5.30pm).“The decision has been looking at the number of passengers travelling between the two cities. A rush is expected as more people complete both the doses of the Covid vaccination and become eligible to travel,” said an official from the Pune railway division.More passenger trains to start from OctoberCentral Railways has decided to resume more passenger train services in October in a phased manner. These passenger trains will run to different stations like Satara, Daund, Karjat and Manmad.“In the first phase one train will start in each section and going ahead the number will be increased. The norms of travelling in these trains will remain same as it is for local trains. Until further orders, only those with reserved tickets will be allowed,” said an official from the Central railway, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-to-lonavla-route-six-local-trains-to-run-from-october-1-101633028072932.html
01-10-2021||Pune||September sees 13,160 cases against errant autorickshaw drivers in Pune||PUNE: What started on September 9 as a joint venture between the Pune police and Regional Transport Office (RTO) to discipline errant autorickshaw drivers has yielded action against as many as 13,160 autorickshaws for different types of violations. The move came after two cases of sexual assault on children by autorickshaw drivers drew the attention of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar; home minister Dilip Walse-Patil and opposition members including former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.In the wake of the Wanowrie case, Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta ordered that all modes of passenger transport, including autorickshaws, strictly implement the existing rules. Action was taken against autorickshaw drivers through September for violating a set of rules namely, not displaying uniform and buckle number, riding without permit, not having passenger vehicle registration, violating traffic rules and using vehicles beyond the scrap lifespan among others. The traffic branch single-handedly focused on enforcement in terms of documentation and discipline. Till September 28, as many as 9,573 cases were registered against autorickshaw drivers for not wearing uniform; 1,822 for not possessing a driving licence; 747 for not displaying badges; and 28 for riding without licence; according to traffic department officials. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Rahul Shrirame, said that the drive is aimed at inculcating discipline among autorickshaw drivers. “We have been receiving numerous complaints from citizens regarding the autorickshaw drivers’ menace. Action is being taken to send a message to them that they are being scrutinised very carefully by citizens, the police and RTO. Our drive is aimed at disciplining autorickshaw drivers where they will have to strictly abide by the law and ensure that they have a licence, uniform, buckle etc. when they ferry passengers. Special attention is being given to those autorickshaw drivers who are engaged in rash and negligent driving,” Shrirame said.Earlier, RTO officials had seized many autorickshaws, compounding a number of violations stacked against the vehicles, later handing them over to the Bund garden traffic police division.On wrong side of lawWithout uniform: 9,573Without licence: 1,822No license: 28No entry: 1Front seat: 1Fitness: 4Badge: 747No parking: 115Signal jumping: 23RTO: 582Police warning: 6Number plate: 1No paper: 15Unauthorised passengers: 2Blocking roads: 32Others: 208Total: 13,160||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/september-sees-13-160-cases-against-errant-auto-drivers-in-pune-101633028011757.html
01-10-2021||Pune||Electric two-wheelers have shown a higher growth rate in Pune as compared to four-wheelers: RTO data||State tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray announced in Pune on Wednesday that from April 22, 2022, all government offices will only purchase electric vehicles, specifically electric four-wheelers. Data with the Regional Transport Office (RTO) shows that while demand for electric vehicles is picking up in the city, electric two-wheelers have shown a higher growth rate in Pune as compared to four-wheelers. The RTO data covers a four-year period and the lack of charging stations is being cited as one of the reasons for electric four-wheelers not faring as well as the two-wheelers in Pune. This year, from January to September, a total of 131 electric cars have been registered, while in the same duration 1,952 electric two-wheelers were registered in Pune. Over the last four years, the number of electric two- wheelers registered has been steadily increasing - in 2018 it was 510, in 2019 it was 844, and in 2020 it doubled to 1,672. For registration of electric cars, in 2018 it was 21, then in 2019 it was 29, last year it went up to 151 and now this year, 131 have been registered as of September 30. “There is good registration and sale of electric two- wheelers in Pune and over the last four years the number is going up. Many people prefer to buy electric bikes due to the increase in fuel prices. At the same time, electric cars are not many,” said Sanjeev Bhor, deputy region transport officer at Pune RTO. “One of the main reasons behind electric cars not selling is the number of electric charging stations in and around the city. Not everyone who buys the car has a personal charging point at home, so they have to depend on a service centre or some other private charging station. Once the number of charging stations increase, sales will pick up,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/electric-two-wheelers-have-shown-a-higher-growth-rate-in-pune-as-compared-to-four-wheelers-rto-data-101633027893477.html
01-10-2021||Delhi||Dust norms violations found at 23 construction sites during inspection in Delhi||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on Thursday conducted a large-scale dust control drive in the New Delhi area, during the course of which 23 violators were fined and an environment compensation cess of ₹16.40 lakh proposed, a statement released by the committee later in the day said. The statement further said 11 teams were deployed to carry out inspections in areas such as Connaught Place, Connaught Circus, Khan Market, Pandara Road and Janpath in New Delhi as well as Munirka, RK Puram, Mahiplapur, Rangpuri, Mayapuri, Naraina Vihar and Naraina, Vasant Kunj, Vasant Vihar, Nangal Raya, Sagarpur East in south Delhi. Officials said of the 47 sites inspected, violations were found at 23 of them. The DPCC also proposed an environment cess of ₹16.40 lakh on offenders. “Normally, environment cess ranging from ₹10,000 to ₹5 lakh is imposed, based on the plot area, against the violating project proponents or contractors,” the statement read. Senior DPCC officials said taking note of the deteriorating air quality every winter in Delhi-NCR, the monitoring agency has prepared an action plan to mitigate pollution this year. “Dust pollution due to construction and demolition activities is one of the major contributors towards pollutants entering the ambient atmosphere. DPCC had already started issuing public notice in print media periodically for creating awareness among stakeholder project proponents, agencies such as municipal bodies, the public works department (PWD), the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), central public works department (CPWD), Delhi Jal Board (DJB) and flood and irrigation department, including smaller size construction and demolition sites,” the DPCC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dust-norms-violations-found-at-23-construction-sites-during-inspection-in-delhi-101633027771299.html
01-10-2021||Pune||Central Maharashtra sees fourth wettest monsoon since 1901||Pune: With erratic rainfall breaks and intense downpour this year, central Maharashtra has reported 17 per cent excess rainfall. Since 1901, this is the fourth wettest monsoon season for the region as per the data released by India Meteorological Department (IMD). Scientists from the Indian institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) have noted that heavy and intense rainfall events in central Maharashtra are likely to see an increase in the coming years. In 2021, central Maharashtra reported 869.1 mm actual rainfall against the normal rainfall of 746 mm between June 1 and September 29. Roxy Mathew Koll, senior climate scientist, IITM, said that the changes in central Maharashtra are similar to large-scale changes in the monsoon pattern. “Monsoon rainfall patterns from Gujarat to Odisha have shown changes. These changes are consistent with what is happening in central Maharashtra. We have observed that between June and September, which is the monsoon season, there are more long dry spells intermittently with three to four days of intense heavy rainfall. The pattern we are seeing in Maharashtra and central Maharashtra is also the same,” said Koll, adding that as per the total rainfall recorded in the last two decades, the total monsoon rainfall has decreased. “With increased temperature, there is moisture available. Which is also one of the reasons why we have dry spells. It is likely to pour more. Also, there is an indirect response of monsoon wind patterns from the Indian ocean to land. This circulation has been weakening, because of which there is less rainfall. There is a possibility that decrease in rainfall may continue. However, there is no clarity as of now. Models are yet to give a clear indication as to what will happen,” said Dr Roxy Mathew Koll. He said that even though monsoon rainfall may decrease, the number of heavy rainfall events will increase. “This has increased landslides and flooding. The change in rainfall pattern is due to climate change and urbanisation. What we can further see is that there are more heavy rainfall days and an increase in heavy rainfall intensity. Along with this, arial cover has increased that larger areas are now witnessing heavy rainfall events,” said Koll. He shared the Chiplun floods as a perfect example of climate change and urbanisation. “For extreme weather conditions, it is important that each district comes up with a climate projection plan to address extreme weather events. As different districts have different topography, every district must have a plan ready,” said Koll. Downpour count Central Maharashtra has reported above normal rainfall since 1901. The rainfall between June 1 and September end is 746 mm. Year-- Rainfall (in mm) 1914--851.4 1933--766.7 1938--755.3 1969--782.3 1988--762.8 2005--820.7 2006--935.2 2007--773.2 2017--852.3 2019—1,166.9 2020--967 2021--869.1 Wettest monsoon season for central Maharashtra since 1901 Year--Rainfall (in mm) 2019—1,166.9 2020--967 2006--935.2 2021--869.1 Between June 1 and September 29, Maharashtra received 19 per cent excess rainfall with all districts receiving normal to above normal rainfall in the monsoon season. Central Maharashtra has reported 17 per cent more than normal rainfall. Whereas drought-prone Marathwada has reported an excess rainfall of 49 per cent. Vidarbha has reported three per cent more than normal rainfall. Konkan and Goa have reported 23 per cent in excess rainfall this season. Source: IMD and IITM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/central-maharashtra-sees-fourth-wettest-monsoon-since-1901-101633027651424.html
01-10-2021||Delhi||Court concerned at delay in Delhi riots conspiracy trial||A city court on Thursday observed that the trial proceedings in the larger conspiracy case related to the north-east Delhi riots will be delayed inordinately if all the accused file separate pleas on different dates seeking to scrutinise the voluminous charge sheet, running into more than 17,000 pages, and the prosecution chooses to reply to each of them.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat noted that a few applications have been filed by the accused in the case seeking the requisite documents.“If all the accused file such applications separately and on different dates, and if the prosecution files replies to each one of them and then arguments are heard on them…This will take years. It will become very difficult,” the judge remarked.Among the 21 accused in the larger conspiracy case are former JNU student union leader Umar Khalid and former councillor Tahir Hussain, who have been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for allegedly conspiring to orchestrate the riots in February 2020.During the hearing, advocate Rizwan, appearing for Hussain, claimed that this was the “only trial in the country where the prosecution has objections to pleas filed under Section 207 CrPC and they are filing replies”.Section 207 of the Code Of Criminal Procedure pertains to the supply to the accused copies of the police report, recorded statements of all prosecution witnesses and other documents that they may seek through the magistrate/judge hearing the case.Special public prosecutor Amit Prasad, appearing for the police, objected to this remark and asked Rizwan if he had filed any such application yet.To this, Rizwan said, “I (Hussain) am the accused. I have the right to evidence that they (prosecution) are not relying upon. It has been more than a year now. If it is still stuck at this stage, the trial will take ages,” he said.The court told the prosecution to file replies only for those documents which can’t be given and give reasons why they can’t be given. “This is to expedite the trial,” the judge said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-trial-will-be-delayed-if-prosecution-doesn-t-speed-up-says-court-101633027591256.html
01-10-2021||Pune||26 MHADA colonies up for redevelopment; separate Pune policy in the works||PUNE: With around 26 out of the total 41 Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) colonies in Pune district – mainly located in Pune city – eligible for redevelopment, the Pune division has started the process of framing a separate redevelopment policy for Pune that will appeal to both developers and tenants as the one being implemented in Mumbai cannot be directly copied in Pune.The 26 layouts incorporate nearly 17,000 homes and are eligible for redevelopment as they are more than 30 years’ old. The Pune Housing and Area Development Board has been pushing for the redevelopment of these layouts, however not many developers are coming forward for the redevelopment.The Pune division is currently holding a series of meetings with developers and housing societies to understand their views and design a policy framework. Nitin Mane, additional chief executive officer and chief officer of the Pune board, said, “We are talking to developers to understand what their problems are and what they expect from these redevelopment projects. Also, we have gathered inputs from tenants as well. Very soon, the policy will take final shape. The redevelopment of MHADA projects will change the face of the city.” The recommendations will soon be submitted to the state government for approval.Sources said that though the Maharashtra government has approved a floor space index (FSI) of 3 for the MHADA properties in Pune, developers are not happy with it and have demanded more FSI. Developers have also highlighted the lower per square foot rate in Pune as compared to Mumbai. The tricky task for the officials is to devise a policy that will please both developers and residents.In June, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar held a meeting with the urban development and housing department to discuss the redevelopment of MHADA properties in Pune. Pune city has various MHADA buildings that were erected in 1965 and are now in bad condition. A senior official from the Pune board accepted that the redevelopment process should begin before any casualty related to these buildings occurs.MHADA buildings are located at the following places in the city:Lokmanya nagar (Sadashiv peth), Agarkar nagar (Bund Garden road), Bhamburda (Gokhale nagar), Laxmi nagar (Parvati), Maharshinagar, Phule nagar, Maharashtra Housing Board Yerawada, Netaji nagar (Wanwadi), Swami Vivekanand nagar (Hadapsar), Hingne mala (Hadapsar) Golf Club road, Kothrud, Bavdhan and Wadgaonsheri||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/26-mhada-colonies-up-for-redevelopment-separate-pune-policy-in-the-works-101633027532467.html
01-10-2021||Delhi||AAP MLA, 5 others discharged in case of abetting party worker’s 2016 suicide||A local court on Thursday discharged Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Narela MLA Sharad Chauhan and five others of all charges in a case of abetment of suicide by a party worker in 2016.Special judge MK Nagpal, however, directed to frame charges against one of Chauhan’s associates, Ramesh Bhardwaj, saying there was sufficient prima facie evidence against him.The court, in its 75-page order, said that simply because Chauhan was the local MLA and Bhardwaj, or any other accused was close to him, cannot be considered as an incriminating circumstance against him, and to hold him prima facie responsible for the offence of abetment of a suicide.According to the prosecution, the woman consumed a poisonous substance at her home in Northwest Delhi’s Narela and died during treatment at the Lok Nayak Hospital.A month prior to committing suicide, the woman filed a complaint against Bhardwaj alleging sexual harassment, after which he was arrested and later released on bail.The family members of the woman claimed that Chauhan was protecting Bhardwaj.The prosecution said that the woman, in a video clip, also levelled serious allegations against Bhardwaj, accusing him of pressuring her to compromise if she wanted to rise in the party.In a statement, the AAP said the Rouse Avenue district court discharged MLA Sharad Kumar Chauhan in the abetment to suicide case, and took note of the fact that there was no prima facie evidence against him.“...It has been further found by the court that MLA Sharad Kumar Chauhan has not been named in the audio/video recordings of the dying declarations of the deceased,” the Aam Aadmi Party said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-mla-5-others-discharged-in-case-of-abetting-party-worker-s-2016-suicide-101633027471213.html
01-10-2021||Noida||Healthcare workers face stigma after Covid outbreak: ICMR study||A study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on healthcare workers (HCWs) from 11 cities in the country, including Noida, has found that the subjects reported major family issues and faced stigma from society following the Covid-19 outbreak last year. The results of the study were published this September. “The study has been published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research and was carried out by conducting in-depth telephonic interviews with 967 HCWs involved in Covid-19 management across 11 cities- Bhubaneswar, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Noida, South Delhi, Pathanamthitta and Kasaragod (Kerala), Chennai, Jabalpur, Kamrup and East Khasi Hills,” said Dr Shalini Singh, director of ICMR-National Institute of Cancer Prevention & Research (NICPR), Noida. Of the total subjects, 54% were females and 46% were males with most respondents falling in the 20-40 years age group. The ICMR-NICPR and the department of psychiatry, Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida, carried out the study in Gautam Budh Nagar by randomly selecting subjects from government hospitals. Some participants concealed information related to their duties to avoid distressing their family members. The study details the experiences of stigma and rejection that HCWs faced for caring for Covid patients. The study has found out that the neighbours, friends and relatives of the HCWs made them feel they were the spreaders of the infection and avoided them, made hurtful remarks and also showed reluctance to interact with them. “Some HCWs reported that they also had to conceal their identities to prevent any social harassment... There were also some who reported stigma from their own families,” said the study. “This attitude was mainly because they were considered as vectors for transmission of the virus and not perceived as those whose primary service was to prevent infection and help those infected,” it said. Dr NK Sharma, president of the Indian Medical Association (Noida) recalled such incidents that happened in Gautam Budh Nagar.“There were instances of doctors facing rejection from society during the first few months of the Covid outbreak. A number of healthcare workers, who were living in rented accommodations in Noida, were asked to move out by their landlords. Some doctors approached the IMA for support and we protested against such behaviour. In some cases, doctors were ridiculed and subjected to bad behaviour. As representatives of doctors in the district, we had to get police protection at some hospitals in the city,” said Dr Sharma.According to the study’s findings, HCWs reported major changes in the work-life environment. The issue most reported was the long duration of separation from families. Dr Yatendra Singh, medical superintendent at the community health centre in Bhangel, Noida said, “It was a huge challenge to be separated from my family after the Covid outbreak. My son was just one-and-a-half-years old when Covid struck and I had to stay away from him for months as I was on Covid duty. While on one hand, I wanted to hug him, on the other hand, there was the fear of infecting him with the virus.” said Singh.Along with the pressure of separation from families, researchers also found out that excessive workload, erratic working hours, challenges of working in a personal protective equipment (PPE) for hours, fear of infection, sleep deprivation, disruption in eating habits contributed to the mental trauma of the HCWs.“Recent reports indicate that health personnel struggled with higher workloads and a swiftly changing workspace milieu that differed greatly from the familiar day-to-day reality while dealing with the social changes and emotional stressors of Covid-19. The longer working hours with erratic timings reported in the present study resulted in sleep deprivation as well as unhealthy eating patterns, which could have long-term consequences,” said the study.In fact, the researchers have found out that female caregivers were more affected than male counterparts as along with their workload, they also had the responsibility of managing their homes. As medical staff struggled to work in PPE kits at Greater Noida’s GIMS, Dr. Abhay Singh Tomar, a psychiatrist at the facility thought of a novel idea to cheer up workers.“I could see HCWs getting suffocated under the PPE kits and this, in turn, affected their mental health. Moreover, in such a glum environment, it was difficult for the staff in PPE suits to exude positivity among their patients. As a result, we came up with the idea to scribble positive notes on the suits like ‘StayPositive!, ‘Faith in, Fear Out!’. This way, each medical staff was greeted with a smile as the patients read the positive notes,” said Dr Tomar.HCWs are already suffering from burnout. The National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) conducted a survey among 3,083 HCWs across India. They published their findings in April this year in the Asian Journal of Psychiatry, which revealed that 26.6% and 23.8% of the respondents had anxiety and depression respectively.Against this backdrop, ICMR conducted his study to find out the main reasons for the mental health crisis among the HCWs and make recommendations to the central government.The study concludes that there is a need for psychological support for healthcare workers and their families to allay fears and prevent stigma associated with Covid-19 infection or transmission.Dr Beena E Thomas from the department of social and behavioural research, National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis, Chennai, who is the main correspondent of the study, said there is a need to sensitise the public. “The stigmatisation adds to the mental health of the already exhausted and burned out HCWs. More focus should be laid on educating people,” she added.The ICMR has suggested improving the working environment, allowing them breathing space and filling the staff crunch to ease the workload on HCWs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/healthcare-workers-face-stigma-after-covid-outbreak-icmr-study-101633027352495.html
01-10-2021||Pune||Student body comes forward to help affected students from Marathwada, Vidarbha||Pune: A student organisation is taking steps to provide assistance to students hailing from Marathwada and Vidarbha regions that has suffered loss of life and property in the recent heavy rains. The students were planning to return to Pune to resume students when the adversity struck. Students Helping Hand has carried a survey to cover the help needed for affected students. The student body will later provide financial assistance through crowdfunding and corporates. “Most of the students coming from Marathwada and Vidarbha region to Pune belong to economically weak background. Most of them are from farmer community and they have been struggling to pay college and hostel fees in the past due to the Covid pandemic. We have made a Google form for students to fill and mention the help they need,” said Kuldeep Ambekar, president, Students Helping Hand. “Once the data is collected, funds and other necessary things like groceries and study material will be collected from donors and given to students.” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/student-body-comes-forward-to-help-affected-students-from-marathwada-vidarbha-101633027233935.html
01-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s south corporation launches cashless parking lot in Dwarka||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Thursday operationalised its first cashless parking lot in Dwarka Sector 14 which will see parking fees being automatically deducted through the RFID-based Fastags used for toll tax collections.SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti explained that the parking fee will be deducted automatically when the vehicle exits the parking lot. “Our goal is to significantly reduce the time taken to park a vehicle,” he said.A senior municipal official overseeing the parking management in South Delhi said that the Dwarka facility will be able to accommodate 140 cars, 50 two-wheeler and 20 buses. “The land near Dwarka sector 14 Metro station was handed over to us around a year back by DDA. This is a pilot project for cashless parking system and the same will be replicated in the closed sites run by SDMC where access can be easily controlled at one point. The integrated system will also act as an incentive for adopting RFID tags,” the official said. The south corporation operates 145 surface parking sites and eight multi-level parking sites.The official said that the cashless fee collection system can help in significant reduction of the average time taken to park a vehicle. “We are also developing an android based parking application which will be used by parking lot users to pay the fee digitally. All 153 parking sites will be covered by either an RFID-based collection system or the parking application-based collection. Paper slips will be provided to only those users who demand it,” the official stated.While inaugurating the operation of the RFID parking lot, the south corporation mayor Mukesh Suryan said this is the first parking lot where the Fastag system will be implemented so that people do not face any difficulty while paying parking charges. “This will encourage online payment of parking fees. SDMC has authorised NHAI’s IHMCL Indian Highways Management Company Limited to collect parking charges from this facility and the agency will remit the revenue with the civic agency,” Suryan said. According to the agreement, the SDMC will reimburse the operation charges to the agency at the rate of 1 percent of the transaction value.Leader of the SDMC House Inderjeet Sehrawat said that the cashless parking system will now be replicated in major parking lots and multilevel parking facilities. “The IHMCL will incur expenses related to setting up of structures for fee collection and the SDMC will not bear any cost related in this regard,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-south-corporation-launches-cashless-parking-lot-in-dwarka-101633027232697.html
01-10-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar aims to inoculate over 22k beneficiaries in the 45+ age group||The district health department has increased the number of Covid vaccination centres with the aim of inoculating over 22,500 beneficiaries above the age of 45 years, who have still not taken the first dose, on Friday. Friday’s vaccination drive will comprise 98 vaccination centres. While 54 of them will have both online slot booking and walk-in facilities, the rest will only have a walk-in facility but registration on the Co-WIN portal will be mandatory. The Bisrakh block will have 39 vaccination centres, Dadri 22, while Jewar and Dankaur will have 17 each. “The health department has a list of the people--identified in the survey--who are yet to take the first shot. The local Asha workers have been tasked to get them vaccinated,” said Dr Sunil Sharma, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.The last mega vaccination drive was held on Monday, wherein 137 vaccination centres administered jabs to 29,775 beneficiaries. The health department held another drive on Thursday with a target of vaccinating 22,500 beneficiaries at 81 camps. “Against a target of inoculating 22,500 beneficiaries, 16,920 people were vaccinated on Thursday. Of them, 6,648 were given the first dose while 9,642 received the second dose. The drive was aimed at vaccinating beneficiaries in the 45+ age group. Around 70% of the beneficiaries vaccinated on Thursday belonged to this category,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.During a door-to-door surveillance conducted from September 7 to 16, the health department identified 56,489 beneficiaries over the age of 45 who had still not taken the first dose. The district health department has been instructed to ensure this age group gets vaccinated on priority basis.“After the door-to-door survey found that over 50,000 people above the age of 45 have not taken any jab, a meeting was held with district health department officials and a strategy was chalked out to ensure this group gets the first dose within a week. Hence the two vaccination drives on Thursday and Friday,” said Dr Tyagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-aims-to-inoculate-over-22k-beneficiaries-in-the-45-age-group-101633027231277.html
01-10-2021||Pune||Covid: Pune district reports 624 fresh cases, four deaths||PUNE As per the state authorities, Pune district reported 624 fresh Covid positive cases on Thursday. Four Covid deaths were reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours. Of these, two deaths were reported from Pune rural and two deaths were reported from Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). No deaths were reported in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the last 24 hours.As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 517,294 Covid cases and 9,156 deaths till Thursday. PCMC has reported 266,436 cases so far, and a total of 3,498 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 358,621 total cases so far and 6,790 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,142,351 Covid cases. Of this, 1,113,162 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 19,793 deaths in the district. At present, there are 9,396 active cases in Pune district. As per the state Health department, 3,198 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,371,728 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.27%.Across Maharashtra, 3,063 new Covid cases were diagnosed on Thursday and 56 Covid-19 deaths were reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%.Currently 245,427 people are in home quarantine and 1,423 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-pune-district-reports-624-fresh-cases-four-deaths-101633027177988.html
